Strategic Report are prescribed by EU law and the Company has no discretion Strategy and business model over the format or content of the document.
The illustrated This Strategic Report is intended to help shareholders assess performance returns in the KID cannot be guaranteed the Companys strategy.
It contains certain forward-looking and, together with the prescribed cost calculation and risk statements.
These are made by the directors in good faith categorisation, may not reflect figures for the Company based on the information available to them up to the time derived using other methods.
Accordingly the Board of their approval of this report.
Such statements should recommends that investors also take account of information be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, from other sources, including the Annual Report.
including economic and business risks, underlying any such forwardlooking information.
Performance and principal This report falls into three main sections: developments in 2017 1.
Performance and principal developments in 2017 page 8 Performance summary and attribution Witans NAV total return with debt at fair value and after 2.
Strategy and business model page 15 all costs was 19.0%, 3.9% ahead of the 15.1% return from the Companys equity benchmark.
Corporate and operational structure page 17 debt, the NAV total return was 18.8%, 3.7% ahead of the benchmark.
The shareholder total return was 22.1%, as the Witan is an Investment Trust, founded in 1909 and listed on discount narrowed to 1.
Five out of the seven the London Stock Exchange since 1924.
It is managed by the third party managers in place for the full year outperformed Executive team of its subsidiary Witan Investment Services their benchmarks.
The Direct Holdings portfolio also Limited WIS, as Alternative Investment Fund Manager significantly outperformed Witans benchmark.
AIFM, under the control and supervision of the Companys Board of directors.
Significant value was added by Witans use of gearing, which averaged 10.5% during the year.
The gross contribution Special note: The European Unions Packaged Retail from gearing of 2.2% was 1.7% after taking account of the Investment and Insurance based Products PRIIP s Companys borrowing costs.
Share buybacks contributed Regulations cover Investment Trusts and require Boards to 0.05% 0.9m to NAV returns.
Further details of the portfolios prepare a Key Information Document KID in respect of performance attribution are shown in the table below.
Witans KID is available on the Companys website.
Investors should note that the processes for calculating the risks, costs and potential returns in the KID Net asset value total return 19.0% Portfolio total return gross 18.
2% Benchmark total return 15.1% Benchmark total return 15.1% Relative investment performance 3.
2% Effect of changed fair value of debt 0.
Figures may not sum, due to rounding.
08 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Key Performance Indicators The financial statements on pages 64 to 9 3 set out the although performance is also monitored over shorter required statutory reporting measures of the Companys periods.
Aside from the statutory accounting measures, the principal Success is monitored against Key Performance Indicators financial KPIs are set out below, with a report of Witans KPIs viewed as significant measures of longerterm performance during the year.
With respect to non-financial success.
Given the inherent volatility of investment returns, measures, details of the Companys policies and compliance success over the long term is viewed as most important, in relation to the UK Corporate Governance Code are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 32 to 40.
Investment performance Positive long-term real returns and outperformance of Witans equity benchmark.
The Company seeks at least 2% p. a. long-term outperformance in NAV total return and shareholder total return.
In 2017, Witan achieved a NAV total return of 19.0%, 3.9% ahead of its benchmark see page 16, with a shareholder total return of 22.1% benefiting from a narrowing of the discount.
Witans total returns were also well ahead of inflation of 3% for the year to December 2017.
Returns over the longer term, set out on page 2, indicate that the return objectives have also been met over the past 3 and 5 year periods.
Long-term outperformance by the individual managers relative to their benchmarks.
In 2017, five of the seven third party managers in place for the full year and the internally-managed Direct Holdings portfolio outperformed their benchmarks.
The returns since each managers appointment are set out in the table on page 11.
Further details are set out on page 11.
Annual growth in the dividend per share ahead of inflation The dividend was increased by 10.5%, 7.5% ahead of the inflation rate of 3% in the year to December 2017.
Further details are set out on page 12.
C. A positive contribution to investment returns from the use of borrowings The Company employed average gearing of 10.5% during the year, which contributed 2.
After allowing for the payment of interest, there was a net contribution of 1.
D. A share price trading at a sustainable low discount or a premium to NAV including income, with debt at fair value, taking account of prevailing investment conditions The shares traded at an average discount of 2.8% in 2017, compared with an average 5.8% discount in 2016.
The discount at the year-end was 1.
Further details are set out on page 13.
E. A competitive level of ongoing charges, balancing the need to pay for high quality investment management with keeping the costs of managing the business as low as possible In 2017, the ongoing charges figure OCF was 0.7 6% excluding performance fees 2016: 0.75% and 0.7 8 % including performance fees 2016: 0.65%.
Further details are set out on page s 13 and 14.
Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 09 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Strategic Report continued Geographical distribution as at 31 December 2017 35% 5% UK 22% Japan 21% North America Europe 14% Far East 3% Other Combined portfolio composition The sector and regional structure are summarised on Sector breakdown of the portfolio this page.
The top 50 holdings are set out on page 24.
They represented 4 6% of Witans portfolio at 31 December 2017 2016: 44%.
These analyses highlight the portfolios substantial diversification.
The portfolios active share Achieving outperformance requires the portfolio to differ from the benchmark.
It is important that diversification does not suppress the benefits sought when selecting active managers.
One measure of active management is known as active share.
A portfolio identical to the benchmark has % an active share of 0% while one with no holdings in common Financials including investment companies 29.4 with its benchmark has an active share of 100%.
Although Consumer Services 15.5 active share is an incomplete measure of active management Industrials 14.7 let alone likely success, the active share of our combined portfolio was circa 7 7% at the end of 2017 2016: 70%.
This Technology 11.8 indicates that Witans portfolio differs markedly from the Consumer Goods 10.2 relevant indices, while remaining well-diversified across global Health Care 6.0 regions, industry sectors and at the individual company level.
Other 8.4 Open-Ended Funds 0.7 Equity Index Futures 1.1 Cash Bonds 2.2 10 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Investment managers performance % of Value Witans assets Benchmark of Witans under Benchmark Performance performance assets managed management Performance performance in since since at 31.12.17 at 31.12.17 in 2017 2017 appointment appointment Investment manager m Note 1 % % % Note 2 % Artemis 184.8 8.3 7.7 13.1 10.1 6.8 Heronbridge 138.1 6.2 12.0 13.1 11.2 9.0 Lindsell Train 175.6 7.9 21.8 13.1 16.8 10.1 Lansdowne Partners 330.6 14.9 19.1 11.6 22.7 16.1 Pzena 315.3 14.2 14.0 13.8 13.8 14.3 Veritas 311.4 14.0 17.1 13.8 14.5 12.3 CRUX 98.7 4.4 n a n a 0.7 1.4 S. W. Mitchell 99.5 4.5 n a n a 1.2 1.4 Matthews 260.3 11.7 21.5 20.6 12.7 11.0 GQG92.
64.2n an a16.716.0 Witan Direct Holdings 203.3 9.1 27.2 15.1 12.9 10.0 Notes: 1 Percentage of Witans investments managed and cash balances held centrally by Witan.
2 The percentages are annualised where the date of appointment was more than one year ago.
Manager structure and performance Directly held investments The third party managers follow mandates set by the Up to 12.5% of the portfolio previously 10% may be invested Company.
The mandate, benchmark, investment style and the by the Executive team, with the objective of outperforming date of appointment for each manager are shown on pages 21 Witans equity benchmark.
Up to 10% at the time of to 23. investment may be invested in specialist collective funds.
These investments may represent undervalued asset In February, GQG Partners LLP was appointed to manage categories or funds viewed as longer-term generators of a portfolio of Emerging Market equities.
In May, Witans superior returns.
Up to 2.5% may be allocated in smaller five global managers were consolidated into three, with mandates to third party managers with strong potential to the assets managed by MFS and Tweedy, Browne being add value, which are more newly-established or in highly allocated between the remaining three global managers.
October, the pan-European portfolio managed by Marathon was reallocated to two new Europe ex-UK managers, CRUX The Direct Holdings portfolio delivered a return of 27.2%, and S. W. Mitchell, as the opportunity was taken to increase compared with 15.1% for Witans benchmark.
Returns portfolio concentration and European exposure.
These moves were driven by strong performances from the specialist life were undertaken after careful analysis of the impact on overall sciences company Syncona 52%, Princess Private Equity portfolio returns and, in the case of new managers, extensive 35% and Aberforth Geared Income Trust 36% which search processes.
restructured in June, enabling Witan to exit at NAV.
Seven of the third party managers were in place throughout This portfolio is actively managed, with no fixed allocation.
Strong returns were delivered by Lindsell Train More capital is invested when opportunities appear subject 21.8%, Lansdowne 19.1% and Veritas 17.1%, which to the limits noted above and the allocation falls when sales significantly outperformed their benchmarks, and Matthews occur and there is a shortage of attractive new ideas.
After 21.5% which performed 1% ahead of the Asia-Pacific two very strong years of returns, we have moderately reduced index.
Artemis and Heronbridge both underperformed the UK the proportion of our assets in this area.
The portfolio held market, for stock specific and Brexit-related reasons.
10.2% of assets at the start of the year and was 9.1% of the investment portfolio at the end of 2017.
The main investments, which are all collective funds, are in listed private equity, life sciences and specialist regional or sector funds.
Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 11 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Strategic Report continued The Company pays dividends quarterly.
The first three Dividend performance in 2017 payments for 2018 in June, September and December will, in The Companys dividend policy subject to circumstances is the absence of unforeseen circumstances, be paid at a rate of that the annual rate of growth in dividends per share should 5.25 pence per share 2017: 4.75 pence, being one quarter of be greater than inflation, as measured by the UK Consumer the full year payment for 2017.
The fourth payment in March Price Index CPI.
2019 will be a balancing amount, reflecting the difference between the three quarterly dividends already paid and the Revenue earnings increased by 7.7% to 23.
8 pence per share payment decided for the full year.
This was driven by an increase in portfolio dividends and, for much of the year, favourable foreign exchange Gearing and the use of derivatives impacts on overseas currency dividends.
The Policy on the use of gearing leverage and the use of derivatives is detailed in Section 2 of the Strategic Report on For 2017, the Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of page 16.
6.75 pence per share, to be paid to shareholders on 29 March 2018, making a total distribution for the year of 21.0 pence Gearing activity during 2017 2016: 19.0 pence.
This represents an increase of 10.5%, 7.5% ahead of the 3% rate of CPI inflation in the year to December The Company issued 30m in Private Placement Notes in 2017.
This is the 43rd consecutive year of Witan dividend November, bearing interest at 2.74% and repayable in 2054. increases.
The size of the Companys short-term facility was increased to In addition to increasing the dividend, the Company has added 125m in February 2017.
At the end of December, the drawn 5.
At 6 0m after allowing for balance on this facility was 73m 2016: 71m.
2017s fourth interim payment, the reserves are equivalent to over one and a half times the annual dividend.
These reserves Gearing was maintained at around 10-11% for most of the enable the Company to maintain or grow its dividends in years year, reflecting improved economic news and a positive view when revenue from the portfolio is less buoyant, or falls.
Since being taken of the opportunities within global equity markets.
2007, Witans dividend per share has more than doubled, The calculation of gearing takes account of cash balances and rising 112% compared with 26% for the CPI.
The chart below the full nominal value of any derivatives held.
shows the growth in Witans dividend over the past 10 years.
At the end of 2016, gross gearing the total value of all investment positions, less cash was 10.3%.
This included 21m in Emerging Markets equity index futures, equivalent Witans dividend per share compared with to 1.2% of net assets.
At the the UK Consumer Price Index end of 2017, gross gearing on the same basis was 9.7%.
This 265 24.0 included 23m in European equity index futures, equivalent to 1.2% of net assets.
Further details of the accounting treatment for these positions are 232 21.0 given in note 1 on page 7 1.
Derivatives activity during 2017 199 18.0 The holding in MSCI Emerging Markets futures at the end of 2016 was sold in the months following the appointment of an 166 emerging markets manager in February.
15.0 In April, an investment was made in European equity index 133 futures ahead of the French election, as European political 12.0 risks appeared to be fading and the regions economy was enjoying an upswing.
This position was added to over the 100 9.0 summer, to increase exposure to the region while a search 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 was undertaken for new active managers.
The search resulted Witan dividend in pence per share left scale CPI Index right scale in two managers being appointed in October, following which Source: Datastream the index futures position was reduced from 2.5% of assets to 1.2%.
At the year-end an investment of 23m remained, equivalent to 1.2% of assets.
12 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 The realised capital gain on index futures during the year was It remains a long-term objective to create sustainable liquidity 7.6m, as shown in the cash flow statement on page 6 7. in Witans shares at or near to asset value.
The actions taken during 2017 are evidence of this commitment.
Witans shares in the market liquidity and discounts Costs Witan is a member of the FTSE 250 index, with a market Investment management fees capitalisation of 1.9 bn.
The Board places great importance on the encouragement of a liquid market in Witans shares on the Each of the third party managers is entitled to a management London Stock Exchange and on clear communications with fee, based on the assets under management.
The agreements shareholders and potential investors.
can be terminated on one to three months notice.
Two managers, in total managing 16% of Witans portfolio, have performancerelated fees, which are subject to capping in any Although delivery of sound investment performance remains particular year.
They have lower base fees than the managers the principal focus, the Board has also always paid attention without performance fees.
to discount-related issues and has, over many years, made significant use of share buybacks, purchasing shares when The base fee rates for managers in place at the end of 2017 they have stood at an unduly wide discount.
In addition to ranged from 0.25% to 0.80% per annum.
The weighted being accretive to NAV, this has the objective of reducing the average base fee was 0.52% as at 31 December 2017 2016: discount.
As an illustration, if our external managers uniformly Witan Investment Trust Discount Trend outperformed their benchmarks by 3% after base 2.0 2.0 management fees, this would generate a total investment management fee rate of 0.58 % including a 0.52 % base 0.0 0.0 fee and a performance fee of 0.05%, 9 % lower than the -2.0 -2.0 comparable estimate in 2016 0.64%.
The actual fees payable will vary according to the actual performance of managers -4.0 -4.0 with higher or lower fees.
-6.0 -6.0 -8.0 -8.0 Witan takes care to ensure the competitiveness of the fees it pays.
A majority of the fee structures incorporate a taper -10.0 -10.0 whereby the average fee rate reduces as the portfolio grows.
-12.0 -12.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Companys investment managers may use certain Discount services which are paid for, or provided by, various brokers.
Source: Datastream They may place business, including transactions relating to the Company, with those brokers.
Under the requirements of MiFID II broker-provided services other than the execution of The discount trend since the end of 2012 is illustrated in the transactions must either be minor non-monetary benefits or, chart above.
The exceptional discount widening experienced for research received by investment managers and charged to during 2016 affected by an institutional share sale and the the Company, separately accounted for.
aftermath of the Brexit vote has been reversed during 2017.
During 2017, Witan bought a total of 2.8m shares into treasury, Ongoing charges and costs 2m early in the year at an average discount of 4%, with the The Key Information Document on the Companys website balance repurchased since April at an average discount of contains a measure of costs calculated in accordance with 1.9%.
This has added a total of 0.9m to the net asset value for EU PRIIPs r egulations, which includes average figures over a remaining shareholders.
In accordance with AIC guidance, Witan will continue to calculate the Ongoing Charges Figure OCF for the Annual Discounts are affected by many factors outside the Companys Report on a consistent basis with those published in previous control but where it is in shareholders interests, taking years, to facilitate comparison.
It is emphasised that the account of market conditions the Company is prepared to Companys investment performance is reported after all costs, buy back shares at a discount to NAV or to issue shares at a whichever measure is used.
Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 13 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Strategic Report continued 2017 2016 2017 % of average 2016 % of average Category of Cost m net assets m net assets Other expenses 6.
4 60.3 5 5.21 0.33 excluding investment management expenses Less expenses relating to the subsidiary 1.45 0.08 0.89 0.06 those expenses not relating to the operation of the investment company Investment management base fees note 4 page 7 3 9.020.49 7.62 0.48 Ongoing Charges Figure including investment management base fees 14.0 30.7 6 11.94 0.75 Investment management performance fees note 4 page 7 3 1.46 0.10 0.02 0.53 Ongoing Charges including performance fees 14.
5 60.7 8 10.48 0.65 Portfolio transaction costs 3.18 0.17 2.00 0.1 3 Interest costs 7.62 0.41 9.62 0.60 Costs including transaction costs and borrowing costs25.
351.3 7 22.10 1.3 8 Outperformance during the year after all costs, debt at fair value 3.9 % -0.1% Figures may not sum due to rounding Including costs relating to manager changes The main cost headings constituting the OCF are set out in Priorities for the year ahead the table above.
As in previous years, the figure for transaction In 2018, the priorities for Witan include: costs is shown.
The figure for borrowing costs is also included in the table, for easy reference.
Investment : Seek to build on the good returns achieved for shareholders in recent years.
Make use of a range of active The OCF the recurring operating and investment managers to deliver Witans strategic objectives.
Continue management costs, as a percentage of average net assets to deliver dividend growth ahead of inflation: was 0.7 6% in 2017 2016: 0.75%.
Including performance fees due to third party managers, the OCF was 0.7 8% in 2017 2016: Communication : Communicate Witans distinct and active 0.65%.
The weighted average OCF for the AIC Global sector investment approach and achievements effectively to was 0.65% and 0.67% including performance fees source: existing and potential shareholders: Morningstar.
Investment management costs rose by more than the average level of net assets, due to the appointment Regulatory change : Continue to operate robust risk and of an emerging market manager replacing an index futures investment management processes, liaising closely with investment and to manager changes during the year.
Other the Companys AIFM to ensure compliance with regulatory expenses rose owing to increased staff, regulatory and developments.
The Company exercises strict scrutiny and control over costs.
The Board believes that the OCF during the year represents good value for money for shareholders, taking account of recent and longer-term performance.
14 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Setting the overall investment objective: 2.
Strategy and business model Selecting competent managers, who are expected to Objective and strategy outperform a relevant benchmark: The Companys objective is to achieve a competitive return for shareholders by generating long-term capital growth, Operating appropriate portfolio, corporate governance and providing an income that rises faster than inflation and risk management controls: outperforming a representative equity benchmark.
Adjusting asset allocation according to opportunity: The judicious use of borrowings with the aim of adding to The Companys strategy is to add value by investing primarily performance: in listed individual companies across a broad spread of global equity markets, while communicating effectively with existing Direct investment in specialist funds: and potential shareholders.
The Company seeks to construct a combined portfolio covering a broad range of markets and Selective use of exchange-traded derivatives for efficient sectors, offering a distinctive way for individual as well as portfolio management: and institutional investors to access the opportunities created by Clear communication of Witans objective and results to global economic growth.
The Company uses an active multi-manager approach, The Boards and the Executives role in investment allocating funds to selected third party investment managers.
The aim is to access the best available managers, including management those not accessible on the same terms or at all to UK The Board is responsible for setting the Companys investment investors.
Individual portfolios are actively managed by strategy, policy and guidelines.
each investment manager, in accordance with its mandate, with overall asset allocation and risk being managed by the The selection of individual investments is largely delegated to Executive team, within delegated limits set by the Board.
third party managers, subject to investment limits reflecting the particular mandate.
The managers are chosen by the This approach, adopted in 2004, recognises that no manager Witan and WIS Boards after a selection process focused on is likely to excel in all market conditions and regions.
Selecting their scope to add value as part of the overall portfolio.
managers to invest in their areas of greatest competence should improve returns, while reducing performance The overwhelming majority of the portfolio is in segregated variability relative to using a single manager.
accounts, held in custody by the Companys depositary.
The operations of the custodian and the safeguarding of the Witans approach is to combine different investment Companys assets are supervised by the depositary.
approaches and geographical mandates, creating a portfolio which can profit from the managers ability to outperform At the end of 2017, the Company had 10 third party investment over time.
The selection process seeks managers focusing on managers, covering a range of investment remits.
The fundamental value drivers rather than short-term trends.
proportion of Witans assets managed by each and their performance during the year are set out on page 11. Business model The returns from the third party investment managers The Company has appointed its wholly-owned subsidiary portfolios are expected to be the principal driver of Company, Witan Investment Services Limited WIS as performance.
Aside from its role in selecting and overseeing its AIFM under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers the managers, the Executive seeks to add to performance Directive AIFMD.
As such, WIS is responsible for operating by adjusting the level of gearing, by the selective use of the Companys portfolio and risk management processes.
WIS exchange-traded derivatives to alter the asset allocation and delegates certain portfolio management responsibilities to by the use of specialist funds to gain exposure to areas viewed third party portfolio managers.
The Company outsources other as offering attractive returns.
The Executive operates within corporate functions.
The Companys activities are overseen delegated parameters that are periodically reviewed by the by the Executive team, headed by the Chief Executive Officer Board and its AIFM.
In essence, the Company seeks to have CEO, who is a director of the Company.
sufficient levers to pull to take advantage of a wide range of Whilst the third party managers appointed are responsible for investment opportunities.
stock selection in their individual portfolios, the Companys Board and WIS are responsible for the overall delivery of performance to shareholders, through the following means: Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 15 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Strategic Report continued as well as enabling the Company to borrow in currencies Witans benchmark other than sterling, if deemed appropriate.
Witan may either The Companys benchmark is used as a transparent reference invest its borrowings fully, or neutralise their effect with cash point for comparing performance.
It is a combination of global balances according to its assessment of the markets.
The equity markets, giving access to a wide range of investment Companys third party managers are not permitted to borrow opportunities in the global economy, covering the investment within their portfolios but may hold cash.
universe from which most of the portfolio holdings are chosen.
The benchmark consists of 30% UK, 25% North America, 20% Use of derivatives Europe ex-UK, 20% Asia Pacific and 5% Emerging Markets.
Where financial instruments are available that help with The component weightings reflect the Boards belief that efficient portfolio management their use will be considered.
returns derive from the changing opportunities as economies Witans policy on the use of derivatives prioritises evolve, more than market capitalisation.
transparency, cost effectiveness and the minimisation of counterparty risk.
In recent years, exchange-traded index The portfolio is actively managed and not designed to track futures have been the only instruments used.
These give any combination of indices.
Performance can be expected to exposure to a market index, are readily tradable and depend vary, sometimes considerably, from benchmark returns, while upon the creditworthiness of the exchange, not an individual aiming for longterm outperformance.
The value of the investments which are traded on official exchanges is marked to market every day.
Gearing policy The purpose of using borrowings or gearing leverage is to The use of index futures enables Witan to adjust its investment improve returns for shareholders, by achieving investment exposure or asset allocation quickly and flexibly.
In both cases returns higher than the cost of borrowing.
Attention is paid changes can be made without interfering with the objective to using a level of gearing appropriate for market conditions of our investment managers, to pick stocks that will grow in borrowing more when markets are attractively valued and value and outperform their benchmarks over the long term.
less when returns are expected to be poorer.
A blend of The operation of this investment area is the responsibility of long-term and short-term borrowings is used, to balance the the CEO, acting under guidelines set and supervised by the certainty of cost from locking in fixed rates for longer periods Board.
The Companys third party managers are not permitted with the flexibility of short-term facilities which can be readily to use derivatives and may not gear their portfolios.
Marketing Although the Company has the legal power under its Articles Witan and its Board place great importance in effectively of Association to borrow up to 100% of the adjusted total of communicating the Companys strategy and operating shareholders funds which is also the maximum level set results to existing and potential shareholders.
The Board and by its AIFM, the Boards longstanding policy is not to allow Witans Executive maintain regular contact with shareholders gearing as defined on page 9 9 to rise to more than 20%, and the wider markets participants including private and other than temporarily in exceptional circumstances.
Over the professional investors, financial advisers and intermediaries.
past five years it has generally varied between 5% and 15%.
Clear communication of the Companys investment objective Where appropriate the Company may hold a net cash position.
and its success in implementing its strategy helps investors to decide how Witan fits with their own investment objectives.
Structure of borrowings Other things being equal, this should help the shares to trade The Company has fixed-rate borrowings see note 13 on page 79 at a narrow discount or a premium to NAV, from which all principally consisting of: shareholders benefit.
Secured Bonds 2025 6.025% 64m Information on the Company, its strategy and portfolio is regularly made available via the website www.
com, Private Placement Notes 2035 3.29% 21m newsletters and videos.
Important shareholder information Private Placement Notes 2045 3.47% 54m such as the Annual Report, the Key Information Document and Investor Disclosure Document can be found there, as Private Placement Notes 2054 2.74% 30m well as details of the Companys Wisdom and Jump savings scheme operated by the Companys subsidiary, Witan The average interest rate paid on the Companys fixed-rate Investment Services Limited.
Investors can also purchase borrowings is 4.3%.
The Company also has a 125m one-year shares on a wide range of other investment platforms listed facility, providing additional flexibility over the level of gearing, on page 9 8.
Key contact information can be found on page 100.
16 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Services WIS 3.
Corporate and operational structure Witan Investment Services Limited is authorised and regulated Witan is an Investment Trust with a Premium Listing on by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
It is authorised to the London Stock Exchange.
It has a single, wholly-owned act as Witans AIFM, to provide investment savings accounts subsidiary, Witan Investment Services Limited WIS which and marketing services and to give investment advice to acts as the Companys AIFM.
Operational management arrangements WISs principal activities are acting as Witans AIFM, providing In addition to the appointment of third party investment executive management services to the Boards of Witan managers, Witan and WIS contract with third parties for other and Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc Witan Pacific, services, including: communicating information about the companies to the market and the provision of savings plans for investors to hold BNP Paribas Securities Services London Branch Witan and Witan Pacific shares.
BNPSS for depositary services, custody, investment accounting and administration: WISs operational objectives for 2018 are: Frostrow Capital LLP for company secretarial services: to fulfil its responsibilities as Witans AIFM: DST Services Ltd DST.
as the savings plan administrator to provide suitable advice to the Boards of its corporate of Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings: clients: The Company takes specialist advice on regulatory to manage the Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings Plans: compliance issues and, as required, procures legal, investment consulting, financial and tax advice.
to reduce the net operating costs for Witan: and The service quality and value received from major service to seek appropriate business opportunities that can add providers are reviewed regularly by the Board.
The contracts governing the provision of all services are In 2017, WIS had two principal sources of income.
These were formulated with legal advice and stipulate clear objectives and savings plan revenues and the fees as AIFM or Executive guidelines for service required.
Manager and for marketing services paid by its corporate clients.
The main costs incurred were fees to the savings Premises and staffing schemes administrator DST, staff costs and professional advice to ensure compliance with its regulatory and The Company has a lease on office premises at 14 Queen accounting obligations.
Annes Gate, London SW1H 9AA, which is the Companys registered office.
The current lease has a 5 year term, which commenced in October 2015.
Principal risks and uncertainties The directors have carried out a robust assessment of the The Companys policy towards its employees is to attract and principal risks facing the Company, including those that would retain staff with the particular skills and expertise required threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or to manage the affairs of an investment trust company.
These risks, and the actions taken to mitigate them, Details of the Companys remuneration policies and required are set out on pages 18 and 19.
In addition, note 14 to the disclosures are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Financial Statements on pages 80 to 88 sets out in more detail on pages 43 to 55.
Employees and those who seek to work at the nature of and management processes for the principal Witan are treated equally regardless of sex, marital status, financial risks identified.
creed, colour, race or ethnic origin.
The Company has seven direct employees, four men and three women.
At the end of Risks are inherent in investment and corporate management.
2017, t he Board consisted of eight non-executive directors six It is important to identify important risks and ways to men and two women and the Chief Executive Officer, Andrew control or avoid them.
WIS has a Risk Committee in order to Bell, who is an employee.
Given its outsourced model and monitor compliance with its risk management and reporting small number of direct employees, the Group has no specific obligations as Witans AIFM.
The Company has a framework of policies in respect of environmental or social and community the key risks, with policies and processes devised to manage affairs.
Its detailed risk map is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee and the WIS Risk Committee, which report Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 17 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Strategic Report continued on issues arising to their respective boards.
The guiding Companys depositary has a key responsibility for monitoring principles remain watchfulness, proper analysis, prudence such issues on behalf of the Company.
DST acts as the and a clear system of risk management.
Administrator for the Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings Plans so the effectiveness of their systems and controls is also key.
Where appropriate, the Witan and WIS Boards meet jointly to Details of the Boards monitoring and control processes are cover matters of common interest.
The WIS Board consists explained further in the Corporate Governance Statement on of seven non-executives and one executive director who are pages 39 and 40. also directors of Witan, and one executive director who is a Company employee.
Corporate governance The Board takes its regulatory responsibilities very seriously The Groups key risks fall broadly under the following and compliance issues and potential regulatory changes are categories: regularly reviewed by the Board and its AIFM.
Market and investment portfolio risks Details of the Companys corporate governance policies are Witan invests in global equity markets on behalf of its set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages shareholders.
Equity exposure is unlikely to drop below 80% 32 to 40.
The Board conducts an annual assessment of the of net assets, in normal conditions.
A key risk of investing effectiveness of its governance processes.
There is also a in Witan is a general fall in equity prices, which could be 3-yearly independent external review, the most recent of exacerbated by gearing.
Other risks are the portfolios which was in late 2016.
See page 35 for further details.
exposure to country, currency, industrial sector and stock specific factors.
There are also risks associated with the Operational and regulatory risks are regularly reviewed by performance of its investment managers and changes in Witans Audit Committee and WISs Risk Committee.
WIS Witans share price rating.
is subject to its own operating rules and regulations and is regulated by the FCA.
The Company has established a modus The Board seeks to manage these risks through: operandi for the effective coordination of its responsibilities and those of WIS, as its AIFM.
a broadly diversified equity benchmark: appropriate asset allocation decisions: Operationally the multi-manager structure is robust, as the investment managers, the custodian and the fund accountants selecting competent managers and regularly monitoring keep their own records which are regularly reconciled.
The performance: depositary, AIFM and the Board provide additional checks and attention to key economic and political events: safeguards.
Management monitors the activities of all third parties and reports any significant issues to the Board.
active management of risk, whether to preserve capital or capitalise on opportunities: Accounting, legal and regulatory the application of relevant policies on gearing and liquidity: The Company must comply with sections 1158-59 of the and Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA.
A breach could result in the Company losing investment trust status and, as a share buybacks and issuance to respond to market supply consequence, capital gains realised would be subject to and demand.
The accounting criteria are monitored by During the year Andrew Bell the CEO managed the overall the CEO and AIFM and the Company carefully monitors business and the investment portfolio in accordance with compliance with the applicable rules.
limits, determined by the Board and its AIFM, on which the CEO reports at each Board meeting.
The Board also regularly The Company must comply with the provisions of the reviews investment strategy and performance, supported by Companies Act 2006 Companies Act and with the UK Listing comprehensive management information and analysis.
Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules UKLA Rules.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company Operational and or the directors being fined or becoming the subject of Many of the Groups financial systems are outsourced to criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could result third parties, principally BNP Paribas Securities Services in the suspension of the Companys shares which would itself BNPSS.
Disruption to their accounting, payment systems constitute a breach of the provisions of the CTA.
or custody records could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
BNPSS as the 18 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 These requirements offer significant protection for value of the Companys assets.
As set out in note 14 to the shareholders.
The Board relies on the CEO, the AIFM, the accounts, the Board has considered price risk sensitivity Company Secretary and the Groups professional advisers to the sensitivity of the profit after taxation for the year and ensure compliance with all applicable rules.
WIS is authorised the value of the shareholders funds to changes in the fair and regulated by the FCA to act as the AIFM for Witan, for value of the Groups investments and foreign currency the marketing and administration of savings plans and the sensitivity the sensitivity to changes in the exchange rates provision of investment advice to professional clients.
for the US dollar, Euro and Japanese yen : In addition to its cash balances, which were 74.0m at Liquidity 31 December 2017 2016: 49.2m, the Company has a The Companys portfolio consists mainly of readily realisable short-term bank facility which can be used to meet its securities.
The Company and its AIFM regularly review liabilities, and fixed-rate financing in the form of Secured liquidity needs for example operational costs, loan servicing Bonds, Secured Notes and cumulative preference shares.
and repayment, shareholder dividends and share buybacks With the exception of the short-term facility, this financing relative to the Companys portfolio income and the value will remain in place until at least 2025.
Details of the and tradability of the Companys assets.
Most of the likely Companys non-current liabilities are set out in note 13 to liquidity requirements are foreseeable for example timetabled the accounts: loan payments and dividends while others such as share buybacks are subject to the Companys discretion.
The Board The expenses of the Company are predictable and modest is satisfied that unexpected liquidity needs are not significant in comparison with the assets and there are no capital and could be readily met without compromising normal commitments currently foreseen which would alter that portfolio management practice.
Viability Statement As well as considering the principal risks on pages 18 and 19 In accordance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, and the financial position of the Company, the Board has the Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over made the following assumptions in considering the Companys a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going longer-term viability: Concern provision.
The Companys remit of investing in the securities of The Companys current position and prospects are set out in global listed companies will continue to be an activity to the Chairmans and Chief Executives Report and the Strategic which investors will wish to have exposure: Report.
The principal risks are set out on pages 17 to 19.
The Board has considered the Companys financial position and its Investors will continue to want to invest in closed-ended ability to liquidate its portfolio and meet its expenses as they investment trusts: fall due and notes the following: The performance of the Company will continue to be The portfolio consists of investments traded on major satisfactory.
The Board is able to replace any of the current international stock exchanges and there is a spread of investment managers when it considers it appropriate to investments.
In normal conditions, the current portfolio do so: could be liquidated to the extent of more than 87% within 5 trading days and there is no expectation that the nature The Company will continue to have access to adequate of the investments held will be materially different in capital when required: future: The Company will continue to be able to fund share The closed-ended nature of the Company means that, buybacks when required.
The Company bought back unlike an open-ended fund, it does not need to realise 2.8m ordinary shares in 2017 at a cost of 26.6m and investments when shareholders wish to sell their shares: experienced no issues with liquidity in doing so.
It had shareholders funds in excess of 1.9bn at the end of 2017.
The Board has considered the viability of the Company under various scenarios and concluded that it would usually be able to take appropriate action to protect the Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 19 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Strategic Report continued Based on the results of its review, and taking into account the long-term nature of the Company and its financing, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue its operations and meet its expenses and liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future, taken to mean at least the next five years.
The Board has chosen this figure because, whilst it has no information to suggest this judgement will need to change in the coming five years, forecasting over longer periods is imprecise.
The Boards long-term view of viability will of course be updated each year in the Annual Report.
Going concern In light of the conclusions drawn in the foregoing Liquidity and Viability Statements, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months.
Therefore, the directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In reviewing the position as at the date of this report, the Board has considered the guidance on this matter issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 12 March 2018 and is signed on its behalf by: H M Henderson A L C Bell Chairman Chief Executive 12 March 2018 20 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017
