STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW OF OUR MARKET OVERVIEW OF OUR MARKET Retail is evolving Todays retail journeys combine An intimate knowledge stores and online The purchase of every item involves a number of steps a retail of market trends journey beginning with product discovery and leading to trial and test, purchase, delivery and collection and, in some cases, return.
Each With decades of experience as an of these steps can take place either in a store or online, making it a multichannel retail journey.
Consumers select their retail journey, operator and developer of European and the combination of instore and online steps, based on a range of retail property, we have an intimate criteria, from physical convenience to a desire to be entertained or surprised.
For nearly all purchases the store remains the cornerstone knowledge of our property markets.
of the retail journey and plays a critical role.
Only a small share c. 10% The financial performance of our of purchases do not interact with a store.
properties is also determined by its Table 5 relevance and attractiveness to Store, digital and multichannel shopping retailers and shoppers.
Therefore, the journey preferences property and consumer trends Delivery % of all Trial & or shopping described here shape our strategy and Journey Discovery Test Purchase Collection Return journeys Store only 35% inform our decisions around capital Multichannel 15% allocation, project priorities and Online only 10% resource deployment.
Multichannel 7% Multichannel 6% Our dedicated Insight team monitors Multichannel 5% the latest consumer habits and retail Multichannel 4% trends to better understand our Multichannel 25 other multichannel combinations 18% markets.
They analyse the data Store Digital Source: AT Kearney, On Solid Ground: Brick-and-Mortar is the Foundation of collected from across our own portfolio Omnichannel and digital apps: gather insights from Many retailers have invested in their websites to allow them to interact close relationships with international with customers at multiple steps on their shopping journey.
As these websites become easier to use, payment software becomes safer and retailers: commission research reports mobile devices grow more sophisticated, consumers make more purchases and surveys: and visit best-in-class online.
The market share of online transactions differs by country: the UK has one of the highest levels of online sales, 18%, with France at 10% and it retail destinations around the world.
is lower in Ireland Source: Centre for Retail Research.
Thanks to our scale and positive Our survey of retailers confirms that they measure the productivity of reputation, we are able to attract and stores based on total sales combining instore and online.
60% employ specialists outside the property allocate the sales from their website to a store in the same catchment as the consumer.
49% of retailers view the store as important or very arena to enhance our capabilities: for important to drive online transactions.
example, specialists in customer service We no longer think of our shops and our delivery, dining experiences, online business as separate channels: we commercialisation and events.
think about them as one Clothing retailer The role of the store is therefore evolving.
Increasingly we see retailers putting much more emphasis on showcasing products, providing service and fulfilling click & collect.
50% of retailers told us they anticipate some sort of design change to match the evolving role of their stores.
Bulky goods retailers anticipate increased area for online order collection and increased area for staff to support customer service.
Fashion retailers told us they anticipate increased selling space to better display merchandise.
COM 13 Overview of our market continued Retailer preferences Consumers expect an enhanced experience The trend for more multichannel shopping journeys influences Successful retail destinations provide customers with a mix of retailers plans for the amount, the type and the location of their stores.
shopping, dining and leisure: retail may not be the primary driver for a visit.
These destinations create an experience which attracts more There is growing demand for stores in large, high footfall locations and customers and encourages them to stay longer and therefore also alongside complementary retailers.
82% of shoppers responded that supports strong leasing demand from retailers.
the main reason for choosing a shopping destination was the breadth of retail selection.
Therefore, retailers prefer to be clustered together 39% of shopping centre visitors agree that they in the same locations to optimise their interaction with customers.
visit because of the range of leisure facilities This drives a convergence by retailers and shoppers towards the same including restaurants and cinemas.
Data collected by MasterCard in the catchments of There has been a rapid increase in the amount of dining space at retail Hammersons UK shopping centres shows our centres growing in destinations: this growth is now stabilising.
Now the range of popularity at the same time as online sales grow.
attractions at retail venues is broadening and could include pop-up With the evolving role of the store, many retailers are also looking to markets, catwalk shows, virtual reality or ice-rinks.
Recent European enhance their space with stand-out fixtures and fittings, hands-on consumer spending data show a trend for more fulfilment through customer service and an online order pick-up and returns desk.
88% of retailers confirmed that their investment priority was improving customer service through in-store technology.
Generally we expect fashion retailers to require fewer stores to cover the same market catchment.
The process of store rationalisation by some high-street womens fashion brands has begun and will favour leading locations.
The winning fashion categories taking more space are sports fashion and differentiated branded apparel.
Consumer-goods brands are also taking advantage of the opportunity to enhance their brand visibility in these preferred retailer locations.
For example, car manufacturers, make-up brands and luxury coffee and chocolate brands are taking space, sometimes for a shorter duration to enhance customer awareness.
As occupier demand is clustering towards fewer, more productive locations, these retail venues are expected to outperform with higher rental growth.
How we are responding How we are responding Predominantly own retail venues which are large, high-quality and Dedicated teams to design and deliver an enhanced customer leading in their catchment.
experience, including a greater emphasis on events.
Foster close relationships with retailers to understand their store Increase the share of space of leisure and add more dining space requirements eg size, additional storage, frontage.
Create vibrant, differentiated retail and leisure destinations which Translate the best-practice customer service expertise of Value attract high footfall.
Retail across the rest of the portfolio.
Accelerate rotation rates to introduce new categories and brands.
How this is aligned How this is aligned to our strategy to our strategy These structural trends influence our strategy, drive our priorities and guide our performance.
Focus on growing Create differentiated Promote financial consumer markets destinations efficiency and partnerships 14 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW OF OUR MARKET Frictionless retail Global shopping tourism Time-short lifestyles and multichannel retail are raising consumers The level of global tourism is increasing, driven by the growth of the expectations for a retail journey which is frictionless, delivering middle income demographic bracket in emerging economies and also convenient, faster access to goods and services.
Therefore retail falling travel costs.
Shopping is increasingly being enjoyed by these locations which are well-connected to transport links, make it easy to international tourists as part of a travel experience.
Discounted identify and locate items, and offer convenient shopping with a mix of premium brands at attractive retail outlets make the experience even services, are also performing well.
This convenience trend supports the retail park format where parks Chart 6 are close to major road junctions and with an abundance of free Split and growth of European tourism spend, by source parking.
It also underpins the value in retail destinations which are nationality 2017 embedded in the centre of major cities.
2017 Share growth Thanks to the combination of online purchase and certainty of Greater China 48% 16% fulfilment, click & collect now accounts for around one quarter of South and East Asia 14% 17% retailers online orders in the UK and is expected to be the fastest Gulf Middle East 10% -2% growing channel, faster than the growth of online only sales.
Click & Russia 5% 28% collect is also attractive to retailers as 32% of clothing and footwear shoppers using click & collect indicated they made an additional India 3% 38% purchase when collecting their most recent online order.
US 1% 22% Other 19% 10% 100% Source: Global Blue Chinese and East Asian tourists contribute the largest share of European shopping tourism spend while emerging markets such as India are growing very rapidly.
As a result of this trend we are seeing an increase in demand for storage space and also logistics providers such as Doddle and Collect.
Retail landlords are also starting to develop websites and apps see Style Seeker page 10 to support a frictionless multichannel experience for their visitors.
How we are responding How we are responding Own a diversity of retail formats which includes convenient Increase our investment in leading European premium outlets.
Use the Value Retail and VIA operating and marketing platforms to Support click & collect journeys with dedicated facilities promote the destinations internationally.
eg Collect desks, Amazon lockers, click & collect parking bays.
Focus our investment portfolio on top European cities which are Advance our bespoke Style Seeker app as well as others.
How this is aligned How this is aligned to our strategy to our strategy Digital Chat-bots Virtual and payments and AI augmented reality Future trends we are Internet of things Loyalty Driverless monitoring and smart cities and big data cars HAMMERSON.
