Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements MAN GROUPS LITERARY SPONSORSHIPS Man Group sponsors two major literary prizes, The Man Booker Prize and The Man Booker International Prize, in their celebration of literary excellence and creativity.
As a firm, we believe in nurturing and celebrating Of the novel, Baroness Lola Young, 2017 intellectual capital.
We want our colleagues to Chair of judges, said: This tale of the be able to articulate their thoughts with haunting and haunted souls in the afterlife of creativity, constantly questioning the world Abraham Lincolns young son paradoxically around them, and we have to see and interpret creates a vivid and lively evocation of the situations on many levels both the obvious characters that populate this other world.
headline but also understanding the subtlety of Lincoln in the Bardo is both rooted in, competing narratives.
These are all the things and plays with history, and explores the we do when we read great novels.
meaning and experience of empathy.
We also believe businesses like Man Group have The Man Booker International Prize 2017 an important duty to support progress in Man Group has sponsored the Man Booker education at every level: from the Man Booker International Prize since its inception in 2005.
Commenting on the novel, Nick Barley, chair of Prizes, which recognise global talent, to our Awarded each year on the basis of a single book the 2017 judging panel, said: A Horse Walks more local initiatives in schools and universities.
translated into English, the Man Booker into a Bar shines a spotlight on the effects of It is in all our interests and the right thing to do, International Prize aims to encourage the grief, without any hint of sentimentality.
The we believe, to encourage and promote literary publishing and reading of quality fiction in central character is challenging and flawed, but and academic endeavours in all their forms.
translation, and the 50,000 prize is divided completely compelling.
We were bowled over by equally between the author and the translator.
Grossmans willingness to take emotional as well The Man Booker Prize 2017 All novels published in English in the UK are as stylistic risks: every sentence counts, every The Man Booker Prize for Fiction, awarded therefore eligible for one or other of the Man word matters in this supreme example of the annually to a novel written in English and Booker Prize or Man Booker International Prize, writers craft.
published in the UK that year, is considered the ensuring that the Man Booker can honour leading literary award in the English-speaking fiction on a truly global basis.
Jessica Cohen said in her acceptance world.
In 2017, the fifteenth year of Man Groups speech: This award is especially meaningful sponsorship of the prize, it was awarded to The 2017 Man Booker International Prize was because it is an unparalleled recognition Lincoln in the Bardo, by American author awarded to A Horse Walks Into a Bar by David of translators.
To me, the Man Booker George Saunders.
In the week following the Grossman and translated by Jessica Cohen.
International Prize is about recognising works announcement, sales of Lincoln in the Bardo The paperback of A Horse Walks Into a Bar sold that break down walls and barriers, that fight increased by 1227% and Bloomsbury, the 20,000 copies in the three weeks following the against dehumanising other people or other books publisher, issued an immediate reprint winner announcement.
peoples, and find the language to express of 100,000 copies.
the human experiences that we all share.
Grossman is a bestselling Israeli writer of fiction, Born in Texas and resident in New York, non-fiction and childrens literature, whose 58-year-old George Saunders is the second works have been translated into 36 languages.
American author to win the prize in its 49-year Cohen, who was born in Colchester, England, history.
Internationally renowned as a short story but raised in Jerusalem, has previously writer, Lincoln in the Bardo is Saunders first fulltranslated Grossmans critically acclaimed To length novel.
The novel focuses on a single night the End of the Land as well as work by other in the life of Abraham Lincoln: an actual moment major Israeli writers.
in 1862 when the body of his 11-year-old son was laid to rest in a Washington cemetery.
Strangely and brilliantly, Saunders activates this graveyard with the spirits of its dead.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 43
