Strategic report STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK We aim to generate outperformance forour clients Key reads Business model 2 and therefore grow our business.
Weachieve this Key performance indicators 22 through the quality of our research and innovation, Risk management 30 Directors Remuneration report 65 our ability to understand and meet theneeds of our clients and operating the business efficiently to generate long term value for our shareholders.
Our strategic priorities Innovative investment strategies Generating outperformance for clients through high quality research, developing our people, and the strength of ourtechnology.
i More on page 11 Returns to shareholders Generate excess capital to either return orre-invest to maximise long term returns toshareholders.
i More on page 29 Efficient and Strong client effective operations relationships Building institutional quality technology Building long term partnerships with and infrastructure, providing scalable clients, through a single point of contact, options for growth, whilst operating to understand their needs and offer the business efficiently.
solutions across our range of strategies.
i More on page 12 i More on page 12 08 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Risks Remuneration Key performance indicators Man Group identifies the principal risks Executive director remuneration is directly KPIs across the firm and assesses their likely linked to strategy and performance, with Our four financial KPIs as listed below impact.
We measure and monitor the size particular emphasis on matching rewards illustrate and measure the relationship of our risks and implement controls and to results over the long term.
In developing between the investment experience of our transactions to reduce and hedge exposure our new Remuneration Policy in 2017, for clients, our financial performance and the in order to ensure that they stay within our approval by shareholders at the 2018 creation of shareholder value over time.
AGM, maintaining this link has been centre of our thinking.
Investment performance of key funds Business risk Linked to strategy against relevant benchmarks and The key risks of investment A substantial portion of executive director reference indices: underperformance, people, and regulatory remuneration is linked to success in change are all risks Man Group has to Related implementing the Groups strategy.
strategic accept if it is to undertake its business.
Progress against the Groups strategic priority Related priorities and KPIs provide key metrics strategic for determining the short and long term priority Man AHL met variable pay.
Man FRM met Credit risk i See page 67 of the Directors Man GLG met The risk whereby a counterparty with which Remuneration report for how Man Numeric met the funds or Man Group have financial the proposed new policy links transactions fails to deliver back investor or to our KPIs shareholder assets.
Net FUM flows for the period as a percentage of opening FUM Related Performance related strategic Related priority The variable components of total strategic priority remuneration are linked to performance and deliveries for our clients and shareholders.
Liquidity risk Target range High pay requires high performance.
The risk of Man Group losing capital due to 15.8% 0%10% Achieving the maximum pay requires the Group having insufficient liquidity sustained high performance across resources to meet its obligations in volatile all businesses over several years.
Related i More on pages 74 to 77 strategic Adjusted management fee EBITDA priority margin Long term shareholder alignment Related Market risk strategic The structure of pay is designed to The risk of Man Group losing capital due to a priority reflect the long term nature of the Groups decline in the value of the seeding book or business.
Alignment with shareholders has Target range UK pension fund.
been further enhanced in the new policy 27.7% 25%40% with a new Long Term Incentive Plan with Related strategic a three year performance and subsequent priority two year post-vesting holding period and met increased shareholding requirements to Operational risk be retained after departure.
Adjusted management fee EPS growth Resulting from human error, inadequate or Related failed internal processes and systems or from i More on pages 88 to 90 strategic external events.
priority Shareholder engagement Related strategic Target range The Remuneration Committee actively priority 20.0% 0%20% RPI seeks to understand shareholder preferences and be transparent in met Reputational risk explaining its policy and practice.
As The risk that an incident or negative publicity part of the review of the Directors undermines our reputation as a leading active Remuneration policy in 2017, the investment manager.
Remuneration Committee Chairman spoke Related to a majority of our shareholders and their strategic representative bodies to obtain views priority on the most appropriate approach for executive remuneration in our business.
i More on pages 54 and 86 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 09
