GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT This report Directors Report forms part of the management report Going Concern and Viability statements as required under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The Companys Going Concern statement and Viability statement can The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 69 includes an indication of likely be found on page 69. future developments in the Company, details of important events since the year ended 31 December 2017 and the Companys business Greenhouse gas emissions reporting model and strategy.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 70 to Information regarding the Companys greenhouse gas emissions can 118 is incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
Companys Articles of Association Articles Indemnification of and insurance for Directors The Articles may be amended by special resolution in accordance and officers with the Companies Act 2006 Act and are available at The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance, www.
The Companys Directors and officers are adequately insured in accordance with best practice.
Directors are Branches indemnified under the Articles.
Details of the Companys French and Irish branches are provided on page 172.
4R disclosures Table 90 sets out where disclosures required in compliance with Directors Listing Rule 9.8.
Details of the Directors who served during the year are set out on Table 90 pages 72 to 73.
Directors are appointed and replaced in accordance with the Articles, the Act and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Page The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and the Act.
Interest capitalised and tax relief 144 Publication of unaudited financial information n a Directors interests Details of long-term incentive schemes 88 113 Details of the Directors share interests can be found on page 98.
Waiver of emoluments by a director n a Disclosure of information to auditors Waiver of future emoluments by a director n a Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of the Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash n a Directors Report has confirmed that: Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by major n a So far as she or he is aware, there is no relevant information of subsidiary undertakings which the Companys External Auditor is unaware Parent company participation in a placing by a listed n a subsidiary She or he has taken all the steps that she or he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make herself or himself aware of any Contracts of significance n a relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Provision of services by a controlling shareholder n a External Auditor is aware of that information Shareholder waivers of dividends 120 Dividend Shareholder waivers of future dividends 120 Details of the recommended final dividend can be found on pages 57 Agreements with controlling shareholders n a and 145.
Post balance sheet events Employees Details of post balance sheet events can be found in note 11 on page 148.
Details of the Companys policies regarding the employment of disabled persons are provided on page 48.
The Company places Provisions on change of control considerable importance on good internal communications with its Five of the six outstanding bonds issued by the Company contain employees and invests time in consulting on matters which affect covenants specifying that the bondholders may request repayment at them including: reward practices, work life balance initiatives, par, if the Companys credit rating is downgraded to below investment corporate responsibility activities and approaches to internal grade due to a change of control, and the rating remains below communications.
Consultation predominantly takes the form of investment grade for a period of six months thereafter.
facilitated discussion groups and employee involvement on relevant In addition, under the Companys credit facilities and private committees.
The Company provides regular updates on its placement notes, the lending banks or holders may request repayment performance through presentations and announcements.
of outstanding amounts within 30 and 52 days respectively of any Financial instruments change of control.
Details of the Groups financial risk management in relation to its financial instruments are available on pages 160 to 165.
COM 119 Directors Report continued Purchase of own shares At the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM, the Company was granted authority by shareholders to purchase up to 79,318,845 ordinary shares 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 24 February 2017.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM, at which a resolution will be proposed for its renewal, or, if earlier, 25 July 2018.
Re-appointment of External Auditor Details of the re-appointment of the External Auditor are provided on page 117.
Responsibility statement The Directors responsibility statement is set out on page 121.
Share capital and substantial shareholders Details of the Companys capital structure are set out on page 166.
The rights and obligations attached to the Companys shares are set out in the Articles.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares except the UK Real Estate Investment Trust restrictions.
Interests in voting rights over the issued share capital of the Company disclosed in accordance with DTR 5 can be found on page 80.
Shares held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan The Trustees of the Hammerson Employee Share Ownership Plan hold Hammerson plc shares in trust to satisfy awards under the Companys employee share plans.
The Trustees have waived their right to receive dividends on shares held in the Company.
As at 31 December 2017, 1,004,746 shares were held in trust for employee share plans purposes.
Statement of compliance with the Competition and Markets Authority CMA order The Company confirms that it has complied with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 Article 7.1, published by the CMA on 26 September 2014.
Sarah Booth General Counsel and Company Secretary 23 February 2018 120 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
