Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Lord Livingston of Parkhead Luke Ellis Mark Jones Jonathan Sorrell Chairman Chief Executive Officer CEO Chief Financial Officer CFO President Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment January 2016 September 2016 January 2017 June 2012 Chairman: May 2016 CFO: June 2012 December 2016 Co-President: June 2016 President: September 2016 Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Nomination Committee Chair None None None Remuneration Committee Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Ian served as Minister of State for Prior to his appointment to the Board, Before joining the Board, Mark served Jonathan joined Man in August 2011 Trade and Investment from 2013 to Luke served as President of Man Group as Co-CEO of Man GLG from 2013 and as Head of Strategy and Corporate 2015.
Prior to this he was Group Chief from 2012 with responsibility for the COO from 2010.
Mark joined Man GLG Finance.
He was CFO from June 2012 Executive Officer of BT Group Plc, management of Mans investment in 2005 from strategy consulting firm to December 2016 and was appointed having previously served as Chief businesses.
Before this he was Head McKinsey where he worked across a Co-President in June 2016 and President Executive Officer of BT Retail and as and CIO of Mans Multi-Manager range of industries.
Prior to joining Man, Group Chief Financial Officer.
Before Business and Non-Executive Chairman Jonathan spent 13 years at Goldman joining BT, he was Chief Financial of GLGs Multi-Manager activities.
Luke Sachs where he worked in the Officer of Dixons Group plc.
previously served as Managing Director Investment Management, Securities and of FRM from 1998 to 2008, prior to Investment Banking Divisions, latterly which he was a Managing Director at leading investments in a broad range of J. P. Morgan in London.
Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution With over two decades of board level Luke has a strong and varied investment Mark has significant management, Jonathans experience of financial FTSE 100 experience, Ian brings management background and extensive financial and operational experience markets, particularly his extensive extensive knowledge and understanding knowledge of Man Group from his role gained through his previous roles at knowledge of the alternative fund of successfully growing a complex as President.
This experience, together with his management industry and strong international business and navigating as CEO, Luke has led the Group in extensive industry knowledge, has background in strategy and execution, regulatory environments around the diversifying its product range and supported the development of the has supported the development of Mans world.
He has a strong track record of increasing its international presence.
Groups strategy and offering to clients.
business, including M&A activity that has innovative leadership that is invaluable to He has also continued to strengthen Since his appointment as CFO, Mark strengthened the Groups footprint in the the Board and executive team.
Since the Groups control focus through the has brought clear focus on cost through US and established a business in private being appointed as Chairman of Man creation of the Chief Administrative the delivery of challenging cost saving markets.
Since his appointment as Group, Ian has navigated the Board Officer role and the appointment of a initiatives, and has successfully President, Jonathan has designed and through significant change and has Chief Investment Officer for the Group.
overseen a number of changes to the executed a new strategy for Sales & streamlined certain Board Committee structure of the Groups Risk function.
Marketing, successfully established Man memberships and delegations.
He has Global Private Markets including the also introduced sharply focused strategy integration of Aalto, and has continued sessions into the regular Board meetings.
to reposition, develop and grow Man FRM as an alternative asset management solutions provider.
Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Ian is a serving member of the House of Luke is a director of Standards Board Mark is a trustee of the Balliol Society Jonathan is a non-executive director of Lords.
He is Chairman of Dixons for Alternative Investments Limited, Educational Trust.
Nephila Holdings Limited, representing Carphone plc and a non-executive Greenhouse Sports Limited, Investhor Mans interest as a minority shareholder.
director of Belmond Ltd. Limited, and VWA Search Ltd.
The Chairmans role The CEOs role The CFOs role The Presidents role Leads the Board, sets its agenda and Leads the development, for Board Manages the allocation and Leads and oversees the Groups ensures it discharges its role approval, of business strategy and maintenance of the Groups capital, Sales & Marketing capability globally.
leads and oversees managements funding and liquidity in accordance delivery against it.
Supports and constructively Runs the business with appropriate Responsible for the preparation and Leads and oversees two investment challenges the CEO, fosters effective delegated authorities, risk integrity of the Groups financial engines, Man Global Private Markets relationships between executive and management systems and internal information and its regulatory and Man FRM.
non-executive Board members, and controls in place.
creates a culture of open debate.
Leads, with the support of the Builds and maintains an effective Leads the development of annual Responsible for and leads the Nomination Committee, effective Board management team and workforce and budgets and medium term plans for development of the Groups corporate succession planning and the search for develops, communicates and embeds Board approval.
Responsible for the strategy, including merger and and appointment of new directors, within the business a shared purpose Groups risk management within the acquisition activity.
taking account of the need for the and set of business values.
Boards Risk Appetite Statement and development of Board competencies, its capital buffer.
Ensures that the Board is aware of the Develops an effective relationship with Builds relationships with shareholders, views of and maintains effective the Chairman and leverages the banks and counterparties, rating communications with shareholders knowledge and experience of agencies, regulators and the external and takes account of the interests of all non-executive Board members.
auditor in relation to the performance stakeholders.
Maintains an effective dialogue with and financial structure of the shareholders on the Companys Company.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 45 Corporate governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Richard Berliand Dame Katharine Kate Barker John Cryan Andrew Horton Matthew Lester Dev Sanyal Nina Shapiro The role of the Senior Senior Independent Director SID and Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director and Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent Director Remuneration Committee Chair Audit and Risk Committee Chair Gains a broad overview of the work of the Board, including through serving Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment on or attending each of the three main January 2016 April 2017 January 2015 August 2013 May 2011 December 2013 October 2011 Board Committees.
Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee: May 2016, SID: May 2017 Committee: November 2011 Provides a sounding board for and advice to the Chairman on any Board Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships matters, including Board development Remuneration Committee Chair Remuneration Committee None Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee Chair Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee and succession issues as appropriate.
Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Acts as a focal point for Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career communications with the Richard held a number of senior roles at Kate is a business economist and was John is CEO of Deutsche Bank AG.
He Andrew has served on the Board of Matthew was CFO of Royal Mail plc Dev has held a number of senior Nina held several senior management non-executive directors should Board J. P. Morgan over a 23 year career at the previously a member of the Bank of previously held a number of senior roles Beazley plc since 2003, first as Group during the period of preparation for financial and line management positions and operating roles at the World Bank or business circumstances require this.
firm, including Global Head of Prime Englands Monetary Policy Committee at UBS AG over a career spanning more Finance Director and since 2008 as privatisation and for its first four years as with BP in a global career spanning and has led numerous investments in Services, Global Head of Cash Equities from 2001 to 2010.
Prior to that, she than 25 years with the banking group, CEO.
Prior to his time at Beazley, a listed entity.
Prior to that, he was more than 25 years.
Dev is Chief emerging markets.
From 2000 to 2011, Leads the annual performance and Chairman of J. P. Morgans Market was Chief Economic Adviser to the during which time he served as Group Andrew held a number of financial Group Finance Director of ICAP plc from Executive, Alternative Energy and Nina was a member of the Management evaluation of the Chairman and Structure practice.
Her CFO and Chairman and CEO of UBS positions within ING, NatWest and 2006 to 2010 and held a range of senior Executive Vice President, Europe & Asia Group and was Vice President, Finance, provides feedback to him.
previous roles include Senior Adviser to AG EMEA.
Following his time at UBS, Lloyds Bank.
finance roles at Diageo, including Group Regions at BP plc.
and Treasurer of the International Available to shareholders if they have Credit Suisse from 2010 to 2016 and John was president of Temasek Financial Controller and Group Finance Corporation the World Banks any concerns which contact through non-executive director of the Yorkshire Internationals European Operations.
In that role, she the normal channels has failed to Building Society.
Kate was awarded a managed IFC liquid asset investment resolve or is inappropriate.
CBE in 2005 for services to social and funding, and capital market housing and a DBE in 2014 for services development in emerging markets.
The role of the Independent to the British economy.
Non-Executive Directors Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Contribute to and constructively Richard has a wealth of experience in Kate has over 30 years experience as a John has extensive knowledge of Andrew has over 25 years of broad Matthew has substantial financial Dev has extensive knowledge of capital With extensive experience in challenge the development of the financial services sector gained senior business economist with international financial markets gained financial services experience with management and regulatory expertise.
markets, asset and risk management, international financial markets and business strategy.
through a number of senior executive broad-ranging knowledge of monetary from experience at leading global significant exposure to operating at He also has significant listed company trading and foreign exchange gained in-depth knowledge of investment in Contribute to the identification of the roles.
He also brings extensive and public policy, and the financial financial institutions and brings Board level.
With his banking, financial experience acquired through his role at from his role as BP Group Treasurer emerging markets, Nina has particular Companys principal business risks experience from a diverse range of services sector.
Kate brings to Man significant knowledge of the regulatory markets and insurance background, ICAP plc and through the flotation of and Chairman of BP Investment insight into financial policy and market and the determination of its risk international non-executive positions strategic thinking and economic insight environment in which Man Group Andrew is well placed to contribute to Royal Mail plc on the London Stock Management Ltd. With broad development.
This perspective helps to appetite.
which gives him a deep understanding coupled with a strong knowledge of operates.
Man Groups strategic development, Exchange.
Matthews experience international experience and wide support Man Group in its international Scrutinise and challenge management of areas such as the current regulatory financial markets and is a valuable risk management and financial enables him to provide substantial ranging operational expertise in senior expansion.
performance in delivering business environment, risk management and advisor and contributor to the Board.
Andrews international insight into the Groups financial executive roles, he is able to contribute strategy and meeting business technology.
Richards focus on investor experience has also enabled him to reporting and risk management to the development and execution of objectives.
engagement through his role as SID and provide valuable input to Man Groups processes.
Man Groups business strategy and Chairman of the Remuneration increased international presence.
Monitor and challenge the Committee has provided valuable effectiveness of the internal control context to Board decisions, specifically and risk management framework.
in relation to remuneration policy and Keep under review the Companys practice.
compliance with the regulatory Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles principles and requirements impacting Richard currently serves as Deputy Kate is currently a non-executive John is CEO of Deutsche Bank AG.
Andrew is CEO of Beazley plc.
Matthew is currently a non-executive Dev is Chief Executive, Alternative Nina currently serves as Chairman of asset management and distribution.
Chairman of Deutsche Brse AG in director of Taylor Wimpey plc and director of Capita plc, where he is Chair Energy and Executive Vice President, Global Parametrics an enterprise for Review and challenge, prior to Frankfurt and is a Director of its Eurex Chairman of Trustees for the British Coal of the Audit and Risk Committee.
He is Europe & Asia Regions at BP plc.
He is parametric risk transfer of catastrophic publication, the Companys financial derivative subsidiaries in Frankfurt and Staff Superannuation Scheme.
Kate is also a non-executive director of Barclays also a member of the Accenture Global risk in emerging markets, and is a statements and announcements.
He is also a non-executive also a member of the National PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, where he Energy Board: a member of the Board director of Mountain Partners an Keep Board composition and Director of Rothesay Life plc.
is a member of the Board Audit and of Advisors of The Fletcher School of accelerator for early technology succession planning under review in bulk annuity specialist insurer.
His other Board Risk Committees.
Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University: ventures, Identiv a technology security light of changing business needs and roles include directorship of Saranac Vice Chairman of the Centre for China in company and Zyfin an originator of recommend Board changes and Partners Limited, London, and the World Economy at Tsinghua ETFs for emerging markets.
She is also appointments as appropriate.
membership of the CFTC Global University and a member of the on the Advisory Boards of the New Silk Markets Advisory Committee in International Advisory Board of the Route PE Fund, the Carbon Trust Determine executive director Washington D. C. Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, environmental group and Mariner remuneration policy and awards.
46 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Richard Berliand Dame Katharine Kate Barker John Cryan Andrew Horton Matthew Lester Dev Sanyal Nina Shapiro Senior Independent Director SID and Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director and Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Remuneration Committee Chair Audit and Risk Committee Chair Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment January 2016 April 2017 January 2015 August 2013 May 2011 December 2013 October 2011 Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee: May 2016, SID: May 2017 Committee: November 2011 Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Remuneration Committee Chair Remuneration Committee None Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee Chair Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Richard held a number of senior roles at Kate is a business economist and was John is CEO of Deutsche Bank AG.
He Andrew has served on the Board of Matthew was CFO of Royal Mail plc Dev has held a number of senior Nina held several senior management J. P. Morgan over a 23 year career at the previously a member of the Bank of previously held a number of senior roles Beazley plc since 2003, first as Group during the period of preparation for financial and line management positions and operating roles at the World Bank firm, including Global Head of Prime Englands Monetary Policy Committee at UBS AG over a career spanning more Finance Director and since 2008 as privatisation and for its first four years as with BP in a global career spanning and has led numerous investments in Services, Global Head of Cash Equities from 2001 to 2010.
From 2000 to 2011, and Chairman of J. P. Morgans Market was Chief Economic Adviser to the during which time he served as Group Andrew held a number of financial Group Finance Director of ICAP plc from Executive, Alternative Energy and Nina was a member of the Management Structure practice.
Her CFO and Chairman and CEO of UBS positions within ING, NatWest and 2006 to 2010 and held a range of senior Executive Vice President, Europe & Asia Group and was Vice President, Finance, previous roles include Senior Adviser to AG EMEA.
and Treasurer of the International Credit Suisse from 2010 to 2016 and John was president of Temasek Financial Controller and Group Finance Corporation the World Banks non-executive director of the Yorkshire Internationals European Operations.
In that role, she Building Society.
Kate was awarded a managed IFC liquid asset investment CBE in 2005 for services to social and funding, and capital market housing and a DBE in 2014 for services development in emerging markets.
Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Areas of expertise and contribution Richard has a wealth of experience in Kate has over 30 years experience as a John has extensive knowledge of Andrew has over 25 years of broad Matthew has substantial financial Dev has extensive knowledge of capital With extensive experience in the financial services sector gained senior business economist with international financial markets gained financial services experience with management and regulatory expertise.
markets, asset and risk management, international financial markets and through a number of senior executive broad-ranging knowledge of monetary from experience at leading global significant exposure to operating at He also has significant listed company trading and foreign exchange gained in-depth knowledge of investment in roles.
With his banking, financial experience acquired through his role at from his role as BP Group Treasurer emerging markets, Nina has particular experience from a diverse range of services sector.
Kate brings to Man significant knowledge of the regulatory markets and insurance background, ICAP plc and through the flotation of and Chairman of BP Investment insight into financial policy and market international non-executive positions strategic thinking and economic insight environment in which Man Group Andrew is well placed to contribute to Royal Mail plc on the London Stock Management Ltd. With broad development.
This perspective helps to which gives him a deep understanding coupled with a strong knowledge of operates.
Matthews experience international experience and wide support Man Group in its international of areas such as the current regulatory financial markets and is a valuable risk management and financial enables him to provide substantial ranging operational expertise in senior expansion.
environment, risk management and advisor and contributor to the Board.
Andrews international insight into the Groups financial executive roles, he is able to contribute technology.
Richards focus on investor experience has also enabled him to reporting and risk management to the development and execution of engagement through his role as SID and provide valuable input to Man Groups processes.
Committee has provided valuable context to Board decisions, specifically in relation to remuneration policy and practice.
Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Richard currently serves as Deputy Kate is currently a non-executive John is CEO of Deutsche Bank AG.
Matthew is currently a non-executive Dev is Chief Executive, Alternative Nina currently serves as Chairman of Chairman of Deutsche Brse AG in director of Taylor Wimpey plc and director of Capita plc, where he is Chair Energy and Executive Vice President, Global Parametrics an enterprise for Frankfurt and is a Director of its Eurex Chairman of Trustees for the British Coal of the Audit and Risk Committee.
He is parametric risk transfer of catastrophic derivative subsidiaries in Frankfurt and Staff Superannuation Scheme.
Kate is also a non-executive director of Barclays also a member of the Accenture Global risk in emerging markets, and is a Zrich.
He is also a non-executive also a member of the National PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, where he Energy Board: a member of the Board director of Mountain Partners an Director of Rothesay Life plc.
is a member of the Board Audit and of Advisors of The Fletcher School of accelerator for early technology bulk annuity specialist insurer.
Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University: ventures, Identiv a technology security roles include directorship of Saranac Vice Chairman of the Centre for China in company and Zyfin an originator of Partners Limited, London, and the World Economy at Tsinghua ETFs for emerging markets.
She is also membership of the CFTC Global University and a member of the on the Advisory Boards of the New Silk Markets Advisory Committee in International Advisory Board of the Route PE Fund, the Carbon Trust Washington D. C. Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, environmental group and Mariner Government of India.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 47 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board profile Board governance Role of the Board Percentage of Board members with relevant experience The Boards core role is to promote the long term success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders.
This requires us to: Determine and review business strategy and Mans appetite for risk Finance and investment International Monitor management performance in delivering that strategy Ensure that risk management measures and internal controls are appropriate and effective 100% 100% Oversee and monitor the embedding of and adherence to the Companys business values Risk management Operations Ensure that the Companys financial structure, resources and culture will support long term growth 73% 82% In doing all this, the Board must also have regard to the interests of a wide range of stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers and the communities in which the business operates, in order to create mutual Board composition trust and long term sustainability.
Matters reserved for the Board To fulfil its role, the Board reserves for itself certain key areas of decision such as business strategy, major acquisitions, risk appetite, capital structure, borrowings, financial reporting and communications with shareholders.
For a full list of Board reserved matters, please see our website www.
Executive directors 27.3% Non-executive directors 63.6% Board Committees The Board delegates its formal governance responsibilities to the three non-executive Board Committees listed below: separate reports on the activities of these Committees during 2017 can be found on the pages shown.
Board Tenure Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee i Page 56 for the i Page 62 for i Page 65 for 03 years 45.5% Audit and Risk the Nomination the Directors 36 years 36.3% Committee Committee Remuneration 6 years 18.2% report report report 2017 Board meetings Meeting Board member attendance Ian Livingston, Chairman 7 7 Katharine Barker1 6 6 Gender diversity Richard Berliand 7 7 Phillip Colebatch2 4 4 John Cryan 7 7 Luke Ellis 7 7 Andrew Horton 7 7 Mark Jones 7 7 Matthew Lester 7 7 Male 81.8% Dev Sanyal 7 7 Female 18.2% Nina Shapiro 7 7 Jonathan Sorrell 7 7 1 Katharine Barker joined the Board on 1 April 2017.
2 Phillip Colebatch retired from the Board on 30 September 2017. i For full details of Mans Board diversity policy and planned actions in 2018, please see page 64.
48 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Board delegation of decisions to CEO CEOs delegated authorities within the Group All business decisions and activities which are not specifically reserved In addition, to support and protect the development and day to day for the Board or its Committees are delegated to Luke Ellis as CEO.
running of business throughout the Group, Luke has implemented a Luke has appointed and runs the business through the Senior framework of delegated authorities which is reviewed on a regular basis Management Executive Committee.
The members of the Committee and adopted by all Group entities.
This sets out the operating authorities and their particular areas of responsibility are shown below.
and procedures which apply for the approval of business strategy and investment products, budgets and expenses, treasury, tax, regulatory, legal and other matters.
Senior Management Executive Committee Robyn Grew Mark Jones Sandy Rattray Jonathan Sorrell Chief Administrative Chief Financial Officer Chief Investment Officer President and Executive Director Officer and General Counsel and Executive Director Mans infrastructure Operations, Allocation and maintenance of Man AHL, Man Numeric, Global Sales and Marketing, Technology, Compliance, Legal, the Groups capital, integrity Man GLG and Man Solutions corporate strategy and M&A, HR and Facilities of financial reporting, risk Man Global Private Markets Sandy joined Man with the management, and relationships and Man FRM.
Robyn joined Man with the acquisition of GLG after 15 with shareholders, regulators, acquisition of GLG after years at Goldman Sachs.
previous legal, regulatory and has extensive experience in risk management roles at developing quantitative trading Barclays Capital and Lehman strategies and was previously i Page 45 for i Page 45 for Brothers.
She was previously CEO of AHL.
biographical details biographical details Mans Global Head of Compliance and Regulatory.
People and values Board operation during 2017 The Board seeks regular updates from the executive team on a wide range The Board held seven main meetings during 2017, including a full of people issues.
In 2017 these included the impact of the consolidation day strategy review which focused on the long term prospects for the of investment management and Sales teams into one London office, investment management industry and the direction of Man.
The tables the findings of the staff survey and staff sentiment about year end on pages 50 and 51 set out the main actions undertaken by the Board compensation awards.
The Board reviewed and discussed the Companys to discharge its role during 2017. diversity statistics, its inclusion and diversity initiatives and the output from its gender pay analysis.
It also sought to understand and test how the To provide greater insight into how the Board conducts its work, key Companys business principles are being embedded across the firm and aspects of its approach are discussed below.
evidenced in employee behaviours and working practices.
The progress made by the leadership team in reinforcing Mans business principles in Strategy review the day to day working environment is well recognised and the Board is In response to feedback from the 2016 Board evaluation, the timing keen to increase its insight into and challenge of the shaping of this culture.
of meetings was reviewed to provide an earlier start and increased opportunity for in depth review at every meeting of individual business In depth analysis and operational strategies in line with a programme agreed by the Board.
The Board brings, where appropriate, a highly analytical approach to its These sessions also gave non-executive Board members further exposure discussion of business issues.
An example of this was that, prior to the to executives working in a wide range of business areas and facilitated the Boards review of the 2017 ICAAP, Mans Head of Central Risk gave building of longer term relationships.
The focus of such sessions is on individual briefings to non-executive directors on the structure of the analysis and challenge, rather than presentation, and the sharing of document and the approach taken by Man to its preparation.
In a debate non-executive experience and insights.
lasting some two and a half hours, the Board then collectively reviewed and challenged the executive team and an external consultant on the Consideration of risk content of the document, focusing particularly on the risk modelling Consideration of risk is always integrated into strategy reviews and and correlation assumptions applied.
In evaluating potential acquisitions, the Board considered, in addition to the financial case, the issues which might Follow up and monitoring threaten the Companys strategic objectives in terms of scale and Board discussions may give rise to requests for further information management stretch, integration and reputational challenges and the or analysis on a given topic in order to enhance non-executives opportunity cost.
In reviewing the Sales teams planning and client understanding of a business issue.
Briefing notes on issues such as the development strategy, the Board discussed the analysis of assets output from the FCAs Asset Management Market Survey, the impact of at risk, the potential for over concentration of product and customer MiFID II on Mans investment and trading activities, and the treatment of base and the risk of over allocation of resource.
dormant assets have been prepared and circulated.
The Board may also seek updates on progress on a particular area of the business on which it has focused during the year.
Following changes made in Man GLG at the end of 2016, the Board received a written quarterly review from the CEO of that business on performance, flows, new initiatives and people changes during the year.
Details of more formal education and training sessions on regulatory impacts requested by the Board and delivered by external firms during the year are set out later in this report.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 49 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board activities during 2017 Review and develop Determine risk appetite business strategy and monitor and manage risk Annual long term strategy review full day Review and approval of Mans updated Risk Governance and Appetite Consideration of long term future of asset management including framework in line with changes in the business and control environment external views from different industry experts Review of the commercial drivers of top level business risks and the Challenge of the value delivered by active management strategies identification and analysis of operational risk indicators Analysis of the comparative values of organic and inorganic Ongoing monitoring of business risks and the effectiveness of Mans business growth risk management and internal control framework Review of M&A and partnering opportunities Assessment of reporting on Mans principal business risks and their mitigation in the Annual and Interim Reports Individual business deep dive strategy reviews i More on pages 30 to 35 Review of current Man AHL product range, relative performance, growth prospects and the value derived from machine learning Review of the evolution of Man FRM as a bespoke institutional Monitor business solutions provider and key developer of Mans cross-content performance product range Review of the progress of Aalto against plan and discussion of further Man Global Private Markets acquisition prospects Review of the progress of Man Numeric since acquisition and Ongoing monthly review of investment manager performance, asset discussion of future objectives to develop asset growth flows and FUM, and financial results Review of Man Solutions cross-content investment products Specific focus on the performance of Man GLG following operational and development initiatives changes in 2016 Review of the performance of new discretionary investment Operational strategy reviews management team hires Review of Technology Groups contribution to business development Analysis of fund redemption patterns and actions taken to identify and in terms of alpha generation, client service, flexible infrastructure and focus on assets most at risk operational leverage Review of the operation of the seeding book and lessons learnt from Review of cyber protection strategy testing new strategies Review of initiatives to reduce trading costs Review and approval of updated KPIs to monitor and report on Mans Review and approval of Mans tax positioning and strategy overall performance and progress Acquisition strategy and review of prospects Analysis of market trends and pricing and evaluation of several Oversee business values potential prospects and people engagement Review of learning from discontinued prospects, including the value of Mans disciplined approach to transaction structuring Review of integration and progress of acquisitions against plan Review of the embedding and day to day adherence to business principles, including the level of penetration across different teams Review of ongoing talent development, internal promotions and learning opportunities Discussion of employee recognition initiatives and encouragement of employee volunteering culture Discussion of diversity statistics and review of current diversity and inclusion initiatives 50 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Review financial structure, Consideration of stakeholder 1 funding and capital distribution impacts and interests In depth review of Mans 2017 ICAAP review of regulatory capital Shareholders requirement submission to the FCA including challenge of the risk Reviewed investor views on business strategy and management modelling and correlation assumptions applied performance and discussed their implications Review of economic capital and liquidity requirements In depth engagement and discussion of feedback on the development and the implications for Mans future capital structure of the new Directors Remuneration policy see Directors Approval of extension of Revolving Credit Facility Remuneration report Review of dividend policy and approval of further share buyback programme i More on pages 54 and 55 Staff Discussed results of global staff survey and actions being taken in response Discussed the impact of recruitment policies and diversity and Review and approve inclusion initiatives resources Discussed the analysis of gender pay reporting disclosures within Man and their implications i More on pages 36 to 39 Business planning Review and approval of Budget and three year Medium Term Plan Customers Fund investors Specific reviews of the cost of MiFID II implementation including the Reviewed Mans commitment to Responsible Investment, including decision to absorb investment research costs the work of its Sustainability Strategist and Responsible Investment Review and approval of the lease of new London office accommodation Committee to co-locate investment management and Sales teams Reviewed and discussed the Sales teams approach to the development of Client relationships Talent and people In depth review of the development of individual strategic partnerships Discussion of senior management succession and development plans with Clients involving engagement on industry interests and the see Nomination Committee report on page 62 provision of added value services Approval of Directors Remuneration policy and structure see i More on pages 18 and 41 Directors Remuneration report on page 65 Suppliers Financial reporting and shareholder Review of relationships and engagement with Mans supply chain as part of the approval of the Companys Modern Slavery communications Transparency Statement Community Approval of year end and half year financial results and dividends Review of the funding given to the Man Charitable Trust and its Review and approval of Q1 and Q3 Trading Statements activities Approval of Annual Report and Notice of AGM Approval of additional funding to establish a US charitable trust to reflect the extension of Mans US footprint and support US teams volunteering initiatives i More on page 42 1 Mans corporate responsibility strategy is set out on page 40.
For details of the further review of stakeholder interests planned in 2018, please see the Board evaluation actions on page 54.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 51 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED We seek feedback on the programme from our non-executives both Board strength immediately and a few months after their appointment with a view to The Board biographies on pages 45 to 47 and the analysis of the Boards making changes which would be beneficial to future appointees.
Kate composition on page 48 give a flavour of the breadth and depth of talent Barker participated in the programme on her appointment to the Board and experience on Mans Board in terms of business career, background, and the Remuneration Committee in April and was well prepared to skills and global exposure.
The non-executive directors bring wide ranging participate in subsequent Board discussions.
She was also well placed to contributions and diverse perspectives to Board review and decision bring to the Remuneration Committee her experience as Chair of the making from their current executive or portfolio careers.
A mix of short and Remuneration Committee at Taylor Wimpey plc.
long tenure delivers fresh outlooks and challenge complemented by a longer term understanding of the business and its people.
There are still Non-executive induction programme some gaps in our skill set and we have more to do on promoting diversity, including gender diversity, both on the Board and within Mans senior Business review management team.
Our Board diversity policy and discussion of actions taken in this area during the year are included in the Nomination Committee report.
Strategic direction and priorities Business strategy and market context Board dynamics Risk appetite, principal risks and risk governance framework In the 2017 Board evaluation, the majority of Board members felt that Overview of Man AHL, Man GLG, Man FRM, Man Numeric and Man Board dynamics were good and continued to improve, reflecting in part Global Private Markets the positive contribution and relationships of the new executive team.
I Global Sales and Marketing maintain very regular communication with the senior executive team and Budget and Medium Term Plan continue dialogue with non-executive directors in between meetings on Operations and Technology relevant issues as they arise.
We encourage non-executives to discuss and share their experience on industry issues with executives at Board level and below.
Performance and market positioning Board debate and independence The 2017 evaluation feedback commented favourably on the quality and Review of financial and market performance openness of discussion at Board meetings and the fact that there was a Recent analyst and media coverage concerted effort to ensure that everyone had the opportunity to contribute Analysis of shareholder base and investor perceptions to the full to decisions made.
Each of our non-executive directors has a Shareholder engagement keen independent outlook informed by their experience outside Man and each brings to management proposals a robust scrutiny which is welcomed by the executive team.
Our non-executive directors meet Regulatory environment informally for biannual Board dinners without the presence of the executive directors to discuss current business and people issues.
The CEOs input to these meetings is invited and much appreciated prior to private Overview of the Groups key compliance and regulatory policies non-executive discussion of issues raised.
Recent changes in regulatory landscape and impact of upcoming regulatory developments Managing conflicts of interest Hot topics and key priorities for regulators including relevant As a matter of formal governance, all Board members are required to thematic reviews disclose and keep me updated on any external roles or interests they are considering which might conflict with their responsibilities as a director of the Company.
Should any such potential conflicts arise, they will be duly People, culture and values assessed by the other members of the Board and a decision will be taken on the extent to which any such conflicts can be effectively managed.
In addition, in recognition of the wide ranging roles and interests of the Discussion of business principles non-executive directors, the Board carries out an annual year end review Key people and succession plans of all such roles and interests to ensure that they do not represent any HR priorities including diversity, training and talent pipeline unmanageable business conflict or a time commitment which might HR structure and outsourcing arrangements prejudice directors effective contribution to the Man Board.
Board induction Regulatory and governance framework Induction to the Board Our non-executive directors receive a comprehensive induction to the Board structure, processes and relationships business and our industry as soon as they are appointed, tailored as Board interaction with the business necessary to their background and previous experience.
Audit and Risk Overview of listed company obligations, reporting and corporate and Remuneration Committee members are given a briefing on the role governance framework and workings of those Committees, current areas of focus and regulatory Directors duties and responsibilities developments.
The induction programme is structured around one to one meetings with the executive directors, Executive Committee members, Heads of Group functions and the Company Secretary covering the main areas of business set out in the table opposite.
52 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Board training 2017 Board evaluation Our induction programme is only the first step in building directors Evaluation cycle understanding of the business.
Further education is provided in regular In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Man carried out Board meetings through individual business strategy and operations a full external evaluation in 2015 and an internal evaluation in 2016.
For reviews and our non-executives look for opportunities to get out into the 2017, which was my first full year as Chairman, I decided to carry out a business for one to one engagement with senior management.
As an further internal Board evaluation which sought directors feedback on example of this, Richard Berliand and I recently made a dedicated trip specific improvement actions agreed at the end of 2016 and views on a to the US to visit our Man Numeric and Man Global Private Markets range of other issues which are key to the efficient and effective working businesses and our central US Finance, Compliance, Legal and of the Board.
Details of the process followed are set out below.
Evaluation process in 2017 The Company Secretary regularly circulates to the Board details of external Written questions assessing progress against 2017 actions and current programmes for non-executives on topical business and regulatory issues Board operation circulated.
and a number of Board members attended workshops on Audit and Risk Individual responses, comments and suggestions consolidated on an Committee challenges and cyber strategy during the year.
In addition, in unattributed basis and circulated to the Board for review.
response to requests for in-house briefings on the numerous regulatory 1:1 discussions between me and individual directors on the evaluation developments currently impacting our business, the Companys auditors findings and related issues.
and external legal advisers led a series of interactive Board training sessions Summary of the findings and individual discussions presented and on the topics set out below.
These were held within scheduled Board noted at the December Board meeting.
meetings and provided the opportunity for full discussion and challenge by Improvement actions for 2018 discussed and agreed.
Board members of the implications of the developments for Mans business.
Evaluation findings In-house training programme Overall, directors feedback indicated a high level of satisfaction with the operation of the Board.
The quality of papers, the open and genuine discussion, the level of engagement and the Company Secretarys and Accounting update administrative Board support received particular praise.
The detailed output from the evaluation in terms of clear progress made and areas for further work in 2018 are summarised on page 54.
A number of these areas Potential impact of upcoming accounting changes of progress and agreed future actions have been discussed in earlier Refresher on key accounting rules impacting Man sections of this Corporate Governance report.
Update on Financial Reporting Council hot topics Board Committee evaluations Separate evaluations were carried out for the Audit and Risk and Board governance of technology risk Remuneration Committees and are reported in the respective Committee reports.
Questions relating to the work of the Nomination Committee were included in the main Board assessment and the outcome of that separate Overview of the current technology risk landscape across evaluation and agreed actions for 2018 are discussed in the Nomination the industry Committee report.
Review of key findings from a recent EMEA IT risk management survey Identification of main areas on which the Board should focus: strategic Individual director reviews alignment, IT operations risk, measurement of value to the business, As part of my private discussions with individual directors on the outcomes resource capability and cyber risk of the collective Board evaluation, I explored with them their personal contributions and any areas for further learning and development.
Richard Berliand, as Senior Independent Director, reviewed my leadership Corporate governance and regulatory update and management of the Board with each member individually and shared and discussed their feedback with me.
Briefing on the Governments corporate governance reform package and implementation plans and the implications for Man Developments in non-financial reporting and other transparency requirements FCA focus on firms culture and governance practices FCA expectations regarding Board oversight of risk appetite framework and reporting Market Abuse Regulation MAR and Senior Managers and Certification Regime SMCR Refresher on the key features of MAR, the importance of internal processes and recent FCA enforcement activity Briefing on the FCAs current proposals for the application of SMCR to investment management firms Discussion of Mans proposed approach to SMCR implementation and the implications for the business Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 53 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 2017 Board evaluation findings Assessment of progress Assessment of ongoing Board against 2017 actions operation and effectiveness Progress made Agreed 2018 actions Comments Agreed 2018 actions Timing, Earlier meeting start Continue time efficient Scope, quality High quality materials Maintain high quality structure and time to accommodate scheduling with rich and timeliness and discussions with submissions to stimulate content of the scheduling of agenda content.
challenge and added value meetings regular business and presentations discussion.
operational strategy Scope and Formal in-house Relevant training sessions reviews with business quality of Board programme introduced to continue to be owners.
training for the first time.
incorporated in Board Effectiveness 2017 strategy meeting Continue the long term meetings.
of annual focused on the long focus including the Quality of Highly appreciated and Continue to develop the strategy meeting term development and consideration of external CoSec and rated strongly relative support provided in direction of asset views and the implications administrative to non-executive response to changing management with for Man.
Board support directors experience Board and business need.
external perspectives on other Boards.
Effectiveness of Strong engagement of Continue to create and Effectiveness High quality analysis of Continue the programme of Board dynamics executive directors pursue opportunities for of deep dive business and regular reviews and with their nonfurther non-executive strategy reviews operational strategies bringing business owners executive Board engagement with senior with opportunity for to the Board.
management below Board challenge of level.
management and the sharing of nonAwareness and Good progress made Continue regular executive experience.
consideration of on management management reporting on business values reporting to the Board and Board review of people Board strength, Board strengthened Further work planned to and behaviours on people and the development, behaviours balance and with the appointment of continue to broaden the implementation of and diversity.
capabilities and diversity through ongoing nonAwareness and Main focus has been on Introduce an annual review executive director search consideration shareholders, clients and analysis of overall client see also Nomination of stakeholder and staff.
base and half yearly reviews Committee evaluation interests of key client relationships.
Board review of other stakeholder group interests including staff and suppliers to be scheduled.
Institutional investors Engaging with shareholders The Company has developed a comprehensive investor relations The Board is committed to proactive and ongoing engagement with programme through which the Head of Investor Relations, CEO and the Companys investors and is keen to understand the views of major CFO maintain a continuous dialogue with investors on performance, plans shareholders.
The Board receives updates at every meeting from the and strategic objectives.
This is achieved through one to one meetings Head of Investor Relations on important changes in the share register throughout the year and participation in investor roadshows and investor and current areas of interest.
Copies of investment research published conferences.
The 2017 investor events calendar is set out opposite.
on the Company are regularly circulated.
Key areas which the CEO and CFO have discussed with investors during Midway through the year our independent advisers and corporate brokers the year have included: gathered feedback from investors and provided the Board with a high level Investment performance across our range of strategies summary of their views.
This covered issues such as the diversification of Flows, interaction with clients, product innovation and margin trends Mans investment business, its acquisition strategy, options for growth and MiFID II implementation the performance of the new executive team.
The Board welcomed this Progress in the areas of Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence feedback and noted the continuing need for Man to explain and update Potential new acquisitions and capital management the market on its investment case.
During 2017, Richard Berliand spent considerable time consulting with Richard Berliand, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, provides major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies on the most regular reports on shareholder views on Mans Directors Remuneration appropriate approach to directors executive remuneration in Man ahead policy and award decisions from his engagement with top shareholders of our seeking approval for a new Directors Remuneration policy at the and shareholder representative bodies.
Further details of this engagement are provided in the 2017 Directors Remuneration report on page 65.
54 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Private investors Our private investors are encouraged to access the Companys Interim Calendar of investor events and Annual Reports, half-year and final results presentations and quarterly trading statements on our website.
Other useful information such as historic dividend records and shareholder communications is also Q1 2017 2016 year end results released available.
Our website also gives access to our Registrars Shareview 2016 Annual Report published website www.
co. uk through which shareholders can manage UK investor roadshow their individual account online.
Printed copies of our Annual and Interim US investor roadshow reports and other shareholder communications continue to be available Morgan Stanley Annual European on request for shareholders who prefer this method of delivery.
Financials conference London We are always keen to understand the views of and answer questions Q2 2017 Q1 2017 Trading Statement released from private investors and offer a dedicated shareholder mailbox Shareholder engagement on 2016 Directors shareholder@man.
Remuneration report and AGM voting Annual General Meeting Shareholder meetings We welcome shareholders to our AGM in May each year.
At every AGM, Q3 2017 2017 interim results released our shareholders are given an overview by the CEO of the progress of 2017 Interim Report published the business and our future plans and outlook.
This is followed by the UK investor roadshows opportunity for shareholders to ask questions about the resolutions US investor roadshow before the meeting and about the business more generally.
The CEO's Barclays Global Financial Services presentation is made available on our website after the meeting.
Conference New York Bank of America Merrill Lynch Annual We look forward to meeting shareholders and providing a further business Banking and Insurance Conference London update at our 2018 AGM in May this year.
If you are unable to attend the Communications and meetings with AGM, please send in any questions that you would like raised at the shareholders and shareholder representative meeting to our AGM mailbox agm@man.
com and we will provide a bodies to discuss the new Directors direct reply.
Remuneration policy Q4 2017 Q3 2017 Trading Statement released Lord Livingston of Parkhead JP Morgan Best of British conference Chairman Bank of America Merrill Lynch Annual Banking and Insurance Conference Paris Citi European Diversified Financials Conference London Continued engagement with shareholders and shareholder representative bodies on the new Directors Remuneration policy Statement of compliance the Board believes that, in order to provide transparency and allow the The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 December 2017, applied views of all the directors, executive and non-executive, to be taken into the principles of and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate account, it is appropriate for all Board members to provide input into the Governance Code the Code except in relation to the following: determining of the Chairmans remuneration.
Setting the Chairmans remuneration Other information Provision D. 2.2 of the Code requires that the Remuneration Committee Certain additional information in relation to the Companys share the Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting the capital, the powers of the directors and amendments to the Articles of remuneration of the Chairman.
The terms of reference of the Committee Association that is required to be disclosed in the Corporate Governance provide that the Committee has authority to recommend to the Board report pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6 may be found in the Directors report on but not to approve the remuneration of the Chairman.
This is because pages 95 and 96.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 55
