Strategic report INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS Creative and tailored solutions for our clients Alternative Risk Premia Managed Accounts Research and innovation Developed over the last couple of years using Initially launched in 1998, Man FRMs Managed are a priority across all expertise from across the Group, our Alternative Accounts platform is an alternative way of our investment engines Risk Premia strategies aim to offer uncorrelated investing in hedge funds that allows our clients to returns within very liquid markets.
Man has have increased transparency and control over as we seek to generate a long history of researching, implementing their investment while also decreasing costs and superior risk adjusted and executing alternative risk factors and this gaining access to differentiated and high quality strategy leverages one of the worlds largest hedge fund return streams.
We currently have returns for our clients quantitative R&D groups into alternative factor $16.4 billion FUM in 66 actively managed investing.
We started marketing the strategy in accounts.
Our custom developed reporting tool, and develop innovative early 2017 and it has proved of growing interest Clarus, allows investors to easily survey their new strategies over time to clients due to its liquidity and uncorrelated investments and chart their returns against return profile.
$4.0 billion has been raised in the comparisons as well as within different time Luke Ellis strategy to date and there is a good pipeline frames.
This platform has grown by 15% in 2017, Chief Executive Officer of interest from clients.
Performance of this largely due to the growing demand for more strategy has also been strong, it was up 10.1% transparent and accessible hedge fund investing.
in 2017 and is up 20.9% since inception in 2015.
EM Debt EM Debt sales GLGs Emerging Markets Debt strategies provide our clients access to the complex offerings of Emerging Markets debt through local currency $4.2bn rates, hard currency debt, and debt total return.
in 2017 The strategies are run by a team headed up by Guillermo Osses, who joined Man in 2015 and has broad experience across all aspects of Risk Premia performance emerging markets debt investing including credit analysis, currency and rates trading.
The investment team working on this strategy 10.1% combine deep fundamental research with top in 2017 down and quantitative screening.
Launched in April 2016, we have raised $5.3 billion into the strategies to date and we continue to see ongoing interest from clients.
1 Performance figures shown net of representative management and performance fees.
Past performance is not indicative of future performance.
16 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Man Group is a diverse firm that benefits from a variety of investment opportunities and strategies.
As there is rarely a single right answer to the question of how to invest, we engage in close dialogue with clients as partners, to understand their particular needs and constraints.
Our breadth of capabilities and infrastructure allows us to design customised solutions to meet the specific requirements of clients, and best serve their unique situations.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 17
