Board of Directors H arry HendersonA ndrew Bell R obert Boyle A, C, D D A, B, D Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed as director in 1988, Harry Appointed as director and Chief Executive Appointed as director in 2007.
He is a Henderson became Chairman in March of Witan in February 2010.
Previously, he Chartered Accountant and was a partner 2003.
He was formerly a partner of spent 9 years at a leading wealth manager of  LLP, Cazenove & Co. and subsequently a prior to which he was an equity strategist where he was responsible for multisenior executive at Cazenove Group and Co-Head of the Investment Trusts national client accounts, specialising plc, retiring in 2002.
Mr Henderson is team at BZW and Credit Suisse First in the telecoms and media sectors: he Chairman of Witan Investment Services Boston.
Before working in the City, he was chairman of the PWC European Limited.
He is also a director of Cadogan worked for Shell in Oman, leaving to take a Entertainment and Media Practice for Settled Estates Limited.
Sloan Fellowship at the London Business twelve years, retiring in 2006.
He is a former Chairman of the non-executive director and chairman AIC, currently Chairman of Gabelli Value of the audit committee of Centaur Plus plc and a non-executive director of Media plc.
Henderson High Income Trust plc.
Catherine Claydon S uzy Neubert Richard Oldfield A, D A, C, D Chairman of the Remuneration and Director Director A, B, C, D Nomination Committee Appointed as director in 2012.
She Appointed as director in 2011.
He is Appointed as director in 2009.
Previously is Sales & Marketing Director at J O chairman of Oldfield Partners, an she was a Managing Director in the Hambro Capital Management, which investment management firm.
He Pension Advisory Group at Goldman she joined in March 2006.
She was was previously chairman of the Oxford Sachs and Lehman Brothers.
She is a previously Managing Director of Equity University investment committee and non-executive director of the Dunedin Markets within the Global Markets and of Keystone Investment Trust plc.
He Income Growth Investment Trust.
She Investment Banking Group at Merrill is a trustee of Royal Marsden Cancer is a director of the Barclays UK Pension Lynch Securities in London.
She is a Charity, Canterbury Cathedral Trust and Fund and B. S. P. S. Limited and an qualified barrister.
Clore Duffield Foundation, and a director independent member of Unilever UK of Shepherd Neame Limited.
26 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 J ack Perry B en Rogoff Tony Watson A, B, D A A, B, D Director Director Senior Independent Director Appointed as director in 2017.
He is Appointed as director in 2016.
He has Appointed as director in 2006 and Senior chairman of European Assets Trust NV been Portfolio Manager of Polar Capital Independent Director in 2008.
He was the and ICG-Longbow Senior Secured UK Technology Trust plc since 2006 and Senior Independent Director of Lloyds Property Debt Investments Limited.
is also joint Manager of Polar Capital Banking Group plc until 2017 and was He was Chief Executive of Scottish Global Technology Fund.
He has been a chairman of the Trustees of the Marks & Enterprise and a former Managing technology specialist for 20 years having Spencer Pension Scheme, chairman of Partner and Regional Industry Leader of begun his career in fund management the Strategic Investment Board Limited Ernst and Young LLP.
He has served on at CMI, as a Global Technology Analyst.
Northern Ireland, a member of the the Boards of FTSE 250 and other public He moved to Aberdeen Fund Managers Financial Reporting Council, the Senior and private companies and is a member in 1998 where he spent four years as Independent Director of Hammerson plc of the Institute of Chartered Accountants a Senior Technology Manager prior to and a non-executive director of Vodafone of Scotland.
joining Polar Capital in May 2003.
Group Plc, the Shareholder Executive and the Investment Management Association now the Investment Association.
He retired in 2006 from an executive career in the investment management industry, most recently as Chief Executive of Hermes Fund Managers Limited.
B Members of the Audit Committee which is chaired by Mr Boyle.
C Members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee which is chaired by Mrs Claydon.
D Director of Witan Investment Services Limited.
Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 27 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report
