38 GSK Annual Report 2017 Consumer Healthcare Our priorities are to execute brilliant product launches and Innovation to build a strong, differentiated pipeline of consumer-led, science-based innovations and claims.
In 2017, we continued to demonstrate our We also introduced Sensodyne Deep Clean toothpaste in a number of markets, ability to innovate within the consumer healthcare market, harnessing GSKs which provides a deep clean for sensitive scientific and technical expertise alongside teeth using small particle silica and delivers deep consumer insights.
The proportion long-lasting freshness through novel coolant technology.
of sales from innovations launched within the last three years was approximately 13%, A further key innovation launched in 2017 which included several key 2017 launches.
was Voltaren No Mess, which has a cap that makes the product easier and less Delivering best-in-class innovation messy to apply, addressing one of the key consumer barriers to using a topical New Sensodyne Rapid Relief, the latest pain-reliever.
The unique and innovative premium extension of our 1 billion packaging was assessed extensively Sensodyne brand, was launched in our new consumer sensory testing successfully in more than 40 markets laboratories.
Developed in our UK-based We launched our parodontax brand Oral health Innovation Hub, it has been clinically proven to help prevent bleeding designed to provide fast relief from tooth gums and gingivitis for the first time sensitivity and is supported by clinical in the US.
The active ingredient, stannous fluoride, seals the layer beneath the surface of the tooth enamel known as dentine, aided by a special polymer, which clinical data shows can result in relief from the pain of sensitivity within as little as 60 seconds.
Consumer insight-driven innovation New ENO Cooling antacid creates an instant cooling sensation when taken.
Our scientists developed the formulation to create this cooling effect after research at our consumer sensory labs showed consumers believe that feeling cool internally helps soothe heartburn.
ENO Cooling, which we have just launched in India, is one of many consumer-led innovations that have been created following research at our three consumer sensory facilities in India, the UK and the US.
39 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information We continued to see success in our Emerging market opportunities switch programme with Flonase Sensimist Strategy in action Emerging markets continue to be a key successfully changing from a  area for growth in Consumer only medicine to an over-the-counter We deliver differentiated Healthcare.
We have increased our product in the US, enhancing our offering in the allergy market.
We have also emerging market R&D investment and products to consumers focus, in particular in our China and continued the global roll-out of Flonase, India-based innovation hubs, where we by combining consumer launching in several markets in 2017, continue to identify local consumer and including Canada, Spain and the Czech insights with scientific Republic.
In switching Flonase from retailer insights to underpin our product development and marketing, ensuring that prescription-only to over-the-counter, we and technical excellence.
we remain locally relevant and competitive.
recognised the growing consumer demand In India, for example, we discovered that for greater personal control over healthcare.
nearly half of all indigestion treatments use home remedies.
Using this insight, Building industry-leading we developed and launched a new variant capabilities of our ENO antacid, using the popular ajwain herb.
This contributed to strong We continued to invest in understanding brand growth in 2017. and meeting consumers and retail customers needs by expanding our External innovation international network of consumer sensory Richard Slater and shopper science laboratories, with Head of R&D, We continue to look beyond GSK for new labs opening in the UK and Singapore GSK Consumer Healthcare additional innovation opportunities, and in 2017.
These state-of-the-art facilities in 2017 saw a significant increase in the differentiate GSK, with retailer feedback proportion of our pipeline coming from showing that our scientific approach to outside the company.
We identified over shopper insight and customer collaboration 1,000 possible partnerships, formally puts us ahead of our competitors.
reviewed more than 150 proposals and Our integrated global innovation hubs, entered into more than 40 partnerships.
co-locating both R&D and commercial This increased external focus, along with experts, continue to ensure that our our strong internal science capabilities, innovation is both science-based and ensures that we are able to develop and consumer-led.
The breadth of this deliver a strong, competitive pipeline of network also keeps us in step with consumer-led, science-based innovation.
Weather app A Theraflu-sponsored weather app boosts sales kept US consumers informed of local cold and flu levels and boosted sales.
The GSK brand teamed up with The Weather Channel to create the Theraflu cold and flu tracker, as part of the launch campaign for Theraflu ExpressMax caplets.
Reflecting social media conversations, the app gave likely cold and flu levels in users areas, while advising them to treat symptoms with Theraflu.
Almost 50 million unique visitors were exposed to Theraflu messaging via the tracker and the brands sponsorship of The Weather Channel.
This sparked a significant rise in sales among app users during the peak flu season.
40 GSK Annual Report 2017 Consumer Healthcare continued Strong performance by our power brands across Performance Wellness and Oral health helped drive growth.
On a category basis, sales in Wellness 2017 performance summary grew 7% AER, 2% CER to 4,001 million, Consumer Healthcare sales grew reflecting a strong performance from 8% AER, 2% CER to 7,750 million.
Voltaren and cold and flu seasonal A strong performance by power brands products, partly offsetting a weaker across Wellness and Oral health was performance from US allergy products.
partly offset by competitive pressures in Oral health sales grew 11% AER, 6% CER the US allergy category, impacting Flonase to 2,466 million, with Sensodyne sales OTC as well as lower sales of tail brands continuing to drive performance.
Nutrition across the Nutrition and Skin health sales grew 1% AER and declined 5% CER categories.
In addition, reported growth to 680 million, adversely impacted by was impacted by the disposal of the Nigeria the sale of the Nigeria beverages business beverages business in Q3 2016 and the and the implementation of GST, as well implementation of the Goods & Service as continued competitive pressures from Tax GST in India in July, the net effects Horlicks in India.
Skin health sales grew 6% of which were partly offset by the benefit AER, but were flat at CER at 603 million.
of the comparison with the impact of Consumer Healthcare operating margin demonetisation in India in Q4 2016. was 17.7%, up 2.2 percentage points AER The divestment, GST and demonetisation and 1.3 percentage points higher on a combined to reduce overall Consumer CER basis, reflecting tight control of costs, Healthcare CER growth by approximately integration synergies principally in SG&A, one percentage point.
partly offset by increased investment in Sales from new GSK innovations product power brands.
introductions within the last three years on a rolling basis represented approximately 2020 outlook 13% of sales in the period.
Some notable launches in 2017 were several line Over the five years to 2020 we expect extensions for Sensodyne, including a low to mid single-digit CAGR for sales next generation Sensodyne Rapid Relief at 2015 exchange rates and we expect and Sensodyne Deep Clean, as well an operating margin of 20 % in 2020 as Voltaren No Mess and parodontax.
We also launched Flonase Sensimist in the US and continued the global roll-out of Flonase OTC.
Footnote We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report performance, as described on page 58.
41 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Driving performance for profitable Industry partnerships sustainable growth Strategy in action Collaboration is core to all aspects of our innovation.
In 2017, we signed a partnership In 2017, we took significant steps to As the consumer with Google, to bring our digital advertising strengthen our performance now and in data platform in-house, enabling us to the longer term, by increasing our focus healthcare market better target relevant content to consumers on our best performing brands and priority and drive efficiency in our marketing evolves, we are investing markets.
We formed another partnership in digital capabilities and Power brands in 2017 with Alimama, the marketing and Our strategy of focusing our resources on media arm of Chinese technology group forming ground-breaking seven power brands and 12 regional core Alibaba.
This partnership helps us identify partnerships to continue brands continued to deliver.
Our power more potential consumers and gain deeper brands including Sensodyne, Voltaren, understanding of their online shopping to meet changing Panadol and Theraflu significantly behaviour so we can reach them with the outperformed the market, with high single consumer needs.
right advertising at the appropriate time.
Sensodyne continued to drive We continued to prioritise building performance, reporting growth of 12% relationships with healthcare professionals AER, 8% CER, with strong market-beating HCPs, whose recommendations can be delivery in all regions following the roll-out key in introducing new consumers to our of next generation Sensodyne Rapid brands.
Seventy per cent of consumer Relief and the launch of Pronamel Strong trial of Sensodyne in the US, for example, & Bright.
is driven by dentist recommendation.
Pain relief sales were up 10% AER, 4% In 2017, we deployed a new customer CER, driven significantly by Voltaren which relationship management platform across saw growth across the regions, benefiting 80 markets to our HCP field forces.
Brian McNamara from momentum in the 12-hour variant, This system upgrade enables us to have CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare strong in-store and marketing activation, a more engaging and relevant scienceexpansion of expert detailing and strong based dialogue with HCPs.
Creating a simpler, competitive To concentrate on our best performers, we announced the divestment of some smaller supply chain nutrition brands, including MaxiNutrition in We have continued to improve our the UK.
consumer health supply chain, across quality, safety, service and cost.
We have Digital transformation simplified our network and announced plans to exit three sites.
Since 2015, we We invested strongly in our digital transformation programme.
This is intended have streamlined the number of contract manufacturers CMOs we use by 24% to both boost sales through data-driven to reduce complexity in our supply chain.
marketing, new e-commerce sales channels Our supply chain has successfully and digitally powered innovations and unlock efficiency savings by, for example, supported strong growth of our higher-margin power brands through optimising how we generate and deploy improvements across productivity, digital content and extracting more value procurement and systems, ensuring from our media mix.
To drive our digital transformation, in 2017 we appointed our first Consumer Healthcare Chief Digital Officer and established a Digital Advisory Board of external digital marketing, data and e-commerce experts.
We also revised our core training programmes to build digital and e-commerce capabilities across our sales, marketing and general management teams.
42 42 GS GSK K A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 17 7 Trust Maximising our social impact, ensuring the reliable supply of our high-quality products to as many people as possible, and having highly engaged employees.
43 GS GSK K A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 17 7 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Here we detail the progress we have made on: addressing Earning global health needs through our science, creating Trust sustainable access to our high-quality products, and being a responsible business with modern employer practices.
Creating long-term value Later this year, we will launch a set of for all our stakeholders long-term commitments describing the Investors, patients and consumers, actions we will be taking to demonstrate employees and communities rightly expect our continuing commitment to deliver companies to consider their social, as societal value.
With these, we will seek to well as financial, impact as they seek to establish clear, ambitious targets to drive create value over the long term.
By investing impact and progress in three areas: in a balanced set of long-term priorities Addressing global health needs through Innovation, Performance and Trust our science across each of our three businesses, Creating sustainable access to our we will deliver both financial returns and high-quality products a broader contribution to society.
Being a responsible business with Focusing where we can have impact modern employer practices We have a long history in tackling some We will also continue to seek transparent of the worlds biggest health challenges.
and trusted engagement with scientific The biggest impact we can have is to use and medical communities, address our our scientific and technical know-how environmental impact, and maintain the to address global health needs like HIV ethical standards to which we conduct and malaria and support sustainable our business.
access to our high-quality products.
We must also be a responsible business, This section reports progress in these with modern employer practices, to support areas during 2017.
More detail is available our talented people to give their very best.
in our Responsible Business Supplement available at www.
All three of our businesses contribute towards our Trust priority.
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer Healthcare In 2017, our HIV drug, dolutegravir, was Our Vaccines business has developed In early 2018, our Consumer Healthcare made available in Brazil as a first line the only malaria vaccine candidate to have business is launching a five-year treatment for people living with HIV who received a positive scientific opinion from partnership with Smile Train, to provide have never received treatment via the the European Medicines Agency and a funding, support and expertise to help national health programme.
It is also now recommendation for pilot implementation more children living with cleft lip or palate available as first line treatment in by the World Health Organization WHO.
to lead a full and productive life.
44 GSK Annual Report 2017 Trust continued We are using our science and technology to tackle Addressing some of the biggest global health challenges while global health delivering leading scientific and medical engagement.
through science We aim to use our science, and work Our open lab in Tres Cantos, Spain supported seven new projects run by collaboratively and transparently with partners and the scientific community, external scientists in 2017 64 since to develop new medicines, vaccines and it opened in 2010.
During the year, consumer healthcare products where the TresCantos facility supported the phaseI clinical trials of a new candidate there is the greatest need.
drug for TB, with phase II studies expected to begin in 2018.
We also began late stage Global health impact pre-clinical studies for a molecule with The biggest contribution we can make the potential to shorten TB treatment, to improve health globally is to focus on with funding from the Bill & Melinda diseases impacting people around the Gates Foundation.
world where we have specific scientific In 2017, we received FDA approval and technological expertise: respiratory, for Juluca see page 25, an important HIV, oncology, immuno-inflammation and milestone in HIV care.
We also have an important role new treatment option and could make a to play in tackling some of the biggest significant difference to people living with global health challenges, including malaria HIV as they receive life-long treatment for see case study, tuberculosis TB and their chronic condition.
Also in 2017, our neglected tropical diseases NTDs, HIV drug, dolutegravir, was made available where there is no commercial market.
in Brazil and Botswana, and has been In 2017, we created a Global Health Unit added to the Essential Medicines List to drive an integrated approach across in Russia.
the business to innovate and deliver As part of our commitment to eliminate medicines and vaccines that tackle the and control NTDs, GSK has donated nearly biggest global health challenges, such eight billion albendazole tablets since 1999 as malaria and NTDs.
to reach more than 850 million people with lymphatic filariasis LF or intestinal worms.
In April 2017, Togo became the first African country to eliminate LF as a public health problem, with seven other countries doing so later that year.
Helping to Our Pharmaceuticals business is in the Following successful phase III trials late stage development of tafenoquine, a in 2016, we are supporting plans for beat malaria single-dose treatment for P. vivax malaria, pilot malaria vaccine implementation which is common in South Asia, the Horn programmes in sub-Saharan Africa.
of Africa and Latin America.
If approved, We are proud to be working together it will be the first new treatment for with the WHO, PATH, the ministries P. vivax malaria in more than 60 years.
of health in Kenya, Ghana and Malawi, and other stakeholders to ensure Our Vaccines business has developed successful implementation of the pilot the only malaria vaccine candidate to programmes.
In parallel, GSK is have received a positive scientific opinion preparing for the implementation of the from the EMA and a recommendation for phase IV programme and is starting pilot implementation by the WHO.
GSK will donate the first 10million doses of the RTS, S vaccine to support pilot programmes in sub-Saharan Africa.
45 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Preparing for future health threats We also share anonymised patient-level We are committed to preparing for data for our interventional phase I-IV clinical Strategy in action global health threats and emergencies.
trials within six months of publication.
By late We maintain reserve capacity to respond 2017, we had listed more than 2,100 trials We have created a to a future influenza pandemic, and are on the www.
com collaborating on the development of a platform for use by external researchers.
Global Health Unit to universal influenza vaccine candidate.
Since we started this initiative in 2013, drive innovation and 108 research proposals requesting GSK Fighting antibiotic resistance data have been approved.
delivery of medicines The declining effectiveness of antibiotics, due to their extensive use and misuse, Sales and marketing practices and vaccines to tackle is becoming a major public health crisis.
In 2013, we introduced a policy to stop global health challenges, paying HCPs to speak to other prescribers It is important that we work with the about our prescription medicines and pharmaceutical industry and governments such as malaria.
We believe our policy has to find creative ways to incentivise and improved transparency and trust, but reward new research and development feedback from scientific experts is that in antibiotics and support ways to reduce important scientific dialogue between resistance.
This was In early 2018, we were ranked number not the intent of the policy.
Transparent one out of the large pharmaceutical scientific dialogue and engagement with companies in the Access to Medicine experts is in the interests of all those Foundations first Anti-Microbial Resistance working to develop new medicines and AMR Benchmark, which assessed 30 improve care for patients.
pharmaceuticals, generics and biotech Phil Thomson To address this feedback, and having company responses to AMR.
President, Global Affairs consulted with HCPs, we have decided In our Pharmaceuticals pipeline, gepotidacin to change our policy.
We now allow fair is the first in a new class of antibiotics and market value payments to be made by is expected to progress to phase III clinical GSK to expert researchers and HCPs research.
Our vaccines also play a critical to speak about the science behind our role in avoiding the need for antibiotics products, disease and clinical practice by preventing bacterial, viral and other in a limited number of GSK sponsored, infections.
To promote responsible antibiotics use, We believe this change is in the best in 2017 we trained over 21,000 healthcare interest of patients as it helps effective, professionals HCPs in areas such as transparent scientific dialogue by allowing appropriate antibiotics use and prescribing HCPs to share new science with each guidelines.
Our primary focus remains on internal medical experts speaking about Leading scientific and our products and we will not pay HCPs to talk about our products outside of an medical engagement approved, medical-led scientific workshop We believe it is important to have trusted or symposium.
and transparent engagement with the We have continued to strengthen our scientific and medical communities.
online resources and in-house medical capabilities to provide bespoke product Transparency in clinical trial data information for HCPs.
By using all of our GSK is one of the few companies that existing channels, we increased our overall publishes clinical study reports, whether interactions with customers by 15% in 2017 positive or negative.
By the end of 2017, with digital interactions growing by 50%.
2,310 of these reports were publicly available on our clinical study register in GSK has eliminated the use of individual addition to 6,305 result summaries from sales targets for our pharmaceutical our trials.
Reflecting our long-standing and vaccines sales representatives.
commitment to clinical trial transparency, This change was implemented in the during the year we ranked number one US in 2011, and expanded to all our on the AllTrials Transparency Index.
Today, our sales representatives are incentivised based on their selling competency and broader business performance.
46 GSK Annual Report 2017 Trust continued We are expanding access to our high-quality medicines, Sustainable vaccines and consumer healthcare products so that access to our more people can benefit from their use.
high-quality products We are committed to widening access In 2017, the World Intellectual Property Organization WIPO and the International to our high-quality products.
We do so through embedding our equitable pricing Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers strategy, using innovative business models, and Associations IFPMA launched a and ensuring that our products adhere new partnership called Pat-INFORMED to facilitate access to medicine patent to high quality and safety standards.
GSK played an instrumental role in the development of this partnership Pricing which was catalysed by our 2016 Our equitable pricing strategy for medicines commitment to make information about and vaccines is based on the country, our patent portfolio freely available.
disease area, product type and patients We also understand payer and patient ability to pay.
Since 2010, we have capped concerns about affordability in developed the prices of our patented medicines in markets.
The prices of our new medicines least developed countries at 25% of and vaccines reflect our goal to work in those in Western Europe, as long as the best interests of both patients and manufacturing costs are covered.
shareholders and to balance reward for More than 70% of our vaccine doses go innovation with access and affordability.
to least developed, low and middle-income In the US, we negotiate with payers to gain countries.
Our lowest vaccine prices are favourable placement on formularies lists offered to organisations such as Gavi, of products covered by health insurers the Vaccine Alliance, which supports and pharmacy benefit managers.
We are the only generally have lower out-of-pocket costs company committed to a ten-year price for medicines that have preferred treatment freeze to support countries transitioning under a formulary.
The GSK Patient from Gavi financing.
Assistance Programme provided our prescribed medicines and vaccines to 126,419 patients in 2017.
Reducing child mortality In 2013, we launched a five-year partnership with Save the Children with the aim of saving the lives of one million children in the poorest countries.
As we approach the end of the five years, we have reached more than 2.7 million children in 41 countries with life-saving interventions.
Through the partnership, we have also created and distributed a potentially life-saving medicine, chlorhexidine gel, that has benefited over 19,000 newborns.
The next phase of the GSK and Save the Children partnership, which will continue to address child mortality, will launch in 2018.
Image: Ilan Godfrey Save the Children 47 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information In Europe, we engage with governments We track risks to quality and safety and payers to balance access and standards through our global risk register.
Strategy in action affordability while working towards In 2017, we performed 273 audits on our sustainable health systems that support own trials and those conducted for us by Reliable supply is a daily ongoing innovation.
We enhanced our policy on management of human safety information priority across all three for GSK products and trained all relevant Partnerships to support access of our businesses.
staff to safeguard the people who take We invest in communities around the our products or are involved in our world through product and cash donations.
In 2017, our charitable giving totalled Reliability of supply 262 million.
We make reliable supply a daily priority Since 2009, we have reinvested 20% of across all three of our businesses.
our profits from sales of pharmaceuticals Significant improvements were achieved and consumer healthcare products in in our Pharmaceutical supply performance least developed countries LDCs in 2017.
These were instrumental in 33 million in total into strengthening enabling growth in key therapy areas, as local healthcare infrastructure.
Our well as ensuring that the launch of new Roger Connor partnerships with Amref Health Africa, President Global Manufacturing products went to plan.
Improvements are CARE International and Save the Children and Supply the result of essential capability-building have helped train over 60,000 frontline and infrastructure investments made in our health workers, helping us to exceed supply chain to improve safety and quality, our goal of reaching 20 million people by as well as a consistent focus on meeting 2020.
Our new programmes in Botswana, patient and business needs through Cameroon and Namibia are training performance management.
frontline health workers beyond the LDCs.
Our supply performance in Vaccines continued to improve in 2017.
We grew Cleft surgery can cost from as little as manufacturing output by 7% which $250, but if left untreated, children will underpinned our strong financial struggle to eat, breathe and speak properly, performance.
We maintained our focus leaving them isolated from communities and on safety and delivering all of our vaccines with ongoing health issues.
In early 2018, to our high quality standards: we also our Consumer Healthcare business is continued to invest in capacity, updating launching a five-year partnership with older facilities and building new capacity Smile Train, to provide funding, support to support our long-term growth ambition.
and expertise to help more children living with cleft lip or palate lead a full and Across the Consumer Healthcare supply productive life.
chain, we have implemented new ways of working, including core business planning processes to improve our service Our commitment to quality levels.
These have increased steadily and and safety significantly through 2017 and benchmark Our charitable giving in 2017 totalled We follow a strict Quality Management well with FMCG competitors.
All of our 261.6 million 2016 210.2 million 2017 Consumer Healthcare product System and comply with regulations on launches have been supplied on time Good Manufacturing Practice.
In 2017, 194 regulatory inspections were held at our and we continue to strive for higher targets manufacturing sites and, while the majority for product supply, while maintaining our quality and safety standards.
resulted in zero or only minor observations, we are committed to addressing issues raised in all inspections as part of our continuous improvement programme.
Regulatory authorities have accepted our proposed plans for corrective actions.
Product & in-kind 165m Cash 80m Management 13m Time PULSE 3m 48 GSK Annual Report 2017 Trust continued To attract and retain the best talent, we are committed Modern to being a modern employer and to driving high levels employer of employee engagement.
Our staff are more engaged when they Talent and development are part of the conversation, so we have In 2017, we made a number of key put a strong focus on holding open and appointments to our Corporate Executive inclusive conversations with each other, and Team, identified significant GSK roles, and encouraging our leaders and employees supported the development of top talent.
to share the ownership and delivery of our This included changing approximately strategy.
We are also focused on creating 40% of our top 125 manager roles a safe and inclusive workplace where through promoting existing talent and everyone at GSK can feel able and inspired to realise their potential.
hiring externally to bring fresh ideas and skills to leadership roles.
Engagement We have also launched a new employee performance system.
Individual objectives Senior leaders across GSK are playing a are now linked to our priorities on pivotal role in engaging our people behind Innovation, Performance and Trust, and our strategy, through initiatives such as our a new GSK-wide bonus system will reflect new Lets Talk programme see case study.
progress against the priorities and our In October 2017, 600 of our most senior overall business performance.
This will encourage more regular, consistent leaders attended a three-day conference performance and development to deepen their understanding of our strategy and priorities and to develop conversations.
effective tools to inspire their teams.
In 2017, we trained around 3,300 people to support their promotion to first or second Delivering performance through line leadership: in addition, more than 1,600 cultural change GSK leaders shared their knowledge and helped to improve colleagues performance Our strong values and purpose are through our coaching programmes.
fundamental to the way we operate.
Central During the year, 434 graduates and to the development of our high-performance, postgraduates joined our Future Leaders values-based culture will be the alignment of and Esprit development programmes.
our people behind our long-term business GSK ranked third in The Guardian 300 priorities.
As part of our approach to UK Graduate Employers and made the evolving GSKs culture, we have retained top ten in The Times Top 100 Graduate and reinforced our values while introducing Employers 2017. four new expectations that guide the behaviour of our employees: Courage, Accountability, Development and Teamwork.
Engaging Our strategic success relies on our Survey questions aligned with our new priorities and the results are being ability to engage employees behind employees in GSKs long-term priorities.
discussed by leaders and employees our strategy to identify priority focus areas.
From 2018, In 2017, more than 84,000 83% of we plan to conduct the survey twice a year.
our people took part in GSKs global employee survey our best ever response Our new Lets Talk programme rate.
Our employee engagement score encourages employees to discuss key was 79%, and we will be setting this as issues and share views and ideas on strengthening GSK.
Leaders across the a baseline year for improvement.
76% of employees recommend GSK as a business have hosted conversations with great place to work up 12% since the their teams on a range of topics.
Feedback previous survey and 85% are proud and insights are collated and shared with to work for us.
all employees and senior leaders to help shape our future organisation.
49 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information In early 2018, we were ranked 21st in the A diverse and inclusive workplace UK Stonewall Workplace Equality Index Strategy in action In 2017, the Hampton Alexander Review of the top 100 most LGBT and inclusive of FTSE 100 companies found GSK has employers in the UK for 2017.
For GSK, family-friendly the eighth-highest proportion of women We are committed to removing barriers, on the Board at 41.7%, and is in line with policies are a key success increasing understanding and ensuring the FTSE 100 average with 25.7% female that those with disabilities have the same representation among executive committee factor to drive employee opportunities.
Our Disability Confidence members and their direct reports.
We are Network employee resource group now has engagement.
continuing to focus on improving this more than 250 employee members across number over the coming years.
Overall, 22 countries who support our Global the proportion of women in management Disability Council in driving change and roles at GSK is 44%.
Women made up half of our new graduates and Esprit participants, and 38% of our Health and wellbeing new apprentices in science, technology and engineering roles, where women have We are committed to providing health traditionally been under-represented.
programmes and services to help our people lead healthy lives.
In 2017, we made We published data on our gender pay more than 75% of these programmes and Claire Thomas gap in the UK for the first time, following services available in our top 24 countries, Senior Vice President, new legislation.
Our gender pay gap for all covering 85% of employees globally.
Human Resources permanent UK-based GSK employees is 2.81% mean, outperforming the national Our Partnership for Prevention programme average of 17.4%.
We will continue to offers over 119,000 employees and family review pay equity at a global level members access to up to 40 preventive during 2018. healthcare services, such as immunisations and cancer screening, at little or no extra Through our Accelerating Difference cost.
We expanded the programme into the programme, we provided coaching and Asia Pacific region in 2017 and prepared support for 209 high-performing female to extend it in Europe.
Around 49% of those who began the programme in 2014 have been Our reportable injury and illness rate in promoted compared with 31% of women 2017 was 0.23 per 100,000 hours worked, across GSK during the same period.
This rate is Women in management % comparable with other leading companies In the US, our diverse reverse mentoring 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 in our sector and has remained low for provides leaders with the opportunity to SVP VP 29 29 30 31 several years.
learn from a more junior employee of a Director 40 40 42 43 different background to help our leaders Manager 45 45 46 47 Flexible and life-friendly practices develop their inclusive leadership skills.
Total 42 42 43 44 In 2017, we had 105 mentoring pairs in For GSK, family-friendly policies are place up from 20 in 2016.
Employees by gender number a key success factor to drive employee Male Female Total Seven nationalities are represented on engagement.
In 2017, in the US we Board 8 5 13 our Board and executive committee.
increased maternity leave for mothers to Seventy-eight nationalities make up our Management 9,784 7,825 17,609 up to 16 weeks, and introduced 8 weeks of Future Leaders graduate programme and Total 55,139 43,323 98,462 paid parental leave for all parents, adoptive more than 60 people have completed our parents and partners to bond with their Management: senior managers as defined in the Emerging Leaders programme in Singapore Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors new baby.
We also raised our commitment Report Regulations 2013 which includes persons to develop our Asia leadership pipeline.
to family-friendly policies across our top responsible for planning, directing or controlling the 20 markets.
For example, in Pakistan we activities of the company, or a strategically significant part Our global LGBT Council continued of the company, other than the Board, including directors revised our maternity policy for eligible to engage people across GSK on LGBT or undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
employees to increase fully paid maternity issues.
It is supported by our LGBT leave from 84 to 120 days.
employee resource group, Spectrum, which now has over 900 employee We are also seeking to improve work life members across 29 countries around balance through a range of flexibility models the world.
In the UK, we offer a tax-free holiday programme, which enables employees to sacrifice part of their salary in exchange for up to ten days of extra holiday.
In 2017, this programme had a 30% usage rate among eligible employees.
1 Based on benchmarking data from the Pharmaceutical Safety Group.
50 GSK Annual Report 2017 Trust continued We aim to run our business ethically and Ethical in an environmentally sustainable way.
conduct and environmental sustainability Working with third parties Ethical conduct We expect all our suppliers and third We strive to build a values-based culture parties to comply with our standards on by training our people on the standards ethics, labour rights, health and safety, we expect, encouraging the reporting and the environment.
By the end of 2017, of any concerns and acting swiftly and we had deployed the roll-out of our Third transparently when issues occur.
Party Oversight programme to 95% of our third parties.
We expect the remainder Living our Values to be completed by early 2018.
Over We provide mandatory annual training on 100,000 risk assessments of third parties our values and Code of Conduct to help have been conducted and over 5,000 employees and complementary workers improvements plans agreed since the manage ethical dilemmas and put our programme began in 2015.
Based on values into practice at work.
our initial risk assessment, over 4,200 The Living our Values training emphasises third parties underwent extensive our zero tolerance to bribery and corruption, independent assessments.
highlights our commitment on issues such The standardised programme enables as product quality and data protection, us to identify and manage third party risks and explains key risks.
In 2017, 98% of more effectively, and is being embedded employees and 91% of complementary into the processes we use to engage workers completed the training.
than 86,300 people had additional training We conducted 60 third party audits on anti-bribery and corruption to help them on health and safety, ethics, environment manage the specific risks inherent in their and labour rights, with a further 1,592 roles and responsibilities.
We assess how well our values are Where we identify unsatisfactory areas, embedded and have conducted around we engage with third parties to develop 260 values maturity assessments over improvement plans and track progress.
If significant issues remain unresolved, Employees disciplined in 2017: Reporting and investigating concerns we may suspend or terminate work with breakdown of types of policy violation A 2017 Speak Up campaign raised a third party.
awareness of the multiple channels we Human rights offer for people within and outside GSK 18% We are a signatory to the UN Global to voice concerns and ask questions 29% Compact and we are committed to through an independent third party 4% upholding the Universal Declaration confidentially or anonymously if preferred.
6% of Human Rights and the core labour During the year, we received 2,679 reports standards set out by the International 2,568 in 2016, with all being reviewed 12% 18% Labour Organization ILO.
In 2017, and 1,919 formal investigations initiated.
13% we expanded the information on our We act when employees fail to adhere human rights expectations in our Living our to our policies.
In 2017, 3,200 employees Training completion Marketing and Values training, particularly around labour were disciplined for policy violations promotional activities Code of conduct rights in our supply chain.
We also held a 3,600 in 2016, including 935 for failing Local work Attendance and workshop with senior managers to build regulations payroll to complete our mandatory Living our understanding of labour rights risks and to violations Good manufacturing Values and Anti-bribery and Corruption Other policy identify further team training requirements.
and distribution training on time.
Some 1,801 employees violations practices We continued to monitor existing suppliers received a documented warning 2,499 and screen new suppliers, included in 2016, 901 received verbal warnings standardised labour rights clauses in third 547 in 2016 and 233 were dismissed or party contracts, and updated our supplier agreed to leave voluntarily 221 in 2016. portal and human rights policy with more information on labour rights to support compliance.
51 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information We also have our own platform, GSK Water Environmental sustainability Supplier Exchange, to encourage suppliers We continue to seek ways to use less water We aim to minimise our environmental to share best practices on sustainability in our own operations, in our supply chain impact at every stage of the value chain, and recognise outstanding performance and in the use of our products.
We have while extending access to our products through our annual Supplier Environmental reduced water use by 22% since 2010 to more people.
but water use increased by 1% in 2017, driven by growth in our Vaccines business.
The use of our products also has a Carbon significant impact on our Scope 3 By the end of 2017, all of our Our overall carbon footprint is made up emissions.
The majority is from patient Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare of Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our direct use of a propellant-based inhaler Ventolin, manufacturing sites had completed water operations 18%, and Scope 3 emissions where the propellant is a greenhouse gas risk assessments in line with our water from our supply chain 49% and from use released during use.
Reducing the impact stewardship standard.
These sites are now of our products 33%.
of the propellant is complex.
We continue developing plans to address any risks that In 2017, our operational emissions Scope to research feasible solutions to this have been identified which may include 1 and 2 were reduced by 2% compared issue, including changing the way we working with local communities and other with the previous year, as a result of our manufacture, to reduce the amount of stakeholders.
Our efforts to enhance water continuing focus on energy efficiency propellant used while maintaining efficacy stewardship will prioritise sites in areas of measures and purchasing renewable and safety for patients.
Since our 2010 baseline, we have GSKs new generation of inhaler products, reduced annual carbon emissions from Waste using our Ellipta device, were developed energy use by 25% saving a cumulative Since 2010, we have cut operational waste and launched as dry powder inhalers 1.9 million tonnes of CO e. by 23%, producing 10% less hazardous 2 DPIs and do not release greenhouse waste and 29% less non-hazardous waste.
Our Scope 3 emissions fell from 18.7 to gas emissions.
In 2017, a certified However, progress towards our 2020 17.9 million tonnes of CO e from 2015 to 2 assessment of our respiratory inhaler target has slowed and the amount of waste 1 2016: however, they were up 4% from our portfolio by the Carbon Trust showed produced remained the same in 2017 as 2010 baseline year.
This is a result of the that the lifecycle carbon footprint of 2016.
We have therefore increased our Novartis integration in 2015 and increasing our DPI is around 24 times lower than focus on reclaiming more waste through sales of our propellant-based inhalers.
2 a propellant-based inhaler for one reuse, recycling and recovery.
We engage with suppliers to drive months treatment.
For example we encourage Around 70% of our sites worldwide have suppliers to monitor and disclose achieved zero waste to landfill and just 4% performance through Ecodesk, an external of our 136,000 tonnes of operational waste resource which offers benchmarking ended up in landfill 25% less than in 2016. information and helps them develop Most 71% was recycled or incinerated to improvement plans.
Carbon emissions plus intensity ratios as per regulations a b 000 tonnes CO e 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 Scope 1 emissions 851 885 889 865 Scope 2 emissions 745 730 700 694 Data available Scope 3 emissions 16,093 18,690 17,897 May 2018 Intensity ratios 2014 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 and 2 emissions sales revenue tonnes CO e m 69.4 67.5 57.0 51.6 2 Scope 1 and 2 FTE tonnes CO e FTE 16.3 16.0 16.0 15.8 2 a Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition.
b Data included former Novartis sites emissions and headcount.
1 Our most recently available Scope 3 data is from 2016.
We will publish 2017 data online in late 2018.
2 For one months treatment, a 120 dose propellant inhaler has a carbon footprint of 19kg CO e per pack compared 2 with a 30 dose once-daily Ellipta DPI which has a carbon footprint of 0.8kg CO e per pack 2
