24 GSK Annual Report 2017 Pharmaceuticals Our priority is to strengthen our Pharmaceuticals Innovation business by focusing on fewer assets, improving the R&D and commercial interface, and with brilliant execution of launches.
Our Pharmaceuticals business continues We have created a more integrated, competitive Pharmaceuticals business to grow and we are global leaders in Respiratory and HIV.
In 2017, we had two by significantly strengthening the existing best-in-class medicines approved: Trelegy partnership between R&D and commercial.
Ellipta, our once-daily triple therapy for We have made several significant leadership appointments including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD in a single inhaler: and Juluca, the Hal Barron, Chief Scientific Officer first two-drug regimen, once-daily, single and President of R&D, and Luke Miels, pill for HIV.
We also made important President, Global Pharmaceuticals.
progress across our pipeline assets.
Both are highly respected leaders with a track record of bringing new medicines to market.
Delivering best-in-class innovation Respiratory We need to focus on medicines with the We have been a leader in respiratory greatest potential, back them and stop medicine for nearly 50 years and remain other projects.
Following a review of our at the forefront of scientific research in this drug development process, we are area, offering innovative medicines aimed focusing on priority assets in two areas at treating patients symptoms and reducing where we are world leaders Respiratory the risk of their disease worsening.
and HIV and two potential areas Oncology and Immuno-inflammation.
Trelegy Ellipta To ensure we have sufficient funding During the year, we gained US and European regulatory approval for Trelegy and resource for our priority areas and Ellipta, our new once-daily triple therapy medicines those where GSK can support more patients and strengthen for COPD in a single inhaler.
This launch our existing business over the long term adds to our portfolio of once-daily, inhaled respiratory medicines the broadest in we terminated more than 60 pre-clinical our industry.
These included ending our collaboration with Janssen We also achieved positive headline results Biologics on sirukumab and starting the from the Trelegy Ellipta phase III IMPACT process of identifying a new owner for study.
The 10,000 patient study found our rare disease gene therapy medicines.
the once-daily triple therapy achieved significant reductions in moderate severe exacerbations for COPD patients when compared with two other once-daily dual medicines from our Ellipta portfolio.
We have submitted additional regulatory filings supported by the IMPACT data, with the aim of expanding the patient population for Trelegy Ellipta in COPD.
We are also investigating the efficacy and safety of Trelegy Ellipta in a phase III study CAPTAIN as a treatment for patients with asthma.
25 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Other respiratory assets Juluca We continue to lead in respiratory biologics In November, we received US FDA Strategy in action and believe Nucala mepolizumab offers approval for Juluca, a once-daily, single a highly competitive profile.
We received pill 2DR regimen for HIV.
Juluca combines Scientific innovation is FDA approval for an additional indication dolutegravir with rilpivirine Edurant, for mepolizumab, as the first targeted a Janssen medicine and is a complete at the heart of GSK and treatment for uncontrolled eosinophilic regimen for treating HIV in adults who is our highest priority as granulomatosis with polyangiitis EGPA.
are virologically suppressed and have We have also submitted a regulatory file for no resistance.
The SWORD studies we build the next wave of mepolizumab for the treatment of COPD.
of over 1,000 patients in phase III trials showed Juluca achieved non-inferior viral growth for the company.
Our other priority respiratory assets suppression compared with traditional also target COPD and are in phase II 3-drug regimens.
Through the purchase trials: danirixin, a first-in-class oral and use of a Priority Review Voucher, CXCR2 antagonist, and nemiralisib, we accelerated this approval in the US.
a highly selective first-in-class Following our June 2017 submission to phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta the European Medicines Agency EMA PI3K inhibitor.
for regulatory approval, we expect a response in 2018.
HIV We have a long-standing commitment Other HIV assets to HIV and are investigating new paradigms Our 2DR clinical trial programme now Dr Hal Barron for treatment, prevention and cure.
consists of eight phase III clinical trials, Chief Scientific Officer Dolutegravir is the number one core agent two of which have completed SWORD and President, R&D globally, and through the success of Tivicay studies and support approval of Juluca, and Triumeq, it offers important benefits with four other studies due to report for a wide range of patients.
It can be used in 2018. without the need for a booster, and showed superior efficacy in five different clinical Dolutegravir and lamivudine is being studies.
It is generally well tolerated and investigated versus a traditional 3-drug has a high barrier to resistance and few regimen for treatment-naive HIV patients interactions with commonly used in the GEMINI 1 & 2 studies, and in the medications.
TANGO trial for patients who have achieved viral suppression on a tenofovir alafenamide Today, due to advances in antiretroviral fumarate TAFbased regimen.
therapy ART, people living with HIV have near normal life expectancies compared The long-acting 2DR of cabotegravir to the general population, but may spend and rilpivirine, is being investigated for decades on HIV treatment.
Our innovative administration every four weeks in virally research into 2-drug regimens 2DR suppressed adults with HIV-1 infection was initiated in response to physician ATLAS and FLAIR.
In addition, the and patient demand to reduce long-term ATLAS 2M study has started to investigate ART exposure.
We also have two phase III studies that began in 2017 to evaluate cabotegravir as a long-acting monotherapy in the prevention of HIV.
These trials are being conducted through a public-private funding collaboration.
26 GSK Annual Report 2017 Pharmaceuticals continued Oncology Immuno-inflammation In Oncology, we are focused on delivering Immuno-inflammatory diseases are transformational therapies that can lengthen relatively common, chronic and debilitating the lives of patients with cancer.
In 2017, we conditions, for which there remains made significant progress in our emerging significant unmet medical need.
To portfolio of next generation therapies in the discover the next breakthrough for immuneareas of immuno-oncology, cell therapy mediated diseases, we are focusing on and epigenetics.
transformational medicines that could potentially alter the course of inflammatory Our 2857916 monoclonal antibody against disease and induce sustainable remission.
BCMA has the potential to target a number of tumour types, including relapsed and We received approval in the US and EU for refractory multiple myeloma.
Promising a new subcutaneous SC formulation of early results suggest a highly competitive Benlysta, our treatment for systemic lupus profile compared with existing approved erythematosus, which enables either home Read more about our Pharmaceuticals treatments for multiple myeloma.
It has or hospital administration of the medicine.
pipeline on pages 251 to 252 been granted European PRIME and FDA We also received approval in Japan for the breakthrough status, potentially resulting use of Benlysta for the first time.
in faster review by the regulatory authorities We have two phase II immuno-inflammation when it is filed.
priority assets: 3196165, a monoclonal We exercised our option to gain an antibody which blocks the effect of antiexclusive global licence from Adaptimmune  colony stimulating for 3377794, an investigational SPEAR factor GM-CSF, for rheumatoid arthritis T-cell receptor targeting NY-ESO-1, and and osteoarthritis, and 2982772, a receptor were granted European PRIME and FDA interacting protein-1 RIP1 kinase inhibitor breakthrough status.
Another oncology for psoriasis, ulcerative colitis and therapy, 3359609, is the first investigational rheumatoid arthritis.
inducible T-cell costimulator ICOS agonist Future pipeline optionality antibody to enter human clinical trials.
Outside our core therapy areas, we have Both of these assets are in phase I II trials.
a number of other promising programmes, including two late-stage priority assets: oral daprodustat, in phase III trials for anaemia associated with chronic renal disease, and an anti-SAP therapy for amyloidosis, currently in phase II.
Strengthening the Ensuring there is a strong partnership between our R&D and commercial R&D commercial functions is a priority for us.
This will interface help ensure we deliver differentiated medicines with the most competitive profiles and robust evidence plans to compete effectively in todays dynamic market.
A single strategy across R&D and commercial will ensure alignment and focus across the business.
We are simplifying our processes to eliminate complexity, and in parallel, strengthening our commercial and medical resource to drive performance.
27 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Accelerating priority assets New technology frontiers Strategy in action We are improving the pace of our medicines Digital technology is having an impact on development by enhancing our speed-toevery part of our business and our goal is Digital technology clinical decision making through changes to harness these developments in data-rich, to our governance and by adapting the way information-based medicine to accelerate will transform many we design and conduct our clinical trials.
our drug discovery and development, and drive our business forward.
aspects of how we To support this acceleration we established a new Board committee of global scientific Collaborations remain key to our innovation.
develop new medicines experts, the Science Committee, to ensure During the year, we joined forces with two and interact with our that emerging scientific and medical external companies to harness artificial knowledge is integrated into our strategic intelligence AI : Exscientia, a UK specialist customers.
In addition, a new Development in machine-learning: and Insilico Medicine, Advisory Committee will provide the Board a US leader in AI-led drug discovery.
with strategic guidance on all aspects of We also co-founded the private-public our current and future development activity, Accelerating Therapies for Opportunities with full consideration of emerging trends in Medicine ATOM consortium, based in and alternative approaches.
This aims to cut pre-clinical cancer for more information.
drug discovery from six years to just one, Our early research infrastructure using supercomputers to analyse data around 25 discovery performance units from failed R&D programmes with the aim DPUs with their own project accountability of finding patterns and vital clues to aid Karenann Terrell and budgets encourages a competitive successful future development.
We are Chief Digital and Technology Officer dimension to proposed areas of discovery also supporting the UK Biobank, a groundresearch and capital allocation.
breaking initiative to generate anonymised genetic sequence data from 50,000 volunteer participants to deliver insights into why some people are at greater risk of disease.
In addition, we continue to work on the Open Targets programme, which supports an open access search engine that searches, evaluates and integrates biologic and genetic disease data.
Drug discovery and development Regulatory Drug discovery Pre-clinical Clinical trials Manufacturing review 5,00010,000 250 5 compounds One approved Number of volunteers drug 2080 100300 1,0003,000 Phase I Phase II Phase III 36 years 67 years 0.52 years Source: Pharmaceuticals Research and Manufacturers of America Pre-discovery Regulatory file submitted New drug application submitted Post-marketing surveillance 28 GSK Annual Report 2017 Pharmaceuticals continued Pharmaceuticals sales were up 7% AER, 3% CER, Performance reflecting the continued strong growth of our new Respiratory and HIV products.
Immuno-inflammation sales were 2017 performance summary 377 million, up 11% AER, 6% CER Pharmaceuticals turnover in 2017 was in the year.
Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals In the US, total sales were 7,568 million, were 5,558 million, declining 2% AER, up 11% AER, 6% CER primarily driven 5% CER, reflecting a three percentage by new Respiratory and HIV products.
point impact from recent divestments In Europe sales were 3,983 million, of non-core assets.
up 3% AER but down 3% CER, reflecting The Pharmaceuticals operating margin the continued transition of the Respiratory was 34.3%, up 0.2 percentage points portfolio, generic competition to Kivexa AER but down 0.6 percentage points and the disposal of the Romanian CER primarily reflecting increased R&D distribution business.
International sales investment, including using a Priority were 5,725 million, up 6% AER and Review Voucher in Q2 2017.
operating margin also reflected increased Respiratory sales were up 7% AER, 3% investment in new product support, as well CER to 6,991 million.
New Respiratory as the continued impact of lower prices, products recorded combined sales of particularly in Respiratory, partly offset by 1,930 million in 2017, more than offsetting a more favourable product mix, primarily the decline in Seretide Advair.
driven by the growth in HIV sales, and HIV sales increased 22% AER, 16% CER the continued cost reduction benefit to 4,350 million in the year.
The growth of the Groups Pharmaceuticals was driven by continued increases in restructuring programme.
market share for Triumeq and Tivicay, partly offset by the impact of generic competition to Epzicom Kivexa, particularly affecting the European market.
Delivering world Our ambitious commercial efforts are For our asthma medicine, Relvar Breo class capability focused on driving the continuous growth Ellipta, this focus on target customer of our priority brands in our largest groups helped this medicine become markets, most notably the US.
Our R&D the first of our new Respiratory portfolio teams continue to generate evidence to be a 1 billion brand, helping over from clinical trials to support the right fourmillion patients this year.
patients for each medicine, as well as the differentiation of our brands.
In 2017, strategic use of data and analytics has enabled us to optimise the role, engagement and training of our salesforce.
This has helped make sure their knowledge of the disease, our strategy and the competitive environment have led to truly competitive customer engagement from day one of launch.
29 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Creating a simpler, competitive 2020 outlook supply chain Strategy in action Over the five years to 2020 we expect a We are simplifying our manufacturing low single-digit CAGR for sales at 2015 and supply chain to achieve competitive Strong sales of our new exchange rates despite a higher level and sustainable performance delivering of divestments over the period than we strong results in the fundamentals of safety, products show we can originally expected.
Strong performances quality and service, as well as improved from our new medicines together with achieve great things financial performance.
We are focused on disciplined cost management are expected fewer priorities, removing waste and making when we are focused.
to enable the business to achieve an things simpler.
Our current plans address operating margin in the low 30s percentage productivity improvement, procurement range in 2020 at 2015 exchange rates savings and working with our supplier base even if an automatically substitutable to prioritise fewer, more strategic supplier generic version of Advair is launched relationships.
We are on track to reduce in the US.
our suppliers by approximately 30% leveraging our scale and standardising specifications to use fewer bespoke Driving performance for materials and improving our cost of goods.
profitable, sustainable growth We continue to invest in our manufacturing In 2017, we refocused our Pharmaceuticals network and advanced manufacturing Luke Miels business to make it stronger and more technologies which have the potential President, Global Pharmaceuticals competitive in order to deliver improved, to improve product quality while reducing sustainable returns.
Under the leadership material waste and lead times for new of Luke Miels, we have simplified our capacity.
Our work with continuous commercial management structure processing is well advanced and, where and reshaped our operations.
We are deployed, could reduce cost of goods aggressively reallocating resources to by up to 20% in the long term.
those areas best able to deliver profitable sustainable growth and returns, with Digital transformation much more focus on new medicines Our goal is to apply digital technology and major markets.
that delivers truly competitive customer engagement to drive better performance.
The changes we are making will drive sharper prioritisation, a simpler portfolio, Our investment in this area is underpinned faster decision making, more effective by our appointment of Karenann Terrell as Chief Digital and Technology Officer, capital allocation and a strong focus on execution.
who joined in September 2017 to help drive a digital transformation programme In 2017, we began streamlining our across our three businesses.
Pharmaceuticals products portfolio by exiting from or divesting 90 non-core Across the Pharmaceuticals business brands and we are on track to reach we are using new technologies to improve our goal of about 20% fewer brands.
performance with an increased focus on improving the customer experience.
This included announcing an end to the manufacture and sale of the type 2 diabetes This includes customer-centric integrated therapy Eperzan Tanzeum which we now campaigns and personalised content expect to end during 2018.
In addition, to help healthcare professionals deliver better patient outcomes and to drive we announced a strategic review of our cephalosporins antibiotics business preference for our brands.
We are restructuring our emerging markets business to improve growth, profitability and sustainability while continuing to ensure access for the patients that need our medicines.
Simplifying the geographies, reducing organisational layers and simplifying our cost structures, including moving to an export model in some markets, will support faster, more aligned execution.
Footnote We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report performance, as described on page 58.
30 GSK Annual Report 2017 Shingles Herpes zoster virus of shingles 31 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Virginie, Laboratory Technician, Vaccines R&D Our new vaccine Shingrix represents a significant advance in vaccine technology and has clinically demonstrated a strong and sustained immune response and efficacy against shingles and its painful complications.
Alain, shingles sufferer and GSK employee Vaccines Our Vaccines business has a broad portfolio and innovative pipeline of vaccines to help protect people throughout life.
We deliver over two million vaccine doses per day to people living in over 160 countries.
Vaccines sales were up 12% AER, During the year, we received US FDA Whats next 6% CER, primarily driven by meningitis approval for Shingrix, our new vaccine vaccines, with Bexsero growing across all which represents a new standard for Innovation in regions and Menveo in the US and Europe, the prevention of shingles.
Vaccines and higher sales of influenza products, See pages 3233 Vaccines turnover m primarily in the US and Europe.
Meningitis 890 Influenza 488 Performance in Shingles 22 Vaccines Established Vaccines 3,760 See pages 3435 Total 5,160 We report on our Trust priority Footnote across all three businesses We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report performance, as See pages 4251 described on page 58.
