32 GSK Annual Report 2017 Vaccines Our advanced science and technology platform capability Innovation enables us to discover and develop vaccines that help protect people in over 160 countries from serious diseases.
Our vaccines strategy is to bring Following approval by the US Food and differentiated, high-quality and needed Drug Administration FDA in October vaccines to as many people as possible.
2017, the competitive position of We have global scale and are well Shingrix has been further strengthened positioned to take advantage of changing by recommendations from the US Centers demographics.
Vaccines are long-term for Disease Control and Preventions assets without the volatility of patent cliffs, CDCs Advisory Committee on which provides opportunities to invest in Immunization Practices ACIP naming it life-cycle management and improve the as the preferred shingles vaccine for adults competitive profile of our existing vaccines aged 50 and over.
The recommendation to better meet patient needs.
includes revaccinating those who had previously received the competitor vaccine, We focus on finding new candidate meaning over 100 million people in the US vaccines to help protect people of all will be eligible for the Shingrix vaccine.
ages from disease and have a pipeline of 14 candidate vaccines currently in In January 2018, we received a positive development.
We believe that a core opinion from the European Medicines competitive advantage is our expertise in Agencys EMAs Committee for Medicinal technology platforms which facilitates the Products for Human Use for Shingrix.
development of more effective vaccines.
The results of regulatory filings for Shingrix in Australia and Japan are also due in 2018.
In addition, in December 2017 Innovation in action we announced new data confirming the In 2017, we received regulatory approval safety and efficacy of Shingrix in immunoin the US and Canada for Shingrix, with compromised autologous haematopoietic an efficacy of over 90%, which we believe stem cell transplant patients.
provides a step change in the prevention Our commercial, manufacturing and R&D of shingles.
We anticipate it could drive teams have worked closely together to one-third of Vaccines growth between ensure the Shingrix launch is executed 2015 and 2020.
More than 90% of people flawlessly.
We are taking a staged approach over 50 are infected with the varicella zoster to the global launch in order to manage virus that causes shingles and one in three the strong anticipated demand with will develop shingles in their lifetime.
Breakthrough Shingles is a painful and potentially serious condition.
Shingrix was vaccine science developed specifically to overcome the age-related decline in immunity and is the first shingles vaccine to combine a non-live antigen, to trigger a targeted immune response, with a specifically designed adjuvant system, AS01B, to make that response strong and sustained.
This adjuvant is also used in our RTS, S vaccine for the prevention of malaria in children.
