GROUP REVIEW OUTLOOK CONTINUED Currency exposure on the balance sheet is, where practical, Global energy markets have entered the new year with a reduced by financing assets with borrowings in the same renewed commitment from OPEC and Russia to extend currency.
Spot and forward foreign exchange contracts are production cuts to the end of 2018.
Should production used to cover the net exposure of purchases and sales in compliance be maintained for the duration of the year by OPECs non-domestic currencies.
members, the oil price is likely to remain above $60 per barrel.
The Groups liquidity is monitored by the central treasury This in turn will continue to provide a platform of stability in function on a daily basis and a variety of cash forecasts, looking committed capital expenditures for onshore operators in North at different time horizons, are prepared on a periodic basis.
America, thus helping maintain activity levels for the Group and, in particular, Hunting Titan and the Groups US onshore-focused With the Groups return to profit, the underlying return on operations, at the levels seen in the second half of 2017. average capital employed was 1% in 2017 compared to negative 8% in 2016.
In addition to the above, average oil and gas prices in the year to date WTI at c. $63 per barrel and natural gas at c. $2.98 per Managements judgement is that the level of headroom available mmBtu, are slowly stimulating more offshore and international under the Groups total credit facilities provides ongoing flexibility drilling activity and investment, which market commentators and continues to support the business as outlined in this indicate is likely to lead to a reversal in the declines seen in the Strategic Report.
past three years, and a return to modest growth.
This will benefit Huntings businesses in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Further detail on financial risks is provided within note 26.
Within recent earnings statements released by our customer Dividends base, varying degrees of confidence are returning to the market, Each dividend proposal considered by the Board of Directors specifically with regard to US onshore markets with references is determined on its own merits taking into account the to capacity constraints, pointing to the potential for a continuation considerations outlined below.
This flexible approach is in earnings growth.
Margin progression driven by increased influenced by the cyclical nature of the oil and gas sector which, revenues and resultant operating leverage benefits, as reported as recent history demonstrates, can produce significant swings within our 2017 results, along with continuing cost containment in activity levels and cash generation.
Dividends will, therefore, initiatives also provide positive indicators of a return to reflect business performance over time and will not necessarily improving profits.
As noted in the Market Review, most geographic regions where In assessing the level of dividend that is appropriate, the Board the Group operates are projected to report an increase in drilling considers not only the results and position of the business for the investment in the year ahead, thanks to the general stability in the financial year in question, but reviews mid-term projections and global market.
North American capital investment is forecast to downside sensitivities for a three-year period as used in the continue growing, with the focus remaining on onshore activity.
Capital investment has been forecast for the region to increase by c. 20% in the year ahead.
For the Rest of World, investment A companys dividend capacity is typically constrained either by levels are forecast to increase in mid to high single digits.
distributable reserves or by liquidity.
Hunting PLC has in excess of $200m of distributable reserves and Hunting Energy Holdings However, while the Board believes this position to be a fair Limited, a direct UK subsidiary of Hunting PLC, which directly or outlook at the time of writing, it also believes that market indirectly controls the operating businesses of the Group, has sentiment remains fragile, particularly given the geopolitical distributable reserves in excess of $300m.
The Board considers drivers in Iran and Venezuela, which also support current that these distributable reserves are capable of servicing commodity price levels.
Should this market dynamic be dividends for the foreseeable future and that any dividend disrupted, an adverse move in these commodity prices could constraints will be driven by liquidity.
lead to a change in industry sentiment with investment slowing.
Given potential volatility in the sector, the Group intends to The Board believes that the Groups US businesses, including Hunting Titan, will continue to grow sales in the year ahead and continue to operate with low levels of gearing.
In addition, the generate underlying profits.
Outside of the US, most segments Group will seek to ensure that there is adequate funding are projected to return to a break even position in the year as headroom to cover swings in working capital and to allow for losses narrow and activity returns to positive growth.
At the end of 2017 the Group has net cash of $30.4m.
Further, and subject to the Companys trading and liquidity being satisfactory, the Board will consider the restoration of dividend Dividends will be funded from net cash flows before transactions distributions.
with PLC shareholders and before growth capital investment over the period.
Dividends will continue to be declared in US dollars, being most representative of the earnings and cash flows being generated but will continue to be paid in Sterling.
Jim Johnson Peter Rose Chief Executive Finance Director 1 March 2018 HUNTING PLC 16 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION TUBING BEING PREPARED FOR INSPECTION, REPAIR AND RETURN TO SERVICE IN THE NORTH SEA.
HUNTING PLC 17 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CASE STUDY Hunting Titan H-1 Perforating System We addressed the primary reasons for conventional perforating system failures and commercialised a system that not only mitigated common failures but also significantly improved personnel safety and operational efficiency.
The bar was set very high and we knew if we were going to change the market it had to be something special.
HUNTING PLC 18 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The challenge The solution Once drilled, a wellbore must be completed in order Hunting Titan has taken perforating technology to to initiate production and bring hydrocarbons online.
the next level with the development and commercial Part of this process involves fracking using deployment in 2016 of the H-1 Perforating System.
perforating technology, which creates fissures in the Hunting Titan initially manufactured OEM products.
surrounding rock formation through which the oil or In 2012, the thinking shifted in favour of developing gas may be released.
Hunting Titan has been a front proprietary technology and the company started runner in the advancement of perforating technology, developing in-house the basic technologies that would having been the pioneer of perforating systems that evolve into the H-1 Perforating System.
The H-1 are common in the industry today.
The average length comprises a pre-assembled, ready-to-deploy perforating of an horizontal shale lateral in the US is in the region system.
The design provides for it to be safely of 8,300 feet with up to 100 frac stages per lateral assembled off-site with shaped charges and detonating and in some cases, each stage requiring six to seven cord and then safely armed onsite by inserting TM guns.
A perforating system comprises a number of Huntings proprietary ControlFire initiation cartridge.
components, including an outer protective housing, an inner carrier tube to hold shaped explosive charges and requisite electrical and detonation componentry.
Historically, the constituent components of the Where conventional perforating systems are perforating systems were transported to the well site susceptible to failures as a result of nicked wires, faulty where a service crew assembled the system.
This crimps etc, the H-1 mitigates these by eliminating required a number of time-consuming tasks, including human handling error during assembly and by placement of shaped charges, various small clips, replacing lead wire with electrical contact components.
splicing of wires, connections, threading and securing Elimination of connection hardware has removed 18 of detonation cord and careful insertion of the loaded pounds of weight per perforating system and allowed charge carrier into the perforating system body to for more individual systems to be run per stage.
Individual systems are connected reviewing the H-1, our customers have noted significant together using separate connection hardware, that cost efficiencies as a result of less personnel being also houses lead wire.
required on site and an 80% decrease in assembly time, as well as increased reliability and safety due to less time spent handling live explosives and a significant reduction in post-job maintenance.
HUNTING PLC 19 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
