32 GSK Annual Report 2017 Vaccines Our advanced science and technology platform capability Innovation enables us to discover and develop vaccines that help protect people in over 160 countries from serious diseases.
Our vaccines strategy is to bring Following approval by the US Food and differentiated, high-quality and needed Drug Administration FDA in October vaccines to as many people as possible.
2017, the competitive position of We have global scale and are well Shingrix has been further strengthened positioned to take advantage of changing by recommendations from the US Centers demographics.
Vaccines are long-term for Disease Control and Preventions assets without the volatility of patent cliffs, CDCs Advisory Committee on which provides opportunities to invest in Immunization Practices ACIP naming it life-cycle management and improve the as the preferred shingles vaccine for adults competitive profile of our existing vaccines aged 50 and over.
The recommendation to better meet patient needs.
includes revaccinating those who had previously received the competitor vaccine, We focus on finding new candidate meaning over 100 million people in the US vaccines to help protect people of all will be eligible for the Shingrix vaccine.
ages from disease and have a pipeline of 14 candidate vaccines currently in In January 2018, we received a positive development.
We believe that a core opinion from the European Medicines competitive advantage is our expertise in Agencys EMAs Committee for Medicinal technology platforms which facilitates the Products for Human Use for Shingrix.
development of more effective vaccines.
The results of regulatory filings for Shingrix in Australia and Japan are also due in 2018.
In addition, in December 2017 Innovation in action we announced new data confirming the In 2017, we received regulatory approval safety and efficacy of Shingrix in immunoin the US and Canada for Shingrix, with compromised autologous haematopoietic an efficacy of over 90%, which we believe stem cell transplant patients.
provides a step change in the prevention Our commercial, manufacturing and R&D of shingles.
We anticipate it could drive teams have worked closely together to one-third of Vaccines growth between ensure the Shingrix launch is executed 2015 and 2020.
More than 90% of people flawlessly.
We are taking a staged approach over 50 are infected with the varicella zoster to the global launch in order to manage virus that causes shingles and one in three the strong anticipated demand with will develop shingles in their lifetime.
Breakthrough Shingles is a painful and potentially serious condition.
Shingrix was vaccine science developed specifically to overcome the age-related decline in immunity and is the first shingles vaccine to combine a non-live antigen, to trigger a targeted immune response, with a specifically designed adjuvant system, AS01B, to make that response strong and sustained.
This adjuvant is also used in our RTS, S vaccine for the prevention of malaria in children.
33 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information We have developed the only malaria Delivering best-in-class innovation vaccine candidate to have received positive Strategy in action We are aiming to develop assets which opinion from the European Medicines are best in class.
Our investment in unique Agency EMA see page 44.
With our global Vaccines technology platforms, including adjuvants, is delivering a competitive advantage in New technology frontiers R&D organisation, targeting new, emerging and remaining medical needs.
supported by unique We have new technologies, including adjuvant systems, structural vaccinology technology platforms Meningitis and synthetic vaccine platforms that are Our focus is to maintain GSKs helping us move beyond observation and and talented people, we meningococcal meningitis market experimentation methods of vaccine leadership with both licensed and candidate are developing vaccines development to create vaccines by design.
We aim to broaden the age These are made up of antigens, delivery to meet existing and range of our meningococcal vaccines systems and adjuvants that can help in the US and demonstrate their impact in emerging needs.
increase the immune systems response infants as well as meningococcal carriage to a vaccine.
In February 2018, we were GSK has been innovating in adjuvant granted Breakthrough Designation for systems for more than 25 years.
Our unique Bexsero in children aged 2 to 10 years.
approach has led to the development of We are also working on new formulations, several adjuvant systems AS families, including a fully liquid presentation of our which use a combination of adjuvants to tetravalent vaccine for MenACWY, Menveo, achieve a better immune response and which is expected to enter phase II clinical are fundamental to the next generation trials in 2018.
The results from our phase III of our vaccines portfolio.
study of our booster for Menveo are Emmanuel Hanon expected in 2018.
We are also committed Our self-amplifying mRNA SAM Senior Vice President, to developing a single vaccine that tackles technology uses the human body as Head of R&D, Vaccines all five of the most common serogroups, a factory to produce its own vaccines.
A, B, C, W and Y. SAM will not require traditional vaccine production methods, so could potentially Reflecting our active life-cycle management enable us to produce vaccines more of our vaccines where we strategically quickly and simply.
We are in the early plan an assets commercial journey from stages but data from a variety of animal its final clinical trials onwards we continue models show SAM performs well.
to expand target populations and protection.
In this way, we aim to extend patient benefits, increase use of our vaccines External partnerships and be the leader in helping to prevent Collaboration is central to our innovation.
We have around 180 external scientific In line with this approach, we are supporting collaborations, with most of our 14 an extensive study to examine if the candidate vaccines being developed in meningococcal B vaccine reduces the partnership.
Such collaborations enable spread of meningococcal bacteria in our 2,000 Vaccines scientists at our global teenagers through herd immunity.
This R&D centres, in the US, Belgium and Italy, involves vaccinating 35,000 teenagers in to learn from other experts and stay close South Australia, which has a high incidence to emerging technologies.
For example, of meningococcal B disease.
we are involved in the phase II trial of an HIV vaccine with a group of NGOs and Other priority assets other pharmaceutical companies, led by Building on GSKs existing respiratory the US National Institutes of Health.
leadership position through our Pharmaceuticals business, we have a number of candidate vaccines targeting respiratory diseases.
These include our candidate vaccine for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD, which began a phase II proof of concept study in Europe in 2017.
Other growth drivers in the respiratory portfolio are our respiratory syncytial virus RSV candidates, with different approaches tailored to each age group.
We also Read more about our Vaccines have a research collaboration focused pipeline on page 253 on tuberculosis, with our candidate vaccine currently in phase II trials.
34 GSK Annual Report 2017 Vaccines continued Demand for our world-leading meningitis portfolio Performance contributed to a 12% AER, 6% CER increase in Vaccines sales.
Following 2017 launches in Argentina 2017 performance summary and Belgium, Bexsero is now available Vaccines sales grew 12% AER, 6% CER in 24 countries.
The vaccines broad age to 5,160 million, primarily driven by indication provides competitive advantage meningitis vaccines, with Bexsero growing in Europe, and in the US it offers the across all regions and Menveo in the US fastest series completion, with two doses and Europe and higher sales of influenza administered in about one month.
products, primarily in the US and Europe.
Menveo sales grew 36% AER, 29% CER, Vaccines operating margin was 31.9%, primarily driven by the impact of favourable up 0.8 percentage points AER and year-on-year CDC stockpile movements, 1.3 percentage points higher on a CER partly offset by supply constraints in basis.
This was primarily driven by improved International.
product mix, the benefit of a settlement Influenza for lost third-party supply volume, together Fluarix FluLaval sales were up 18% AER, with continued restructuring and integration 12% CER to 488 million, reflecting strong benefits.
This was partly offset by sales execution, primarily in the US, and increased SG&A selling, general and higher demand in Europe.
administration resources to support business growth and new launches, Shingles increased supply chain costs and Shingrix recorded initial sales to lower royalty income.
distributors of 22 million in the US after its FDA approval and favourable Meningitis ACIP recommendations.
Meningitis sales grew 34% AER, 27% CER to 890 million.
Bexsero sales growth of 43% AER, 34% CER was driven by new national immunisation programmes, private market sales and regional tenders in Europe, as well as growing demand in the US, together with strong private market sales in International.
Over 22 million doses of our Global demand meningitis B vaccine Bexsero have for Bexsero been distributed since its 2015 launch.
Bexsero was developed using reverse vaccinology, which decodes the Image Meningococcal serogroup B bacteria, genome sequence of meningitis B commonly known as and selects the most effective protein meningitis B candidates for use in the vaccine.
Bexsero is part of national immunisation programmes in the UK, Andorra, Ireland and Italy.
In the US, Bexsero current market share represents approximately 70% in the adolescent market.
35 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Established Vaccines Driving performance for profitable, Established Vaccines growth was driven sustainable growth Strategy in action by hepatitis vaccines, mainly due to a competitor supply shortage in the US and During the year, we decided to discontinue We are focused on higher demand for Boostrix and Rotarix.
a number of our commercially available The launch of Cervarix in China, the first vaccines within our Established Vaccines maintaining our cervical cancer vaccine to be approved and portfolio that are low in volume and where leadership position launched in the country, also contributed medical needs are met with other vaccines.
towards growth as did favourable year-onin meningitis vaccines Creating a simpler, competitive year CDC stockpile movements for Infanrix supply chain and Pediarix in the US.
This growth was and executing our Our global Vaccines network includes 16 partly offset by increasing competitive Shingrix launch vaccine manufacturing sites in 11 countries.
pressures on Infanrix and Pediarix in the This international presence enables us to US and Europe, and lower Synflorix sales, flawlessly.
manufacture our vaccines with greater driven by lower pricing in developing capacity, efficiency and flexibility.
to keep critical production steps in-house wherever possible.
2020 outlook We continue to focus on removing Over the five years to 2020 we expect complexity in our supply chain.
Since 2015 a mid to high single-digit CAGR for sales we have reduced the number of different at 2015 exchange rates.
A strong launch packs we have by 40%, increased our of Shingrix is a key priority and we believe manufacturing flexibility, and simplified the vaccine could be one of our biggest and standardised our product offerings growth drivers over the 2015 to 2020 Luc Debruyne to support our commercial strategy.
We are still targeting an operating Process and analytical robustness profit margin of at least 30% at 2015 During 2017, process improvements exchange rates in 2020. and analytical robustness enabled us to produce more of our Bexsero vaccine more efficiently.
This was due to a new pyrogen test, approved in several countries, which improved assay robustness and eliminated about 10% of failures.
We have also demonstrated the feasibility of increasing the yields and reducing failure rates of two of the four antigen manufacturing processes.
The Synflorix process robustness programme completed in 2016 continued to deliver good results in 2017, enabling us to manufacture product without any major losses.
Transaction savings Excellent execution and acceleration of the Integration Implementation Plan across R&D, manufacturing, global support functions, commercial network and procurement helped our Vaccines business to deliver its 400 million Novartis integration savings target.
Footnote We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report performance, as described on page 58.
36 GSK Annual Report 2017 Oral health Novamin, a key technology in Sensodyne Repair and Protect
