OUR BUSINESS MODEL HOW WE CREATE, DISTRIBUTE AND SUSTAIN VALUE OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION CYCLE RESOURCES OUR BUSINESS OUR PRODUCTS WE USE ACTIVITIES AND SERVICES 1 2 3 Health, safety and environment HSE Financial Hunting Titan Oil Country Tubular Goods OCTG United States Intellectual Property Canada Perforating Systems Operational Europe Asia Pacific Employees Advanced Manufacturing Middle East and Africa Stakeholder Relationships Exploration and Production Quality and operational excellence SEE PAGES 34 TO 38 SEE PAGES 39 TO 41 SEE PAGES 42 AND 43 HUNTING PLC 32 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION CYCLE OUR CUSTOMERS AND SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHANNELS TO MARKET CREATION FOR OUR: 4 Drilling Tools Operators Employees See page 36 Shareholders See page 37 Intervention Tools Service Companies Customers and Suppliers See page 38 Communities See page 38 Subsea Steel Mills and Other Governments See page 38 SEE PAGE 46 HUNTING PLC 33 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED RESOURCES WE USE 1 FINANCIAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY NET CASH ANNUALISED 5-YEAR TSR PATENTS NEW PATENTS FILED IN YEAR $30.4m -3.6% 440 24 MARKET CAPITALISATION NET BANK FEES & INTEREST PAID PATENTS PENDING $1.34bn $2.4m 156 at 31.12.17 Financial capital is provided to the Group through equity invested With lower average oil prices likely to impact the market for some by shareholders, cash reserves and debt facilities, principally time, there is a strong focus in the industry on technological provided by the Groups relationship banks.
The balance of cash, improvement and process innovation, which can help deliver debt and equity is managed with due regard to the respective cost efficiencies for customers while maintaining or improving cost of funds and their availability.
The use of technology in our business illustrates the different ways we partner with participants in the Hunting PLC is quoted on the London Stock Exchange and has supply chain: a Premium Listing status.
As such, the Company has to meet the highest standards of regulation and corporate governance Hunting Proprietary Technology as published by the Financial Conduct Authority and Financial Developing our own proprietary technologies has been a strategic Reporting Council.
Equity shareholders receive returns in the focus for the Group.
Through developing our technologies and form of dividends and through capital appreciation, which can proprietary know-how, we are well positioned to secure market be measured as total shareholder return.
share by protecting our intellectual property IP.
Our substantial IP portfolio provides us with a competitive advantage and allows The Group has provided guidance on its approach to dividend us to enjoy better margins and more operational flexibility.
In 2017 distributions, which is detailed on page 16.
Each dividend we lodged 13 new patent applications on the H-1 Perforating proposal will be assessed by the Board of Directors, based on System, bringing the number of pending patents for the H-1 the merits of actual and projected financial performance of the Perforating System to 39, with two applications having Company for the relevant period.
Given the cyclical nature of the proceeded to registration.
In 2017 we also developed and oil and gas industry, the Board remains committed to maintaining commenced testing of a number of additional sizes for the a low level of gearing and committing sufficient resource to WEDGE-LOCK premium connection range.
working capital to maintain the Groups operational flexibility.
Jointly Developed Technology The Group has $205.0m of borrowing facilities available of Some innovations involve collaborating with other partners within which $200.0m are committed.
The committed facilities include the industry.
For example, Hunting is working with ExxonMobil to a $200.0m multi-currency revolving credit facility, which expires create an autonomous perforating system with on-board navigation in 2020, and a multi-currency overnight money market line.
The thereby eliminating the need for a wireline crew.
This represents committed facilities were amended during 2016 with total potential cost savings for the operator and improves efficiency committed facility limits reduced from $350m to $200m and of the operation.
This project has progressed well in 2017 with security provided over selected trade receivables, inventories and significant milestones being achieved.
Profit-based covenants were replaced by asset-based covenants, minimum cash flow requirements, Third-Party Technology limitations on capital investment and a suspension of dividends.
In some cases, we make use of third-party proprietary With improved trading in the second half of the year, and a return technologies in our operations.
For certain product lines we are to underlying profitability, in December 2017 the Group advised engaged as a specialist manufacturer using our customers IP.
its bank syndicate that the process to lift the revised facility In other areas we license technologies from third parties, such terms, and reinstate the profit-based covenants, would be as non-Hunting thread forms for OCTG.
This process completed in January 2018.
HUNTING PLC 34 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OPERATIONAL OPERATING SITES DISTRIBUTION CENTRES NET BOOK VALUE OF PPE 35 21 $383.3m OPERATING FOOTPRINT MACHINES MILLION SQ FT 3.0 1,194 Operating Footprint MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES We have an established global network of operating sites and distribution centres located close to our customers and within Our approach to managing the Groups operations is based the main global oil and gas producing regions see page 2. on four core principles: Business Activities and Development of Know-how Develop Our People Over the years we have continued to refine our operating and People are at the heart of our business.
Our broad product manufacturing processes, established a highly specialised portfolio demands experienced machining and production workforce and built considerable know-how to enable our engineers across our many manufacturing disciplines and business to evolve and meet changing customer needs.
Our operating sites are used for the manufacture, rental, trading Empower Our Business Units and distribution of products.
The manufacture of goods and the The oil and gas industry is a fast-paced sector where product provision of related manufacturing services is, by far, the main requirements and customer demands can operate on short source of income for the Group.
Our business leaders are empowered to react quickly to local market conditions as and when opportunities The bulk of our manufacturing occurs in high-end specialist arise.
facilities utilising sophisticated CNC machines.
Apply Unified Operating Standards and Procedures In Huntings rental businesses it is critical that an appropriate Demanding health, safety and quality policies are developed range of equipment is stored and maintained.
Generally this must centrally and then applied locally.
We continually monitor and be configured to meet specific customer requirements.
In certain product lines, particularly OCTG, Hunting holds goods Maintain a Strong Governance Framework for trading to support our customers specific requirements and The Groups senior managers and their teams operate within to take advantage of particular market opportunities.
a tight framework of controls, monitored and directed at both a regional and central level but ultimately under the direction Our distribution centres are primarily used in the Hunting Titan, of the Board.
Intervention Tools and Drilling Tools business groups, where close proximity to drilling operations is important.
HUNTING PLC 35 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED RESOURCES WE USE 1 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES TOTAL REMUNERATION 2,610 $189.4m At year end Huntings employees are key in fulfilling the Groups strategic Employees are offered benefits on joining the Group, including objectives.
healthcare cover, post-retirement benefits and, in certain instances when Group outperformance in terms of operational Huntings reputation, which has been built over many years, is or financial targets has been delivered, participation in bonus underpinned by our highly skilled workforce.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had 2,610 employees 2016 Employees are encouraged to further their development and 2,107 across its global operations.
As US onshore activity levels network of contacts within the global energy industry by improved during the year, those businesses addressing this membership of industry groups.
In 2017, the following market recommenced hiring of staff to meet demand.
Further, organisations were supported by Huntings employees: American in China, as OCTG demand also improved in the year, additional Petroleum Institute, Society of Petroleum Engineers and the staff were hired.
Elsewhere within the Group, controls over Intervention and Coiled Tubing Association.
The Board of Hunting has established procedures in place Responsibility for our employees lies with local management, to whereby employees can raise concerns in confidence, including enable local cultural differences to be taken into account, with all contacting the Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
The businesses complying with the Groups ethical employment and Group also uses an independent whistleblowing service human rights policies as published in the Hunting PLC Code of operated by SafeCall.
Contact information for both these lines Conduct located at www.
of reporting are published on staff noticeboards across the Groups facilities.
The Group is committed to training and developing all employees, which includes health and safety training, professional development and general career development initiatives.
In February 2018, Hunting rolled out a Group-wide Code of Conduct e-learning training programme for employees, to ensure awareness and training in our published ethics-focused policies.
The programme incorporates anti-bribery and corruption, modern slavery, fraud and tax modules to ensure our employees understand their responsibilities on joining the Group.
Hunting targets full compliance with all relevant regional laws covering employment and minimum wage legislation.
As a responsible employer, full and fair consideration is given to applications for positions from disabled persons.
The Groups ethics policies support equal employment opportunities across all of Huntings operations.
The Groups gender diversity profile for 2017 is detailed on page 62.
TM THE CONTROLFIRE MANUFACTURING TEAM AT HUNTING ELECTRONICS IN HOUSTON.
HUNTING PLC 36 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS NUMBER OF CO EQUIVALENT 2 SHAREHOLDERS EMISSIONS TONNES 1,618 31.6k CO INTENSITY FACTOR 2 KG $K OF REVENUE 43.7 While the consideration of stakeholders, including employees, Supply Chain customers and suppliers, governments and the environment is As a participant in the global oil and gas industry, Hunting is part a statutory duty of the Directors, the Hunting Board believe it is of a complex supply chain of customers and suppliers, whereby good business practice to nurture strong relationships with all certain partners can also be competitors if there is overlap in the participants, as it promotes the Groups standing in the industry, product and service offering.
This necessitates appropriate due leads to better growth opportunities and develops benefits for diligence to ensure we understand the nature of each commercial all.
Hunting constantly evaluates ways to strengthen links with relationship.
It also requires appropriate employee training and investors, employees, customers, suppliers, governments and third-party communication of our ethical policies, to ensure all our the communities in which its businesses operate.
partners understand the high standards expected by the Group.
A number of our customers are also state-owned enterprises, Board Oversight which provides a heightened risk, as these partners are viewed The Hunting Board receives regular feedback from the Chief as Public Officials, in the context of the UK Bribery Act.
Executive on relationships with key customers and suppliers at each Board meeting.
A Health, Safety and Environment report by the Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC Chief Executive is also submitted to each Board meeting.
Further, In line with the Groups ABC Policy, each business unit within the shareholder feedback is regularly considered as reports from the Group completes a twice-yearly ABC risk assessment, which is Head of Investor Relations and the Companys brokers are consolidated and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Where discussed at most Board meetings.
Through the work of the Audit appropriate, the internal audit function reviews this assessment Committee, Huntings communication with customers and suppliers and provides feedback to the Committee on this risk profile.
on the Groups ethical policies are monitored.
Further, new Mitigating controls are in place to ensure each business seeks stakeholder engagement proposals, currently under development approval for a new commercial relationship, which may increase by the UK government, are being considered by the Board.
In addition to these assessments, all high value entertainment is monitored both locally and centrally to Shareholders ensure the Company is not seen to be unduly influencing a Communication with investors is a core activity of the Board, with partner, with senior management and Board approvals required a structured investor relations programme in place.
The executive for all significant expenditures.
All employees are made aware of Directors meet existing or potential investors to explain our the Groups ABC policies through its Code of Conduct training strategy and plans for future growth.
The Chairman and Senior course, which is completed on induction to the Group.
Independent Director also meet investors annually to discuss strategy and governance, with feedback being provided to the Code of Conduct Board.
Further, the Head of Investor Relations attends a number The Groups Code of Conduct is the basis of its commitment to of investor conferences and individual investor meetings stakeholders.
Huntings policies on anti-bribery and corruption, throughout the year, as part of the annual programme of work.
ethical employment, responsible business partnerships and The Company uses Stock Exchange announcements, the annual proportionate client entertaining are key commercial principles.
and half-year reports, webcasts and the Annual General Meeting The Code of Conduct is sent to the Groups major customers to communicate and meet with shareholders.
and suppliers to promote our values within Huntings known supply chain.
Huntings policies on human rights and its With the appointment of a new Chairman and Chief Executive approach to the issues of modern slavery and trafficking in September 2017, additional meetings with shareholders were continue to be enhanced, to ensure our stance on responsible organised to ensure the Groups investors had the opportunity corporate behaviour is shared with our business partners.
During to meet the Companys new leadership team.
Further, meetings the year, each business unit in the Group sent to key customers between the Remuneration Committee Chairman, major and suppliers a summary of our slavery and trafficking policy institutional investors and proxy voting groups took place in from the Companys Chief Executive, along with our Code of November 2017, as a new Directors Remuneration Policy was Conduct, to ensure Huntings clear stance on this subject was prepared to be submitted to shareholders.
HUNTING PLC 37 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED RESOURCES WE USE 1 STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED Customers and Suppliers In line with Group policy, Hunting prohibits any form of political Huntings approach to its customers and suppliers is based on donations to be made.
In 2017, the Group issued its Payments honesty and transparency, to provide best-in-class products and to Governments statement in compliance with legislation services delivered through a rigorous quality assurance programme.
Further, Hunting is a signatory to the UKs Prompt Payment Code.
The Groups policies support a strong culture of building close client relationships, which are based on our reputation of In compliance with UK legislation, the Group has issued its Tax industry-leading service and delivery and our drive to understand Strategy paper, which is located at www.
com, and the needs of each customer and supplier to ensure absolute commits the Group and its subsidiaries to a transparent and fair client satisfaction is achieved.
approach to taxation, paying all relevant taxes in the various jurisdictions in which Hunting operates.
A number of our research and development programmes are implemented in collaboration with our customers to ensure Communities industry-leading technology is developed by the Group, which Hunting operates in 12 countries and is committed to being follow the stringent quality and safety certifications implemented a responsible corporate citizen.
Each business unit across the by governments but also meet our customers exacting Group is encouraged to promote good community relations demands.
As new customers or suppliers are considered by the and, where appropriate, to support causes including local Group, know-your-customer forms, credit and sanction checks sponsorships and communal events.
Many of these initiatives and end-user due diligence is undertaken to ensure Hunting are highlighted in the Hunting Review, the Companys corporate complies with international trading laws and embargoes.
Further, magazine published twice a year.
each new customer and supplier is sent key ethics documents that outline Huntings strong stance on ethical business dealings.
For more information on our customers and channels to market see page 46.
Our entertainment and hospitality policies ensure our business decisions are completed on an arms-length basis, with client entertaining closely monitored and proportionate.
Governments Hunting is committed to developing good relationships with appropriate bodies within the governments of the countries in which we operate.
Certain customers and suppliers of the Group are state-owned, therefore monitoring procedures for interaction with Public Officials are in place to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
Where appropriate, Huntings business units participate in government-supported groups and think-tanks.
Hunting Titan regularly supports or has membership of groups that develop regulations on products used for hydraulic fracturing.
HUNTING SINGAPORE HAS BEEN A REGULAR CORPORATE CONTRIBUTOR TO THE ST JOHNS HOME FOR THE ELDERLY.
HUNTING PLC 38 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES 2 OPERATING SEGMENTS Following the announcement in November 2017, the Board Asia Pacific has changed the format of the external reporting of its Revenue from the Asia Pacific segment is primarily from the operating segments.
manufacture of Premium Connections and OCTG supply.
Manufacturing is located in China, Indonesia and Singapore.
Going forward, Hunting will be reporting its performance The facility in China also manufactures perforating guns for based on its key geographic operating regions.
as a large, separate business group is reported as a stand alone segment.
Middle East, Africa and Other Revenue from the Middle East and Africa is from the sale of A description of each segment is noted below.
intervention tools across the region, which also acts as a sales hub for other products manufactured globally by the Group, Hunting Titan including OCTG and Perforating Systems.
Hunting Titan manufactures and distributes perforating products and accessories.
The segments products include the H-1 Exploration and Production TM Perforating System and the EQUAfrac shaped charge The Exploration and Production business comprises the Groups technology.
The business has four manufacturing facilities in the exploration and production activities in the Southern US and US and a facility in Mexico, supported by a distribution centre offshore Gulf of Mexico.
The segment is being wound down, network at 19 locations across North America.
with no further investment planned.
US The US businesses supply OCTG and Premium Connections, Drilling Tools, Subsea equipment, Intervention Tools, Electronics and complex deep hole drilling and precision machining services for the US and overseas markets.
The US segment has 15 operating facilities mainly focused in Texas and Louisiana.
Canada Huntings Canadian business manufactures Premium Connections and accessories for oil and gas operators in Canada, often focused on heavy oil plays, which require specialist tubing technologies.
Canada also manufactures perforating guns for Hunting Titan.
Europe The segment derives its revenue primarily from the supply of OCTG and Intervention Tools to operators in the North Sea.
The Group has operations in the UK, Netherlands and Norway.
CUSTOMER OCTG INVENTORY ON CONSIGNMENT AND READY FOR DEPLOYMENT OFFSHORE.
HUNTING PLC 39 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES 2 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT HSE INCIDENT RATE OSHA METHOD 0.89 Health and Safety Environment The Group operates across the globe and is committed to Hunting is committed to protecting the environment, by achieving and maintaining the highest standards of safety for its developing manufacturing procedures that minimise the Groups employees, customers, suppliers and the public.
impact on the environment and communities in which we operate.
Hunting has a proven culture of aiming for best practice and employs rigorous health and safety practices.
Health and safety Huntings environment policy is located at www.
policies include: New facilities take into account environmental considerations, Regular audit and maintenance reviews of facilities: including storm and flooding protection, while utilising energy Appropriate training and education of all staff: efficient materials, together with waste recycling and management Regular reporting to Board level: initiatives.
During the year, hurricanes Harvey and Irma impacted S eeking accreditation and aligning long-standing internal the US where the majority of the Groups operations are located.
programmes with internationally recognised standards: and Due to appropriate facility storm water protection, no facilities P ublication of the Group policy on health, safety and were affected, with operations resuming as soon as employees environmental matters on the Companys website at were able to return to work.
The Group has active recycling programmes at the majority of its Huntings Director of Health, Safety and Environment HSE facilities, which includes metal, plastics and wood.
Nearly all reports directly to the Chief Executive and a report is considered manufacturing facilities maintain at least one recycling programme, by the Board of Directors at each meeting.
with the chart below noting the compliance of the Groups facilities to these three core material recycling programmes.
The Groups target is to achieve zero recordable incidents.
Each local business is required to develop tailored policies to suit their environment.
These incorporate the Groups approach to putting % OF FACILITIES WITH RECYCLING PROGRAMMES IN PLACE safety first and, at a minimum, to comply with local regulatory 100 requirements.
Training is given to employees throughout the Group.
90 During the year, there were no fatalities across the Groups 80 operations, with 24 recordable incidents 2016 25.
The incident 70 rate, as calculated from guidance issued by the Occupational 60 Safety and Health Administration OSHA in the US, was 0.89 50 compared to 1.15 in 2016.
The decrease in the incident rate 40 reflects a 23% year-on-year decline, with the number of hours 30 worked increasing by 24% to 5.4m hours 2016 4.4m hours.
The industry average incident rate in 2017 was 3.6 2016 4.3.
20 10 The Groups product portfolio also plays a role in industry HSE.
A 0 Metal Wood Plastics number of newer product lines have been launched that enhance the field safety of the customer as they drill new oil and gas wells.
An example of this is the Groups H-1 Perforating System, that includes assembly configurations that lower the detonation risks associated with hydraulic fracturing procedures and has enhanced radio-frequency safety electronics, which prevent other risks during these procedures.
Further information can be found on this area on pages 18 and 19.
HUNTING PLC 40 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION QUALITY AND OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MANUFACTURING REJECT RATE 0.3% To monitor the impact of Huntings operations on the The Group is committed to enhancing its production and environment, and in compliance with UK Company Law, the operational quality, with a number of facilities being certified ISO Group collates greenhouse gas data in accordance with the 9001 quality, 14001 environment and 18001 health and safety principles of the Kyoto Protocol.
Huntings 2017 Scope 1 and 2 compliant, indicating that globally recognised standards and emissions, as defined by reporting guidelines published by systems are in place.
DEFRA in the UK and the International Energy Agency, have been collected and are reported in the chart below.
% OF FACILITIES WITH ISO ACCREDITATION 70 Scope 1 and 2 emissions in 2017 totalled 31,603 tonnes 2016 60 27,659 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
The increase in the 50 Groups emissions between 2016 and 2017 is due to the general 40 increase in activity levels across our global businesses, with 30 Scope 2 electricity usage increasing as additional shifts were 20 slowly added by our busier operating units.
10 The Groups Intensity Factor, based on total carbon dioxide 0 9001 14001 18001 emissions divided by Group revenue, in 2017 was 43.7 kg $k of revenue, compared to 60.7 kg $k of revenue in 2016, reflecting More facilities across the Group are working towards these ISO improved operational efficiencies.
accreditations, continuing the Groups commitment to monitor and reduce the environmental impact of its operations and Water usage in the year was 216k cubic metres compared to increasing HSE standards.
Operational and production excellence is a key driver of our relationship with customers.
Quality assurance for each component manufactured is a key differentiator in our drive to be an industryCO e EMISSIONS tonnes 000s INTENSITY FACTOR kg $k of revenue 2 leading provider of critical components and measurement tools.
45 80 In 2017, the Group continued its programme to introduce lean 40 70 manufacturing processes into global operations.
This resulted in efficiency gains in a number of key business units.
25 40 QUALITY ASSURANCE PERFORMANCE % REJECT RATE 20 30 1.0 15 20 0.9 10 10 0.8 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 0.7 Scope 1 Scope 2 Intensity Factor 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 HUNTING PLC 41 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 3 HUNTINGS SIX MAJOR OIL COUNTRY TUBULAR PERFORATING ADVANCED MANUFACTURING DRILLING INTERVENTION SUBSEA PRODUCT GROUPS GOODS OCTG SYSTEMS TOOLS TOOLS Operating Basis MANUFACTURING, TRADING MANUFACTURING MANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT RENTAL, TRADING MANUFACTURING, EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING RENTAL AND TRADING Overview OCTG are steel alloy products and Hunting Titan manufactures AMG includes the Hunting Dearborn Rental of a large portfolio of downhole A range of downhole intervention tools Produces high quality products comprise casing and tubing used in perforating systems, energetics, firing business, which carries out deep hole tools, including mud motors, including slickline tools, e-line tools, and solutions for the global subsea the construction and completion of systems and logging tools.
Products drilling and precision machining of non-magnetic drill collars, vibration mechanical plant, coiled tubing and industry covering hydraulic couplings, the wellbore.
Hunting machines are mainly used in the completion complex MWD LWD and formation dampeners, reamers and hole openers.
This chemical injection systems, specialty threads to connect OCTG using flush phase of a well.
The production, evaluation tool components, and the Tools are configured to the customers business is capital intensive and valves and weldment services.
or semi-flush joints and can storage and distribution of energetics Hunting Electronics business, which specifications.
This business is capital results are dependent on asset manufacture premium connections is highly regulated and there are manufactures printed circuit boards intensive and results are dependent utilisation and rental rates.
and accessories using our own significant barriers for new entrants capable of operating in extreme on fleet utilisation and rental rates.
In TM technologies such as SEAL-LOCK to the market.
These businesses work limited instances, rental equipment is TM and WEDGE-LOCK.
We are licensed manufactures to stock and hence collaboratively with customers sold outright.
to apply a variety of competitor thread uses a wide distribution network.
implementing their designs to their forms and generic API threads.
We Some manufacturing is done to order, specifications.
source OCTG products from a sourced from international telesales.
significant number of major global steel producers and have strong, longterm relationships in the US, Europe and Asia.
Hunting trades pipe, which is a lower margin activity, to help support customer relationships.
Differentiators Hunting is one of the largest Market-leading position in the US.
Hunting Dearborn is a world leader Leaders in progressive cavity, positive Hunting offers a comprehensive range For more than 30 years, a provider independent providers of OCTG Strong portfolio of patented and in the deep drilling of high grade, displacement mud motors.
of tools, including innovative and of high quality metal-to-metal sealing connection technology, including unpatented technology.
hydraulic coupling solutions to operate premium connections.
Group, Hunting has the ability to in the harshest environments with a produce fully integrated advanced strong, long-term patent base.
downhole tools and equipment, manufactured, assembled and tested to the customers specifications using its proprietary know-how.
Global Operating Presence Hunting has extensive machining Manufacturing centres in the US, US.
capacity in the US, Canada, Europe Canada, Mexico and China.
Our business activities and Asia Pacific.
Distribution centres in the US, Canada Pages 2 and 3. and Asia Pacific.
Related Strategic Focus Areas New products Broadened the Cost control Four distribution Growth Non-oil and gas business Cost control Sold European Drilling New products Introduction of New products Commenced WEDGE-LOCK and SEAL-LOCK centres closed in the US.
opportunities developed within naval, Tools assets in March 2017 leading to Ezi-Shear valve.
development of soft metal seal Our business strategy XD premium connection range.
the closure of two facilities in the product line for onshore drilling Pages 30 and 31.
New products Commenced Netherlands and UK.
Increased utilisation Orders development of second generation Cost control Relocated AMG completed at AmeriPort threading H-1 Perforating System.
activities in Singapore back to US.
TM facility for Gulf of Mexico drilling Commercialised EQUAFrac charges programmes.
Cost control Commenced closure of Cape Town, South Africa and Lafayette, US, facilities.
Related Principal Risks Commodity prices, Shale drilling, Commodity prices, Shale drilling.
Commodity prices, Commodity prices, Shale drilling, Commodity prices, Competition.
More information on risk management Pages 47 to 54.
HUNTING PLC 42 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION HUNTINGS SIX MAJOR OIL COUNTRY TUBULAR PERFORATING ADVANCED MANUFACTURING DRILLING INTERVENTION SUBSEA PRODUCT GROUPS GOODS OCTG SYSTEMS TOOLS TOOLS Operating Basis MANUFACTURING, TRADING MANUFACTURING MANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT RENTAL, TRADING MANUFACTURING, EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING RENTAL AND TRADING Overview OCTG are steel alloy products and Hunting Titan manufactures AMG includes the Hunting Dearborn Rental of a large portfolio of downhole A range of downhole intervention tools Produces high quality products comprise casing and tubing used in perforating systems, energetics, firing business, which carries out deep hole tools, including mud motors, including slickline tools, e-line tools, and solutions for the global subsea the construction and completion of systems and logging tools.
HUNTING PLC 43 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CASE STUDY AmeriPort Baytown Thread Testing Facility Huntings in-house test lab advances our technological capability, reduces outside costs significantly and speeds up our development cycle.
This is a critical step to ensure our proprietary technology is safeguarded in an ever-changing market.
HUNTING PLC 44 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The challenge The solution Hunting has earned a reputation as a provider of As part of a capital investment programme, world-class premium connection technology.
Huntings Hunting built a state-of-the-art premium connection proprietary SEAL-LOCK and WEDGE-LOCK test and certification facility at the Baytown facility in families of premium connections were developed over Houston, Texas, which was commissioned in early many years, and Hunting continually seeks to introduce 2016.
It has enabled Hunting to ramp up responsive new and improved technologies to meet the customers manufacturing for deep water Gulf of Mexico increasing challenges, including complex geologies, customers.
This has both significantly reduced costs extreme high pressure high temperature wells, and improved the speed of the  corrosive environments and exacting certification cycle.
Variants of Huntings WEDGEregulatory parameters.
Each new thread form and LOCK and SEAL-LOCK premium connections diameter needs to be tested in a laboratory designed have been successfully and quickly brought to market to replicate the extreme conditions the thread will as a result of the test facility.
Only after passing these tests will the new thread The facility comprises a test bed located within a form be certified and released into the market.
Prior to sealable bunker, which includes a five million tonne 2016, Hunting had to use third-party testing facilities, test frame for supporting lengths of pipe fitted with often having lengthy waiting lists, thereby delaying connections, well beyond current regulatory parameters.
The bunker is accessible via an hydraulically operated lid and, once sealed, all operations are performed remotely.
Designed to simulate the extreme conditions in a wellbore, the facility is able to test connection technology at temperatures of up to 600 F and pressures of up to 30,000 PSI.
Its five million tonne thrust capability tests tensile strength under extreme tension, compression and bending loads as would be prevalent in hostile deep water environments.
HUNTING PLC 45 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED OUR CUSTOMERS AND 4 CHANNELS TO MARKET HUNTING HAS A BROAD RANGE OF CUSTOMERS AND CHANNELS TO MARKET O OP PE ER RAT ATO OR RS S S SE ER RVI VIC CE E C CO OM MP PA ANI NIE ES S S ST TE EE EL M L MI IL LL LS A S & O ND O THE TR HER Operators are the end consumers of Our primary route to market is via other Steel mills are key suppliers to our our products and related services.
service providers, which generate business, however, in some These include National Oil Companies c. 70% of our revenue.
These include circumstances we can perform NOCs, International Oil Companies 1st tier service companies who can threading services for them or supply IOCs and Independents.
provide project management services OCTG products.
Other sales include Approximately 20% of our sales are to the operators.
Key customers oil and gas related sales through made directly to operators.
Key direct include Halliburton, Baker Hughes, agents or intermediaries, together with customers include Chevron, Apache Schlumberger and Weatherford.
non-oil and gas sector sales made by and Enquest.
our Trenchless, Dearborn and Electronics operations.
SPLIT OF GROUP REVENUE SPLIT OF GROUP REVENUE SPLIT OF GROUP REVENUE c. 20% c. 70% c. 10% OUR TOP TEN CUSTOMERS REPRESENT OUR LARGEST CUSTOMER REPRESENTS c. 34% OF REVENUE c. 9% OF REVENUE OUR TOP TEN CUSTOMERS REPRESENT OUR LARGEST CUSTOMER REPRESENTS c. 34% OF REVENUE c. 9% OF REVENUE HUNTING PLC 46 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
