l a n r e t n I 3 r a e Y l a n r e t n I - 2 r a e Y I II DIRECTORS' REPORT III BOARD EVALUATION 2016 EVALUATION This evaluation identified that there was significant overlap between the work of some of the Committees and that of the Board.
The Board reviewed the remit of its Committees and determined that the work of the Nomination Committee and Management Engagement Committee should in the future be dealt with by the Board and the Committees were therefore dissolved.
OUR 2017 EVALUATION THREE-YEAR This year the Board and Committee evaluation was externally EVALUATION CYCLE facilitated.
The evaluation was carried out by the corporate advisory firm, Lintstock Limited, and the outputs from the evaluation were considered by the Board in February 2018.
The performance of the Board and Committees was rated highly overall, although a number of areas were identified for potential improvement during 2018.
These were: addressing Alliance Trust Saving performance the Audit and Risk Committee and Board receive regular reports from the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Alliance Trust Savings, including specific updates on steps being taken to address the customer service issues that have been encountered by Alliance Trust Savings.
focusing on marketing and investment performance the Company is recruiting an individual to manage the Companys marketing and communications and more time will be provided in scheduled Board meetings to enable the Board to consider marketing challenges and how demand for the Companys shares is created as well as investment performance.
A Working Group was established comprising three Directors, the Company Secretary and advisers to improve marketing and communications.
developing the relationship with WTW the Company will be working with WTW to further develop communications about its role.
discount management while the discount averaged 5.4% during 2017, the Board will continue to take steps to try to maintain or improve the discount.
The evaluation also identified the sale of the private equity portfolio as a priority and this is being actively pursued.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 33 l a n r e t x E 1 r a e Y
