NON-CORE ASSETS 8.0% OF INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Trust has a legacy portfolio of non-core assets diversified commitment to private equity investments, which includes across several alternative asset classes and continues to have recallable distributions, is 21.5m.
In 2017 the private equity investments in private equity funds, North American mineral funds have distributed 34.2m to the Trust and further rights, a small UK real estate portfolio and Liontrust shares realisations and distributions back to the Trust are expected and funds.
The private equity investments are held across in 2018.
The sale of the private equity portfolio in 2018 is two funds of funds, the ATEP 2008 and ATEP 2009 funds, and being actively considered by the Trust.
The ATEP 2008 and ATEP 2009 funds The mineral rights continue to generate strong, consistent hold a mix of UK and European private equity funds including revenue returns on an annual basis and we expect this trend ECI 9A LP, Pentech Fund II LP, Polaris Private Equity IIIK S, to continue for the foreseeable future.
Fortunately, despite Silverfleet Capital Partners LP, 21 Centrale Partners, Phoenix the terrible effects of Hurricane Harvey in the US earlier in the Equity Partners 2010 LP and The Third Alcuin Fund LP.
The year, the revenue returns for the mineral rights were unaffected.
Trust also holds a small number of investments in other funds Any weakness in oil prices has been mitigated by the favourable the largest of which is Leapfrog Financial Inclusion Fund II LP.
currency conversion effect on the US Dollar revenue flows Current market conditions have been increasingly more and we are again investigating the sale of these holdings.
challenging than in the past for new investment but The real estate assets consist of two legacy fund holdings represent ideal markets for selling, which the bulk of the with the Trusts office building in Dundee being held as office private equity funds are in the process of doing, so we would premises and not as part of the investment portfolio.
expect the non-core assets to distribute capital back to the Trust.
However, high prices and valuations have made it Following the year end the Trust's holding in Liontrust Asset difficult to generate outperformance for new investments Management PLC was sold.
The Trust will receive further by the private equity funds.
Specific to the private equity shares in Liontrust part of the consideration for the sale of holdings, we expect the net asset value to decrease steadily Alliance Trust Investments in April 2018 which will be subject in the short to medium term as more capital is realised to a one-year lock-up period.
The Trust continues to hold from underlying portfolio company investments.
The value investments in three funds managed by Liontrust but will of our private equity investments is 81.3m.
The unfunded look to dispose of these at the appropriate time.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 18
