GOING CONCERN STATEMENT The Trusts business activities are set out on page 4 with Given that most of the likely liquidity requirements such as the principal risks which could impact on performance set loan payments and dividends are timetabled and therefore out on pages 23 to 25.
The financial statements as set out readily foreseeable, while others such as share buybacks on pages 58 to 88 along with an analysis of its borrowings are subject to the Trusts discretion, the Directors are in Note 14 on page 74.
In their assessment of Going Concern satisfied that unexpected liquidity and solvency needs are the Directors consider both liquidity and solvency risks not significant relative to the size of the Trusts portfolio and and whether the Trust has adequate financial resources that they could be readily met without compromising normal to continue in operational existence for at least the next portfolio management practice.
Sensitivities to market, credit, liquidity and gearing risk are Liquidity is concerned with our ability to liquidate assets set out in Note 22 on pages 77 to 81. or access new sources of short-term funds in the time The Directors consider that the Trust has adequate financial needed to meet our liabilities as they fall due.
The majority resources to enable it to continue in operational existence of the Trusts assets are in listed securities on recognised for at least 12 months from the date of these Accounts.
stock exchanges which are readily realisable even in volatile Accordingly the Directors believe that it is appropriate to markets.
In addition as at 31 December 2017 we also had continue to adopt the Going Concern basis for preparing 167m of unused committed funding lines.
Solvency is concerned with our ability to meet our liabilities in full.
This involves managing our capital by maintaining a business model which is capable of delivering over time a continuing economic return to our shareholders whilst absorbing the impact of any risks which crystallise.
As at 31 December 2017 the Trusts total net assets were 2.7bn.
As at 31 December net gearing of 5.5% and gross gearing of 9.4% are comfortably below the investment policy gearing restriction of 30% of net assets at any given time.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 40
