BOARD OF DIRECTORS Lord Smith Gregor Stewart Karl Sternberg Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Lord Smith joined the Board in 2016.
Gregor joined the Board in 2014 and chairs Karl has been a member of the Board He is also currently Chairman of IMI PLC, Alliance Trusts Audit and Risk Committee.
He is currently a Non-Executive British Business Bank plc and Forth Ports He is also a Director of Alliance Trust Director of JPMorgan Elect PLC, Jupiter Limited as well as Chancellor of the Savings, Chairman of Intrinsic Financial Fund Management PLC, Monks Investment University of Strathclyde.
Services and a Non-Executive Director of Trust PLC, Lowland Investment Company Direct Line Insurance Group plc, FNZ UK PLC, Herald Investment Trust PLC, Railpen He has previously held roles of Chief Limited and its holding company.
Investments and Clipstone Logistics Executive Officer of Deutsche Asset REIT PLC.
Previously, he was Finance Director for Management, Chairman of The Weir Group, SSE PLC and the UK Green Investment the insurance division of Lloyds Banking Previously, he was a founding partner of Group, including Scottish Widows, and a Oxford Investment Partners.
He has had Bank and Non-Executive Director of Standard Bank Group Limited.
member of the Groups Finance Board.
an executive career in fund management at Deutsche Asset Management, latterly A chartered accountant by profession, Bringing over 20 years experience at as both its Global Head of Equities and Lord Smith was formerly President of the Ernst & Young, with ten years as a partner Chief Investment Officer for Europe and Institute of Chartered Accountants of in the firms Financial Services practice, Asia Pacific.
He has also been a Governor of Gregor is also Honorary Treasurer for the the BBC, and a member of the Financial charity International Alert.
Services Authority and the Financial Reporting Council.
BOARD EXPERIENCE The Board recognises that it requires a mix of skills and experience to ensure that the Trust is managed and governed effectively.
We set out below the key skills which the Board has identified that it must have.
In addition to these key skills the Board also has experience in Investment, Financial Oversight, Risk, Strategy and Change, and Corporate Finance.
Financial Business Asset Investment Marketing and Board experience Services Leadership Management Trusts Distribution Lord Smith of Kelvin Gregor Stewart Anthony Brooke Clare Dobie Chris Samuel Karl Sternberg | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 28 I II DIRECTORS' REPORT III Anthony Brooke Clare Dobie Chris Samuel Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Anthony joined the Board in 2015 and Clare joined the Board in 2016.
She is Chris joined Alliance Trust PLCs Board in chairs Alliance Trusts Remuneration currently Senior Independent Non- 2015.
He is currently Chairman of Defaqto Committee.
He is currently a Non-Executive Executive Director of Aberdeen New and BlackRock Throgmorton Trust PLC Director of Quintessentially UK.
Thai Investment Trust PLC and is a and a Non-Executive Director of JPMorgan Non-Executive Director of F&C Capital Japanese Investment Trust PLC, Sarasin Anthony sits on the Investment Committee and Income Investment Trust PLC and LLP, UIL Limited and UIL Finance Limited.
of the National Portrait Gallery and of Schroder UK Mid Cap Fund PLC.
Christs College, Cambridge and acts as Chris was Chief Executive of Ignis Asset Clare ran a marketing consultancy from Management from 2009-2014 and was an adviser to a number of endowments.
He is also a Trustee of the Portrait Trust.
Before that she was Group previously a Director and Chief Operating Head of Marketing at GAM formerly Officer of Gartmore and Hill Samuel Asset Anthony was previously a Vice Chairman of S. G. Warburg & Co. Ltd and until 2010 Global Asset Management and served on Management and a partner at Cambridge was a Non-Executive Director of the PR its Executive Business Committee.
He is a consultancy, Huntsworth PLC.
to that, Clare held a number of roles at chartered accountant.
Barclays Global Investors, including Head of Marketing.
POLICY ON BOARD DIVERSITY Alliance Trust recognises the benefits of having a diverse In identifying suitable candidates for appointment to the Board, and sees diversity at Board level as important Board, the Board will consider candidates on merit against in maintaining good corporate governance and Board objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of effectiveness.
The Board members should include different diversity on the Board.
As part of the selection process, skills, regional and industry experience, background, race and where search agents are used, they will be required in gender.
These differences will be considered in determining preparing their long list to include female candidates of the composition of the Board and when possible should be at least 25% of the number submitted for consideration.
Over time the Board intends to achieve at least 25% female representation on the Board.
All Board appointments must be made on merit, in the context of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge which As part of the annual performance evaluation of the the Board as a whole requires to be effective.
In reviewing effectiveness of the Board, Board Committees and individual Board composition the benefits of all aspects of diversity Directors, the experience, independence and knowledge of will be considered including, but not limited to, those the Directors and the diversity representation of the Board, described above, in order to enable it to discharge its how the Board works together, and other factors relevant to duties and responsibilities.
its effectiveness will be considered.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 29
