Directors Report they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make BOARD OF DIRECTORS themselves aware of any relevant audit information and The Directors of the Company who were in office during to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that the year and up to the date of signing the financial information.
statements were: Stefan Bomhard DIRECTORS INDEMNITY A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted Jerry Buhlmann joined March 2017 by the Companys Articles of Association and sections Alison Cooper resigned February 2017 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 2006, has been Rachel Empey granted by the Company to each of the Directors of the Ken Hanna Company.
Under the provisions of the QTPI the Company Richard Howes undertakes to indemnify each Director against liability to Coline McConville third parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties Nigel Northridge and to pay Directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to the Company if the Director is Nigel Stein found guilty or, in an action brought by the Company, Till Vestring judgment is given against the Director.
The indemnity has In accordance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance been in force for the financial year ended 31 December Code, the Directors will stand for election or re-election 2017 and until the date of approval of this report.
at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 24 May 2018, apart from Alison Cooper who left the Group in February SHARE CAPITAL 2017 and Ken Hanna who will step down from the Board As at 31 December 2017, the Companys issued share following the AGM.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to The Directors Report for the year ended 31 December receive the Companys Report and Accounts, to attend 2017 comprises pages 78 to 81 of this report together and speak at General Meetings and to appoint proxies with sections incorporated by reference.
Some matters and exercise voting rights.
The shares do not carry any normally included in the Directors Report are included in special rights with regard to control of the Company.
the Strategic Report on pages 30 to 45, including future The rights are set out in the Articles of Association of business development and risk management.
on the breakdown of gender for the Directors, senior managers and employees of the Company required to RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES be given in the Strategic Report under the Companies There are no restrictions or limitations on the holding of Act 2006 are given on page 81 of this report.
ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
There are no known arrangements under CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT which financial rights are held by a person other than The statement of compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate the holder of the shares.
Shares acquired through the Governance Code and the information required under Company share schemes rank pari passu with the DTR7 is given in the Corporate Governance Report shares in issue and have no special rights.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE SHARES RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS At the Companys AGM on 25 May 2017, the The Groups audited consolidated financial statements Company was authorised to make market purchases for the year ended 31 December 2017 are shown on of up to 42,081,616 ordinary shares representing pages 94 to 172.
The Board recommends a final ordinary approximately 10.0% of its issued share capital.
dividend of 18.9p per ordinary share.
If approved at the 2018 AGM, the final ordinary dividend will be paid on 22 In the year ended 31 December 2017, the Company June 2018 to shareholders registered in the books of the purchased, for cancellation, 6,129,028 ordinary shares Company at the close of business on 18 May 2018. of 10.0p each at a cost of 50.2m, representing 1.48% Together with the interim dividend of 7.9p per ordinary of the issued share capital at that date, as part of the share paid on 6 September 2017, this makes a total Boards commitment to return additional surplus cash ordinary dividend for the year of 26.8p per ordinary to shareholders under the share buyback programme.
INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS AUDITOR AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION During the year, the Company had been notified of the TO THE AUDITOR following interests pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The So far as the Directors are aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is information below was correct at the date of notification.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have unaware.
The Directors have taken all the steps that 78 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS changed since notified to the Company.
However, further unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair notification of any change is not required until the next view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent threshold is crossed.
company and of the profit or loss of the group and parent company for that period.
In preparing the Number of Percentage Shareholder shares Date notified notified financial statements, the Directors are required to: Standard Life select suitable accounting policies and then apply Investments 66,365,020 06 09 2017 15.99 them consistently: BlackRock Inc 26,771,128 27 02 2017 6.35 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the Aberdeen Asset European Union have been followed for the group Management 20,690,060 13 06 2017 4.95 financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been followed for Source TR-1 notifications.
These are updated on the Companys website.
the Company financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in There have been no changes to the number of shares the financial statements: held by Directors between 31 December 2017 and 26 February 2018. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS prepare the financial statements on the going There are no restrictions on voting rights.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and parent company will continue EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST in business.
The Executive Directors of the Company, together with other employees of the Group, are potential beneficiaries The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate of the Inchcape Employee Trust the Trust and, as accounting records that are sufficient to show and such, are deemed to be interested in any ordinary explain the Group and parent companys transactions shares held by the Trust.
At 31 December 2017, the and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Trusts shareholding totalled 553,678 ordinary shares.
financial position of the Group and parent company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements In respect of LR 9.8.
4R 12 and 13, the trustee of the and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Trust agrees to waive dividends payable on the shares it Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial holds for satisfying awards under the various share plans.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the The table showing the beneficial interests, other assets of the Group and parent company and hence for than share options, including family interests, in the taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection ordinary shares of the Company of the persons who of fraud and other irregularities.
were Directors at 31 December 2017 is shown in the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Directors Report on Remuneration on page 74. integrity of the parent companys website.
Legislation There have been no changes to the number of shares in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and held by Directors between 31 December 2017 and 26 dissemination of financial statements may differ from February 2018. legislation in other jurisdictions.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors consider that the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Report and the financial statements in accordance with understandable and provides the information necessary applicable law and regulation.
for shareholders to assess the Group and parent companys performance, business model and strategy.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are Directors have prepared the group financial statements listed in Board of Directors confirm that, to the best of in accordance with International Financial Reporting their knowledge: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the parent company financial statements, which have Union and parent company financial statements in been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable Framework, and applicable law.
Under company law law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the Directors must not approve the financial statements financial position and loss of the company: inchcape.
com 79 Directors Report continued the Group financial statements, which have been the Board considers it appropriate, the conflicted Director prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by may be permitted to participate in the debate, but will be the European Union, give a true and fair view of the permitted neither to vote nor count in the quorum when assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the the decision is being agreed.
The Directors are aware Group: and that it is their responsibility to inform the Board of any potential conflicts as soon as possible and procedures the Directors Report includes a fair review of the are in place to facilitate disclosure.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and parent company, CHANGE OF CONTROL together with a description of the principal risks and The Company is not party to any significant agreements uncertainties that it faces.
that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change The Directors considered the key messages contained of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
in the Strategic Report along with the disclosures However, certain of the Groups third party funding made throughout to ensure that they are consistent, arrangements would terminate upon a change of transparent and a true reflection of the business.
The control of the Company.
Directors also reviewed supporting documentation The Groups relationships with its OEM brand partners which addresses specific statements made in the are managed at Group level, but the relevant contracts report and the evidence to support those statements.
are entered into at a local level with day-to-day Following this review, the Directors consider, when management being led by each operating business.
taken as a whole, that the Annual Report and Accounts Certain of the contracts may terminate on a change is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the of control of the local contracting company.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the The Company does not have agreements with any Companys position and performance, business model Director or employee providing compensation for loss of and strategy.
office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except for provisions in the rules of the Companys GOING CONCERN share schemes which may result in options or awards Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters granted to employees to vest on a takeover.
discussed in connection with the viability statement on page 38, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt TRANSACTIONS WITH DIRECTORS the going concern basis of accounting in the financial No transaction, arrangement or agreement, other than statements for the next 12 months.
remuneration, required to be disclosed in terms of the Companies Act 2006 and IAS 24, Related Parties was ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION outstanding at 31 December 2017, or was entered into The appointment and replacement of Directors is during the year for any Director and or connected governed by the Companys Articles of Association, the person 2016 none.
2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Directors have authority to issue and allot ordinary The greenhouse gas emissions are given in the shares pursuant to article 9 of the Articles of Association Environment section of the Corporate Responsibility and shareholder authority is requested at each AGM.
The Directors have authority to make market purchases EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT for ordinary shares and this authority is also renewed The Company is committed to a policy of treating annually at the AGM.
all its colleagues and job applicants equally.
We are The Articles of Association may be amended by a committed to the employment of people with disabilities special resolution of the shareholders.
Subject to the and will interview those candidates who meet the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions minimum selection criteria.
given by special resolution, the business of the Company We provide training and career development for our shall be managed by the Directors who may exercise all employees, tailored where appropriate to their specific the powers of the Company.
needs, to ensure they achieve their potential.
If an CONFLICTS OF INTEREST individual becomes disabled while in our employment, The Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise we will do our best to ensure continued development any matter which would otherwise involve a Director in their role, including consulting them about their breaching his duty under the Companies Act 2006 to requirements, making appropriate adjustments avoid conflicts of interest.
When authorising a conflict and providing suitable alternative positions.
of interest the Board must do so without the conflicting In 2017, our new performance and talent framework, Director counting as part of the quorum.
In the event that DRIVE5, was rolled out across the Group.
The framework 80 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS sets performance expectations, behaviours and values EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD for our people and was developed using inputs from None.
colleague and customer focus groups, and incorporates OTHER INFORMATION LISTING RULES our OEM brand partners existing frameworks of skills and behaviours to ensure that we can deliver against our For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4 R, the information required to stakeholders expectations in support of our ambition be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found on the pages set to be the worlds most trusted Retailer and Distributor.
out below: Section Information Page The Company has various employee policies in place 1 Interest capitalised Not material covering a wide range of issues such as family friendly to the Group policies, employment rights and equal opportunities.
Policies are implemented at a local level and comply 2 Publication of unaudited 76 TSR Graph financial information with any relevant legislation in that market.
All policies are available on the Groups intranet and compliance 4 Details of long-term incentive 72 74 is monitored at local level.
schemes 5 Waiver of emoluments by Not applicable HUMAN RIGHTS a director We embrace, support and respect the human rights 6 Waiver of future emoluments Not applicable of everyone we work with and we comply fully with by a director appropriate human rights legislation in the countries 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity Not applicable in which we operate.
We dont use or accept forced, for cash bonded or involuntary prison or child labour.
We only 8 Non pre-emptive issue by a major Not applicable employ people who choose to work freely and respect subsidiary undertaking their rights to equal opportunities and freedom of association.
9 Parent participation in a placing Not applicable by a listed subsidiary ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable The Company has in place an anti-bribery and 11 Provision of services by a Not applicable corruption training programme which employees are controlling shareholder required to complete.
This programme is being refreshed 12 Shareholder waiver of dividends 79 in 2018 and employees will be required to undertake a 13 Shareholder waiver of future 79 new online training module which will also be included dividends in the induction programme for new employees where applicable.
Our anti-bribery and corruption policy sets 14 Agreements with controlling Not applicable shareholders out our zero tolerance stance to bribery and corruption.
Compliance is monitored via reports to InConfidence, ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the whistleblowing line, and adherence to other relevant policies such as the gifts and hospitality policy.
The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday, 24 May 2018 at Deutsche Bank AG, Winchester House, 1 Great PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB.
The notice These risks are shown on pages 32 and 36. convening the meeting and the resolutions to be put to the meeting, together with the explanatory notes, are GENDER DIVERSITY given in the Circular to all shareholders.
The breakdown of the number of female and male employees who were i Directors of the Company The Groups current auditors, , ii senior managers and iii employees of the Company have decided not to seek re-election at the AGM.
As such, as at 31 December 2017 is as follows: the Directors are recommending to shareholders the appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups auditor for the Male Female Total year ended 31 December 2018.
A resolution to appoint Board 8 80% 2 20% 10 Deloitte LLP as auditor will be proposed at the AGM.
Senior The Directors Report and the Strategic Report were management 80 74.8% 18 18.4% 98 approved by the Board and have been signed by the All employees 12,510 73.2% 4,583 26.8% 17,093 secretary of the Company.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The information required under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of financial Tamsin Waterhouse instruments is given in note 23 to the financial statements Group Company Secretary on pages 141 to 147. inchcape.
com 81 Directors Report continued COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE This section sets out the Companys compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This section should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report as a whole, which is set out on pages 46 to 81.
The Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company and achieves this by setting its strategic aims whilst ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are available.
The Board also ensures that the correct controls are in place to drive the right culture throughout the organisation to achieve the strategic objectives in a sustainable manner.
The Board also reviews the performance of management to monitor the progress of implementing the strategy.
Details of the Directors are given on pages 44 to 45.
There is a schedule of formal matters reserved for the Board which can be found at www.
The table below shows the Board and Committee meetings held during the year.
There were additional Board calls and Committee meetings throughout the year to discuss specific issues as they arose.
Audit Remuneration Nomination CR Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Name Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Stefan Bomhard 6 6 2 2 Jerry Buhlmann 4 3 1 0 1 0 1 0 Alison Cooper 2 2 1 1 1 1 Rachel Empey 6 6 4 4 2 2 Ken Hanna 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Richard Howes 6 6 John Langston 6 6 4 4 2 2 Coline McConville 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Nigel Northridge 6 6 4 4 2 2 2 2 Nigel Stein 6 6 4 4 2 2 Till Vestring 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Jerry Buhlmann joined during the year.
Alison Cooper left during the year.
Jerry Buhlmann was unable to attend the Board and Committee meetings in November 2017 due to a prior commitment before joining the Board.
The Chairman The Chairman and Group Chief Executive have separate The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and ensures roles and responsibilities.
that appropriate time is allocated to discuss each agenda item.
He is also responsible for ensuring there is Ken Hanna, as Chairman, is responsible for leading an a culture of openness and debate and that constructive effective Board, ensuring timely, accurate and relevant relationships exist between the Non-Executive Directors information is received by Board members, planning the and Executive Directors.
composition of the Board and is Chair of the Nomination Committee.
The feedback on the Chairmans performance from the external evaluation was universally positive with the Board Stefan Bomhard, as Group Chief Executive, is responsible members noting that his style is open and inclusive.
for developing the Groups strategy, running the day-today operations, reporting to the Board on performance, Ken Hanna was considered independent upon implementation of strategy and any significant appointment as Chairman.
developments, leading the Group Executive Committee A.
Non-Executive Directors including managing risk and internal control and The Non-Executive Directors are appointed to offer a engaging with shareholders.
wide range of skills and experience in order to challenge Their responsibilities are set out at appointment and are management and help develop strategy.
The Nonagreed by the Board.
Executive Directors make up the Committees which have responsibilities for various aspects and details of their work can be found on pages 50 to 77.
82 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nigel Northridge is the Senior Independent Director and is Non-Executive Director of Compass Group plc.
Details available to shareholders if they do not want to speak to of the fees paid to him are given on page 77 of the the Chairman or the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Other directorships held by Directors are given in their The Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors on an annual basis and also meet without the biographies on pages 44 to 45.
Chairman to discuss his performance.
The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are If a Director has a concern about the running of the available at the AGM and upon request.
Company which cannot be resolved it would be recorded B.
Development in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2017.
All Directors receive a tailored induction programme upon appointment designed to ensure that they have B.
EFFECTIVENESS sufficient knowledge of the business and the context in B.
The composition of the Board which it operates.
The induction consists of one-to-one The skills, experience and independence of the Directors meetings with the Group Executive Committee members are reviewed by the Nomination Committee and further and other key management and a site visit designed to details can be found on pages 56 to 57.
The Board is give the Director an in-depth understanding of the Retail satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors are considered and Distribution businesses.
Details of the induction for independent in accordance with the Code.
The Board Jerry Buhlmann are given on page 56. consists of the Chairman, seven Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors are expected to update their knowledge and skills regularly and training is provided B.
Appointments to the Board for the Board and individual Directors as required.
During The Nomination Committee consists of seven members the year, external experts are invited to Board meetings all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors and to speak on relevant topics to give additional insight is chaired by Ken Hanna.
Its terms of reference can be and context to the business.
During the overseas found at www.
Board meeting held in Santiago the Board received a Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a period of three presentation from the former president of the Bank of years.
After each three year period the performance of the Chile on the economic and political outlook for South Director is reviewed by the Chairman, and the Committee America which provided the Board with a unique will approve any further terms.
All appointments are perspective on this important region for the Group.
subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The Chairman discussed any training or development Nigel Northridge has been a member of the Board for needs of each Director during the evaluation process.
eight years and his tenure is subject to rigorous annual B.
He will complete nine years service in July 2018.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for The Board has carefully considered his length of service ensuring the Board has access to relevant and accurate and his continued performance in accordance with the information.
The Board agendas are agreed in advance Code and agreed that it would be beneficial for Nigel to by the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and continue as Senior Independent Director for a further 12 include regular items such as reports from the Group months to provide continuity for Nigel Stein during his first Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and Investor year as Chairman.
It is the intention Relations.
The reports include information on operational that Nigel Northridge will retire at the 2019 AGM.
matters, financial performance and strategic B.
Regional updates, designed to give a The Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to deeper view of the markets, are given throughout the the Company to discharge their responsibilities and the year by the relevant market Chief Executive Officers.
Board dates are agreed two years in advance to ensure The Group Company Secretary also supports the Board that Directors are able to plan accordingly and for other by providing advice and services, including access to commitments to be taken into account.
Non-Executive independent advice, and ensures that an accurate Directors are informed of the time commitment expected record of the meeting is taken.
If a Director has any from them upon appointment and this is reviewed concerns about the Company or any of the decisions annually to ensure that the time expected is still being taken, this would be recorded in the minutes.
relevant in light of the Companys strategic agenda.
No such concerns arose during 2017.
The Board understands that the Executive Directors can gain valuable business experience as a non-executive director of another company.
The Groups policy is to limit non-executive directorships within a FTSE 100 company to one appointment only.
Stefan Bomhard is also a inchcape.
6 Evaluation The risk management and internal control systems are designed to ensure: The Company undertakes an evaluation of the Board every year with every third year being an externally risks are identified, evaluated and mitigated: facilitated evaluation by an independent consultant.
information is reliable, accurate and timely: The internal evaluations take the form of a Company we comply with plans, procedures, laws, regulations Secretary-led questionnaire or a Chairman-led interviewand contracts: based evaluation.
Internal evaluations typically look at oversight responsibilities which include strategy, finance, assets including people are safeguarded: performance, the market, investor relations, talent and resources are used effectively and efficiently: and succession planning, reputation, risk and governance.
objectives and goals are met.
Board effectiveness and the performance of the Committees are also evaluated.
A description of risks, an explanation of how they are being managed and mitigated and the Boards viability B.
7 Re-election statement can be found in the Risk Management Report All Directors will stand for election or re-election at on pages 30 to 38.
The Board also reviewed and the AGM apart from Alison Cooper who left the Board approved the viability statement including its assessment in February 2017 and Ken Hanna who will retire from of the methodology used by management to reach its the Board following the AGM.
The biographies of the conclusion.
The viability statement is given on page 38.
Directors can be found on pages 44 to 45 and the Board has set out its views on why the Directors should be The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the elected effectiveness of the system of internal controls to the Audit or re-elected in the Notice of Meeting.
Further information can be found in the Audit Committee Report on page 50 to 55.
C ACCOUNTABILITY In addition to the reviews carried out by the Audit C. 1 Financial and business reporting Committee, the key control processes, described below, The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced enable the Directors to review the effectiveness of the risk and understandable assessment of the Groups position management and internal control systems throughout and prospects.
The Board is satisfied that appropriate the year: processes are in place to enable it to make this statement and to provide the necessary information on The Annual Operating Plan AOP is reviewed and position and performance, business model and strategy approved by the Board.
to allow users to make a fair assessment of the business.
Monthly actual results are reviewed by management A statement of the Directors responsibilities is set out on against the AOP and, where appropriate, revised pages 79 to 80.
The going concern statement is set out forecasts are presented to the Board.
on page 80 and the strategy and business model are set Financial information is reported to the Board on a out on pages 2 to 19. monthly basis including cash flow, balance sheet During the year the Board reviewed the Annual Report and key performance indicators.
and Accounts, the interim results and any other trading Key operational and compliance processes and updates which are released to the public.
During each controls are reviewed regularly by Group Internal Audit review the Board challenged management on the and the findings are reported to the Audit Committee assumptions and judgements used, taking into account at each meeting.
the strategy, business model, resources and future trends The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the affecting the business.
Minimum Control Framework MCF throughout the C. 2 Risk management and internal control year.
The Audit Committee did not identify any The Board is responsible for determining the nature and significant control failings.
extent of the risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic Clearly defined authority limits including capital objectives.
The Board confirms it carries out a robust expenditure approval procedures.
review of the principal risks facing the Company on an Each business unit is required to implement a annual basis and the Audit Committee reviews risks on rigorous set of internal controls covering operations, an ongoing basis as part of their delegated responsibilities.
The Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director of each business unit provide annual written confirmation that the effectiveness of the internal control systems has been reviewed, adhered to and remains appropriate.
84 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Appropriate regulatory training including anti-bribery is Governance Code, and report their findings to the Audit in place in all business units and is monitored by the Committee on a regular basis.
The Committee is supported by a number of sources of internal assurance from within the Group in order to The risk management and internal controls process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of review the control environment on an on-going basis and it also assesses the effectiveness of the system of internal failure to achieve business objectives.
In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, the Directors control on an annual basis by considering any material control weaknesses identified by the external auditors as have regard to the nature and extent of the relevant risks, the likelihood of loss being incurred and the costs a result of their audit.
There have been no significant changes to the control environment and the Audit of control.
The system can only provide a reasonable but not absolute assurance against any material Committee has concluded that the Groups internal system of controls was effective during the year.
mis-statement or loss and cannot eliminate business risk.
The Board has determined that there were no significant The Group has an externally hosted whistleblowing failings or weaknesses identified during the review of the line in place.
InConfidence is a compliance and ethics risk management and internal control processes during reporting solution which allows both hotline and web the year and further confirms that these systems were in reporting capabilities in multiple languages, integrated place during 2017 and up to the date of this report.
with case management software to support efficient and effective investigation, remediation and reporting.
The Directors are satisfied that the Groups risk Further details of the work of the Audit Committee can be management and internal control systems accord with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal found on pages 50 to 55.
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
D. REMUNERATION C. 3 Audit Committee and the auditors D. 1 Level and components of remuneration It is the role of the Audit Committee to ensure the integrity Details of the remuneration paid to the Directors of the of the financial reporting and audit processes, to ensure Group are given in the Directors Report on Remuneration the internal control and risk management systems are on pages 59 to 77. effective, to review the Groups whistleblowing D. 2 Procedure procedures and to establish and maintain an It is the role of the Remuneration Committee to ensure appropriate relationship with the external auditor.
that remuneration arrangements support the strategic The Audit Committee terms of reference can be found aims of the business, encourage the right behaviours at www.
and enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of senior executives while also complying with the The Audit Committee consists of four independent requirements of regulation.
Of the four, John Langston, Rachel Empey and Nigel Stein are qualified chartered Its terms of reference can be found at www.
accountants and are considered to have recent and com governance and details of the remuneration relevant financial experience.
In addition, the Committee consultants can be found on page 77 of the Directors as a whole has competence in Retail which is the sector Report on Remuneration.
in which the Company operates.
The Remuneration Committee consists of three The Committee met four times during the year to coincide independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Only members of the The Committee invites other individuals such as the Committee are entitled to attend Committee meetings.
Group Chief Executive, Chief Human Resources Officer However, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Chief and external consultants to attend its meetings.
No Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and Group Director takes any part in any decision affecting his Head of Audit attend the Committee meetings along with or her own remuneration.
Other senior executives, such as the The limit to Non-Executive Director fees is set out in the Group Tax Director and Group General Counsel, attend Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which is during the year to present to the Committee.
The Internal Audit team regularly assess the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting as well as the preparation of financial statements based on the framework contained in the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and the UK Corporate inchcape.
com 85 Directors Report continued Further details can be found in the Directors Report on The Company complies with the Code as it relates to Remuneration given on pages 59 to 77. voting, the proposal of separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue and the attendance of E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the Committee Chairs at the AGM.
Details of the votes E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders received for the resolutions put to shareholders at The Head of Investor Relations, Group Chief Executive Officer the AGM are available on the Companys website.
and Chief Financial Officer met with approx.
200 investors The Companys registrars, Computershare, act as and potential investors during the year.
Roadshows are held scrutineers at the AGM and ensure that the votes regularly during which the Groups strategy and financial are correctly counted and recorded.
performance are discussed with investors.
Ken Hanna also met with several major shareholders to discuss various All Directors are required to attend the AGM.
The Group is committed to reducing its impact on the A dialogue with shareholders ensures that the Company is environment and encourages shareholders to receive fully aware of shareholders views and their expectations of communications electronically to reduce paper usage.
the Groups strategy and performance both in the short and Shareholders can also register for news alerts via email.
The views of shareholders are communicated to Please visit the website www.
com investors the Board after each meeting and through regular Investor for more information.
It is important for shareholders to Relations reports, and analysts and brokers briefings.
receive communications in the form most appropriate to their needs and they can change the way they receive We will be holding a Capital Markets Day on information at any time.
Further details of this event will be available on www.
Constructive use of General Meetings The AGM gives shareholders an opportunity to meet the Board and ask any questions they have regarding the Group, its performance and its strategy.
The Board encourages participation of private shareholders at the AGM however, the Board understands that it is not always possible for shareholders to attend in person.
Shareholders are encouraged to contact the Company with any questions they wish to raise with the Board of Directors via the Company Secretary.
86 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 Report of the auditors 94 Consolidated income statement 95 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 96 Consolidated statement of financial position 97 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 98 Consolidated statement of cash flows 99 Accounting policies 109 Notes to the financial statements 155 Five year record 156 Company statement of financial position 157 Company statement of changes in equity 158 Accounting policies 160 Notes to the financial statements OTHER INFORMATION 172 Shareholder information inchcape.
