STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board has continued to focus on creating shareholder value by successfully developing the business through a combination of organic growth and further consolidating the fragmented markets in which Bunzl competes.
Philip Rogerson Frank van Zanten Patrick Larmon Chairman Chief Executive Executive director Lloyd Pitchford Brian May Vanda Murray Non-executive director Finance Director Non-executive director Jean-Charles Pauze Stephan Nanninga Eugenia Ulasewicz Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director 56 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Effective leadership through a strong, independent Board is essential to the long term sustainability and success of the Group.
Philip Rogerson Chairman Philip Rogerson # Age 73 Brian May Age 53 Eugenia Ulasewicz # Age 64 Chairman Finance Director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in January 2010 and Finance Director since 2006.
After became Chairman in March 2010.
Chairman accountant, he qualified with KPMG and holding a number of senior retail positions of the Nomination Committee.
He was an joined Bunzl in 1993 as Internal Audit with Bloomingdales, Galeries Lafayette executive director of BG Group plc formerly Manager.
Subsequently he became Group and Saks Fifth Avenue, she joined Burberry British Gas plc from 1992 to 1998, latterly as Treasurer before taking up the role of Group plc and was President of Burberry, Deputy Chairman.
Since then he has been Finance Director, Europe & Australasia Americas, one of three global regions of both a non-executive director and Chairman in 1996 and Finance Director designate Burberry Group plc which includes North of a number of companies and is currently in 2005.
He is a non-executive director and Latin Americas, from 1998 until 2013.
Chairman of fide La Rue plc and a nonof United Utilities Group PLC.
She is a non-executive director of Signet executive director of Blancco Technology Jewelers Limited, Vince Holding Corp. and Group plc.
Vanda Murray OBE # Age 57 Hudson Ltd. Non-executive director Frank van Zanten # Age 51 Jean-Charles Pauze # Age 70 Non-executive director since 2015, Senior Chief Executive Non-executive director Independent Director and Chair of the Executive director since February 2016 Remuneration Committee.
Having and Chief Executive and member of the Chief Executive Officer of Blick plc from previously held a number of senior positions Nomination Committee from April 2016.
2001 to 2004, she subsequently became with PPR Group, Strafor Facom Group and He joined Bunzl in 1994 when Bunzl acquired UK Managing Director of Ultraframe PLC Alfa Laval Group in France and Germany, his family owned business in the Netherlands from 2004 to 2006 and was appointed OBE he was Chairman and Chief Executive of and he subsequently assumed responsibility in 2002 for Services to Industry and Export.
He is for a number of businesses in other countries.
She is Chairman of Fenner PLC and a currently a member of the Supervisory In 2002 he became Chief Executive Officer non-executive director of Redrow plc.
Board of IMCD N. V. of PontMeyer NV, a listed company in the Netherlands, before re-joining Bunzl in 2005 Lloyd Pitchford # Age 46 Stephan Nanninga # Age 60 as the Managing Director of the Continental Non-executive director Non-executive director Europe business area.
He is a non-executive Non-executive director since March 2017 Appointed as a non-executive director director of Grafton Group plc.
and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
After holding Having previously held a number of senior a number of positions with Sonepar and Patrick Larmon Age 65 finance positions with BG Group plc, Royal Dutch Shell, he subsequently became Executive director including five years as Group Financial Managing Director, Distribution Europe of Executive director since 2004 and President Controller, he subsequently joined Intertek CRH plc in 1999.
He then joined SHV Holdings and Chief Executive Officer, North America.
Group plc where he was Chief Financial NV in 2007, where he was initially responsible Having joined Bunzl in 1990 when Packaging Officer from 2010 to 2014.
He is currently for the Makro and Dyas businesses, before Products Corporation, of which he was an Chief Financial Officer of Experian plc.
becoming Chief Executive in 2014, a position owner, was acquired, he held various senior he held until 2016.
He is an executive director management positions over 13 years before of Dutch Star Companies ONE N. V. becoming President of North America in 2003 and additionally assuming the role of Chief Executive Officer in 2004.
He is a Member of the Audit Committee non-executive director of Huttig Building Member of the Remuneration Committee Products, Inc. and Bodycote plc.
# Member of the Nomination Committee Independent director 57 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017
