OUR BUSINESS MODEL WHAT WE DO FOCUSED ON GLOBAL EQUITIES We invest in global equities.
We also have relatively small investments in: Alliance Trust Savings Non-core investments Mineral rights Private equity # Liontrust Funds and Investments These are mainly investments that were acquired as part of earlier investment strategies and will be disposed of at the appropriate time.
#Liontrust shares were sold on 24 January 2018.
1,015,198 Liontrust shares will be acquired in April 2018, which will be subject to a one-year lock-up.
HOW WE MANAGE OUR INVESTMENTS We have appointed Willis Towers Watson WTW as our investment manager to manage our portfolio and it in turn has appointed a number of equity managers.
On the following pages we provide more detail on how each equity manager focuses on a limited number of their top investment selections.
WTW is also tasked with generating income to support our Global equities progressive dividend policy where we are one of only four Subsidiary entities FTSE All-Share Index companies with a record of increasing Non-core investments their ordinary dividend for 50 years or more.
We explain the legal structure of our arrangements with WTW on page 7.
INVESTMENT STRATEGY The equity portfolio brings together an alliance of bestMost of these managers are available to individual UK in-class equity managers and their best ideas all at investors only through Alliance Trust.
The equity portfolio a competitive cost.
It provides access to eight equity target is to outperform the MSCI All Country World Index managers from around the world, each investing only in by 2% per year after costs over rolling three-year periods.
Alliance Trust has a progressive dividend policy.
As rated by Willis Towers Watson.
INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE AND POLICY The investment objective and policy allow the Board to The Trust pursues its objective by investing in both quoted and adopt an investment strategy that can change to reflect unquoted equities across the globe in different sectors and different market conditions and investment styles and is industries: investing internationally in fixed income securities: detailed below.
As our new Investment approach beds down, investing in other asset classes and financial instruments, we intend to review whether the Companys Investment either directly or through investment vehicles and investing objective and Policy should be reworded to better reflect in subsidiaries and associated businesses which allow us to our current approach.
If a change is proposed, this will go for expand into other related activities.
shareholder approval probably at the Annual General Meeting The Trust is prepared to invest any proportion of the total to be held in 2019. corporate capital in any of the above asset classes, subject Alliance Trust is an investment company with investment only to the restrictions imposed on the Trust by the regulatory trust status.
The Trusts objective is to be a core investment or fiscal regime within which we operate.
However, the Trust for investors seeking increasing value over the long term.
would expect equities to comprise at least 50% of its portfolio.
The Trust has no fixed asset allocation benchmark and it Changes to the asset allocation will be dependent upon invests in a wide range of asset classes throughout the world attractive investment opportunities being available.
The Trusts focus is to generate a real Where market conditions permit, the Trust will use gearing return for shareholders over the medium to long term by a of not more than 30% of its net assets at any given time.
combination of capital growth and a rising dividend.
The Trust can use derivative instruments to hedge, enhance and protect positions, including currency exposures.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 4 I N V E E Q S U T I M T Y E N M I STRATEGIC REPORT II III AN ALLIANCE OF BEST IDEAS Shareholders now have the opportunity to benefit from the best ideas of eight best-in-class equity managers.
They are each responsible for picking a selection of high-conviction equities that they believe are most likely to deliver outperformance over time.
They invest only in their very best ideas.
Between them, they cover a range of stock-picking styles.
Highconviction The portfolio is managed by WTW, which balances risk at portfolios stock, sector and geographical level.
Through it, we appoint multiple equity managers, reducing the risk that is often taken by investors selecting a single, star manager or one particular style that can move in and out of favour.
We believe An alliance this approach of using several complementary managers of best investing with high-conviction increases the chances of ideas outperformance.
Restricting equity managers flexibility is often counter-productive, Best-in-class Competitive so our managers are given mandates with as few constraints managers fees as possible.
They are free to invest in approximately 20 stocks, from wherever in the world they choose.
This approach is complemented by an equity manager responsible for investing in the emerging markets which may involve around 50 stocks.
Together, this creates a unique alliance of best ideas of about 200 underlying listed stocks.
"""JUPITER"" and are the trade marks of Jupiter Investment Management Group Ltd and registered in the UK and as Community Trade Marks and elsewhere."
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 5 T A N M A A G E N R A S G E R
