I II DIRECTORS' REPORT III VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the 2014 UK Governance Code the decades.
The nature and activities of the Trust as a closed-end Directors have assessed the prospects and viability of the investment trust lead to a reasonable expectation the Trust will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities Trust over a longer period than the 12 months required by as they fall due in the future.
Contributory factors in this the Going Concern statement.
This assessment has been assessment include: made taking account of the current position of the Trust and its prospects, the corporate strategy and planning process The Trust has a long-term investment strategy of the Trust and the Trusts principal risks, both current and under which it invests mainly in readily realisable, medium and long term, as detailed in the Strategic Report publicly listed securities.
As an investment trust, investing in a global equity The strategy provides long-term direction and is reviewed portfolio, the Trust is unlikely to be adversely impacted as on, at least, an annual basis, including five-year forecasts a direct result of the Brexit Referendum.
The resilience of the The Trust is inherently structured for long-term strategy is further tested in a series of severe but plausible outperformance, rather than short-term opportunities, downside financial scenarios as part of the annual review of with five years as a sensible timeframe for measuring the prudential consolidated Group Internal Capital Adequacy and assessing long-term investment performance.
Even the most severe of these scenarios does not result in a breach of our banking The Trust is able to take advantage of its closed-end covenants, borrowings not to exceed 30% of net tangible investment trust structure.
assets and tangible net asset value of no less than 1.5bn.
The Trust has the ability to hold a proportion of The ICAAP, covering a five-year period, is prepared to long-term less-liquid private equity investments and identify and quantify the Groups risks and level of capital mineral rights providing diversity to the income and which should be held to cover those risks.
As part of the returns of the portfolio.
assessment the Board also considers the sustainability of The Trust has put in place unsecured long-term borrowing the Trusts dividend and it believes that our progressive arrangements.
dividend policy is also sustainable over the same time frame.
The ICAAP provides a risk assessment to identify The ICAAP provides a discipline for regular and robust the principal risks that may adversely impact the Group.
review of revenue and expenditure forecasts and These include inappropriate business strategy in relation assessment of principal risks.
to investor needs, unfavourable markets or inappropriate The Trust maintains large revenue and capital reserves.
asset allocation, failure of the Trusts main service providers and regulatory and conduct risks.
The risk management The Trust retains title to all assets held by the Custodian framework and controls have various regular early warning which are subject to further safeguards imposed on indicator and risk outlook signposts trends and triggers the Depositary.
events to alert the Board to the potential advent of a Based on its assessment and evaluation of the Trusts scenario.
This approach ensures a link to our business current financial position, its future prospects, and model and strategy and allows a robust identification and long-term investment horizon and financing, the Board assessment of the principal risks, and mitigating actions, therefore concludes there is a reasonable expectation that for the Trust and prudential consolidated Group.
the Trust will be able to continue in operation and meet The Trusts business model, strategy and the embedded its liabilities as they fall due over the coming five years and characteristics of an investment company have helped beyond: the Board expects this to continue over many more define and maintain the stability of the Trust over many years to come.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 41
