I STRATEGIC REPORT II III OUR INVESTMENT MANAGER through high-conviction equity selection.
The total portfolio ALLIANCE TRUST INVESTMENTS TO 31 MARCH 2017 is managed by WTW, by balancing risk at the stock, sector Alliance Trust Investments was the investment manager to and geographical level.
31 March 2017 and had investment discretion until 17 March The performance of the equity managers and the overall 2017 when BlackRock Advisors UK Limited was appointed portfolio including the Non-Core Investments is overseen by to manage the transition.
WTW was appointed on 1 April WTWs Investment Committee see below, which is charged and the eight equity managers then took responsibility for with the following responsibilities: managing their stock selections at various dates until the transition was completed on 12 April.
Drive outperformance of the portfolio Monitor and oversee individual manager performance WILLIS TOWERS WATSON FROM 1 APRIL 2017 Review portfolio blending and risk control WTW NASDAQ: WLTW is a leading investment group with Implement any gearing and hedging requirements roots dating back to 1828.
The investment business, with for the portfolio 900 associates worldwide, aims to create sustainable competitive advantage for clients in their investment portfolios.
The Alliance Trust Board has appointed Towers Watson This advantage is achieved through finding the best return Investment Management Ireland Limited TWIMI as the Trusts opportunities, using robust risk management processes and Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The AIFM has technology and achieving scale advantages.
delegated the management of the Trusts portfolio to Towers Watson Investment Management Limited TWIM.
Both TWIMI For Alliance Trust, this advantage is delivered to shareholders and TWIM are members of the WTW group of companies.
through an alliance of best ideas a combination of eight of Willis Towers Watsons best-in-class equity managers As rated by Willis Towers Watson.
from across the world, delivering their very best ideas THE WILLIS TOWERS WATSON INVESTMENT COMMITTEE Global Chief Investment Officer Senior Portfolio Manager at Willis Towers Watson.
23 years' investment experience 17 years as UK Equity Fund Manager.
Craig Baker David Shapiro Role for Alliance Trust: Role for Alliance Trust: Chair of Investment Co-Portfolio Manager Committee Head of Portfolio Management for Senior Equity Manager Researcher EMEA at Willis Towers Watson.
Stuart Gray Mark Davis Role for Alliance Trust: Role for Alliance Trust: Investment Co-Portfolio Manager Committee Member Together the team brings to bear 75 years of invaluable investment experience.
It is supported by a team of about 120 research and portfolio management professionals around the world.
Learn more about the new investment approach at: www.
co. uk news-items news investment-approach | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 7
