DRIVING FORWARD GLOBAL SCALE Our long-term partnerships with We are the worlds only independent multi-brand many of the worlds leading vehicle automotive Distributor and Retailer with a global manufacturers Original Equipment presence.
Managing a fine balance between developed Manufacturers or OEMs are the and emerging markets across our 29-territory footprint, we provide market access and country expertise for beating heart of our business.
Our many of the worlds leading premium and luxury brands criteria are demanding and rigorously through a balanced Distribution and Retail portfolio.
applied: we want to work with OEM Our global scale truly sets us apart and delivers benefits partners who are strategically positioned to all of our stakeholders.
For our OEMs, it ensures that they have a trusted partner as they seek to develop in in growing markets, who are leading new territories and, as they increase their global offering, the rapid evolution of the automotive so do we.
There are a number of examples of this industry, and who hold customer expansion over the last 12 months, including new contracts with BMW in Estonia and Guam as well as service, trust and quality in the Peugeot and Citron with Groupe PSA in Australia.
INFRASTRUCTURE When we find the right partner brands, The business and management systems and processes we have in place ensure professional consistency and we nurture the relationships to last and financial resilience across all our markets.
And our focus to deliver value far into the future.
This on governance and risk management, value-added is how we have successfully sustained processes in Distribution and Retail, deep customer understanding and logistics capabilities, combine to OEM partnerships, some lasting more give our OEM partners the reassurance they require.
TRUSTED PARTNERSHIP Our vision is to be the worlds most trusted automotive Distributor and Retailer and, for our partners, success can be seen in our long-term relationships.
This year we celebrated 50 years of working with Toyota, an achievement of which we are particularly proud, and with a further five key strategic relationships of 25 years OUR or more, we are continuing to show that long-term trust and value sit at the heart of our offer.
PARTNERS We are proud to work with the best OEMs in the world and that many of them have chosen Inchcape to represent their brands, and deliver for their customers, in 2017 marked the 50th the global market place.
These relationships are mutually anniversary of the Inchcape beneficial and we continue to ensure that we place their business needs alongside ours to, together, deliver a Toyota partnership.
relationship began in 1967 through Inchcapes business in Singapore, Borneo Motors.
Today, Inchcape represents the Toyota Group in 19 countries around the world.
8 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Guam BMW contract won Estonia BMW acquired Australia Peugeot and Citron contract won Toyota & Inchcape 50 years of partnership Hino in Chile enters 1,000 club Expanded in four new markets with Subaru Record market share for Subaru in Australia Jaguar Land Rover Thailand win award andgrowth Mercedes UK win service and parts award for second consecutive year inchcape.
