Chief Executives review continued BMW in South America continued to go from strength Our Ignite strategy to strength in 2017, with market share increases in both Chile and Peru.
Our results for 2017 reflect the progress In Ethiopia, the political situation which led to disruption we continue to make with our strategy in 2016 improved over 2017, and a strong New Vehicle for growth, Ignite.
sales performance led a good recovery during the year.
Europe Our European Distribution operations delivered solid revenue growth in 2017, reflecting a decline in Belgium and growth across all other markets, including strong growth in our Eastern European operations.
Within the Lead in Greek New Vehicle market which continued to recover, customer growing by 12%, we delivered a good performance in our experience Toyota and Lexus business.
This was supported by higher Finance and Insurance F&I profit, following strategic innovations, and improved New Vehicle margins.
Become Invest to the OEMs Our Eastern European profit performance was strong, accelerate TO BE THE partner and we continue to benefit from structural growth, growth of choice WORLDS MOST across our value drivers.
A highlight for the year was the TRUSTED AUTOMOTIVE acquisition of the BMW Distribution operations for Estonia, DISTRIBUTOR & complementing our existing presence and taking our RETAILER Baltic BMW representation to two of the three markets.
OUR RETAIL OPERATIONS Despite our strategic focus on Distribution, our Retail Leverage Deliver full potential on all our global operations retain a key strategic importance, both as scale our revenue a pillar of our wider brand partner relationships and streams as a platform for our Aftersales and F&I value drivers.
At the start of 2017, we set out our expectations for a challenging year and predicted declining sales volumes in the UK New Car market.
This proved to be the case, with an overall decline of 6% from the peak year of 2016.
In this market context, margins have been under pressure and profit has consequently declined.
As expected, our UK and Europe region saw profit this year reduced by 17% at constant currency, with a marked downturn in the second half of the year.
We are therefore encouraged by our focus on Aftersales as a means of realising the inherent value in the UKs record Total Industry Volume TIV.
This shows the advantage created by our diversified revenue streams, which give us a unique ability to deliver long-term stability in all market conditions.
Australia Retail was similarly impacted from our brand exposure in the market, but we were pleased with the Aftersales performance given our investments in the business.
The star performers among our Retail operations were those in Eastern Europe, where positive market trends have encouraged us to invest strongly for the future.
In Poznan, Poland, we opened our third and largest BMW retail centre in the country, an investment that reflects our strong Retail growth in the region.
16 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Over the year we also conducted an extensive 1.
LEAD IN CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE global review of our Finance and Insurance We recognise that digital technologies and expertise F&I revenue streams.
We know that there exists are vital to delivering a better customer experience.
meaningful future opportunity to enhance our This conviction is at the heart of our new Inchcape profitability through this revenue stream, through Customer Experience programme, which aims to both improved selling processes and through the optimise the customer experience throughout buying related products we offer.
LEVERAGE OUR GLOBAL SCALE Critically, this is a programme for the digital age, optimising data usage, professionalising processes There are efficiency gains to be made in almost and increasingly deploying new tools and techniques every business structure.
This is seldom more true across all our markets to make interaction with us easy, than with a global organisation such as Inchcape, effective and enjoyable for our customers, whether with 17,000 employees active in 29 markets across online, on a mobile device or in person.
Our focus on procurement efficiency has now achieved 20m of annualised cost savings, in You can read more about our Customer Experience line with our expectations, and we continue to see Programme and activities on page 6. opportunities to further streamline our supply chain throughout the business.
BECOME THE OEMS PARTNER OF CHOICE Whilst an excellent outcome, leveraging our global Strong relationships with our brand partners are scale is about more than efficiency savings.
It is also absolutely central to performance delivery, and this about running our regional and local teams more has been a continued area of focus for us in 2017. effectively, sharing best practice throughout our Key developments have included increasing our Subaru Group, transferring knowledge and sharing our market share to 4.4% in Australia, being awarded our first expert pan-regional resources to heighten the BMW contract in Asia in January 2018, winning the UK professionalism of all our operations.
Our Mercedes-Benz awards for service and parts in the UK organisational structure and capabilities have for an unprecedented second year, and delivering a been enhanced throughout the business to good set of results for Subaru and Hino in our first year drive future sustainable growth.
of trading these brands in South America, including entering the Hino 1,000 club for excellence in sales 5.
INVEST TO ACCELERATE GROWTH in Chile.
Inchcape is one of a very few independent, We have also strengthened relationships with our global Distributors in a highly fragmented existing partners across new and existing territories, global marketplace.
We are therefore a natural introduced new OEMs into our portfolio and have consolidator.
The opportunity to drive growth invested in improving the infrastructure and OEM through acquisitions to build our presence in footprint in our markets, where we represent them.
key geographies, or to enhance OEM partner relationships, is considerable.
DELIVER FULL POTENTIAL ON ALL supportive and sometimes even initiators of REVENUE STREAMS acquisition opportunities.
In 2017, our Distribution Aftersales profits, excluding the During 2017, we focused on integrating strategic acquisitions from 2016 in our South American and acquisition in South America, grew 7% constant currency, reflecting targeted investment in this area, for example, in Asian operations.
The Subaru and Hino Distribution businesses in South America performed ahead of recruitment programmes for technicians in key markets.
plan, contributing 30m of trading profit to our 2017 Russia is also an excellent example of how Ignite is full year results.
Our acquisitions in Estonia and driving the business forward with meaningful profit growth Australia also contributed to our earnings in our year-on-year in what remains a challenging market for European and Australasian markets.
From the learnings the Russian team took from UK Retail pilots they have increased Used to New Our intention, as stated previously, is to build and Car volumes from 47% over the second half of 2016 to seek to actualise our M&A pipeline.
Our exceptional 68% in the second half of 2017.
They have also grown ability to rapidly integrate new acquisitions also Aftersales gross profit by 2% in constant currency by enables them to deliver value to the Group quickly.
implementing UK practices in their contact centre.
This isa good result against a declining 1-5 year Car Parc.
com 17 Chief Executives review continued I am particularly pleased with our Russian business PEOPLE performance in 2017 that recovered to report a 4m Inchcape could not have achieved such a strong trading profit from broadly break even last year.
While the performance this year without the expertise and market for New Vehicles strengthened during the year, dedication of all our people, around the world.
I never government incentives to buy locally manufactured fail to be impressed by the strength of their passion and volume brands created a challenging sales environment, commitment.
On behalf of the whole Board, I would as we represent global premium brands.
However, the like to thank them.
emphasis on Used Car sales under our Ignite strategy Creating exciting and rewarding career paths and proved very successful during 2017, and we saw developing the skills of our people are a key focus for substantial growth in this segment.
Quite simply, we want to be renowned for Overall, gross profit in constant currency in Retail being the best place to work in our industry.
Aftersales grew 8% over the year.
This highlights the During the year, we significantly enhanced the importance of maintaining a portfolio of business capabilities of our regional operations across the world, activities with diversified revenue streams.
delivering a new marketing organisation, more efficient Looking ahead, the market environment is expected to procurement, better sharing of best practice between remain challenging.
We are working to further develop national teams and clearer direction in delivering profit streams in Used Cars and Aftersales, to counteract business objectives.
the uncertain environment for New Car sales.
We are confident of further development in these businesses in 2018.
SOUTH AMERICA AN OUTSTANDING DIRECTORATE CHANGE RESULT FOR A YEAR OF INTEGRATION In January 2018, Ken Hanna, Chairman of the Inchcape Board of Directors, announced that The integration of the South American he will retire from the Inchcape Board in May.
Distribution business, acquired in Ken has been Chairman for nine years and Dec 2016, generated 30m of trading has been a member of the Board since 2001. profit over the year, driven by solid Ken has played an important role in steering trading improvements.
Inchcape through the global financial crisis and in developing the Groups strategy over the last We have seen double digit volume decade.
We all have a debt of gratitude to Ken growth for Subaru, with record Subaru and he will be proud, I know, of what the Group sales in Chile, Colombia and Peru.
In addition Hino Chile have hit a very Nigel Stein will succeed Ken as Chairman.
important milestone with more than Nigel has been a Non-Executive Director of 1,000 trucks sold in Chile.
Inchcape plc since October 2015 and has a deep understanding of the Group, and has Our regional management integration been part of the development of the Ignite was recently completed, combining strategy.
He was appointed Chief Executive of the new and existing South American GKN in January 2012 after a number of years in businesses into one.
This should generate other senior roles within the company.
Nigel has synergies in 2018, so we are expecting a significant experience in the commercial vehicle, manufacturing and global automotive industry.
good year for the business.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and former nonexecutive Director of Wolseley plc.
He is Colombia currently Chairman of the Automotive Council.
Peru I look forward to working with Ken, Nigel Chile Argentina and the rest of the Inchcape Board over the coming months to ensure a smooth and comprehensive handover.
18 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUILDING THE ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR THE FUTURE Since the launch of Ignite in 2016, we have reorganised the business and invested to ensure we have the right OUR GLOBAL capabilities within the business.
LEADERSHIP We have created new global roles to deliver many of the Ignite components and have also reorganised the business within regions in order to leverage scale at the TEAM more local level.
I would like to welcome the two newly appointed Our Group Executive Committee is a global senior leaders who are now responsible for directing leadership team of experts that brings together our businesses in Singapore and Hong Kong, Jasmmine a wealth of experience from a range of industries Wong and Stevie Wong.
Both Jasmmine and Stevie bring as well as deep local market knowledge, with a with them a wealth of knowledge and experience, and focus on operational excellence.
The Executive I look forward to seeing them build their operations over team drives the vision and direction of the the years to come.
Company on behalf of the Board.
OUTLOOK Our strong set of results for 2017 reflects the strength of our unique business model and focus on driving the Ignite strategy in our businesses.
I am particularly pleased with the performance across our Distribution and Emerging Markets operations which more than mitigated the challenging Retail environments in the UK and Australia.
Stefan Richard Aris George We have a diversified portfolio business, operating Bomhard Howes Aravanis Ashford at all points of a vehicles life cycle, with a strategic Group Chief Chief CEO CEO Asia Executive Financial Continental focus on higher margin Distribution activities and higher Officer Europe growth geographies.
Asia and Emerging Markets have performed strongly this year and our South American business, which we acquired in December 2016, is performing ahead of plan.
Our industry is changing rapidly and our Ignite strategy has been designed to make sure that we stay one step Stphane Alison James Ruslan ahead of those changes, and win from them.
We expect Chatal Clarke Brearley Kinebas to see the pace of change gather momentum and we Chief Chief Human CEO CEO are evolving our business to ensure that we maintain our Information Resources Inchcape UK Emerging market leading positions and unique relevance to our Officer Officer Markets OEM brand partners and customers.
In summary, we are well positioned to continue to leverage our global scale, drive growth from the expanding Car Parc and benefit from our positions across a unique spread of markets.
Whilst we anticipate Bertrand Nick continuing challenges across some of our Retail Mallet Senior operations, continued momentum across the rest of Chief CEO the Group gives us confidence that we will meet our Development Australasia expectations for 2018.
Officer View full biographies online at www.
com Stefan Bomhard Group Chief Executive inchcape.
