I STRATEGIC REPORT II III INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT strong growth and declining unemployment figures.
INVESTMENT MARKETS IN 2017 Expectations of impending corporate and personal tax 2017 was an excellent year for global equity investors, cuts after the Republican Partys tax plan passed through with strong returns in local currency terms realised Congress in December further fuelled US equity growth across all major geographies and sectors.
towards the end of the year, with the NASDAQ briefly surpassing 7,000 points for the first time in history during 2017 saw a broad based-equity market rally, driven by intra-day trading in mid-December.
strong corporate earnings and macro-economic data across all major regions.
The rally was primarily led by In the UK, the Bank of England raised interest rates for technology stocks, but with all sectors benefiting from the first time in over ten years during November, whilst accelerated momentum creating a rising tide effect in all the completion of the first phase of Brexit negotiations major global markets.
For the first time since 2010, all led to the major equity indices finishing the year at record major regions reported positive annual growth for the highs, despite lagging global markets throughout 2017.
In year in corporate earnings, leading many investors to Europe, a strong start for equity markets was tempered profess the arrival of a new global synchronous recovery.
towards the end of the year, in part due to the rally in the Euro seen during the first three quarters.
In the US, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates three times over the course of the year amidst a backdrop of BlackRock was appointed as Transition Manager on INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE & PORTFOLIO ACTIVITY 17 March with the transition completed successfully UNTIL APRIL 2017 on 12 April.
Alliance Trust Investments was the investment manager To manage the potential out of market and implementation to 31 March and had investment discretion until 17 March risks for the transition, BlackRock was appointed as Transition when BlackRock Advisors UK Limited BlackRock Manager on 17 March 2017 to assist with the transition of the was appointed to manage the transition to the new portfolio to the new structure and to align the portfolio with investment approach.
the Companys new investment approach.
The equity portfolio managed by ATI over this period Willis Towers Watson WTW as the new investment manager performed strongly, returning 9.2% versus the 7.3% for the played an active role during the transition, taking decisions MSCI ACWI benchmark.
The strong value style headwind on appropriate timing for when each underlying portfolio that buffeted the equity portfolio during the final quarter manager should take on responsibility for their respective of 2016 abated during the first quarter of 2017 to reverse portfolios.
The transition was completed well within the much of the loss experienced last year, creating a market timeframe expected, and there were no errors in or deviations environment conducive to the large-cap growth stocks in from the transition plan.
Prior to the transition, WTW estimated the direct costs This market environment favoured the Companys overweight commissions, taxes, fees and bid offer spreads would be in exposure to Info Tech and Health Care stocks, with much of the region of 0.30%.
The final direct costs were much lower the outperformance coming from these two sectors.
Indirect costs were also kept to a minimum.
The Companys Info Tech stalwarts such as Activision Blizzard, transition portfolio performance, even after costs, in the Cadence Design Systems and the core Health Care holdings short period of the transition, performed better than if the in SS&C Technologies, CSL, Amgen and Roche were notable legacy portfolio had remained in place and not been traded.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 9 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED On 1 April 2017, WTW was appointed as the Trusts new investment manager to implement an alliance of best ideas.
Last but not least, costs matter.
We go to great lengths to A HIGH-CONVICTION INVESTMENT APPROACH ensure that we deliver value for money, not just by using our We believe that high-quality equity managers are able scale to reduce costs, but also by using our influence with to deliver long-term capital appreciation and add managers to create bespoke cost-effective products.
value versus an index through their highest-conviction Our investment proposition for the Trust is a true positions, through high active share.
We have selected eight of our We believe: best-in-class global equity managers and combined this with sound risk management to create a well-diversified Genuinely skilled managers exist portfolio with a strong outperformance expectation.
Two These managers can generate outperformance relative key advantages of this investment strategy are increased to their agreed benchmarks in excess of their fees performance consistency through the multi-manager approach and a high expected return driven by the With sufficient research due diligence, these skilled high-conviction stock picks.
managers can be identified and selected in advance The target of the equity portfolio is to outperform the We invest significant time and effort in identifying MSCI All Country World Index by 2% per year after costs these managers and we have a successful proven over rolling three-year periods, supporting the Trusts track record.
Based on our extensive experience we also believe: We are pleased to report that performance since our That high active share portfolios are advantageous.
appointment in April 2017 has been strong and the Academic research supports this portfolio is well positioned to grow further and continue to deliver value to shareholders in 2018 and beyond.
Managers and investors should access a broad opportunity set.
The broadest opportunity set is Craig Baker provided by unrestricted global mandates Chair of the Investment Committee That a number of managers are needed to diversify style, size, sector, region and other investment risks as well as adverse selection: a multi-manager approach As rated by Willis Towers Watson.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 10 I STRATEGIC REPORT II III the year and we continue to monitor these rotations closely.
PORTFOLIO ACTIVITY FROM APRIL 2017 It is reassuring to see that on average, the turnover of stock The equity managers, each of whose allocations has been by the equity managers is relatively low, reinforcing the carefully weighted by us, have got off to a great start.
long-term investment nature of the new strategy.
Prior to our appointment as investment manager for the The appointment of the eight highly skilled equity managers Trust, a transition manager, BlackRock, was used to create that we have selected has strengthened the Trust and positions a portfolio, based on the wish-lists provided by the new it well progressing into 2018 and for the future.
The eight equity managers that we selected to add to and maintain a bench of similarly highly skilled to manage the equity portfolio represent a mix of WTWs equity managers, whilst continuing to monitor the equity top-rated equity managers with varying style biases, carefully portfolio closely in order to identify any opportunity or need weighted in order to create a well-diversified, style-neutral to rotate managers.
Our portfolio comprises the stock picks of several distinct Our analysis indicates that the implementation of the new asset managers.
Each of the asset managers has a unique approach has been successful, with the total equity portfolio asset management and stock selection style: below two of displaying no significant style biases.
The equity managers the equity managers talk about one of their high-conviction have been progressively rotating their allocation of the stock picks.
portfolio into new and interesting areas of value throughout A stock pick for the Alliance Trust portfolio A stock pick for the Alliance Trust portfolio by Hugh Sergeant: Tingyi Holding by Pierre Py and Greg Herr: Ryanair In October we purchased Tingyi Holding, Chinas number One of our portfolio companies dealing with cycles in one instant noodle brand and number one to three its business is Ryanair.
Based in Ireland, the company is across a range of beverage categories: for example it is Europes largest passenger airline.
A temporary shortage Pepsis exclusive bottling partner in China.
The stock has of pilots for its autumn schedule led the company to an attractive recovery thesis with the potential to grow cancel an unprecedented number of flights and pledge operating profit by 50% over the next three years as it to boost pilots compensation.
continues to focus on increasing average selling prices As the dust settles on these well-publicised and rationalisation of the fixed cost base.
announcements, we believe Ryanair continues to Pessimistic investors confuse some cyclicality with possess a massive structural cost advantage against structural decline and miss the critical component of all its competitors, not only the bloated legacy airlines, premiumisation as a value driver in noodles i. e. more but also the other low-cost providers.
This contributes profit from the same volumes.
Looking at more-mature to making the companys core business model very countries suggests there is still scope for many years of powerful and extremely difficult for anyone to either value enhancement in its two key end markets, while replicate or fend off.
We believe it also means Ryanair new management since 2015 has shown better capital has the opportunity to extend its current lead in the allocation discipline.
Investor scepticism still lingers after European market.
Furthermore, the group can leverage two years of downgrades 2015-17, which have only just its direct proprietary relationship with customers to stabilised: cash flow forecasts provide a lead indicator grow ancillary revenues and roll out new digital services.
that these will continue to move higher.
In our view, despite recent execution challenges, management has firmly established itself over time The shares are currently priced at 12x 2018 estimated as a best-in-class team.
This is underscored by the 11x 2019 estimated free cash flow versus the peer group companys very attractive profitability, returns on on 20-23x.
Timing looks particularly attractive given capital employed, high cash conversion and net cash supportive peer commentary and a rolling-over of the balance sheet.
Ryanair isnt your typical airline.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 11 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE STOCK SELECTION IS THE BIGGEST DRIVER APRIL TO DECEMBER 2017 OF RETURNS Since our appointment on 1 April 2017, the Trusts equity portfolio has returned 9.8% outperforming the MSCI ACWI COUNTRY PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION % by 2.2%.
From that date until 30 September 2017, the equity portfolio performed strongly against the index, outperforming 2.5 2.2 2.6 the MSCI ACWI in both the second and third quarters of the 2.0 year.
Towards the end of the fourth quarter, a select group 1.5 of technology stocks led market advances and the portfolio 1.0 struggled to keep pace, as it was underweight in these 0.5 stocks, which led to the first quarter of underperformance relative to the index: however, absolute performance 0.0 remained meaningfully positive with the equity portfolio -0.5 -0.4 returning 3.8% over the fourth quarter.
Total Stock -1.0 Outperformance Allocation Selection It is pleasing to see that the majority of outperformance since Source: MSCI Inc and The Bank of New York Mellon International Ltd. our appointment and implementation of the new investment approach can be attributed to stock selection, which indicates that the portfolio construction has allowed performance to be driven by the equity managers stock-picking capabilities and SECTOR PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION % not swayed by any individual factor or regional bets.
2.5 2.2 1.8 As expected, equity managers stock-picking has made a 2.0 strong contribution to the outperformance over the period.
1.5 1.0 0.4 0.5 0.0 Total Stock Outperformance Allocation Selection Source: MSCI Inc and The Bank of New York Mellon International Ltd. | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 12 Outperformance % Outperformance % I STRATEGIC REPORT II III 1 PORTFOLIO RISK GEARING Risk management is a key part of the portfolio The Trust is managed in accordance with the gearing construction process.
Given the valuations observed in equity markets, we have maintained a gross level of We recognise that, in isolation, the returns from any one of gearing between approximately 8.5% and 9.5% since the the focused portfolios may be volatile.
However, we control implementation of the new multi-manager strategy.
this risk through the multi-manager approach.
Specifically, by selecting managers that have complementary approaches During the year, we increased the Trusts borrowings slightly to equity management, and by directly managing risks at the to maintain the Trusts gearing ratio in a rapidly rising equity overall portfolio level rather than at the sub-manager level.
The borrowings were invested into the Trusts equity portfolio.
Over the period since 1 April this exposure led to 0.6% 2017 saw numerous external risk factors which displayed of additional returns for the Trust, net of borrowing costs.
potential to impact on the Trusts equity portfolio, with 1 Alternative Performance Measure refer to Glossary on page 89. several major political risks materialising and dissipating throughout the course of the year.
For a Sterling investor, STEWARDSHIP Brexit associated risks have undoubtedly been the key concern of 2017.
However, despite completion of the WTW has given discretionary voting powers to each of first phase of negotiations in December, the UKs future the equity managers in respect of the allocation of the relationship with the EU remains unknown.
Therefore, the Alliance Trust portfolio that they manage.
Between 1 April economic impact has not yet fully materialised and the 2017 when WTW was appointed to 31 December 2017, most significant associated risk factor has been movement the equity managers voted on 1,299 resolutions at company of Sterling relative to other major market currencies.
They voted against or abstained from voting on 10% of these resolutions.
The new investment strategy of a well-diversified best ideas portfolio free from style bias at the overall portfolio level, Of the 1,249 resolutions where the management has on the whole insulated the Trust from such external risk recommendation was For the equity managers voted factors, as returns have been shown to be driven primarily against or abstained on 9% of these resolutions and of by the equity managers stock-picking abilities rather than the 26 proposals where the management recommendation being overly influenced by regional or factor bets.
was Against the equity managers voted with management on half of them.
These votes related to many issues, including: The equity portfolio is well insulated from external risk board composition including director remuneration, incentive factors through the new structure.
compensation and appointment, auditor tenure, the reduction of company capital and the setting of company dividend.
Risk summary Active risk 2.2% Portfolio volatility 12.6% The Financial Reporting Council FRC has awarded WTW with Tier 1 status on the quality and transparency of the WTW Active share 80% Benchmark volatility 12.8% stewardship approach.
WTW recognises and supports the Beta 0.97 FRCs UK Stewardship Code as best practice.
Number of stocks Portfolio 192 Benchmark 2,492 Source: Willis Towers Watson, FTSE ICB, FactSet, MSCI Inc.
Portfolio data as at 31 December 2017.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 13
