STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGY OVERVIEW We are continuing to pursue our strategy in order to create value for our stakeholders by focusing on our strengths and consolidating the markets in which we compete.
Through the consistent execution of our long-established and successful strategy, we have built leading positions in a number of market sectors in the Americas, Europe, Australasia and Asia.
Deepening our commitment to our customers and markets, extending our business to new geographies, investing in systems and infrastructure and expanding and coordinating our procurement and international sourcing remain important elements of our strategy.
14 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR STRATEGY The Companys strategy is based on three key areas of focus: Read more P16 ORGANIC GROWTH We are constantly looking to grow Read more Bunzl organically, both by expanding and developing our business with P18 existing customers and by gaining new business with additional customers.
ACQUISITION GROWTH We seek out businesses that satisfy key criteria, including having good financial returns in resilient and growing markets, while at the same time providing opportunities to extract further value aspart of the Bunzl Group.
OPERATING MODEL IMPROVEMENTS We continually strive to improve the qualityof our operations and to make ourbusinesses more efficient and environmentally friendly.
We do this byinvesting in new IT systems, digital capabilities, warehouse facilities androuting systems as well as implementing and sharing best practice operational procedures.
Read more P20 15 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Organic revenue growth 4.3% BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS ORGANIC GROWTH Growing Bunzl organically, either by expanding and developing our business with existing customers or by gaining additional business with new customers, is an integral part of our strategy to enhance shareholder value.
Building relationships Expanding our offering One of the greatest opportunities for Once we have established a good relationship organic sales growth comes from building with a particular customer, weendeavour long term relationships with existing toincrease our level of business with that customers.
Bybeing both flexible and customer.
This can be achieved by expanding reliable and byproviding excellent levels our offering to parts of their operations ofservice, wegain our customers trust and where we might not have previously been confidence to meet theircurrent and future arecognised supplier or by increasing the needs over asustained period of time and type and variety of products that we supply through a broad and effective product tothem, whether branded or ownbrand.
We do this either by extending the range ofproducts within a particular category oradding new categories of products to Winning new customers those already supplied, often byoptimising We are constantly striving to expand cross-selling opportunities across other and gain market sharebywinning business Bunzl businesses.
Our well-established businessmodel allows us to show potentialcustomers that we can apply ourresources and expertise toreduce oreliminate many of thehidden costs of in-house procurement and distribution orsatisfy their requirements more effectively than their current suppliers.
16 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We build strong USING OUR relationships withour DETAILED customers to gain a deep understanding of their needs KNOWLEDGE and to identify where AND EXPERTISE we can support them.
17 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Our strong balance sheet and consistently high cash conversion means we have the ongoing firepower to act quickly when the opportunities arise.
A RECORD LEVEL OF New markets entered in 2017 ITALY ANNUAL 4 ACQUISITION SPEND 18 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATING CHINA OUR FRAGMENTED MARKETS INTERNATIONALLY ACQUISITION GROWTH Expanding and developing the Group through acquiring businesses is also a key component ofour growth strategy.
Historically, approximately three quarters ofour year-on-year growth has been achieved through an ongoing programme of BRAZIL focused and targeted acquisitions in both new and existing market sectors and geographies.
Key acquisition parameters Growth in existing countries In considering potential acquisition Unlike many industries that are opportunities, we only target those characterised by a relatively small number businesses which meet the specific oflarge businesses, the markets in which parameters that fit our business model and wecompete are very fragmented.
These include businesses: result, there are numerous opportunities forus to develop through acquisitions in that sell business to business B2B : those countries where we already have a with a consolidated not for resale presence.
We do this either by extending our product offering: existing operations in a particular market in resilient and growing markets: sector or by acquiring a business in a sector with a fragmented customer base: in which we do not currently operate within that operate in markets with scope for that country.
During 2017 we entered the further consolidation and synergies: safety sector in Italy through the anchor whose products represent a small acquisition of Neri and expanded our percentage of total customer spend: operations into the foodservice sector in that have opportunities for own label Brazil through the agreement to acquire products: and Talge which was completed in early 2018. with attractive financial returns.
Growth in new countries Acquisition types We are truly international, having grown There are two different types of acquisition from a business with operations in 12 that we undertake depending on whether countries in 2003 to one with a presence in weare already present in the country or 30 countries today, having entered Singapore market sector in which the target business and China during 2017 following the anchor is operating: acquisitions of LSH and HSESF respectively.
However, there are a number of potentially Anchor attractive countries where we do not yet new geographies: or operate.
Inevaluating whether to enter a new new market sectors.
countrythrough acquisition, we consider anumber of different criteria.
These include Bolt-on a detailed analysis of our market sectors, existing geographies: or thelocal macroeconomic indicators and the existing market sectors.
ease of doing business in, and the political risks and business practices associated with, the particular country under review.
19 SINGAPORE Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Through careful planning OPERATING and by being flexible, we ensure that our customers get their orders delivered to their desired location MODEL on-time and in-full.
IMPROVEMENTS We are continually looking to refine and develop our processes and procedures to improve our operations andmake our businesses more efficient.
By doing so, weare able to gain a competitive advantage, by offering our customers more cost-effective solutions, Number of locations while at thesame time improving our profitability.
581 20 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Global purchasing With the annual cost of the goods we sellexceeding 6.4 billion, our global scale provides substantial purchasing synergies with our international suppliers that we areable to share with our customers in theform of more competitive selling prices.
CONTINUING TO REFINE AND DEVELOP OUR Sharing best practice Consolidating PROCESSES As we have continued to expand warehouses internationally, we are increasingly As warehouse lease terms come making use of our collective to an end, we are often able to resources, experience and consolidate our warehouse expertise to share best practice footprint in a particular area across the Group and collaborate byclosing a number of smaller between our different businesses.
and less efficient facilities and relocating our operations Environment into a single, larger and We are able to make savings in our moreefficient building.
operating costs through the implementation of a number of environmentally friendly initiatives such as the installation of energy efficient lighting systems in our warehouses and reductions in the amount of packaging waste Routing and IT systems generated by the business.
Systems are an important part of safety systems our abilitytoserve our customers By installing state-of-the-art in the most cost-effective and routing andsafety systems in our efficient manner and, accordingly, facilities and delivery vehicles, we we are continually improving and are able to plan ourdelivery routes upgrading our IT systems in order to minimise the distances travelled toincrease functionality and and encourage safe andefficient improve customerservice.
driving practices, thereby reducing fuel and other transport costs.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVING THE WAY WE Digital capabilities DO BUSINESS The implementation of a variety of digital projects throughout the Group, such as state-of-the-art e-commerce solutions, has increased the efficiency of our operations while at thesame time provided an enhanced experience for our customers when interacting with our businesses.
