THE EQUITY MANAGERS EIGHT OF THE BEST STOCK PICKERS FROM ACROSS THE WORLD Manager Team Investment Approach Bill Kanko, Founder and President.
Bill The process is to look five to ten years ahead and find was the Lead Manager for the Trimark stocks across the cap spectrum.
Valuation-orientated Fund and Trimark Select Growth Fund, buyers of leading businesses around the world.
The with combined assets of more than approach is long term and contrarian.
10% Pierre Py and Greg Herr are Long-term approach seeking companies that have Co-Portfolio Managers with an high-quality business models, exhibit financial average of 20 years' investing strength, and strong management with a track record experience.
of shareholder alignment and allocating capital in a value-accretive manner.
The team operates a strict value discipline.
13% Rajiv Jain founded GQG Partners in Rajiv looks for high-quality and sustainable businesses, June 2016, having previously worked whose underlying strength should outweigh their macro at Vontobel Asset Management for environment and where each companys strength can 22 years as Lead Portfolio Manager, only truly be understood through bottom-up analysis.
Head of Equities, CIO and Co-CEO, responsible for over 30bn of assets.
15% Ben Whitmore has over 20 years Ben is well known in the market as a long-standing of experience and joined Jupiter practitioner of contrarian value investing.
He worked at Schroders, businesses that are out of favour and under-valued, but managing both retail and institutional have prominent franchises and sound balance sheets.
portfolios and around 2bn of assets.
Ben is supported by Dermot Murphy, 10% Assistant Fund Manager.
Lyrical Asset Managements Value matters most to Lyrical and the team also maintains investment management team a strict discipline around investing in quality companies, is led by Co-Founder and Chief seeking businesses that it believes will generate Investment Officer, Andrew Wellington.
attractive returns on their invested capital, are resilient with reasonable debt levels, positive growth, attractive margins, competent management, and the flexibility to 15% react to all phases of the business cycle.
Hugh Sergeant is the CIO of Hugh has put in place a process that helps him identify Equities having previously been in a value at different stages of a companys lifecycle and similar role at Societe Generale Asset to give signals as to when that value might be unlocked.
Management SGAM and prior to that He has shown particular strength in smaller companies at UBS Phillips & Drew and Gartmore.
and in classic Recovery situations.
9% Sustainable Growth Advisers SGA SGA seeks to identify only those very few truly was founded in 2003 by George differentiated global businesses that possess strong Fraise, Gordon Marchand and Rob pricing power, offer recurring revenue generation and Rohn who jointly manage the Trusts benefit from attractive, long runways of growth.
They average over 30 years of investment experience.
14% Andy Headley is Head of Global The investment process utilises a proprietary Real Return Strategies at Veritas Asset Management.
Approach, employed with an absolute return mindset, Andy has over 20 years' investment dispensing with any reference to indices.
Veritas uses a experience and is supported by Charles number of methods including themes to help identify Richardson, Co-Portfolio Manager, who industries and companies that are well positioned to has 30 years experience.
benefit medium-term growth, regardless of where they 14% are located.
To read more about our equity managers views please visit: https: www.
co. uk As rated by Willis Towers Watson.
Manages both a global equity and an emerging markets equity portfolio.
"""JUPITER"" and are the trade marks of Jupiter Investment Management Group Ltd and registered in the UK and as Community Trade Marks and elsewhere."
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 8
