Board of Directors DRIVING INCHCAPE FORWARD Ken Hanna Stefan Bomhard Richard Howes Jerry Buhlmann Rachel Empey Chairman Group Chief Chief Financial Non-Executive Non-Executive Executive Officer Director Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: September 2001 April 2015 April 2016 March 2017 May 2016 Ken Hanna will Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: retire from the Group Stefan has senior Richard has a wealth Jerry has over 30 Rachel was following the AGM level experience of experience across years experience appointed Chief on 24 May 2018. gained in a wide the financial and in the media and Financial Officer of range of retail and commercial sectors, advertising industries.
Skills and experience: FMCG businesses.
working for multi-site More recently he was KGaA, a top Ken has extensive Prior to joining the businesses with CEO of Aegis Group healthcare company international Group, he was substantial global PLC from 2010 2013, listed on the DAX financial experience President of Bacardi footprints.
He joined and following the index, on August gained in a number Limiteds European the Group from acquisition of Aegis 2017. of business sectors.
region and was Coats plc where Group by Dentsu Inc.
He also possesses Previously Rachel also responsible he was Chief become CEO of strong leadership was Chief Financial for Bacardis Financial Officer.
Dentsu Aegis, a post and Strategy and governance global commercial he retains today.
skills obtained in a Richard is a Officer of Telefnica organisation and variety of leading chartered Jerry is also a director Deutschland Holding global travel retail.
of Madison Sports AG Telefnica Cadbury plc and Group and the Deutschland.
Media Trust Non-Executive Rachel is a chartered Director of Other appointments: Committee accountant.
membership: Chair of Aggreko plc.
Committee Remuneration, CR membership: Chair of Shooting and Nomination Star Chase.
membership: Chair of the Nomination Committee, member of Remuneration and CR Committees.
Full biographies, including past employment history, can be found on www.
com 44 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS John Langston Coline McConville Nigel Northridge Nigel Stein Till Vestring Non-Executive Non-Executive Senior Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: August 2013 June 2014 July 2009 October 2015 September 2011 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Subject to his re-appointment Till is an Advisory John has corporate Coline has extensive Nigel brings by shareholders at Partner with Bain finance, accounting remuneration international the AGM on 24 May & Co, based in and international experience as and commercial 2018, Nigel Stein will Singapore.
He experience acquired the Remuneration experience acquired become Chairman has extensive in senior financial Committee Chair across a number following Ken experience advising roles in the of Travis Perkins plc, of sectors.
He is an Hannas retirement.
Fevertree plc and of experienced Nongrowth strategy He is an experienced TUI Travel plc until its Executive Director Skills and experience: across Asia and Non-Executive merger with TUI AG.
and has served as Nigel became Chief leading Asian Director who has a Coline is an a director on the Executive of GKN in companies on strong governance experienced Nonboards of several January 2012 and strategy, M&A background and Executive Director large UK and retired in December and organisation.
was the Audit and has served as global plcs.
He has Committee Chair of a director on several Other appointments: a wide range of Other appointments: Rexam PLC until its UK boards.
international, general Non-Executive Chairman of sale to Ball Group management and Director of Keppel Other appointments: Hogg Robinson in 2016. finance experience Corporation.
Non-Executive plc, Chairman of John is a chartered gained in various Director of Fevertree Scandinavian Committee accountant.
roles at GKN plc and Drinks plc, Travis Tobacco Group A S membership: also has experience Perkins plc and and non-executive Committee Chair of CR in the automotive a member of the Chairman of Belfast membership: Committee and manufacturing supervisory board City Airport.
and member of Chair of Audit sector.
Committee and Committee Remuneration Nigel is a chartered and Nomination member of Committee membership: accountant.
Chair of and Nomination Committee Remuneration Committees.
membership: Committee Audit, Remuneration and member of and Nomination Nomination and Committees.
