d e t a e r c e u l a V P r o f i t r e i n v e s t e d Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:27 Page 10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 10 Ultras robust business model Ultras business model enables it to achieve its primary objective of generating long-term shareholder value.
The market segment approach provides the Innovative solutions focused Ultra provides the market Group with improved analysis at an appropriate on customer need with portfolio strength level of complexity, thus allowing Ultra to better Ultra creates value by generating innovative Eight distinct and highly-technical manage and prioritise the Groups investments, solutions from across its portfolio and by market segments including Research and Development R&D becoming a key partner in its customers Clearly defined market segments allow Ultras alignment and acquisition strategy.
design process ensuring their needs are businesses to combine and provide more met.
Ultra businesses innovate constantly Acquisition to position in growth markets complex offerings to customers, leveraging to create solutions for customers often and divestment to maintain focus technology from across the full range of the through highly specialised technological Ultra invests in targeted acquisitions to Groups capabilities, rather than only supplying innovation.
strategically grow and complement its individual products from single businesses portfolio.
The Group invests in acquisitions operating in siloes.
This approach establishes a that develop and apply domain expertise, framework that aligns resources to greater capabilities and technical synergies in common effect across each market-facing segment and end markets.
The Group will dispose of utilises the most effective customer capabilities that are no longer considered core relationship.
In turn, this supports the to the strategic growth plan for the portfolio.
development of coherent strategies against particular end markets, based upon collective market research and opportunity capture.
to generate long-term shareholder value enables the Group to provide an agile and Maintaining Ultras responsive level of support to customers and operational excellence partners that is normally associated with a Agility through a devolved organisation smaller business.
The agility of the individual A key differentiator for Ultra is the agility businesses is enhanced by access to wider and that businesses in the Group exhibit in their complementary technologies and expertise customer relationships.
that lie elsewhere in the Group through collaborative autonomy.
LAUNCH is a way for Ultras The Board provides leadership and direction businesses to generate long-term in achieving its corporate objective of Ultras businesses are focused on helping customer relationships which lead to generating long-term shareholder value.
customers identify their true needs while a better pipeline of opportunities and At an operational level, the Executive Team developing long-term relationships.
This approach is responsible for running the Group, for the enables the Group to be a trusted and ensures Ultra understands the real needs delivery of strategy, for financial performance strategic supplier to its customers of its customers and encourages a and for team development.
Ultras LAUNCH is a set of behaviours long-term strategic relationship where developed by the Group to facilitate customer Ultras individual businesses have a high Ultra businesses become part of customers engagement and relationship building.
degree of operational autonomy, which extended enterprises, to mutual benefit.
P50 More about LAUNCH BOARD EXEC TEAM 18 AUTONOMOUS Achieving operational efficiency BUSINESSES through engaged competent RESPONSIBLE FOR: RESPONSIBLE FOR: RESPONSIBLE FOR: LEADERSHIP doing the right thing MANAGEMENT doing things right MANAGING INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS people with domain expertise GROWTH IN SHAREHOLDER VALUE DEVELOPING GROUP STRATEGY DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING Ultra believes that the right people, who REVIEWING GROUP STRATEGY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE COMPETITIVE STRATEGIES RISK MANAGEMENT TEAM DEVELOPMENT WINNING & EXECUTING BUSINESS embrace and sustain Ultras culture and who STANDARDS OF ETHICS DEVELOPING PEOPLE have the domain expertise, are its most AND BEHAVIOURS WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP important asset in successfully enabling the Group to deliver value to its stakeholders.
P58-59 P48-57 Ultra's Board of Directors People and culture d e t a e r c e u l a V Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:27 Page 11 6.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 11 Ultra invested 4% 2016: 4% of revenue Form external partnerships to develop Ultra constantly innovates in R&D to develop new offerings in 2017. the best solutions for customers to meet customer needs Its customers invested a further 17% Ultra has an established history of partnering Focus on Tiers 2-4 2016: 14%.
and teaming both internally and externally in Ultra has no strategic intent to be a Tier 1, order to offer the best-of-breed technologies top-level platform provider.
Therefore, the that meet its customers requirements as Funded by: Group is a non-threatening partner to the Tier closely as possible.
The Group is agnostic to Group 19% 1 prime contractors.
As such, Tier 1 contractors the source of technology which is required Customer 81% can rely on Ultra to provide the specialist to deliver these solutions.
Where proven capabilities at which the Group is expert, rather technology exists outside the Group that than regarding it as a competitor.
meets customers requirements, Ultra will readily form external teaming partnerships to access it.
Ultra sees these teaming arrangements as a source of competitive advantage, allowing it to deliver differentiated This R&D spend is focused on enhancing solutions that meet customer needs the portfolio of capabilities and programme efficiently.
By working together, Ultras positions that underpin further growth.
Tier 1 businesses are able to win opportunities that Where the Group has complementary would not be possible in isolation.
Tier 2 capabilities, it can combine these to offer more comprehensive and innovative solutions.
Tier 3 This means that Ultras products, capabilities Customer and the associated domain expertise uniquely problem Tier 4 statement position the Group to be able to meet more complex and demanding system and Ultras specialist capabilities are mainly at subsystem requirements.
Tiers 3 and 4, supplying equipment and Ultras 3rd-party components to support Tier 1 and 2 systems solution technology and programmes.
The Group does undertake Tier 2 system integration, but does this mainly when integrating its own Tier 3 offerings where it understands the detailed Tier 3 interfaces and so is able to manage the risk inherent in system integration activities.
Ultra is continually evolving its approach in response to: changing customer demands direction of travel of the markets striving to be the first to bring new Tier denition solutions to market.
Equipment supplier In its specialist capability areas, a key Responsible for being the prime contractor of Ultra has a large presence at this level of the differentiator for the Group is its the platform in question, examples being a supply chain, supplying equipment such as data understanding of the: naval ship or a fighter aircraft.
links, cryptographic equipment and sonobuoys.
Component supplier demanding operational environments Responsible for integrating equipment or Ultra also provides a broad range of smaller projected capability gaps that components that will make up a functional components for many programmes worldwide, customers would like addressed.
Examples of system including sensors for measuring the integration completed by Ultra include performance of a nuclear reactor and joysticks In short, Ultras understanding of customers needs allows it to develop effective and integrated sonar systems and wing ice to control unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs.
