Board of Directors Chairman Senior Independent Director Michael Wareing John McAdam Chairman Senior Independent Director CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI BSc, PhD Executive Directors David Lockwood David Mellors Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director OBE, BA, FCA, RSA, FAeS MA, ACA Changes to the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Index David Mellors David became Chief Financial Officer on 1.
Corporate Governance Report 48 Michael Wareing Michael was appointed as Non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2017 3.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 53 David Jonathan Flint Jonathan retired as Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Director on 3 August 2017 4.
Nomination Committee Report 54 John McAdam John was appointed Senior Independent Director 5.
Audit Committee Report 56 and Non-executive Director on 3 August 2017 Ren Mdori Ren was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 6.
Directors Remuneration Report 62 1 January 2018 Norton Schwartz Norton was appointed as a Non-executive Director 7.
Other Statutory Information 72 on 1 January 2018 8.
Statement of Directors Responsibility 75 Cobham plc www.
com 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Non-executive Directors Michael Hagee Birgit Nrgaard Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director MA, MBA Alan Semple Alison Wood Audit Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Chair BA, CA MA, MBA Director appointments post year end Ren Mdori Norton Schwartz Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Doctorate Degree, Masters in Finance BSc, MA www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Board of Directors continued Chairman Senior Independent Director Michael Wareing John McAdam CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI BSc, PhD Age: 64 Age: 69 Appointed: Director December 2010, Chairman January 2017 Appointed: August 2017 Skills and experience: Michael was, until 30 September 2017, the Senior Skills and experience: John is currently Chairman at Rentokil Initial plc and Independent Director, Audit Committee Chair and member of the United Utilities Group plc, roles he has held since 2008.
Prior to this, he held Remuneration and Nomination Committees at Intertek plc.
He was previously a number of Non-executive Director appointments at companies including a Non-executive Director, Audit Committee Chair and member of the Rolls-Royce Holdings plc, J Sainsbury plc, Sara Lee Inc. and Severn Trent plc.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees of Wolseley plc from 2009 until He was also Senior Independent Director for Electra Private Equity plc, a London 2014.
Prior to these Board roles, he held a number of senior executive positions, Stock Exchange listed investment trust, until March 2018.
John previously including International Chief Executive Officer at KPMG, where he worked from served as the Chief Executive Officer of ICI plc, a position he held from 2003 1973 until 2009.
He previously served as Audit Committee Chair for Cobham, until it was taken over by Akzo Nobel in 2008.
He holds a BSc from the and chaired not for profit organisations, including Business in the Community University of Manchester and a PhD.
International, and two roles on behalf of the British Government, namely as the External appointments: Chairman at Rentokil Initial plc and United Prime Ministers Envoy for Reconstruction in Southern Iraq, and the Economic UtilitiesGroup plc.
Development Adviser to the Government of Afghanistan.
Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee External appointments: None.
Committee membership: Chair of the Nomination Committee and of the Board Risk Committee.
Executive Directors David Lockwood David Mellors Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director OBE, BA, FCA, RSA, FAeS MA, ACA Age: 55 Age: 49 Appointed: December 2016 Appointed: January 2017 Skills and experience: David was formerly the Chief Executive of Laird plc, Skills and experience: David was CFO of QinetiQ, the FTSE 250 science and the FTSE 250 global technology company, a position he held since 2012.
Prior engineering group operating primarily in the defence, security and aerospace to this, he was Vice President Global Defense and Security at BT Global Services.
markets, a position he held from 2008, and was interim Chief Executive for a David has also held senior management positions with Thales Group, Intense period during 2015.
Previously, he was Deputy Chief Financial Officer of Logica Limited and BAE Systems plc.
He has held Non-executive Director and plc, Chief Financial Officer of Logicas international division, covering operations Chairman positions with WFEL Ltd, Photonix Ltd, and the Scottish Governments in North America, Australia, the Middle East and Asia, and prior to that he was Technology Advisory Group, and was previously the Non-executive Chair of the Group Financial Controller.
David formerly held various roles with CMG plc, Knowledge Transfer Network Limited, a vehicle established to support the work Rio Tinto plc and Price Waterhouse, now PwC.
He is a Chartered Accountant, of Innovate UK, the UKs innovation agency which is sponsored by the UK holding a degree in physics, from Oxford University.
Government Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy BEIS.
David is an accountant FCA by training, holding a degree in mathematics from Committee membership: Member of the Executive Directors Committee.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and Commerce RSA and in 2005 was awarded as the Scottish Entrepreneur of the Year for Technology.
In the 2001 Queens Birthday Honours, David was awarded the OBE for services to industry in Scotland.
External appointments: Member of the Dunedin International Advisory Board.
Committee membership: Chair of the Executive Directors Committee.
Role and focus Board meeting attendance for 2017 The Boards main duties are to: 12 Board meetings were held during the year, attended as follows: Lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable financialperformance and long term shareholder value: Michael Wareing Review and agree the Groups strategy: 1 John McAdam Set the Groups risk appetite and monitor the Groups risk David Lockwood management processes: Ensure necessary resources are in place: David Mellors Monitor management performance: and Michael Hagee Supervise the conduct of the Groups activities within a framework 2 Birgit Nrgaard ofprudent and effective internal controls.
3 Alan Semple Board of Directors as at 31 December 2017 Alison Wood Executive Directors Non-executive 4 David Jonathan Flint 25% Chairman 12% Unable to attend Attended 1 John McAdam joined the Board on 3 August 2017.
Independent 2 Birgit Nrgaard missed a telephone meeting due to other Board commitments.
Non-executive Directors 3 Alan Semple missed a telephone meeting due to ill health.
63% 4 David Jonathan Flint retired from the Board on 3 August 2017.
com 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Non-executive Directors Michael Hagee Birgit Nrgaard Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director MA, MBA Age: 73 Age: 59 Appointed: December 2008 Appointed: April 2014 Skills and experience: Michael served in the US Marine Corps for almost 39 Skills and experience: Birgit, a Danish national, currently holds a number years ending his career in 2007 as Commandant of the Marine Corps and a of non-executive roles in the private and public sectors.
Birgits last executive member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
His numerous military assignments role was as both the Chief Executive Officer of Grontmij Carl Bro, the Danish included Commanding General, 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, Deputy engineering consultancy group as well as the Chief Operating Officer of Director of Operations at the US European Command and Executive Assistant Grontmij NV, the Dutch parent company.
An economics graduate from to the Director of Central Intelligence.
He also served in a number of diplomatic Copenhagen Business School, Birgit has an MBA from INSEAD.
missions including the presidential diplomatic mission to Somalia.
Michael External appointments: Birgit is a Non-executive Director of IMI plc, WSP retired from his role as Non-executive Director of Remington Outdoor Global Inc, a global consulting engineering company listed in Canada, DSV A S, Company Inc. in February 2015. an international transportation company listed on the Copenhagen Stock External appointments: President and CEO of the Admiral Nimitz Exchange and NCC AB, a construction and property development company Foundation in Fredericksburg, Texas, US, Co-Chairman of the Commission on listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm.
She also holds board positions in private Energy and Geopolitics, Non-executive Director of DynCorp International Inc. companies and public sector positions.
and Outside Manager on the Government Security Committee of the Special Committee membership: Member of the Audit Committee and Security Agreement of TE SubCom, a TE Connectivity limited company.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit Committee.
Birgit is retiring from the Board following the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Michael is retiring by rotation following the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Alan Semple Alison Wood Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director BA, CA MA, MBA Age: 58 Age: 54 Appointed: February 2015 Appointed: July 2011 Skills and experience: Alan was formerly CFO and a Director of John Wood Skills and experience: Alison was formerly Global Director Corporate Group plc, a role he had held since 2000 and retired from in May 2015.
Prior to Development and Strategy for National Grid plc.
Previously, she was Group this, he held a number of senior finance roles in Wood Group from 1996.
Alan Strategic Development Director for BAE Systems plc, responsible for corporate previously served as the Group Finance Director of GRT Bus Group plc from 1994 strategy, mergers and acquisitions, and strategic business development across to 1995, one of two companies which merged to form FirstGroup plc.
She held two previous Non-executive Directorships with BTG 1987 and 1994, he was Finance Director at Seaforth Maritime Group Limited.
plc and THUS plc, and was Senior Independent Director and Chair of the External appointments: Non-executive Director and member of the Audit Remuneration Committee for e2v technologies until March 2017.
Non-executive Director and Chair of the External appointments: Non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Cactus, Inc. Remuneration Committee of Costain Group plc, TT Electronics plc and Committee membership: Chair of the Audit Committee and member TheBritish Standards Institution a non-listed Royal Charter Company.
of the Board Risk Committee and Nomination Committee.
Committee membership: Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Alan is retiring from the Board following the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
member of the Nomination Committee and Board Risk Committee.
Ren Mdori Norton Schwartz Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Doctorate Degree, Masters in Finance BSc, MA Age: 60 Age: 66 Appointed: January 2018 Appointed: January 2018 Skills and experience: Ren was Finance Director at Anglo American plc Skills and experience: General Schwartz retired from military service in for12 years, having retired at its AGM in April 2017.
Prior to joining Anglo October 2012 after serving over 39 years in the US Air Force.
He was the 19th American he held a number of senior financial positions, including Group Chief of Staff of the US Air Force from 2008-2012 and a member of the US Finance Director at The BOC Group plc.
Ren holds a doctorate degree in Joint Chiefs of Staff.
He also held a number of other senior military positions economics and degrees in finance and economics from the Universit fide Paris including Commander US Transportation Command, Director for Operations Dauphine, France.
and Director of the Joint Staff and Deputy Commander of US Special External appointments: Since 2013 Ren has been on the Board of Petrofac Operations Command.
Limited, a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, and the Chairman External appointments: Norton sits on the Board of Wesco Aircraft oftheir Audit Committee.
Having become Senior Independent Director of Holdings, Inc, and the US Board of Directors of CAE Inc, both NYSE listed Petrofac in 2017, he will become Chairman in May 2018.
Before that, he was a companies.
Heis currently the President and CEO of Business Executives for Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at SSE plc.
National Security BENS in the US, a position he has held since 2013.
BENS Committee membership: Member of the Audit Committee and Board applies best practice business solutions to improve the performance of RiskCommittee.
US Government national security partners.
Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47
