Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 1 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 58 Board of Directors Time with Ultra: 29 years 2 months Douglas Caster CBE BSc FIET Executive Chairman Time in position: 6 years 8 months Douglas is a highly experienced engineer and management buy-out which formed Ultra manager of electronics businesses.
He has a Electronics, joined the Board in October 1993. long track record of delivering growth both In April 2000, he was promoted to the position organically and through effective acquisitions, of Managing Director of Ultras Information & achieving superior financial performance in the Power Systems division.
In April 2004, he was companies he has led.
appointed Chief Operating officer and became Chief Executive in April 2005.
He was appointed Douglas started his career as an electronics deputy Chairman in April 2010, became design engineer with the Racal Electronics Group Chairman of Ultra in April 2011 and Executive in 1975, before moving to Schlumberger in 1986 Chairman in November 2017. and then to Dowty as Engineering Director of Sonar & Communication Systems in 1988.
In Douglas is a Non-Executive Director of Morgan 1992, he became Managing Director of that Advanced Materials plc and was appointed business and, after participating in the Chairman of Metalysis Limited in January 2015.
Time with Ultra: 2 years Amitabh Sharma BSc FCA Group Finance Director Time in position: 1 year 8 months Amitabh is a highly experienced financial Amitabh joined Ultra in January 2016 and professional, having held senior finance positions became Group Finance Director with effect from at listed and private companies.
He has extensive May 2016, when he was appointed to the Board.
industry experience as well as an excellent track record of delivery across different sectors.
Amitabh was previously Group Financial Controller at Ultra from 1999 to 2005.
He was Group Finance Director at Gibbs and Dandy plc now Gibbs and Dandy Ltd and a Divisional Finance Director at Saint Gobain.
He has been an audit manager with KPMG in London and qualied as a Chartered Accountant in 1993.
Time in position: 5 years 5 months Martin Broadhurst OBE MA C. Dir FloD FRAeS Non-Executive Director Martin has a wealth of valuable experience in During his time as Chief Executive, he served on the defence and aerospace markets, having run the Group Holdings Board and was Chairman of a large engineering organisation within the a number of subsidiary companies.
Martin is a sector for fifteen years.
He has demonstrable Non-Executive Director of the Centre for expertise and skill in growing international Engineering Excellence and a trustee of the business and in expanding capabilities.
He was appointed to joined Marshall Aerospace as a management the Board in July 2012. trainee in 1975 and, following a number of roles with the company, including Production Director and Director of Programmes, was appointed as Chief Executive in February 1996.
Time in position: 8 months Geeta Gopalan Non-Executive Director Geeta brings to the Ultra Board a wide range of non-departmental public body.
As an executive, knowledge and experience from a long career in she has a long career including Chairman Europe the financial services sector.
She has worked in for Monitise Plc, and Director of Payments commercial and retail banking as well as social Services at HBOS.
Geeta spent 16 years working investment and community development in the for Citigroup during which time she was a third sector.
Managing Director for UK Retail Bank and Business Development Head of EMEA.
She has Geeta holds Non-Executive Directorships with experience coaching and mentoring as well as UK retail bank Virgin Money Holdings plc and in-depth knowledge of the digital economy, Virgin Money Bank, and Wizink Bank S. A mobile and internet spaces and the social sector.
Geeta is also a Geeta joined the Ultra Board in April 2017.
Non-Executive Member and Vice-Chair of the England Committee of the Big Lottery Fund, a 2 months as Executive Chairman.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 59 Executive Director Remuneration Committee member General Counsel & Company Secretary Non-Executive Director Audit Committee member Nomination Committee member Time in position: 3 years John Hirst CBE BA DSc FCA MCT CCMI Non-Executive Director services to Meteorology.
He is a Fellow of the John is a highly experienced leader of large global organisations, in both the private and Institute of Chartered Accountants, a Member public sectors.
He has a wealth of knowledge of the Association of Corporate Treasurers and a and expertise which he brings to Ultras Board.
companion of the Chartered British Institute of John was Chief Executive of the Met Ofce, a Management.
John is a Non-Executive Director post he held from 2005 to 2014.
Prior to this, of Marsh UK, Jelf plc, SME Insurance Services, John was CEO of Premier Farnell and prior to Anglian Water, IMIS Global Ltd, Hammerson plc that, he spent 19 years with I Pension Fund, ORSUS Medical Ltd and White CI plc, during which time he was Chief Executive of two of ICIs Square Chemical Inc. John was appointed to the Global businesses, ICI Performance Chemicals Board in January 2015. and ICI Autocolor, and was Group Treasurer.
He was awarded a CBE in the 2014 New Years Honours List for his national and international Time in position: 8 months Victoria Hull LLB Non-Executive Director Victoria joins the Ultra Board with a wealth of experience across a diverse range of sectors from her extensive legal and Board career.
She is a highly experienced Board member and Board advisor being a former Executive Director and General Counsel of Invensys plc and Telewest Communications plc.
She has considerable international and domestic experience of legal, commercial and governance matters having worked in global and domestic companies.
Victoria has always operated at an Executive Committee or Board level and joined the Ultra Board in April 2017.
Time in position: 8 years 11 months Sir Robert Walmsley KCB FREng Non-Executive Director Sir Robert brings to Ultras Board solid experience Prior to his MOD appointment, Sir Robert had a in the defence, security, transport and energy distinguished career in the Royal Navy, where he sectors.
He has a deep knowledge of Ultras main rose to the rank of Vice Admiral in 1994 and geographic markets and substantial experience of served for two years as Controller of the Navy.
Sir Robert was Chief Robert is a Non-Executive Director of Cohort plc.
of Defence Procurement at the UK Ministry of He was appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Defence MOD, a post which he held from 1996 until his retirement fro m public service in 2003.
Time with Ultra: Appointed January 2018 Anant Prakash BA General Counsel & Company Secretary Anant is the Groups General Counsel & Company Secretary.
He brings to the role over eight years of legal and commercial experience, acquired working on a broad range of corporate, commercial and M&A matters at Slaughter and May.
Anant provides advice and support to the Board and its Committees, and maintains the Groups relationships with its external law rms.
He was appointed Company Secretary in January 2018.
NOTE: All details correct as at 31 December 2017
