146 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report The directors present their report, together with the audited financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Strategic report approved by a special resolution of the shareholders 75% majority required in accordance with the legislation in force at the time.
Subject to applicable The strategic report is incorporated by reference and includes the statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company following content: may by ordinary resolution decide or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Strategic Review Pages 10 to 49 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and Commentary provided on the consolidated Page 91 accounts, to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, and to income statement appoint proxies to exercise their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a Commentary provided on the consolidated Pages 92 to 93 dividend and on a liquidation, may share in the assets of the Company.
statement of comprehensive income Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition Commentary provided on the consolidated Pages 92 to 93 a general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at Annual General statement of changes in equity Meetings.
Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended and the treasury shares carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions of assets.
Commentary provided on the consolidated Pages 95 and 97 balance sheet and the consolidated There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company statement of cash flows other than: certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by laws and Results and dividend regulations for example insider trading laws : and The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page 90.
Segmental pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the directors operating profit amounted to 240.9m 2016: 227.7m and profit before and certain employees of the Company require approval to deal in the taxation and discontinued operations amounted to 180.9m 2016: 165.3m.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 25.2p per share 2016: 24.7p per The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that share on the ordinary share capital payable, subject to shareholder approval may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on voting rights.
at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 May 2018, on 18 May 2018 to None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 April 2018.
The only restrictions on voting rights are those that apply to the with the interim dividend of 14.2p per share paid on 15 September 2017, ordinary shares held in treasury.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and this final dividend will bring the total distribution for the year to 39.4p per voting instructions must be received by the Companys registrars not later share 2016: 38.7p per share.
than 48 hours excluding any non-working days before a general meeting, or subject to the Companys articles of association any adjournment thereof.
Research and development Treasury shares See Section 2.1.
3.3 to the financial statements on page 103.
The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting held on Shareholders funds 4 May 2017 to purchase up to 27,197,561 of its ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
Shareholders funds increased from 543.2m at the end of 2016 to 607.4m This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at 31 December 2017. to be held on 3 May 2018, where shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority, details of which will be given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Share capital As at 31 December 2017, 14,248,836 ordinary shares nominal value As at 31 December 2017, the Companys share capital comprised a single class 4,071,096 were held in treasury representing 5.2% of the issued share capital of share capital which was divided into ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
Details excluding treasury shares at that time.
The maximum number of shares held in of the share capital of the Company are set out in Section 4.10 to the financial treasury during the year ended 31 December 2017 was 14,248,836. statements on page 134.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Substantial shareholdings The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and for which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary.
See page 170 for further details.
Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service and on the Companys website.
As at 31 December 2017, the following voting interests As at 31 December 2017, 972,257 shares were held in an employee trust for use in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure in relation to certain executive incentive plans representing 0.4% of the issued Guidance and Transparency Rules, had been notified to the Company: share capital excluding treasury shares at that time.
The independent trustee of the trust has the same rights as any other shareholder other than as specifically 1 % Held restricted in the governing trust deed.
The EBT has agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments now and in the future.
Participants in option schemes do MFS Investment Management 13.01% not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise.
Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.93% During 2017, 63,793 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share Blackrock Inc 5.50% schemes: 63,793 under save as you earn plans and nil under executive share plans.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank equally Standard Life Investments Holdings 4.97% with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Legal & General Group plc 3.03% The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys articles of association, copies of which can be obtained 1 As of the date in the notification to the Company.
from Companies House in the UK, from the Companys website or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Changes to the articles of association must be 147 Subsequent to 31 December 2017 and up to the date of this Report, The Group operates pension schemes in the UK which provide retirement and no changes in the voting interests have been notified to the Company in death benefits for employees and former employees of the Group.
The corporate accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
trustee of the pension schemes is IMI Pensions Trust Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as defined in As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with substantial section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year holdings in the Company other than those noted above.
ended 31 December 2017 and remain in force for the benefit of each of the directors of the corporate trustee of the pension schemes.
These indemnity Statement on corporate governance provisions cover, to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate Governance Report on incurred as a director or officer of the corporate trustee of the pension schemes.
pages 55 to 59 and are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The Group also has in place third party qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, in favour of certain Employee engagement and diversity employees who discharge responsibilities for various wholly-owned subsidiary Every effort is made to ensure that applications for employment from disabled companies and these indemnities are given on a similar basis to the above.
employees are fully and fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal opportunity in training, succession planning and promotion.
Further Role of the Board disclosures relating to employee diversity, employee engagement and policies The role of the Board is: are set out on pages 36 and 39. to promote the success of the Company: Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report be guardians of stakeholders interests: on page 71 and in Sections 4.11.2 and 4.11.3 of the financial statements on page 137. to set monitor leadership behaviour and culture: to select and appoint the Executive Committee: Health, safety and the environment to provide supportive challenge to the Executive Committee: It is Group policy to continuously improve healthy and safe working conditions to approve business plans and strategy: and to always operate in an environmentally responsible manner.
to oversee governance, risk and the control environment: and Our carbon reporting statistics demonstrate that our recent performance in to monitor and oversee the businesses and management.
As such, we achieved our target to keep emissions The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and at or below 2015 levels for 2017.
Of the 2017 total, our direct scope 1 oversees business and management performance.
The Board has adopted a emissions of CO, essentially gas, diesel and fuel oil consumed, amounted to 2 Corporate Governance Framework which defines Board roles and includes the list 16,500 tonnes.
Our indirect scope 2 emissions of CO emissions, essentially 2 of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees the emissions generated on our behalf to provide our electricity, amounted to and the Executive Committee.
Board reserved matters include strategy and 42,000 tonnes.
key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group.
In addition to gross tonnes of CO emissions, we report CO emissions intensity 2 2 relative to million sales: Our result for 2017 is 33.4 which is an improvement In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework, the Board has clearly defined relative to the 34.4 we achieved in 2016 when restated on a constant currency in writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated basis, 2016 reported figure of 36.3.
We plan to drive further savings in our CO 2 authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for emissions by continuously improving the condition of our sites and ensuring our the Chief Executive.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and wellprocesses are Lean and sustainable.
established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running Our CO emissions accounting methodology follows DEFRA guidelines 2 day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules, and includes all material emissions across IMI.
See page 42 for further CO 2 policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of emissions and energy efficiency details.
proposals for investment and material changes in operations and are subject to regular senior management reviews of performance.
Political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Division of responsibilities amongst directors Chairman: Directors The membership of the Board and biographical details of the directors are building a well-balanced Board given on pages 52 and 53 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
chairing meetings, setting the agenda and ensuring the best use of time The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the ensuring effectiveness of the Board including the quality of debate Companys articles of association.
The Companys articles of association require and decisions each director to stand for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
promoting the right environment and relations for effective engagement and challenge around the boardroom table Qualifying indemnity provisions and liability insurance setting the tone and high standards of governance practice The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and all getting the right executive leadership and succession plans in place directors of the Company benefit from qualifying third party indemnity provisions which were in place during the financial year.
At the date of this Annual Report There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the costs Executive, which is reflected in the IMI Corporate Governance Framework of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings brought against them, approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the as a director or employee, subject always to the limitations set by the leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive Companies Act 2006. powers or responsibilities.
The Chief Executive leads the Executive Committee in running the businesses and implementing operational and strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board.
148 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report continued The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently would provide compensation for loss of office or employment specifically resulting in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the from a takeover, although the provisions of the Companys share schemes include Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in a discretion to allow awards granted to directors and employees under such accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant schemes to vest in those circumstances.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the standing committees of the Board.
The Board has a recognised procedure for Information to be disclosed under Listing Rules 9.8.
4R any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
Listing Rule Detail Section reference of financial Chief Executive: statement leadership of the Executive Committee 9.8.
4R 1-2 5-14 Not applicable - formulating strategy, business plans and budgets ensuring the highest compliance and internal control standards are maintained 9.8.
4R 4 Long-term incentive 4.11 developing organisation structure Internal control resourcing, talent development and succession plans The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Groups system of internal Directors powers control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the articles Code and relevant best practice guidance including the Financial Reporting of association of the Company in force from time to time.
The directors were Councils September 2014 publication, Guidance on Risk Management, authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
of the Companys ordinary shares by resolutions of the Company passed at its All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in Annual General Meeting held on 4 May 2017 by the passing of new resolutions, detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board.
in respect of the new ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
The current authorities Performance against forecast is continuously monitored at monthly meetings will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to be held on of the Executive Committee and, on a quarterly basis, by the Board.
Minimum 3 May 2018, at which new authorities will be sought.
standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and Further details of authorities the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certified annual reports are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance and purchase of its ordinary shares will be set out in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
with Group financial reporting requirements.
The internal audit function, Group Assurance, operates a rolling programme of internal assurance on site reviews Directors interests at selected operating units.
During the year, internal audits have been in conjunction with finance experts from each division through the audit transition The interests of the persons including the interests of any connected persons project.
This has enabled us to review a wider range of business risks and who were directors at the end of the year, in the share capital of the Company, facilitated a greater sharing of best practice across the businesses.
Additionally, and their interests under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on visits to operations are carried out by senior Group finance personnel.
These pages 77 to 83. internal assurance processes are co-ordinated with the activity of the Companys external auditor.
Management of conflicts of interest The Companys articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, activity of the Board and its committees and can be viewed on the IMI website.
authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their of potential conflicts of interest.
These procedures apply, inter alia, to external materiality, to the Board.
In addition, the Executive Committee regularly reviews directorships and it is the Boards view that they operated effectively during 2017. the operation of corporate policies and controls including those relating to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions.
Compliance and which they have or may have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly internal audit reports summaries are made available to the Board, the Audit may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues duty that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any interest in any and developments to be monitored.
transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
If any director becomes aware of any situation which may give rise to a conflict of interest, that Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made director informs the rest of the Board and the Board is then permitted under the to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement articles of association to decide to authorise such conflict.
The information is proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal recorded in the Companys register of conflicts and a conflicts authorisation control system.
More information in relation to risk is given on page 46 under letter is issued to the relevant director.
the heading How we manage risk.
The internal control declaration process is fully embedded and enables improvement in control through bi-annual selfChange of control assessments from all operating units.
Action plans to improve controls as a result The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of agreements that may of these assessments are being tracked and reported to the Audit Committee.
allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the arrangements on a change of Through the procedures outlined here, the Board has considered the control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2017 and up and employee share plans.
Other than as referred to in the next paragraph, to the date of this Annual Report.
The Board believes that the Groups system of none of these is considered by the Company to be significant in terms of its internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides likely impact on the Group as a whole.
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Groups main funding agreements allow the lenders to renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for all outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities.
149 Financial reporting processes The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing relationships with a number of customers, suppliers and funding providers across The use of the Groups accounting manual and prescribed reporting different geographic areas and industries.
The Groups forecasts and projections, requirements by finance teams throughout the Group are important in ensuring taking account of potential and realistic changes in trading performance, indicate that the Groups accounting policies are clearly established and that information that the Group is able to operate within the level of facilities either in place on is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The 31 December 2017, or renewed since, without the need to renew any further use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that facilities before 1 March 2018.
As a consequence, the directors believe that information is presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the Group is wellplaced to manage its business risks successfully despite the the consolidated financial statements.
uncertainties inherent in the current economic outlook.
Such uncertainties as have been identified are not regarded as material uncertainties for the purpose Viability statement of the going concern assessment.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a relevant period, taking into account After making due enquiry, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Groups financial and trading position as summarised in this Annual Report, the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 46 to 49 and the fiveforeseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis year business plans reviewed by the Board in September 2017.
Based on this in preparing the financial statements.
assessment, and other matters considered and reviewed by the Board, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company Disclosure of information to the auditor will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant the period from the date of this Annual Report to 31 December 2022. audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make The directors have determined that the period to 31 December 2022 constitutes himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that an appropriate period over which to make its assessment of viability.
Whilst the the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
directors have no reason to believe the Company will not be viable over a longer timing horizon, the five-year period to 31 December 2022 was chosen as it Annual General Meeting aligns with the Companys business and strategic planning timing horizon and The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham Metropole Hotel, is a sensible period for such an assessment.
It is believed this period provides National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on 3 May 2018 at 10am.
Notice of the readers of the Annual Report with an appropriately long-term view with which Annual General Meeting will be published on the Companys website.
to assess the Companys prospects although future outcomes cannot be predicted with certainty.
By order of the Board In making its assessment, the Board recognised the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
A summary of these risks can be found on John OShea pages 46 to 49.
Company Secretary The five-year business plan was used to assess the headroom on the 1 March 2018 Companys facilities and to stress test ongoing covenant compliance under scenarios where its principal risks materialise.
The analysis considered both IMI plc is registered in England No.
714275 running business risks, such as reducing revenues and margins, as well as one-off event risks such as product recalls.
The Board also considered the Companys ability to raise capital in the future, as well as both the ongoing actions undertaken to prevent occurrence and the potential actions to mitigate the impact of any particular risk.
The directors also recognised a number of key features of the Companys operations.
The Companys wide geographical and sector diversification, and the lack of a single major production site, help minimise the risk of serious business interruption.
Furthermore, our business model is structured so that the Company is not overly reliant on a few large customers.
Our largest customer constitutes only 2% of Group revenue and our top 20 customers account for just over 16% of Group revenue.
In addition, our ability to flex our cost base reduces our exposure to sudden adverse economic conditions.
Going concern Accounting standards require that directors satisfy themselves that it is reasonable for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on a going concern basis.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the strategic report on pages 10 to 49.
Principal risks are detailed on pages 46 to 49.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial statements.
In addition, Section 4.4 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Section 4.9 to the financial statements addresses the management of the funding risks of the Groups employee benefit obligations.
150 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Directors Report, the Strategic Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement, and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: state that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and state for the parent company financial statements whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent company and enable them to ensure that the Group and parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as appropriate.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the directors, as at the date of this report, confirms that: the Group and parent company financial statements in this Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK law and with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Annual Report which includes the Directors Report and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 1 March 2018 151 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc In our opinion: IMI plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Groups profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and as regards to the Group with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes C1 to C10 to the financial statements including a summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 5 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 46 to 49 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 149 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 149 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 149 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
152 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc continued Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters - Revenue and profit recognition - Inventory valuation - Carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets Audit scope - We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 13 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 25 components.
- The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 87% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items, 58% of revenue and 74% of total assets.
Materiality - Overall Group materiality of 10.0m which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items.
What has changed - In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to the valuation of the overall pension scheme liabilities.
Following a number of transactions to fide-risk the pension scheme over recent years, we now conclude that the likelihood of material misstatement has reduced.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our response to the risk Risk Revenue and profit recognition 1,751m, We performed the below audit procedures at full and specific scope entities over this risk area in 28 PY comparative 1,649m locations where revenue is in scope, which represents 58% of the total revenue balance.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 61 : We carried out testing of controls over revenue recognition with a focus on those related to the timing Accounting policies page 141 : and Note 2.1 of of revenue recognition.
the Consolidated Financial Statements page 99 We performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised with our expectations from past Revenue and profit recognition is a significant experience, managements forecasts and, where possible, external market data.
audit risk across all divisions within the Group.
We obtained support for individually unusual and or material revenue journals.
There is a risk of inappropriate revenue We performed tests of detail for a sample of revenue transactions to confirm the transactions had been recognition if deliveries are recorded within appropriately recorded in the income statement and verified that the risks and rewards of ownership of the wrong accounting period or revenue is not the products had been transferred to the customer by: accounted for in line with contractual terms.
analysing the contract and terms of the sale to determine that the Group had fulfilled the requirements The cyclical nature of deliveries within the of the contract: Critical Engineering division results in significant shipments near the December period end which confirming revenue could be reliably measured by reference to underlying documentation: and increases the risk of a cut-off error.
confirming collectability of the revenue was reasonably assured by agreeing to collection history.
There is a risk of inappropriate profit recognition We performed cut-off testing by tracing a sample of transactions around the period end to third party if management override causes contract loss delivery note documentation and customer acceptance.
provisions in the Critical Engineering division to be misstated.
We also performed specific procedures over 327m of revenue recognised in the 48 Precision and Hydronic divisions marketing companies.
These companies purchase IMI manufactured products, either directly from the manufacturing IMI entity or through the Groups centralised warehousing, and sell into local markets.
RISK MOVEMENT The specific procedures performed included verifying the occurrence and completeness of a sample of sales transactions recognised by the marketing companies through to goods despatch documentation.
We tested a sample of transactions recognised in these companies to determine the measurement of revenue recognised is consistent with the Groups transfer pricing policies and the inter-company transactions eliminate on consolidation.
In respect of new construction contracts in the Critical Engineering division we tested a sample of managements assessment of forecast costs to complete, corroborating the underlying assumptions against historic experience and future production plans to determine any contract losses are appropriately recognised.
These procedures focused on loss making and low margin contracts in order to assess the completeness of contract loss provisions.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: Our audit procedures did not identify evidence of material misstatements regarding revenue or profit recognition in the Group.
153 Our response to the risk Risk Inventory valuation 251m, PY comparative We performed the below audit procedures at full and specific scope entities over this risk area in 28 255m locations where inventory is in scope, which represents 72% of the total inventory balance.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 61 : We carried out testing on controls over inventory valuation to verify the Group values inventory appropriately.
Accounting policies page 144 : and Note 3.1.
1 of We tested the accumulation of cost within inventory, confirming the valuation reflected the products stage the consolidated financial statements page 110. of completion including agreement to the physical inventory counts which we attended.
The valuation of inventory across the Group is We obtained evidence to support the standard costs used and performed procedures to ensure only dependent on establishing appropriate valuation normal production variances had been capitalised in the year-end inventory balance and material abnormal processes.
This includes reliance on controls.
inefficiencies had been appropriately expensed including comparing actual production rates to budget.
Management judgement is applied to formulaic calculations for standard costing and excess and We obtained evidence to support inventory is held at the lower of cost and net realisable value by auditing obsolete inventory provisions.
If these judgements the adequacy of excess and obsolete provisions held against inventory.
This included comparing forecast are not appropriate then this increases the risk product usage to customer orders, considering historical usage, historical accuracy of provisioning and that inventory is overstated.
understanding managements future plans to utilise the inventory.
We performed clerical procedures on the formulaic calculations to confirm the accuracy of the RISK MOVEMENT inventory provisioning.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: Inventory valuation across the Group is considered appropriate including the adequacy of the excess and obsolete provision.
Our audit procedures confirmed that variances between standard and actual costs and the overheads absorbed in the inventory valuation had been correctly calculated.
Our response to the risk Risk Carrying value of goodwill and acquired We examined managements methodology as detailed in Section 3.2 of the consolidated financial intangible assets 429m, PY comparative statements, the models for assessing the valuation of significant goodwill balances to understand the 453m composition of managements future cash flow forecasts, and the process undertaken to prepare them.
This included confirming the underlying cash flows were consistent with the Board approved budgets.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 61 : We also re-performed the calculations in the model to test the mechanical integrity.
Accounting policies page 143 : and Note 3.2 of the consolidated financial statements page 111.
For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the key assumptions would need to fluctuate before an impairment conclusion was triggered and considered the likelihood of this occurring, in order to assess As a consequence of the Groups growth the adequacy of the companys disclosures in this area.
strategy a significant value of goodwill and intangible assets has arisen from acquisitions.
In respect of the CGUs identified as having impairment indicators or lower levels of headroom we performed There is a risk that cash generating units CGUs detailed testing with support from our valuation specialists to critically assess and corroborate the key inputs may not achieve the anticipated business of the forecast cash flows including: performance to support the carrying value of Corroborating the discount rate used by obtaining the underlying data used in the calculation and these assets leading to an impairment charge benchmarking it against comparable organisations and market data: that has not been recognised by management.
Validating the growth rate assumed by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: and Significant judgement is required in assessing the future cash flows of the CGUs, together with Analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results to determine whether forecast cash flows the rate at which they are discounted.
are reliable based on past experience.
We audited the disclosures in respect of goodwill and intangibles with reference to the requirements of IAS RISK MOVEMENT 36 and confirmed their consistency with the audited impairment models.
The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the Group audit team.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: Our year-end audit procedures did not identify evidence of material misstatement regarding the carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets in the Group.
154 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc continued In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to the Profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items - CY PY accounting for the valuation of the overall pension scheme liabilities.
Following a number of transactions to fide-risk the pension scheme over recent years we 35% 29% now conclude that the likelihood of material misstatement has reduced.
Full scope entities The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope 13% 9% Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation Other procedures of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated 52% 62% financial statements.
We take into account the contribution to Group revenue Specific scope entities and operating profit, risk profile including country risk, risk determined to be associated based on the grading of internal audit findings, controls findings, historical knowledge and risk arising from change in the period including changes to IT systems and key management personnel, the number of significant accounts based on performance materiality and any other known factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
Revenue - CY PY In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts 38% 39% in the financial statements, of the 136 reporting components of the Group, Full scope entities we selected 38 components which represent the principal and higher risk business units within the Group.
Of the 38 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 13 components full scope components which 20% 23% were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 25 Specific scope entities components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on 19% 18% specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential Procedures on for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements marketing companies either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
23% 20% Other procedures The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 87% 2016: 91% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items used to calculate materiality, 58% 2016: 62% of the Groups Revenue and 74% 2016: 76% of the Groups total assets.
Total assets - CY PY For the current year, the full scope components contributed 35% 2016: 29% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items used to calculate 57% 58% materiality, 38% 2016: 39% of the Groups Revenue and 57% 2016: 58% of Full scope entities the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope component contributed 52% 2016: 62% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items used to calculate materiality, 20% 2016: 23% of the Groups Revenue and 17% 2016: 18% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have 17% 18% contributed to the coverage of significant tested for the Group.
Specific scope entities We also performed procedures over the revenue recognised in the Precision and Hydronic divisions marketing companies, which provided additional coverage of 19% 2016: 18% in respect of the Groups revenue.
26% 24% Other procedures Excluding full and specific scope entities, there are a further 98 reporting entities with average revenues of 7.4m and average profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items of 0.3m.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations, foreign Changes from the prior year currency translation recalculations and enquiries of management to respond to any The number of full scope entities has remained consistent between periods at 13 potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
2016: 13 and the number of specific scope entities has reduced to 25 2016: 27.
These changes predominantly reflect restructuring undertaken by the Group which The following charts illustrate the coverage obtained from the work has resulted in a reduction of the size and risk profile of certain entities previously performed by our audit teams.
155 Involvement with component teams We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 9.2 million 2016: 10.8 million, which is 2% 2016: 2% of equity shareholders funds.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the Performance materiality primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 13 full scope components, at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the one component which operates as the Parent Company was audited directly by aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
For the 25 specific scope components, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 7.5m 2016: 6.9m.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his delegate visits based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance the vast majority of full and specific scope locations once every three years.
During materiality set for each entity is based on the relative scale and risk of the entity the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Group audit team to to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at the entity teams in Austria, Brazil, China, Czech Republic, Germany, Switzerland, that entity.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated US, and the United Kingdom.
These visits involved meeting with our entity team to entities was 0.45m to 1.55m 2016: 0.45m to 1.50m.
to discuss and direct their audit approach, reviewing and understanding the significant audit findings in response to the key audit maters including revenue, Reporting threshold profit recognition and inventory valuation, holding meetings with local management, An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being undertaking factory tours and obtaining updates on local regulatory matters clearly trivial.
including tax, pensions and legal.
The Group audit team interacted regularly with We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all the entity teams during various stages of the audit.
We discussed the results of uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2016: 0.5m, which is set component team reporting with each full and specific scope location at both the at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, period 9 and 12 reporting dates.
Where appropriate, we reviewed key working in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Our application of materiality Other information We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report and accounts set out on pages 1 to 89, other than the financial statements Materiality and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 10.0 million 2016: 9.2 million, In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility which is 5% 2016: 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items.
We is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the believe that profit before tax adjusted for the items described in the chart below other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the Profit before tax - 180.9m for the year ended other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude Starting basis 31 December 2017 that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
Gain on special pension events - 10.8m We have nothing to report in this regard.
2 to the Financial Statements Restructuring - 34.6m Note 2.2.
1 to the Adjustments Financial Statements Loss on disposal of Stainless Steel Fasteners SSF - 2.3m Note 2.2.
3 to the Financial Statements Profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items - 207.0m basis for materiality Materiality Materiality of 10.0m approximately 5% of materaiality basis 156 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc continued In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due that those items meet the following conditions: to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 150 an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially of these financial statements.
inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of Audit committee reporting set out on page 60 to 63 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not detecting irregularities, including fraud appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material Governance Code set out on page 55 misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a and management.
relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our approach was as follows: Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant frameworks has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, the Companies In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition, we concluded the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent effect on the determination of the amount and disclosure in the financial with the financial statements: and statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and those the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in laws and regulations relating to health and safety and employee matters.
accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We understood how the Group is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal Matters on which we are required to report by exception and compliance procedures and the Company Secretary.
We corroborated In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent our enquiries through our review of board minutes, papers provided to the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not Audit Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by meeting with management which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or influence or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not the perceptions of analysts.
We considered the programmes and controls visited by us: or that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting those programmes and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, records and returns: or we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide or reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs Responsibilities of directors above.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of legal counsel, page 150, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial group management, internal audit, divisional management and full and statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for specific scope management: and focused testing, as referred to in the such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the key audit matters section above.
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, Financial Reporting Councils website at disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going https: www.
uk  concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate This description forms part of our auditors report.
the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
157 Other matters we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed as auditor by the shareholders and signed an engagement letter on 27 July 2017.
We were appointed by the Company at the AGM on 4 May 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the subsequent financial year.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is nine years, covering the years ending 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Andrew Walton Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 1 March 2018 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
158 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Company balance sheet at 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Note m m Fixed assets Investments C5 173.2 173.2 Current assets Debtors C6 282.9 364.4 Deferred tax assets C7 2.7 1.1 Cash at bank and in hand 3.8 4.8 289.4 370.3 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Other creditors C8 4.3 3.0 Net current assets 285.1 367.3 Total assets less current liabilities 458.3 540.5 Net assets 458.3 540.5 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C9 81.8 81.8 Share premium account 12.7 12.1 Capital redemption reserve 174.4 174.4 Profit and loss account 189.4 272.2 Equity shareholders funds 458.3 540.5 Approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 159 Company statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017 Share Share Redemption Retained Parent capital premium reserve earnings equity m m m m m At 1 January 2016 81.8 11.8 174.4 312.8 580.8 Retained profit for the year 65.2 65.2 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 104.2 104.2 Shares issued in the year 0.3 0.3 Share-based payments 5.8 5.8 Shares issued by: employee share scheme trust 7.4 7.4 At 31 December 2016 81.8 12.1 174.4 272.2 540.5 Retained profit for the year 17.4 17.4 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 105.5 105.5 Shares issued in the year - 0.6 0.6 Share-based payments 8.0 8.0 Shares acquired for : employee share scheme trust 2.7 2.7 At 31 December 2017 81.8 12.7 174.4 189.4 458.3 Details of treasury and employee trust share scheme movements are contained in Section 4.10 of the Group financial statements and details of dividends paid and proposed in the year are shown in note C4.
All of the retained earnings held at both 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 are considered to be distributable reserves.
160 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Company notes to the financial statements C1.
Significant accounting policies Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required items considered material in relation to the financial statements, except where by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are otherwise noted below: expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Basis of accounting A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future The financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101: benefits as set out in Section 4.11 to the Group financial statements.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options a the requirements of paragraphs 45 b and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share based is recharged in full to the principal employing company and accordingly, there is Payment: no net charge recorded in the Companys financial statements.
The recharged b the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within one year.
c the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference d the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market to present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1: vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
None the requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f and 134-136 of IAS 1: market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The fair value of the options at f the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
g the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of h the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: and original estimates, if any, in the amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings.
i the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of the Group, For newly issued shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable provided that any subsidiary which is party to the transaction is wholly owned transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share by such a member.
Related party transactions with the Companys key premium when the options are exercised.
management personnel are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 85 and in Section 5.2 on page 140 of the Group financial statements.
Treasury shares The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase.
Consideration The preparation of financial statements requires management to make received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to share premium.
assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported If treasury shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of the cancelled for income and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation shares is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve.
No gain means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale or cancellation of treasury shares.
Foreign currencies Dividends The Companys functional currency and presentation currency is sterling.
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange at that date to the extent that they are authorised and are no longer at the ruling at the date of transaction.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date C2.
Remuneration of directors and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
The detailed information concerning directors emoluments, shareholdings and options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report on pages Investments 66 to 85 and Section 2.1.
3 of the Group financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less any provision for impairment.
The Companys cost of investments in subsidiary undertakings C3.
Staff numbers and costs is stated at the aggregate of a the cash consideration and either b the The number of people employed by the Company, including directors, during nominal value of the shares issued as consideration when Section 612 of the the year was 26 2016: 29 all of whom were employed in administrative roles.
Companies Act 2006 applies or c in all other cases the market value of the The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking.
Companys shares on the date they were issued as consideration.
The Company participates in the IMI UK Funds, which are defined benefit Taxation schemes in which the assets are held independently.
The total net defined The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into benefit costs of these Funds are borne by a subsidiary undertaking and therefore account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the in accordance with IAS 19, no net defined benefit costs are recognised in the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Section 4.9 to the Group financial statements provides further details regarding the defined benefit schemes.
Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2017 2016 m m Prior year final dividend paid - 24.7p per qualifying ordinary share 2016: 24.5p 67.0 66.3 Current year interim dividend paid - 14.2p per qualifying ordinary share 2016: 14.0p 38.5 37.9 Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 105.5 104.2 Dividends paid in the year of 105.5m represent 39.4p per share 2016: 37.9p.
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors.
The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
2017 2016 m m Current year final dividend - 25.2p per qualifying ordinary share 2016: 24.7p 68.3 67.0 Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date may differ from the final dividend paid.
This is a result of the final number of qualifying shares entitled to dividends differing from those in issue at the balance sheet date.
Fixed assets - investments Subsidiary undertakings 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2017 cost and net book value 173.2 173.2 Details of subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2017 are shown on pages 163 to 166.
Debtors 2017 2016 m m Falling due for payment after more than one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 170.5 278.2 Falling due for payment within one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 112.4 86.2 282.9 364.4 C7.
Deferred tax 2017 2016 m m The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: Employee benefits and share based payments 2.7 1.1 Deferred tax asset included in the balance sheet 2.7 1.1 Reconciliation of movement in deferred tax asset: At 1 January 2017 1.1 1.1 Deferred tax credit in the profit and loss account 1.3 - Deferred tax credit in equity 0.3 - At 31 December 2017 2.7 1.1 Changes to the rate of UK corporation tax were substantively enacted in 2016 to reduce the rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The deferred tax balance has been calculated based on the rates applicable when the balances are expected to reverse, which is mainly 17% 2016: 17%.
162 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Company notes to the financial statements continued C8.
Other creditors falling due within one year 2017 2016 m m Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3.2 1.7 Other payables 1.1 1.3 4.3 3.0 C9.
Contingencies Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to 100.5m 2016: 82.4m.
There is a right of set-off with three of the Companys bankers relating to the balances of the Company and a number of its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
163 Subsidiary undertakings A full list of the Groups subsidiary undertakings and registered principal offices as at 31 December 2017 is included below.
Except where indicated, the share capital consists of ordinary shares only.
The principal country in which each subsidiary operates and has its registered principal office is the country of incorporation.
IMI plcs effective interest in the undertakings listed is 100%, except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for IMI Group Ltd, IMI Deutschland Verwaltungs GmbH, IMI Lakeside Australia Pty Ltd and Liquick 200 Limited which are held directly by IMI plc.
The Group has an interest in a partnership, the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, which is fully consolidated into these Group accounts.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these accounts.
Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be and have not been filed at Companies House.
Anson Cast Products Limited, Lakeside, Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, West Midlands B37 7XZ, Charles Baynes Netherlands BV Netherlands, United Kingdom FCX North America Limited, FCX Pension Trustees Limited, Holford Estates Limited, IMI CIF Trustee Limited, IMI Deutschland Limited, IMI Euro Finance Limited, IMI Fluid Controls Finance Limited, IMI Germany Limited, IMI Group Limited, IMI Kynoch Limited, IMI Lakeside Five Limited, IMI Marston Limited, IMI Overseas Investments Limited, IMI Pensions Trust Limited, IMI plc, IMI Property Investments Limited, IMI Refiners Limited, IMI Retirement Savings Trust Limited, IMI Sweden Finance Limited, IMI Vision Limited, Liquick 211 Limited, Premier Profiles Limited, Truflo Group Limited, Truflo International Limited, Truflo Investments Limited Commtech Limited, 1020 Eskdale Road, Winnersh, Wokingham, RG41 5TS, United Kingdom The Commtech Group Limited, Engineering Appliances Limited, IMI Group Services Limited, IMI Lakeside One Limited, Liquick 200 Limited, Martonair International Limited IMI Critical Engineering Holding GmbH, Bruckstrasse 93, 46519 Alpen, Germany IMI Deutschland II GmbH & Co KG, IMI Deutschland Verwaltungs GmbH, IMI Germany Holding Limited & Co. KG, Norgren GmbH IMI Fluid Controls Holdings Inc, CSC, Corporation Trust Centre, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, United States IMI Holdings LLC, Norgren Automation Solutions LLC, Norgren Inc, Norgren Kloehn, Inc IMI Australia Pty Ltd, 33 South Corporate Avenue, Rowville VIC 3178, Australia IMI Lakeside Australia Pty Ltd, Tube Fittings Sales Pty Limited IMI Lakeside Ireland Limited, 1 Stokes Place, St Stephens Green, Dublin 2, Republic of Ireland Lakeside Finance Unlimited Company, Lakeside Treasury Unlimited Company CCI AG, Itaslenstrasse 9, 8362 Balterswil, Switzerland CCI Switzerland AG, Norgren AG 164 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Subsidiary undertakings continued IMI Holding Italy S. r. l. Via Stendhal, 65, 20144 Milano, Italy Orton S. R. L. Truflo Rona S. r. l. IMI Hydronic Engineering AB, Annelund, SE-524 80, Ljung, Sweden IMI Indoor Climate AB, IMI Sweden AB B & R Holding GmbH, Carl-Reuther Str.
1, 68305 Mannheim, Germany Bopp & Reuther Sicherheitsund Regelarmaturen GmbH Heimeier GmbH, Voellinghauser Weg 2, 59597 Erwitte, Germany IMI Hydronic Engineering Deutschland GmbH IMI Aero-Dynamiek BVBA, Boomsesteenweg 28, B 2627 Schelle, Belgium IMI Hydronic Engineering NV IMI Components Limited, Westwood Road, Birmingham, B6 7JF, United Kingdom Truflo Marine Limited IMI Group Inc, Corporate Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Wilmington fide 19808, United States IMI Interamerica Inc IMI Hydronic Engineering A S Vesterlundvej 18, DK-2730 Herlev, Denmark Norgren A S IMI Hydronic Engineering BV, Rntgenweg 20, Alphen aan den Rijn, NL-2408 AB, Netherlands IMI Netherlands Holdings BV IMI Hydronic Engineering Switzerland AG, Mhlerainstrasse 26, 4414, Fllinsdorf, Switzerland TA Hydronics Holding AG IMI Scotland Limited, 15 Atholl Crescent, Edinburgh EH3 8HA, United Kingdom The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership Norgren Co Limited China, Building 3, No.
1885, Duhui Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China Norgren Manufacturing Co Ltd Norgren Manufacturing fide Mexico SA fide CV, AV fide la Montana 120, Parque Industrial Queretaro, Santiago fide Queretaro, Queretaro, Norgren SA fide CV CP 76220, Mexico Valves Holding GmbH, Bertramsweg 6, 52355 Dren, Germany Z & J Technologies GmbH Brookvale International Insurance Limited Clarendon House, Church Street, Hamilton, HM11, Bermuda Buschjost GmbH Detmolder Strasse 256, 32545 Bad Oeynhausen, Germany C. H. Zikesch Armaturen GmbH Mercatorstr.
16-18, 46485 Wesel, Germany CCI Asia Pacific Pte Ltd 29 International Business Park, ACER Building, Tower A, #04-01, Singapore, 609923, Singapore CCI America do Sul Comercio fide Equipamentos Industriais Ltda Rua Itapeva, 286 cjs 95 96 97, Sao Paulo, 01332-000, Brazil CCI Czech Republic s. r. o. K Letiti 1804 3, lapanice, 62700, Czech Republic CCI Flow Control Shanghai Co Ltd Room 108, Unit 15, 159 Tian Zhou Road, Cao He Jing Development Zone, Shanghai, 200233, China CCI International Limited Unit A3 Brookside Business Park, Greengate, Middleton, Manchester, M24 1GS, United Kingdom CCI Italy Srl Via Leopardi 26, 20123, Milan, Italy CCI Limited 14 Dangdong 2-ro, Munsan-eup, Paju-si, Gyeonggi-do, 10816, Republic of Korea CCI Valve Technology AB Industrigatan 1-3, Box 603, 661 29 Sffle, Sweden CCI Valve Technology GmbH Lembckgasse 63 1, 1230 Wien, Austria Control Component India Pvt Limited Ground, 1st & 2nd Floor, Tower 4, SJR i park, Plot # 13 14&15, EPIP Zone Phase 1, Whitefield Road, Bangalore 560066, India Control Components Inc 22591 Avenida Empresa, Rancho Santa Margarita CA 92688, United States FAS Medic SA Route fide Bossonnens 2, 1607, Palezieux, Switzerland Fluid Automation Systems GmbH Stuttgarter Strae 120, 70736 Fellbach, Germany Fluid Automation Systems SA 126 Route fide l'Etraz, 1290, Versoix, Switzerland Herion Systemtechnik GmbH Untere Talstrasse 65, 71263 Weil der Stadt, Germany IMI Aero-Dynamiek BV Havenstraat 9, VS 3861, Nijkerk, Netherlands IMI Americas Inc 5400 South Delaware Street, Littleton, CO 80120, United States 165 IMI CCI South Africa Pty Ltd 18 Van Rensburg North Avenue, Ext 66, Witbank, 1035, South Africa IMI Consulting Shanghai Co Limited Units 03,06 9 Floor, No.
500 Fushan Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200122, China IMI Critical Engineering Shanghai Company Limited B3-2, No.
303, Xinke Road, Qingpu District, Shanghai, China IMI Critical FZE Office No.
FZJOA1308, FZJ0A1310, FZJ0A1307A, Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai, United Arab Emirates IMI Energi & VVS Utveckling AB Annedalsvgen 9, 22764, Lund, Sweden IMI Engineering Sdn.
K-7-5 & K-7-6, Solaris Mont Kiara, Soho, Jalan Solaris Mont Kiara, 50480 Kuala Lumpa, Malaysia IMI France SARL 52 Boulevard fide Sbastopol, 75003 Paris, France IMI Hidronik Muhendislik Iklimlendirme Sistemleri Ltd Sti Atasehir Bulvari Ata Carsi no.
50-59, Atasehir, Istanbul, Turkey IMI Hydronic Engineering AS Glynitveien 7, Ski, N-1400, Norway IMI Hydronic Engineering China Room 306, Xin Mao Building, No 2 Tai Zhong Nan Road, Shanghai, 200131 Pilot Free Trade Zone, China IMI Hydronic Engineering France S. A.
13, rue fide la Perdrix - Les Flamants 8, Paris Nord II BP84004, Tremblay-en-France, 95931, France IMI Hydronic Engineering FZE Office 2107 PO Box 262611, Jafza View 19, Jafza, Dubai, United Arab Emirates IMI Hydronic Engineering GesmbH Industriestrasse 9, Objekt 5, 2353, Guntramsdorf, Austria IMI Hydronic Engineering Inc 8908 Governors Row, Dallas TX 75247, United States IMI Hydronic Engineering International SA Route fide Crassier 19, Lake Geneva Business Park, 1262, Eysins, Switzerland IMI Hydronic Engineering Limited Unit 3 Nimbus Park, Porz Avenue, Dunstable, Bedfordshire, LU5 5WZ, United Kingdom IMI Hydronic Engineering Ltda Av Fagundes Filho, 134 cj 43, S. Judas, Sao Paulo, 04304-010, Brazil IMI Hydronic Engineering OY Robert Huberin tie 7, Vantaa FI-01510, Finland IMI Hydronic Engineering Pte Ltd 223 Mountbatten Road #03-01, Singapore 398008, Singapore IMI Hydronic Engineering S. A.
9, rue des 3 Cantons, Windhof, L-8399, Luxembourg IMI Hydronic Engineering Spain SAU Complejo Europa Empresarial, C Rozabella, 6, Las Rozas, 28290, Madrid, Spain IMI Hydronic Engineering s. r. l. Via dei Martinit 3 cap, 20146, Milan, Italy IMI Hydronic Engineering UAB A. Juozapaviciaus 27-5, Kaunas, LT 45258, Lithuania IMI International Co Srl Str.
36, Sector 3, Bucuresti, 031445, Romania IMI International d. o. o Alpska cesta 37b, Lesce, 4248, Slovenia IMI International d. o. o. Slavonska avenija 17, Zagreb, 10040, Croatia IMI International d. o. o. Beograd Milutina Milankovica 1b, Novi Beograd, 11070, Serbia IMI International Kft.
Kunigunda tja 60, Budapest, HU-1037, Hungary IMI International LLC Leninskaya Street 19 b2, 115280, Moscow, Russian Federation IMI International s. r. o.
Central Trade Park D1, c. p. 1573, Humpolec, 396 01, Czech Republic IMI International Sp.
z. o. o. Olewin 50 A, PL-32300, Olkusz, Poland IMI Japan KK 6-2-2 Takatsukadai, Nishi-ku, Kobe 651-2271, Japan IMI Norgren Herion PVT Limited A-62, Sector - 63, Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201301, India IMI Norgren Limited 137a Slaney Close, Dublin Industrial Estate, Glasnevin, Dublin 11, Ireland IMI Norgren Pneumatics Shanghai Co Limited 1st Floor, No 71 Building, 1066 Quinzhou North Road, Chaohejing Hi-Tech Park, Shanghai, 200233, China IMI Norgren SA Sociedad Unipersonal Calle Colom, 391, 2 Edif.
Tecno, 08223, Terrassa, Spain IMI Watson Smith Limited One Snowhill, Snowhill Queensway, Birmingham, West Midlands, B4 6GH, United Kingdom IMI Webber Limited City Business Park, Easton Road, Easton, Bristol, BS5 0SP, United Kingdom Industrie Mecanique Pour Les Fluides SA 15 Avenue des Cures, 95580, Andilly, France Interativa Indstria, Av.
Alberto fide Zagottis, 696-B, Sao Paulo SP, Brazil Comrcio e Representaes Ltda Avenida Garabed Gananian, 386 Bairro Aparecidinha, Sorocaba, So Paulo, 18.087-340, Brazil Kynoch Sweden Holding AB c o IMI Hydronic Engineering AB, 52 480 Ljung, Sweden Liquick 213 Limited 2 Cornwall Street, Birmingham, West Midlands, B3 2DL, United Kingdom Newman Hattersley Limited 151 Superior Blvd, Mississauga ON L5T 2L1, Canada 166 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Subsidiary undertakings continued Norgren AS Karihaugveien 89, Oslo, 1086, Norway Norgren BV Transistorstraat 2, 1322, Almere, Netherlands Norgren Co Limited 120 34 M. 12, Rachedewa, Bangplee, Samutprakarn, 10540, Thailand Norgren European Logistics Company Limited 4060 Lakeside, Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7XZ, United Kingdom Norgren Finland OY Huopalahdentie 24, A-talo FI-00350 Helsinki, Finland Norgren Ges.
m. b. H Industriezentrum No Sud, Strasse 2, Wiener Neudorf, 2355, Austria Norgren GT Development Corporation CT Corporation System, 508 Union Ave SE, Suite 120, Olympia WA 98501, United States Norgren Limited 6 F Benson Tower, 74 Hung To Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong Norgren Limited 15A Vestey Drive, Auckland, 1060, New Zealand Norgren Limited Blenheim Way, Fradley Park, Lichfield, Staffordshire, WS13 8SY, United Kingdom Norgren Ltda Av.
Alberto fide Zagottis, 696-B, Sao Paulo SP, Brazil Norgren NV F Walravensstraat 84, B.
Limited 16 Tuas Street, Singapore 638453, Singapore Norgren SAS 4 Boulevard Michael Faraday, 77700 Serris, France Norgren SpA Via trieste 16, Vimercate, 20871, Milan, Italy Norgren Sweden AB Box 14001, Ventilgatan 6, S-200 24 Malmo, Sweden Norgren Taiwan Co Limited 3F, No.
Taoyuan City, 333, Taiwan Pneumatex GmbH Planiger Str 34, 55543 Bad Kreuznach, Germany Quanta Dialysis Technologies Limited 25% Tything Road, Alcester, Warwickshire, B49 6EU, United Kingdom Remosa Srl Viale Pula 37, 09123 sede e stabilimento stradario, 03608, Cagliari, Sardinia, Italy SAIC CCI Valve Co Ltd 44% Block B, 123 Chongming Xiushan Road, Chongming County, Shanghai, China Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment Co Ltd 2200 Yang Shu Pu Road, Yangpu District, Shanghai, 200090, China STI s. r. l. Via dei Caravaggi 15, 24040, Levate BG, Italy TA Regulator d. o. o. Orliska Ulica13, Brezice, SI-8250, Slovenia TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH Otto-Kaiser Str.
6, 66386 Sankt Ingbert, Germany Thompson Valves Limited 17 Balena Close, Creekmoor, Poole, Dorset, BH17 7EF, United Kingdom Truflo Rona S. A.
3e avenue, 16, Parc Industrial des Hauts Sarts, 4040 Herstal, Belgium Z & J High Temperature Equipment Shanghai Co Ltd 819 Yinchun Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, 201109, China Zimmermann & Jansen Inc 4525 Kennedy Commerce Drive, Houston, TX 77036, United States Treated as external investments Subsidiary audit exemptions IMI plc has issued guarantees over the liabilities over the following companies at 31 December 2017 under Section 479C of Companies Act 2006 and these entities are exempt from the requirements of the Act relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of Section 479A of the Act: Company name Company number Company name Company number FCX North America Limited 03430451 IMI Marston Limited 00155987 Holford Estates Limited 01181406 IMI Refiners Limited 00148305 IMI Deutschland Limited 07843551 IMI Vision Limited 04421176 IMI Euro Finance Limited 07929408 IMI Scotland Limited SC378424 IMI Fluid Controls Finance Limited 08528502 IMI Sweden Finance Limited 07272731 IMI Germany Limited 07843576 Premier Profiles Limited 02547749 IMI Lakeside One Limited 00616526 167 Geographic distribution of employees The following table shows the geographic distribution of employees as at 31 December 2017 and is not required to be audited.
United Kingdom 1,265 Continental Europe 5,872 Americas 2,100 Asia Pacific 1,193 Rest of World 217 Total 10,647
