Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 09 Adjusted Group revenue by geography Adjusted Group revenue by division RoW 5% Western Europe UK IMI Critical 38% 4% IMI Precision Engineering 37% Engineering 45% Emerging North IMI Hydronic Markets America Engineering 34% 19% 18% IMIs global footprint http: www.
aspx Key brands IMI Bopp & Reuther, IMI CCI, IMI Fluid Kinetics, IMI InterAtiva, IMI NH, Power Oil & Gas Petrochemical Actuation IMI Orton, IMI Remosa, IMI STI, IMI TH Jansen, IMI Truflo Marine, IMI We are the world leading We supply anti-surge valve We design and manufacture We focus on the design Truflo Rona, IMI Truflo Italy, IMI Z&J, supplier of engineered to and actuator systems to integrated flow control systems and production of complete IMI Zikesch order turbine bypass valves the worlds largest LNG for critical applications in Fluid actuation systems to operate for critical applications in compression facilities.
We also industrial valves for the most Main markets conventional and nuclear systems are capable of ultrasupply bespoke valves into demanding applications and Oil & Gas, Fossil Power, Nuclear power plants helping to fast response to maximise the ethylene, polypropylene processes in terms of forces, Power, Petrochemical, Iron & Steel, provide the safest, most LNG production while and delayed coking speed and accuracy and Desalination and Process Industries reliable and efficient power protecting the compressor.
Brazil, China, Czech Republic, 2017 adjusted revenue: 2017 adjusted revenue: 2017 adjusted revenue: Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South 2017 adjusted revenue: 203m 95m 27m Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, UK 278m and USA Key brands IMI Norgren, IMI Buschjost, IMI FAS, IMI Herion, IMI Maxseal Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences Main markets We supply high performance We design and manufacture We offer a comprehensive We supply precision flow Industrial Automation, Commercial products including valves, a range of cab chassis and range of products which deliver control solutions used Vehicle, Life Sciences, Energy, valve islands, proportional and powertrain solutions which precision control in even in medical devices, Food and Beverage, and Rail pressure monitoring controls deliver fuel efficiency, the harshest environments, diagnostic equipment Major operational locations and air preparation products, emissions reduction and faster including stainless steel and biotech and analytical Brazil, China, Czech Republic, as well as a comprehensive assembly times for the worlds valves and regulators, nuclear instruments.
Our products Germany, India, Mexico, Switzerland, range of pneumatic actuators.
leading commercial vehicle class valves and emergency help to reduce the size UK and USA manufacturers.
of equipment, while enhancing 2017 adjusted revenue: accuracy, throughput and fluid 440m 2017 adjusted revenue: 2017 adjusted revenue: control performance.
183m 67m 2017 adjusted revenue: 64m Key brands IMI Heimeier, IMI Pneumatex, IMI TA, IMI Flow Design Balancing & Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water Quality Main markets Our hydronic balancing and We design and manufacture Reliable pressurisation is a basic The single most important Water based heating and cooling control solutions enable thermostatic control systems requirement for a trouble-free component in any hydronic systems for commercial buildings, buildings to keep comfort at which guarantee direct or operation of heating, cooling and system is the water itself.
When and temperature control for the right level and lift HVAC automatic control of radiators solar systems.
Our robust range compromised, the effects can residential buildings efficiency by up to 30%.
Our and underfloor heating systems of pressure maintenance systems be felt throughout the system.
Major operational locations expertise covers constant and to perfectly control individual with compressors or pumps and Our dirt and air separators Germany, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden, variable flow and both static room temperatures.
expansion vessels maintains the and pressure step degassers Switzerland and USA and dynamic balancing.
right pressure in the system at protect the installation 2017 adjusted revenue: all times.
by keeping water free of 2017 adjusted revenue: 111m microbubbles and sludge.
157m 2017 adjusted revenue: 32m 2017 adjusted revenue: 12m Ecosystem Multipurpose commercial building Our balancing & control solutions combine Pressure highly precise mechanical valves and digital independent actuation allowing complete electronic modulating integration and greater efficiency in complex control heating & cooling systems.
Combined control & balancing Combined cycle Digital power plant actuation Products designed to cope with high pressure and temperature differences in the most critical applications ensures Commercial Vehicle power is available when needed.
Our range of cab, chassis and powertrain solutions deliver fuel efficiency, emissions Turbine bypass reduction and faster assembly times.
valves Manual Engine control transmission multi-valve block controls Desuperheaters Valve arrays Our role in the world Ecosystem Triple eccentric butterfly valves LNG We provide the control and AMT compressed Rail air dryer safety systems to ensure We offer customised solutions for safe delivery of liquefied all types of rail applications.
natural gas to power cities across the world.
Isolation cryogenic Anti-surge valves ball valves Pantograph control systems Door control valve systems Family house We provide a comprehensive Underfloor heating range of thermostatic control manifolds products, ensuring optimal temperature control and energy efficiency.
Engine control multi-valve block Automatic flow control Thermostatic controls Our products and technologies are used in a wide range of applications to help processes across many sectors operate safely, cleanly, efficiently and cost effectively.
Industrial ISOLine actuator Automation Medical devices and We develop solutions for our instrumentation customers in the machinery, food & beverage, printing and factory We help OEMs increase automation industries.
Excelon Plus air performance of their systems, preparation enabling cutting edge devices that improve health and the environment.
Goggle valves VM10 valve island with Refinery Industrial Ethernet We keep the world moving Data centres from petrol to diesel and jet Pressurisation We ensure stable pressure and fuel, our specialist valves clean water for high cooling intensity refine crude oil to provide applications, preventing premature a wide range of products.
equipment failure and costly downtime.
Dirt separation Conventional control valves Specialist triple eccentric butterfly valves Engineering GREAT the IMI Way FLATPROP 100DMT choke valve Medical devices and proportional valve instrumentation Offshore platform We help OEMs increase Control We design and provide valves performance of their systems, valves for the most critical applications enabling cutting edge devices that including offshore.
improve health and the environment.
Balancing valves MICROSOL solenoid valve Specialist ball valves FLEXISOL Hospitals solenoid valve Our products help to deliver quality, energy-efficient HVAC systems, which ensure optimal patient comfort.
Differential pressure Thermosatic controls controls 10 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Review 12 Chief Executives review 16 Our strategic model 18 Strategic growth priorities 28 Operational review 34 Corporate responsibility 44 Measurements and targets 46 How we manage risk Engineering GREAT the IMI Way Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 11 IMI Critical Engineering manufactures the largest valves in the world and are renowned for specialist products and engineering know-how.
