Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 46 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 46 Sustainability Making a difference Ultra recognises that the success and sustainability of the business is enhanced by positive relationships built with stakeholders and continues to focus on value creation for all: shareholders, customers, employees, local communities and suppliers.
In the community: Ultras businesses continue to be active in their local communities, building positive links by engaging with local people and local issues.
Many businesses form relationships with educational establishments in the surrounding communities offering work placements and visits to businesses as part of school, college and university courses, as well as providing interview practice, support for lessons, careers events and school science fairs.
In the UK, Ultra is involved in nationwide initiatives on STEM education and also offers Arkwright scholarships: a scholarship that sponsors A-level students looking to pursue a career in engineering.
Ensuring a long-term supply of talent to the business is essential and Ultra commits itself to developing its future talent pipeline in schools and higher education institutions.
Fundraising and volunteer work in the local community and at a national level is something the Group is keen to encourage.
It actively supports employees who undertake voluntary activities.
Some noteworthy examples in 2017 include: CIS continues to operate its CIS in the community policy which provides time and matches funding for employees charitable activities ATS received the Distinguished Partnership Award from the Del Valle Independent School District for the fourth consecutive year for outstanding contributions throughout the year to its neighbouring Smith Elementary School TCS and cole fide technologie suprieure were awarded the 2017 prize for Technology Partnership from ADRIQ Association des directeurs fide recherch industrielle du Quebec.
P51-52 Securing the Talent pipeline STEM: Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 47 6.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 47 Sustainability, people and culture Shareholders: Employees: The environment: The Groups primary objective is to deliver Ultra believes that the right people are its Ultra is committed to implementing and long-term shareholder value.
most important asset: the capabilities of its applying effective measures to minimise the employees allow the Group to innovate environmental impact of its activities.
All Customers: continually and meet customer needs.
Ultra businesses are audited at least biennially.
Ultra aims to be an excellent strategic has a solid commitment to developing people Ultra continues its commitment to investing supplier to its customers.
To enable this, and securing the talent pipeline, details of in manufacturing facilities to offer increased Ultras businesses are focused on helping which can be found in the section efficiencies and reduce energy consumption, customers identify their true needs whilst Developing Ultras people.
The Group while improving productivity across the developing long-term relationships based on believes that, to ensure its continuing growth Company.
The Group also looks to its performance excellence and meeting and success, these initiatives for talent suppliers to reduce their environmental impact.
Ultras businesses aim to build development and employee retention are long-term, mutually beneficial relationships Initiatives that have taken place within the crucial.
However, ultimate responsibility for with their customers and to become part of Group include: individual talent development and employee the customers extended enterprise.
Examples Avalon installed solar panels on its facilities retention resides within each of Ultras from 2017 that highlight Ultras commitment in an initiative to reduce energy businesses, a number of which have to its broad customer base are: consumption requirements launched unique initiatives to ensure Herley was presented with both the continuing employee development and 3eTI, NSPI and the Ocean Systems Raising the Bar and Return to Green engagement.
Examples include: Braintree facility scored 100% in their coins by Lockheed Martin.
This was for its Environmental Audit Employees from NCS participated in a outstanding performance in support of the Productivity through People workshop USSI was registered as a Conditionally Fleet Ballistic Missile programme which aims to increase productivity through Exempt Waste Generator, which no longer and for dedication and outstanding empowerment of the workforce requires waste reporting, due to efforts in support, respectively reducing landll waste.
Command & Sonar Systems launched 43 employees from NCS were invited to a Make it Happen management Suppliers: spend the day at the Tank Museum and development programme aimed at Ultra views its suppliers as an extension of received thanks from EDF for their work developing managers in readiness for the Ultra enterprise, as many businesses rely on the first Ultra-manufactured Neutron promotion on these suppliers for delivery of their Flux Detector 3eTI implemented the Walk the Wall products and services.
These are safety or Airport Systems was awarded IT Company exercise, enabling the Senior Management performance critical in their end markets so of the Year by BUILD magazine.
Team to meet and discuss each employees working together is crucial.
Partnership with suppliers and customers generates innovative overall performance and goals.
3eTI has also introduced quarterly recognition awards for and differentiated solutions which are at the employees nominated by their peers or core of Ultras business model.
Many Ultra managers for going above and beyond.
businesses work with their suppliers to enable them to operate more efficiently.
The Group believes that, to ensure its continuing growth and success, its initiatives for talent development and employee retention are crucial.
P04 P48-53 P57 Ultras customers Ultras people The environment
