18 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic growth priorities Our strategic plan to accelerate growth is focused on four key growth priorities.
Capitalising on Improving significant organic operational growth opportunities performance Our priority is to capitalise on Our self-help Lean journey end-markets where we already is underpinned by the are, or have the potential to be, engagement of management in a leading position.
and employees at all levels.
Turn to page 20 Turn to page 22 Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 19 IMI Hydronic Engineerings new Zeparo G-Force dirt separator during the automated quality test in Fllinsdorf, Switzerland.
Increasing investment Expanding our in New Product addressable markets Development through targeted acquisitions All three divisions are Beyond our existing business increasingly delivering on our portfolio, we have the potential promise to introduce great to expand through the careful new products and solutions for execution of value enhancing our customers, more quickly acquisitions.
and more effectively than ever before.
Turn to page 24 Turn to page 26 20 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic growth priorities Capitalising on significant organic growth opportunities The Group operates in a number of attractive end-markets and to achieve our ambitions we must focus on those that offer the greatest potential in terms of delivering top and bottom line growth.
Our priority is to capitalise on those end-markets where we already are, or have the potential to be, in a leading position markets where we can grow and where there are significant aftermarket opportunities.
Expanding our Enhancing our addressable markets e-commerce offering IMI Hydronic Engineering has significantly IMI Precision Engineerings focus on maximising expanded its market offerings with over 56 its potential from digital communications continued new products launched since 2014. in 2017 with the launch of a new website, which went live in January in 34 countries and 20 Included in these new products is TA-Slider, an languages, and which was designed to work actuator range targeted at the fast growing HVAC consistently across all devices.
Newly developed hydronic control market a market IMI Hydronic online product configurators have been developed Engineering previously did not address.
for 10 key industrial automation product ranges Complementing the divisions market leading and the continued expansion of this capability balancing and control valves, the addition of is a key ingredient in our continued focus on TA-Slider has created a product portfolio that digital excellence.
provides customers will all their balancing, control and actuation products from a single source.
The new IMI Norgren Express App, which went live in November 2016, has now been rolled-out To support the introduction of the new actuator to more than 20 countries with more than 40 products, the IMI Hydronic College conducted a distributor stock locations available to make it even series of intensive training programmes which easier for customers to find local stock quickly.
have helped to build confidence in the divisions expertise and deep knowledge in this growing market.
An innovative marketing campaign, entitled Products Like Me, was launched in the year and was successful at positioning Hydronic Engineering as the preferred partner for control contractors and system integrators.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1 2 Positioning our business for growth 3 Having a coherent strategy that strengthens our market position and capitalises on available growth opportunities is as important when markets are difficult, as when they are strong.
Markets do not always behave in the way they are expected to but they will always offer the greatest opportunities to those who are properly positioned to capitalise on them.
In IMI Critical Engineering, there has been a carefully planned re-positioning on several levels.
Whether it relates to geographic footprint, product 4 innovation or value engineering - supporting our customers remains at the centre of our plans.
Following a period of restructuring and investment in new facilities, IMI Critical 1 IMI CCI Koreas world-class facility 5 6 produces critical valves for extreme Engineering has re-aligned its global footprint applications.
with world-class manufacturing facilities in the 2 IMI CCI choke valves for the Middle East in local, final acceptance test and inspection.
heart of important and high growth markets of 3 Lord Smith of Kelvin recognising IMI CCI the future, including China, India and South Korea as the Doosan Supplier of the Korea.
As testament to the continuing success Year award.
4 IMI CCI pressure test valves in Saudi Arabia.
of our South Korean site, in March IMI CCI Korea 5 In 2017, IMI Critical Engineering opened was named Doosan Heavy Industries & a new facility in Qinpu, China, to further Constructions Supplier of the Year 2017. support the Energy and Petrochemical industries.
The divisions competitive advantage has also been strengthened through the wide adoption of Value Engineering.
The core processes that have been successfully embedded in our business over recent years, the drive for Lean and operational excellence, and the significantly upgraded IT infrastructure have all improved the divisions competitiveness and its sustainable growth prospects.
IMI Critical Engineering has long been an industry leader and we are confident that the actions taken by the division have improved quality of the business enormously.
22 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic growth priorities Improving operational performance As we improve how our businesses operate we will better utilise capacity, enhance our competitiveness, reduce working capital and generate cost savings by operating more efficiently.
By doing this, we are also improving service to our customers.
We are progressively self-funding our organic growth initiatives using the benefits generated from our operational improvements.
Our self-help Lean journey is underpinned by the engagement of management and employees at all levels and we remain absolutely confident that embedding Lean across the whole of IMI is an essential enabler to deliver and sustain our achievements.
Continuous Changeover Improvement First 2014 year 2015 year 2016 year 2017 year 6.
Error Assessment end end end end Proofing 70% 70% Lean score up 46% from first assessment Lean score up 37% from first assessment Success factors in Lean & HSE in 2017 Lean manufacturing driving a range of sustainable operational benefits Cross-functional teams using a visual project management tool known as Obeya have continued to be rolled-out across our engineering-to-order Our operational performance has improved significantly in recent years and businesses in IMI Critical Engineering.
Obeya provides end-to-end visualisation the resulting benefits are apparent across all our divisions.
In IMI Precision of both product and information flow which has reduced lead times by 15% Engineering the level of product quality defects is now at its lowest level ever whilst also improving working capital and on time delivery to the customer.
and in terms of safety, the division has seen an 80% reduction in its accident rate over the course of the last three years.
A major focus on inventory reduction within our long-cycle businesses, with the use of the IMI practical problem solving tools, has resulted in a The drive towards sustainable progress remains a key focus as we develop reduction of inventory of over 20% for our actuator business at IMI STI and support our people to apply Lean manufacturing to continually improve and at our specialist valve business IMI Remosa in Italy.
our businesses and customer offering.
Eliminating non-value added activities using Lean tools has resulted in faster delivery and reduced inventory.
For The division is now working to implement Lean projects in the back office example, in our Alpen factory in Germany, orders for our customised actuators with a primary aim to further improve customer service.
Early successes received by 11.00 am are now manufactured and shipped on the same day.
include a 20% reduction in the time to produce a customer quote.
A new manufacturing line at our plant in Fradley, UK can produce any combination of 700 different finished parts on demand, rather than in batches, which results in increased productivity and reduced lead times.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 23 78% Lean score up 41% from first assessment World-class operational performance 1 enhancing market competitiveness Improving plants to make them operate more efficiently is fundamental to improving financial returns but it also generates a range of other benefits.
The focus on Lean has helped drive greater operational flexibility while increasing responsiveness to our customers.
Since launching our new strategic direction in 2014 we have greatly improved operational performance across the Group and IMI Hydronic Engineering has been at the forefront of those improvements.
As a result, our attractiveness as a supplier continues to be enhanced.
2 3 IMI Hydronic Engineerings Olkusz plant in Poland and its Slovenian plant in Breice were two of the first in the Group to achieve world-class operational performance.
Since then Erwitte, Germany one of IMI Hydronic Engineerings 4 largest plants has more than doubled its Lean score from 33% in its first audit to 77% at the end of 2017.
Through the application of Lean, the plant has achieved the lowest scrap rate in its history.
The divisions Dallas plant in the USA now makes all products to order having installed one-piece flow production, which allows faster response to customer demands.
In addition to improving operational performance, we have overhauled our IT infrastructure.
During 2017 the division successfully rolled-out on time and on budget new ERP systems in its Slovenian plant and across sales offices in 9 countries.
Today IT systems across half of the division have been replaced by the new IMI Hydronic 1 Preparing the Universal A valve for its first Engineering JD Edwards standard.
IT platform is crucial to the business and it has 2 One-piece flow process in operation at IMI already enabled IMI Hydronic Engineering to Hydronic Engineerings site in Dallas, USA.
3 Measuring points assembly on IMI Flow access the large European retail market via Designs Unibody valve.
the strategic partnerships it has developed with 4 An engineer gives the product a final quality Saint-Gobain, Ferguson and GC Group, three of check before shipment.
the four top European wholesalers.
24 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic growth priorities Increasing investment in New Product Development Having successfully established the new systems and disciplines essential to effective New Product Development including advanced product quality planning APQP, rigorous competitor product tear-downs and Value Engineering all three divisions are increasingly delivering on our promise to introduce great new products and solutions for our customers, more quickly and more effectively than ever before.
New Product Development Creating innovative products driving growth in key Middle that deliver significant East markets customer benefits The development and launch of a number of new Of the 13 new products IMI Hydronic Engineering products has resulted in IMI Critical Engineering launched in 2017, the Simply Compresso the almost doubling its installed base of choke valves smallest, lightest and easiest to install connected in the Middle East during the year.
 pressurisation device on the market was the highlight of the year.
Using the New Product Development processes that are now embedded across all of our Developed and launched in a little over 12 months, businesses, IMI CCI developed and launched a Simply Compresso maintains the pressure of HVAC new choke-valve product line, 100DMT Drag systems and provides remote troubleshooting via Multi-Trim, specifically for the Middle Eastern oil the internet, while enabling optimum performance and gas market.
This new product range offers a to be delivered regardless of space constraints.
multi-trim solution for high-flow environments and IMI Hydronic Engineering also extended its advanced noise abatement.
As the energy industry range of TA-Slider digital actuators by adding faces the potential challenges of lower-for-longer communication options and additional features oil price and rising costs, the 100DMT provides to increase its potential in the market.
customers with an innovative and cost-effective solution.
The valve range allows customers to use In addition, the divisions 2015 launch of its eclipse one valve for the entire lifetime of the oil well.
This automatic flow product range was extended into is far better than the current situation which forces underfloor heating manifolds providing customers customers to undertake expensive maintenance with the same control and comfort as in and change-out valves as well pressures drop.
With the 100DMT the total life costs of operation are dramatically reduced.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 25 1 CAN-BUS interface control, offers a number New platform of significant customer benefits.
products the first of Life Sciences the IMI Norgren CadentTM 3, many to enhance launched at the AACC San Diego Fair in August, competitiveness is a highly flexible and programmable syringe pump capable of moving fluids as slowly as The early phase of the IMI Precision Engineering 0.008 microlitres min.
This new generation pump strategy concentrated on significantly improving provides greater precision and accuracy for the operations while conducting a detailed review complex imaging and laser applications in of the markets we serve and their relative analytical, biotechnology and diagnostic attractiveness.
The results of that review have instrumentation.
informed, among other things, our product development strategy.
Using what are now Energy - ICO4-PST is the first-ever smart solenoid standard New Product Development protocols valve partial stroke testing system with the ability across the Group, we have recently launched 13 to diagnose the condition of every element in important platform products which are changing the final control loop.
In November, this market 2 our competitive positioning in our markets and leading product won the Energy Industries with our customers.
In addition to enhancing our core product Rail The Integrated Twin AMT dryer was offerings, where appropriate our platform developed using our enhanced product 3 1 IMI Precision Engineerings developments have included sensing development process and successfully launched Energy team receiving the Energy configurations to enhance performance and inter in November 2016.
Since the initial launch, IMI Industries Council Technology Award for the IC04-PST smart connectivity.
Our Industry 4.0 strategy is well Precision Engineering has won a number of new solenoid valve.
developed and focused on delivering the contracts for the supply of the new dryer to train 2 The new M 50 IO-Link switch sensor enables connectivity maximum commercial benefits by addressing fleets across the rail industry including new metro and condition monitoring of current customer demand while monitoring trains in China and the Sydney Trains Outer actuators, including IMI Precision Engineerings new ISOLine.
changes in customer and market requirements.
3 Manufacturing of the AMT dryer Many of the products we have already launched at IMI Precision Engineerings New Product Development continues at pace facility in Leeds.
have connectability with our customers Industry with an expanding pipeline of further new 4.0 solutions.
developments including 30 major product Industrial Automation In April 2017 at Hannover platforms, which are planned for launch over Messe, the world-leading industrial technology the next few years.
This significant extension trade fair, IMI Precision Engineering launched its and upgrade of our product portfolio is already first new major platform products in over 10 improving our competitiveness.
These new products include ISOLine a fit and forget pneumatic actuator range, Excelon Plus, the next generation air preparation unit and upgraded valve islands which now incorporate Ethernet IP and provide increased connectivity.
These products form part of our core offering and are found at the heart of factory automation systems.
Commercial Vehicle a valve array that controls most chassis air-controlled accessories was brought to market in September 2017.
The product, which takes a signal from the dash valve using an integrated electronic circuit with 26 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic growth priorities Expanding our addressable markets through targeted acquisitions We will supplement our organic growth with targeted acquisitions capable of producing returns in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital within three years.
Each of the Groups three divisions has a well developed list of acquisition targets and our business development team has the experience, policies and structure to deliver high quality deals.
The acquisition of Bimba Manufacturing in December 2017 was a highlight of the year.
Our acquisition strategies for the divisions are: Extending market reach Fewer but better targets Within IMI Critical Engineering, bolt-on acquisitions Our product strategy is well developed in IMI to extend both our product range of semi-severe Hydronic Engineering, and increasingly focuses and configured products and our geographic on high quality well run European acquisition footprint in both our existing and adjacent markets candidates.
The division developed a well-defined remain our focus.
Opportunities with attractive pipeline of bolt-on opportunities, many of which aftermarkets are particularly favoured.
are family owned which would fit well with IMIs culture, whilst enabling us to leverage their strong brands and management capabilities.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1 2 Bimba a significant step In December we announced the acquisition of Bimba an important strategic development for IMI Precision Engineering.
Based in Chicago, Bimba is an excellent fit with IMI Precision Engineerings existing business both operationally and commercially and we are delighted to welcome all the Bimba employees to IMI.
The deal is perfectly aligned with our strategy and meets all our acquisition criteria.
We are confident it will be earnings accretive in the first full year of ownership and will exceed its cost of capital by year three.
In addition to the improvements we believe we can make to the 3 business by applying IMI disciplines and processes, the combined businesses present compelling commercial logic.
In particular Bimba provides us with progressive opportunities to grow faster than 4 6 1 Bimba Manufacturing at University Park, before in the important US market, by virtue of Monee, Illinois.
both its significant distribution arrangements and 2 Bimba employees at their University its complementary product range.
3 Ryan Schroeder, Regional Managing North American businesses share a passion to Director-Americas speaking with a Bimba outpace the competition and deliver sustainable, employee at University Park.
4 Massimo Grassi, Divisional Managing Director, IMI Precision Engineering, presenting to all Bimba employees, across all sites as part of a Day 1 celebration.
