Our Turnaround Strategy Customer Focus Leadership and Simplification Control and Execution Why this Cobham operates in attractive markets with good medium term opportunities.
Why this Having a motivated and accountable work force, working to clear and Improved control and execution enhances the ability to consistently deliver We have many is important Typically, it has high value add capabilities and leading market positions, is important understandable rules, within a more cohesive portfolio of businesses, to customers on time, so earning repeat orders and increasing content.
representing significant barriers to entry.
There are many opportunities for the willimprove the ability to respond quickly and effectively to market Groups businesses to increase market share, as there is a real need for its products.
This will help take advantage of In addition, reduced development cost overruns, lower levels of late improvement actions opportunities as they arise.
deliveries and improvements to first pass quality performance will also In particular, customers will conduct more business with Cobham if the Groups deliver significant cost and operating margin improvements over time.
intrain and we are delivery consistently meets the customers schedule and quality requirements.
Thefocus on the supply chain and manufacturing strategy should alsocontribute to a lower cost base, enabling more competitive beginning to see early marketofferings.
signs of progress Our focus Improving customer intelligence and building relationships Our focus Instilling a common sense of purpose and motivation Increasing visibility and accountability areas Monitoring and driving customer satisfaction areas Reducing and simplifying internal policies Increasing scrutiny over key development programmes Focusing on improving delivery Focusing on the most critical performance metrics Operational improvements Principal See principal risks 1, 5.
See principal risks 3, 5, 6, 9, 11. risks risks Where we Cobham had become too internally focused over time, with centrally driven Where we The Groups reporting structures, including its internal processes and the There had been a succession of performance issues in a number of Cobham The first objective of our strategy is to improve our started change programmes and large scale acquisition activity having consumed started allocation of responsibilities had become overly complex and unclear and businesses which stemmed from weaknesses in management and in operational performance with the aim that this is a the year significant financial resources and management attention.
There was a need the year there was a broad portfolio of businesses.
In a number of instances there financial controls: contractual and commercial failures and, in a few tore-focus on customers, as the source of Cobhams prosperity.
had been examples of duplication of responsibility, reduced accountability businesses, from more challenging market conditions.
However, in the main relentless focus for every employee.
Implementation and slow decision making, which contributed to some sustained operational these have come from operational issues which include poorly worded of the turnaround will take time and the rate of There has been investment over the years on PV, however this substantial and financial challenges.
In addition, the Group had not always integrated contracts: late delivery against development programmes: poor financial progress across the businesses may not be uniform.
investment has not always yielded the expected return.
This its acquisitions well, which caused an additional lack of clarity.
forecasting: inadequate on time delivery to customers: and a need to However, a successful outcome will help us realise could mean Cobhams investment has not always been in the areas of greatest improve quality levels.
the great potential within Cobham.
customer need or that the investments made have not been timely or .
We identified three operational priorities for 2017 and 2018 and success will enable us to deliver to our customers and shareholders expectations.
Central to all of this is a laser focus on cash.
Progress There is increasing interaction with major customers by senior management, and Progress The Group has been strengthened by adding a new Chief Operations Officer The previous quarterly Sector level operational reviews are now monthly during 2017 this issupplementing and complementing business unit level engagement.
during 2017 role and by making other significant senior appointments including a new reviews at the business unit level, giving greater clarity on performance and President of the Communications and Connectivity Sector and a new improved accountability for delivery.
Key customer related indicators are being collected and reviewed monthly Executive Vice President of Human Resources and Communications, who andCobham is actively using and reviewing customer supplied score cards to brings a track record of driving transformational change.
The broader There is an increased Group level oversight over key projects and material improve performance.
management team will continue to be selectively strengthened.
development programmes so problems are identified earlier, when there is Turnaround strategy: greater scope to resolve them.
See also Customer Focus on page 14.
There is improved co-ordination between the businesses to deliver greater There is increased senior management visibility through site visits and staff customer facing collaboration through the pooling of information and meetings and increased engagement with the top 200 managers in the There has been significant investment to remediate quality management, participation in joint presentations to customers.
Group, to instil a common sense of purpose and collaboration.
product quality and supply chain and infrastructure failings in larger sites.
There has been additional training and business unit specific remediation Leadership and There is focus on internal processes where this will result in an improved on time Monthly business unit operational reports have been standardised with a action taken.
This is being supplemented by training, coaching and comprehensive pack for reporting and forecasting.
The supply chain management and quality management functions are Some 60 system reports and 80 data line items have been removed from being consolidated to drive improved performance and standardisation Greater rigour is being instilled into our PV investment processes by ensuring the Group reporting suite and the number of non-financial key performance across the Group.
investment is allocated for return and the sums invested are managed rigorously.
indicators has been cut by up to 70%.
Cash This will mean we are allocating investment to critical customer requirements and We are progressing the onerous contracts on which Cobham took Generation we are delivering on a timely basis.
The Group policy framework has been streamlined and there are revised significant exceptional charges in 2016, including on the largest of them, the Customer Control and delegated authorities in a single consolidated table, and this is used as an KC-46 programme.
A number of challenges remain with focus on achieving Focus Execution active management tool reflecting business unit performance.
improvements in the supply chain and quality management.
Key Key 1.9bn 1% 60 10% 711 87% Statistics statistics Order intake Organic revenue growth Number of system reports removed Voluntary staff turnover Continuous improvement Customer on time delivery and link and link 2016: 2.1bn 2016: 8 % 2016: 10% training courses undertaken 2016: 86% Plans for 2018 to KPIs to KPIs 2016: 504 While we have many improvement actions in-train and done much to build the foundations of future success, there is much that is work-inPlease refer to the CFO Please refer to the CFO progress with a lot left to do.
We have made progress against the three Statement on pages 28 to 33.
Statement on pages 28 to 33. operational priorities but they will continue to be a focus for 2018.
In addition, we will continue the focus on cash generation in 2018.
KPIs are identified using a numbered icon.
Please refer to pages 18 to 19 for KPI detail.
Includes AUS$719m related to the repriced multi-year Qantas contract.
com 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Customer Focus Leadership and Simplification Control and Execution Why this Cobham operates in attractive markets with good medium term opportunities.
Why this Having a motivated and accountable work force, working to clear and Improved control and execution enhances the ability to consistently deliver is important Typically, it has high value add capabilities and leading market positions, is important understandable rules, within a more cohesive portfolio of businesses, to customers on time, so earning repeat orders and increasing content.
This will help take advantage of In addition, reduced development cost overruns, lower levels of late opportunities as they arise.
delivery consistently meets the customers schedule and quality requirements.
Thefocus on the supply chain and manufacturing strategy should alsocontribute to a lower cost base, enabling more competitive marketofferings.
Our focus Improving customer intelligence and building relationships Our focus Instilling a common sense of purpose and motivation Increasing visibility and accountability areas Monitoring and driving customer satisfaction areas Reducing and simplifying internal policies Increasing scrutiny over key development programmes Focusing on improving delivery Focusing on the most critical performance metrics Operational improvements Principal See principal risks 1, 5.
See principal risks 3, 5, 6, 9, 11. risks risks Where we Cobham had become too internally focused over time, with centrally driven Where we The Groups reporting structures, including its internal processes and the There had been a succession of performance issues in a number of Cobham started change programmes and large scale acquisition activity having consumed started allocation of responsibilities had become overly complex and unclear and businesses which stemmed from weaknesses in management and in the year significant financial resources and management attention.
However, in the main and slow decision making, which contributed to some sustained operational these have come from operational issues which include poorly worded There has been investment over the years on PV, however this substantial and financial challenges.
In addition, the Group had not always integrated contracts: late delivery against development programmes: poor financial investment has not always yielded the expected return.
forecasting: inadequate on time delivery to customers: and a need to could mean Cobhams investment has not always been in the areas of greatest improve quality levels.
development programmes so problems are identified earlier, when there is greater scope to resolve them.
There has been additional training and business unit specific remediation There is focus on internal processes where this will result in an improved on time Monthly business unit operational reports have been standardised with a action taken.
This will mean we are allocating investment to critical customer requirements and We are progressing the onerous contracts on which Cobham took we are delivering on a timely basis.
The Group policy framework has been streamlined and there are revised significant exceptional charges in 2016, including on the largest of them, the delegated authorities in a single consolidated table, and this is used as an KC-46 programme.
A number of challenges remain with focus on achieving active management tool reflecting business unit performance.
Key Key 1.9bn 1% 60 10% 711 87% Statistics statistics Order intake Organic revenue growth Number of system reports removed Voluntary staff turnover Continuous improvement Customer on time delivery and link and link 2016: 2.1bn 2016: 8 % 2016: 10% training courses undertaken 2016: 86% to KPIs to KPIs 2016: 504 Please refer to the CFO Please refer to the CFO Statement on pages 28 to 33.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15
