Board of Directors Board of Directors Michael Dobson Peter Harrison Richard Keers Chairman 65 Group Chief Executive 51 Chief Financial Officer 54 Appointed Chairman in April 2016, having Appointed Group Chief Executive in April Appointed a Director and Chief Financial been Chief Executive since November 2001.
He was an executive Director and Head Officer in May 2013.
He first joined the Board as a non-executive of Investment from May 2014.
Experience: He is a chartered accountant and Director in April 2001.
Experience: He began his career at Schroders was a senior audit partner of Experience: Prior to joining Schroders he was and subsequently held roles at Newton  LLP PwC until May Chief Executive of Morgan Grenfell Group and Investment Management, JP Morgan Asset 2013.
He became a partner of PwC in 1997 a member of the Board of Managing Directors Management as Head of Global Equities and and has 25 years experience in the audits of of Deutsche Bank AG.
Multi-Asset and at Deutsche Asset global financial services groups.
His Management as Global Chief Investment experience includes time spent in PwCs New External appointments: Member of the Officer.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive York, Sydney, Edinburgh and London offices.
Presidents Committee of the Confederation of RWC Partners before re-joining Schroders of British Industry.
External appointments: Non-executive as Global Head of Equities in March 2013. member of Lloyds Franchise Board and Committee membership: Chairman of the External appointments: Chairman of the Chairman of its Audit Committee.
Investment Association and a member of the Takeover Panel.
Lord Howard of Penrith Robin Buchanan Sir Damon Buffini Senior Independent Director 72 Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Appointed Senior Independent Director in Director 65 Director 55 April 2015, having been a non-executive Appointed in March 2010.
Experience: He was the Senior Partner of Bain Experience: He has over 25 years experience Experience: He was Deputy to the Chairman & Company Inc. in the UK for 12 years and in private equity, joining Schroder Ventures of Lehman in Europe until 1998 and was the remains a Senior Adviser.
He was Managing Partner of Permira Partner in charge of international fixed served as Chairman of PageGroup plc until from 1997 to 2007 before becoming income at Phillips & Drew.
He was Dean and President Chairman.
He retired in 2015 and remains a Chairman of Tarchon Capital Management of London Business School.
He is a chartered Senior Adviser.
He will retire accountant and holds an MBA from Harvard External appointments: A governor of the from the Board at the 2018 AGM.
Wellcome Trust, Chairman of the National External appointments: Senior Adviser to External appointments: Non-executive Theatre, Senior Independent Director of the Beazley plc having previously held the position Director of LyondellBasell Industries N. V. He is PGA Tour and was Chairman of the of Chief Investment Officer until the end of Chairman of the Advisory Board of Access Governments Patient Capital Review.
Industries and a Director of CICAP Limited.
Committee membership: Member of the Committee membership: Chairman of the Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Committee.
Member of the Nominations, Audit and Risk, and Nominations and Audit and Risk Committees.
44 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Rhian Davies Rakhi Goss-Custard Ian King Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Director 53 Director 43 Director 61 Appointed in July 2015.
Experience: She is a chartered accountant Experience: She is an experienced executive Experience: He was Chief Executive of BAE and was a partner at Electra Partners, an in digital retailing having spent 11 years at Systems plc from 2008 to 2017 having been independent private equity fund manager, Amazon.
Prior to joining Amazon, she held originally appointed to the BAE board as Chief until June 2015 and then a Senior Adviser until roles at TomTom and in management Operating Officer, UK and Rest of the World.
She previously worked in PwCs consultancy in the US.
Prior to this, he was Chief Executive of Alenia audit and insolvency practice before joining Marconi Systems.
He also served as a External appointments: Non-executive Electra in 1992. non-executive Director and Senior Director of Kingfisher plc, Rightmove plc, Intu Independent Director of Rotork plc until June Committee membership: Chairman of the Properties plc and Be Heard plc.
Member of the Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Committee.
External appointments: Senior Adviser to the Nominations Committee.
Board of Gleacher Shacklock LLP, Chairmandesignate of Senior plc and lead nonexecutive Director for the Department of Transport.
Committee membership: Member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Philip Mallinckrodt Nichola Pease Bruno Schroder Non-executive Director 55 Independent non-executive Non-executive Director 85 Appointed as an executive Director in January Director 56 Appointed in January 1963.
2009 and a non-executive Director on Appointed in September 2012.
Experience: He is the great-great-grandson of 1 March 2017.
John Henry Schroder, co-founder of the Experience: She has over 30 years experience Experience: He started his career at Credit Schroders businesses in 1804.
He joined the in the asset management and stock broking Suisse First Boston in 1985.
He first joined Schroder Group in London where he worked industries.
She was the Chief Executive and Schroders in 1994, and then worked for in the Commercial Banking and Corporate then Deputy Chairman of J O Hambro Capital Citigroup from 2000 to 2002.
He rejoined Finance divisions of J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Management Ltd from 1998 until 2008, Schroders in 2002 as Head of Corporate Co Ltd. following which she held a number of roles in Development, was Group Head of Wealth the charity and public sectors.
External appointments: Director of a Management from 2006 to 2016 and then number of private limited companies.
External appointments: Founder and Group Head of Private Assets and Wealth Chairman of Investment 2020 and a Member Management until 1 March 2017.
Committee membership: Member of the of the Eton College Investment Committee.
External appointments: Non-executive Committee membership: Member of the Director of The Economist and a member of Nominations, Audit and Risk, and the International Advisory Council of the Remuneration Committees.
Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Committee.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45
