Group Chief Executives review continued Our strategy for 2017 and beyond Our strategy is focused on sustainable, profitable growth over the long term.
This means identifying and investing behind opportunities for future growth, while retaining focus on cost discipline with a continual drive for improved efficiency.
Our Develop and maintain Offer a range of Consistently deliver Develop leading Develop and retain priorities long-term client partnerships innovativeproducts outcomes for clients technology a diverse pool of talent Why its We focus on helping our clients Innovative product design is crucial As an active manager, we are Active asset management is inherently Our ongoing success is driven by important achieve their financial goals and toour continued future growth.
committed to delivering consistent, about processing and analysing data our people.
repeatable outcomes for our clients.
to achieve outperformance or An increasing number of our clients are Developing and retaining a diverse desired outcomes.
Building close partnerships with our looking for products that seek to provide Whilst many of our strategies seek and talented workforce is key to the clients and intermediaries enables us a financial outcome, which could be a tooutperform a stated benchmark It is critical to our ongoing success stability of our business and the to gain a deeper understanding of our level of income, an absolute return or orpeer group, client demand is that we have leading technology delivery of all aspects of our clients financial needs.
derisking of their financial positions such increasing for outcome-oriented across the firm.
as an employer pension obligation.
This in-depth understanding allows Better use of technology can be Diversity of thought is part of our usto continue to develop solutions, We are continually looking to expand Sustained outperformance or employed to innovate and automate heritage and it is one of the reasons leading to greater client longevity and our offering and diversify into new areas achieving a predefined outcome while improving productivity we are able to attract high increased new business opportunities.
increases value for our clients, builds and efficiency.
trust and is a driver of new business.
We deliver the whole of the firm to our Our focus on investing back into the We invest heavily in our people, clients, utilising the most relevant business comes with a strict cost offering opportunities to grow their capabilities or products to provide a discipline and a continual effort to knowledge, skills and capabilities.
solution that meets their goals.
In order for them to succeed we need We also continually look to develop to provide them with a working new relationships globally, across environment that supports regions and sales channels.
productivity, innovative thinking and collaboration.
Key Net new business Net new business Client investment performance Ratio of total costs to net income Retention of key talent performance Net new business indicators Progress Total net new business of 9.6 billion Restructured our product range 74% of our assets outperformed Invested in technology solutions 43% of our employees have been through 2017 around 10 distinct strategic their stated comparator over three throughout the business including: with usfor more than six years In North America, growing capabilities.
More details on our years.
More details on our momentum through our strategic Expansion of data insights teams Female representation insenior capabilities can be found on page 13 performance reporting can be relationship with Hartford Funds management roles ended the year Ongoing implementation of new found on page 23 Continued expansion into private at 29% In Wealth Management, acquisitions front office technology platforms assets through the acquisition and Integrated Solutions team, of the wealth management business 94% of employees proud to be Upgrading Client Relationship integration of Adveq constructing bespoke solutions of C. Hoare & Co. and other associated with Schroders Management system tomeet institutional clients acquisitions including within Seed and co-investment capital 94% retention rate of highly rated financialneeds Maintained cost discipline to drive Benchmark Capital atarecord level of 392 million employees efficiency, improving ratio of total Completed acquisition of Adveq, Launched new strategically important costs to net income from 64% expanding our capabilities in private products including absolute return, to61% assets and alternatives income and inflation-linked strategies Growth Seek to further increase client Further develop our strategic Maintain high levels of Continue to invest in technology Maintain high rate of retention opportunities longevity across the firm capabilities approach outperformance ofhighly rated employees Continue to attract and retain Maintain a commitment to Continue to provide value for Invest in further automation Target 33% of female business with clients, specifically seedingnew products moneyand build clients future androbotics representation in senior instrategically important growth prosperity management roles by 2019 Maintain focus on cost discipline Continue expansion into areas, such as North America, privateassets through the ratio of total costs to Move to new London-based Japanand China net income headquarters Key risks 1 2 6 7 8 14 17 1 2 3 5 6 7 8 9 14 1 2 3 6 7 3 5 6 7 17 19 6 7 14 17 18 20 Read more about how our strategy mitigates these risks from page 34.
14 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report our fund managers and analysts.
We are also using data and analytics to enhance our interactions with clients.
Our client relationship teams are leveraging Our strategy for 2017 and beyond behavioural analytics to provide insights into client behaviour, while real-time market intelligence helps us to build a clearer picture of changing client demand.
Effective use of technology can also greatly increase efficiency and productivity, vital to our ongoing success in an environment of declining revenue margins.
Increased use of automation and robotics frees up resources from straightforward tasks.
This allows our people to focus on serving clients and growing Our Develop and maintain Offer a range of Consistently deliver Develop leading Develop and retain the business.
priorities long-term client partnerships innovativeproducts outcomes for clients technology a diverse pool of talent Wealth Management Why its We focus on helping our clients Innovative product design is crucial As an active manager, we are Active asset management is inherently Our ongoing success is driven by Wealth Management is another area that we see important achieve their financial goals and toour continued future growth.
driving future growth and making a larger contribution building their future prosperity.
to achieve outperformance or An increasing number of our clients are Developing and retaining a diverse to the overall group.
We have invested in growing desired outcomes.
Building close partnerships with our looking for products that seek to provide Whilst many of our strategies seek and talented workforce is key to the thebusiness, both organically and through selective clients and intermediaries enables us a financial outcome, which could be a tooutperform a stated benchmark It is critical to our ongoing success stability of our business and the acquisitions, and we are starting to see the benefits to gain a deeper understanding of our level of income, an absolute return or orpeer group, client demand is that we have leading technology delivery of all aspects of our ofthis come through in the 2017 results.
We acquired the discretionary assets of around 1,800 as an employer pension obligation.
This in-depth understanding allows Better use of technology can be Diversity of thought is part of our clients from C. Hoare & Co. in February 2017.
We have usto continue to develop solutions, We are continually looking to expand Sustained outperformance or employed to innovate and automate heritage and it is one of the reasons also benefited from our 2016 acquisition of Benchmark leading to greater client longevity and our offering and diversify into new areas achieving a predefined outcome while improving productivity we are able to attract high Capital, which allows us to participate further along the increased new business opportunities.
value chain and get closer to the end consumer in the trust and is a driver of new business.
It has also allowed us to increase the IFA network We deliver the whole of the firm to our Our focus on investing back into the We invest heavily in our people, through selective acquisitions.
These have generated clients, utilising the most relevant business comes with a strict cost offering opportunities to grow their strong revenue and net new business growth in capabilities or products to provide a discipline and a continual effort to knowledge, skills and capabilities.
In order for them to succeed we need People We also continually look to develop to provide them with a working As always, our achievements have been realised new relationships globally, across environment that supports through our talented and diverse employees, whose regions and sales channels.
productivity, innovative thinking integrity and passion are key to our ongoing success.
We have a strong and distinctive culture which is Key Net new business Net new business Client investment performance Ratio of total costs to net income Retention of key talent diverse in both approach and outlook.
performance Net new business indicators We have worked throughout the year to protect and build upon this culture, promoting diversity and a Progress Total net new business of 9.6 billion Restructured our product range 74% of our assets outperformed Invested in technology solutions 43% of our employees have been collaborative working environment for all of our through 2017 around 10 distinct strategic their stated comparator over three throughout the business including: with usfor more than six years In North America, growing people.
We were one of the first signatories of the capabilities.
More details on our momentum through our strategic Expansion of data insights teams Female representation insenior Women in Finance Charter.
We achieved our initial capabilities can be found on page 13 performance reporting can be relationship with Hartford Funds management roles ended the year target of 30% women within senior management Ongoing implementation of new found on page 23 Continued expansion into private at 29% during the first quarter of 2017, though at year end the In Wealth Management, acquisitions front office technology platforms assets through the acquisition and Integrated Solutions team, figure had fallen back to 29% as a result of minor of the wealth management business 94% of employees proud to be Upgrading Client Relationship integration of Adveq constructing bespoke solutions restructurings within the firm.
We are now targeting of C. Hoare & Co. and other associated with Schroders Management system tomeet institutional clients 33% by the end of 2019.
More details on this can be acquisitions including within Seed and co-investment capital 94% retention rate of highly rated financialneeds found on page 28.
Maintained cost discipline to drive Benchmark Capital atarecord level of 392 million employees efficiency, improving ratio of total Completed acquisition of Adveq, Launched new strategically important Outlook costs to net income from 64% expanding our capabilities in private products including absolute return, Looking ahead, our core focus will remain on helping to61% assets and alternatives income and inflation-linked strategies our clients to achieve their financial goals and build their future prosperity.
Growth Seek to further increase client Further develop our strategic Maintain high levels of Continue to invest in technology Maintain high rate of retention opportunities longevity across the firm capabilities approach outperformance ofhighly rated employees We will continue to invest for long-term growth, whether in allocating more resources to leverage Continue to attract and retain Maintain a commitment to Continue to provide value for Invest in further automation Target 33% of female opportunities created by the latest technology, business with clients, specifically seedingnew products moneyand build clients future androbotics representation in senior expanding our geographical footprint or further instrategically important growth prosperity management roles by 2019 Maintain focus on cost discipline Continue expansion into diversifying our product offering.
areas, such as North America, privateassets through the ratio of total costs to Move to new London-based Japanand China net income headquarters Although there are challenges facing the industry, webelieve that there are opportunities for growth and Key risks 1 2 6 7 8 14 17 1 2 3 5 6 7 8 9 14 1 2 3 6 7 3 5 6 7 17 19 6 7 14 17 18 20 that our diversified business model is ideally placed to take advantage of these.
I look forward to leading our Read more about how our strategy mitigates these risks from page 34. continued success.
Peter Harrison Group Chief Executive Read more within the key performance indicator section andDirectors remuneration report from pages 16 and 62 respectively.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15
