OTHER INFORMATION The Companies Act 2006 requires Acacias Directors Global GHG emissions data for period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 unaudited to prepare a Directors Report for the financial year According to the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council under review.
The UKLAs Listing Rules and for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute, GHG emissions are classified as either direct or indirect, and from there are Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules also divided further into Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Direct require Acacia to make certain other disclosures.
GHG emissions are emissions from sources that are owned or controlled The information contained on pages 92 to 96 by the reporting entity.
Indirect GHG emissions are emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the reporting entity but that occur at inclusive together with all other information in sources owned or controlled by another entity.
Each scope is classified the Annual Report which has been specifically as follows: incorporated into these pages by reference Scope 1 emissions: direct emissions from sources owned or operated by our Company.
Scope 2 emissions: indirect emissions attributable to our Company due to its consumption of purchased electricity, notably our consumption of Legal form of the Company electricity from TANESCO.
Acacia is a public listed company incorporated in England and Wales with Scope 3 emissions: all other indirect emissions associated with the registered number 7123187.
It conducts limited business activities activities that support or supply our Companys operations.
itself and trades principally through its subsidiaries and subsidiary For 2017, we have calculated Acacias Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions undertakings in various jurisdictions.
Further information as regards footprint on the basis of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e emissions.
Acacias subsidiaries is provided in Note 1 to the consolidated financial 2 statements on page 116.
Year-on-year Percentage of total percentage, Strategic report Total tonnes of CO e emissions % change % 2 The requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as regards the production 2017 2016 2017 2016 of a strategic report are satisfied in the Strategic report contained at Scope 1 pages 5 to 29.
The Strategic report provides an overview of the emissions 189,321 231,754 76 79 18.3 development and performance of Acacias business for the financial year Scope 2 ended 31 December 2017 and also provides information relevant to likely emissions 59,791 59,895 24 21 future developments in the business.
Total 249,112 291,649 100 100 14.6 In addition, for purposes of compliance with the Disclosure Guidance and Total CO e emissions for 2017 amounted to 249,112 tonnes, a 15% Transparency Rules, the required content for the Management report can 2 decrease on 2016 291,649 CO e. The decrease is principally due to the be found in the Strategic report and the Directors Report.
2 reduction in operational activity at Bulyanhulu.
Directors CO e emission intensity for the year was 0.0284 per tonne of ore milled, The names and biographies of the Directors serving as at 31 December 2 this being a 5% increase on 2016 0.0297.
Further information as 2017 are provided on pages 64 to 65.
An overview of Directors regards our GHG emissions reporting for 2017 is provided on page 60. appointments, by reference to current terms under appointment letters, is provided on page 84.
Details of Director re-election requirements are provided on page 67.
Directors indemnity and insurance In accordance with Acacias Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, Acacia may indemnify its Directors out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The relevant provision contained in the Articles can be categorised as a qualifying third-party indemnity provision under the Companies Act 2006.
Acacia has adopted Directors and Officers liability insurance, which provides insurance cover for any claim brought against Directors or officers for wrongful acts in connection with their positions.
The insurance provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and it does not provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed by law.
92 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Directors interests Major shareholdings Details of the interests of Directors and their connected persons in The following persons as at 31 December 2017 are interested in the Acacias Ordinary Shares or in related derivatives or financial instruments following percentages of Acacias issued Ordinary Share capital: are outlined in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Percentage of issued Employee share schemes Number of share Details of Acacias employee share plans and long-term incentive plans Name shares capital % 1 are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Barrick International Barbados Corp 179,609,530 43.80 1 PDG Sona Cayman Ltd 45,258,970 11.04 Employee diversity 1 PDG Bank Limited 37,378,450 9.11 An overview of female representation percentages across our workforce is provided on page 58.
In addition, the total breakdown of male and Blackrock Inc 24,932,954 6.08 female employees as at 31 December 2017 was as follows: Total 287,179,904 70.03 Female Male 1 Members of the Barrick Group.
Board of Directors 1 6 Executive Leadership Team 0 3 Relationship with major shareholder Other employees 179 1,536 An overview of Acacias relationship with Barrick and the Relationship Agreement that has been executed in respect of their on-going Dividends relationship is provided on page 69.
As a result of negative cash flow arising from the ban of exporting Political and charitable donations concentrate from Tanzania, no interim dividend was paid during 2017, Acacia does not make political donations.
Information as regards in line with Acacias cash flow based dividend policy.
The Board will Acacias social and community contributions for the year is provided not recommend the payment of any final dividend for the year ended as part of our Sustainability and Financial reviews.
4R Share capital There is no information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
4R save As at 31 December 2017, the Companys issued share capital comprised in respect of LR 9.8.
4R 10 Contracts of significance with controlling 410,085,499 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
The voting rights of all shareholder in which director interested, LR 9.8.
4R 11 Contracts for Acacia Ordinary Shares are identical, with each share carrying the right the provision of services by a controlling shareholder and LR 9.8.
The Company holds no Ordinary Shares in Treasury and Relationship Agreement with controlling shareholder which can be found does not have any class of share other than its Ordinary Shares.
Further on page 69 of this Annual Report.
Details of interest capitalised by the details on voting rights and rights relating to the transfer of shares are Group are provided in Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements provided overleaf.
Acacias Articles of Association provide the authority for the Company to Policy on derivatives, financial instruments and financial purchase its own shares including any redeemable preference shares, risk management provided that it complies with any applicable requirements contained in Acacias policies on financial risk management, derivatives, financial the Companies Act 2006, the CREST regulations or any other applicable instruments and information on its exposures to foreign currency, law.
As part of resolutions passed at the 2017 AGM, the Company commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity and interest rates can be found obtained shareholder approval to make market purchases of up to in Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements contained on pages 4,100,854 of its Ordinary Shares, equivalent to 10% of the issued 142 and 144 of this Annual Report.
All such information is incorporated share capital at the time of approval.
The authority was granted subject by reference into this Directors Report and is deemed to form part of to stated upper and lower limits in accordance with Listing Rule this Directors Report.
requirements and expires at the forthcoming AGM.
The authority was not exercised during the year under review.
An equivalent shareholder resolution will be sought as a matter of ordinary business at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of Acacias issued share capital and any movements during the year are included in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements on page 141.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 93 OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED Material agreements containing change of control Alternatively, awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards provisions significant agreements with Directors where appropriate.
Controlling Shareholders Going concern The Directors consider the following as material agreements The Directors statement on going concern is contained on page 49 arrangements for Acacias business and operations, which alter or of this Annual Report.
terminate on a change of control of Acacia and or significant agreements with Directors Barrick: Corporate governance compliance The corporate governance statement as required by Rule 7.2.
1 of the Relationship Agreement: see page 69 of this report for an overview of UKLAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules is set out in the the Relationship Agreement.
In addition to the Relationship Agreement, corporate governance report on pages 67 to 70 of this Annual Report.
Acacia entered into a Services Agreement with Barrick in February 2010 as part of arrangements for the IPO, under which Barrick provides All information detailed in the corporate governance statement is certain services to the Acacia Group for the on-going operation of the incorporated by reference into this Directors Report and is deemed business.
These services include support for information technology, to form part of this Directors Report.
technical services and other administrative and corporate functions.
Articles of Association The agreements termination events include a basis for either party to The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special terminate the agreement with immediate effect in the event of specified resolution of the shareholders.
breaches of the agreement, insolvency, analogous events or a change of control.
Whilst this agreement remains in force, limited services are Shareholder rights provided under it and no services provided are deemed to be material The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares contained or significant.
in the Articles of Association are as follows: Credit Agreement: an overview of the Credit Agreement between, Voting rights among others, the Company and Citibank International plc as Subject to any special rights or voting restrictions contained in the administrative agent, is provided in Note 9 to the consolidated Articles of Association for any class of share, at any general meeting financial statements on page 133.
A change of control is a mandatory every member who is present in person or by proxy shall, on a show of prepayment event under the Credit Agreement and, subject to hands, have one vote and every member present in person or by proxy certain exceptions, a termination event.
shall, on a poll, have one vote for each share of which he or she is the holder.
A resolution put to a vote of the meeting shall be decided on a Acacias mining concessions are held by its operating companies in show of hands, unless a poll is duly demanded.
Subject to the provisions Tanzania.
Under applicable law, a change of control of the operating of the Companies Act 2006, a poll may be demanded by the Chairman: companies requires the consent of the Minister of Energy and Minerals by at least five members who have the right to vote at the meeting: by in Tanzania.
In addition, each Acacia Group operating mine has a Mineral a member or members representing not less than one-tenth of the total Development Agreement MDA with the Tanzanian Government.
The voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: material terms and conditions of each MDA are substantially similar and or by a member or members holding shares conferring a right to vote at include provisions governing royalty payments, taxes and other charges, the meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid banking arrangements, local procurement obligations, and import rights.
up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the The MDAs also provide for no expropriation or nationalisation rights.
Unless the Directors otherwise determine, Broadly, these rights provide that the Tanzanian Government will not a shareholder is not entitled to vote at a shareholders meeting, either nationalise or compulsorily acquire the whole or any part of the Acacia in person or by proxy, or to exercise any other right conferred by Groups interest in the applicable special mining licences or any of its membership in relation to a shareholders meeting, unless and until all property or its contractors or subcontractors property used for the calls or other sums presently payable by him or her in respect of that purpose of mining operations or in relation to the applicable special share with interest and expenses if any have been paid to the Company mining licences, without adequate compensation.
Each MDA is governed or if he she or any other person appearing to be interested in shares has by Tanzanian law.
Adherence to the terms and conditions of the MDAs is been issued with a notice pursuant to Section 793 of the Companies Act of significant importance to Acacias business, given the agreements 2006 requiring disclosure of interest in shares and has failed to provide overall importance to our operations.
Acacia is carefully monitoring its the required information within 14 days from the service of the notice.
rights under relevant MDAs in the context of the legislative changes and tax assessments made in Tanzania during 2017.
Certain employment contracts for members of the Companys Executive Leadership Team, excluding the current Interim CEO, contain change of control provisions, which provide entitlements to severance payments in the event of being dismissed without cause or resigning for good reason in the 12 months following a change of control.
Any payment made under these arrangements would replace the entitlement to receive payment under applicable contractual notice periods in each case.
Special provisions also allow the early exercise of awards made under the Companys Stock Option Plan SOP and early vesting of awards made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP in the event of a takeover, reconstruction or winding up.
In such circumstances, the Compensation Committee determines whether and to what extent options or awards become exercisable, by taking into account all relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, satisfaction of any applicable performance condition.
When determining the vesting of LTIP awards or options, the Compensation Committee may proportionately reduce the award depending on the time which has elapsed between the first day of the performance period and the date of the change of control.
94 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Dividend rights it is lodged duly stamped if so required at the transfer office: The Board may declare and pay dividends on any class of shares carrying it is accompanied by the relevant certificate for the shares to which a fixed dividend expressed to be payable on fixed dates and may from it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably time to time pay interim dividends as it thinks fit.
Final dividends shall require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution of be declared by Ordinary Shareholder resolution, in accordance with Board the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by some other person on recommendations.
No dividend declared by shareholders shall exceed his behalf, the authority of that person to do so: and the amount recommended by the Board.
Provided that the Board acts in in the case of partly paid shares listed on the London Stock Exchange, good faith, it shall not incur any liability to shareholders for any loss that such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares from taking place they may suffer by the lawful payment of any fixed or interim dividend on on an open and proper basis.
any shares ranking after or pari passu with those shares.
Except as otherwise provided by the rights attached to shares, all dividends shall Unless the Board otherwise determines, a transfer of shares will not be be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on the registered if the transferor or any other person appearing to be interested shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which in the transferors shares has been issued with Section 793 shares the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it in respect of shares representing at least 0.25% of their class and shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend the relevant information has not been supplied within 14 days.
No amount paid up on a share in advance of the date on restriction on transfer will not automatically apply if the member is not which a call is payable shall be treated as paid up on the share.
personally in default as regards supplying the information required and the proposed transfer is only part of the members holding, provided that Payment of any dividend declared may be satisfied wholly or partly by certain requirements are satisfied at the time of presenting the transfer the distribution of specific assets, and in particular of paid up shares for registration.
or debentures of the Company, with shareholder approval.
The Directors may retain any dividend or other money payable on or in respect of Division of assets on a winding up a share on which the Company has a lien and may apply the same If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the sanction of towards satisfaction of the monies payable to the Company in respect a shareholder special resolution, divide the whole or any part of the of that share.
In such circumstances the liquidator may value any assets and determine how the division shall Unless the Directors otherwise determine, the payment of any dividend be carried out as between the shareholders or different classes of or other money that would otherwise be payable in respect of shares will shareholder.
Subject to certain requirements, the liquidator may also be withheld, and the Company shall have no obligation to pay interest vest any part of the assets in trustees on such trusts for the benefit of on it, if such shares represent at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the shareholders, but no shareholder shall be compelled to accept any the issued share capital of their class and the holder, or any other person assets on which there is a liability.
appearing to be interested in those shares, has been issued with a Section 793 notice and has failed to supply the information required Variation of rights by such notice within 14 days.
Furthermore, such a holder shall not be If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided into shares entitled to elect to receive shares instead of a dividend.
of different classes, rights attached to a class may only be varied in such manner if any as may be provided by prescribed rights or, in the The payment by the Board of any unclaimed dividend or other monies absence of any such provision, either with the consent in writing of the on or in respect of a share into a separate account shall not constitute holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued Acacia a trustee in respect thereof.
All dividends unclaimed for a period shares of the class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed of 12 years after having been declared or become due for payment shall at a separate general meeting of the holders of shares of the class duly be forfeited and shall revert to Acacia.
Transfer of shares Subject to any applicable restrictions, each member may transfer all or any of his or her shares, which are in certificated form, by instrument of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other form acceptable to the Board and may be under hand only.
Such instrument shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the case of a transfer of a share which is not fully paid up by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of such share until the name of the transferee is entered in the register in respect of it.
All transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form shall, unless the CREST regulations otherwise provide, be effected on a relevant system.
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without giving any reason, refuse to register any transfer of a share in certificated form or renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment unless: it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up: it is in respect of only one class of shares: it is in favour of not more than four joint transferees: ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 95 OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED Powers of Directors Appointment and replacement of Directors Managing the business Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director Acacias business is managed by the Board, and the Articles of by ordinary resolution and may remove any Director by ordinary Association permit the Board to exercise all of the Companys powers resolution.
The Board may appoint any person to fill any vacancy or as in this regard.
These powers may be exercised by any meeting of the an additional Director, provided that they are submitted for re-election Board at which a quorum of two Directors is present.
The power of the by the shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
Board to manage the business is subject to any limitations imposed by Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, including cases where the Companies Act, the Articles of Association or any directions given a Director becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding office, by special resolution of the shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
or is persistently absent from Directors meetings, or if three-quarters The Articles contain an express authority for the appointment of of appointed Directors request his or her resignation or in the case of Executive Directors and provide the Directors with the authority to mental incapacity or bankruptcy.
Barricks rights to appoint Directors delegate or confer upon such Directors any of the powers exercisable are summarised on page 69.
Additional information regarding Director by them upon such terms and conditions and with such restrictions re-election requirements is provided on page 67 as part of the corporate as they see fit.
The Articles contain additional authorities to delegate governance report.
powers and discretions to Board committees and subcommittees.
Related party transactions Borrowing powers Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year are Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and any other contained in Note 34 on page 151 of the consolidated financial applicable law, the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company statements.
to borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge its undertaking, property present and future and uncalled capital or any Post-balance sheet events part or parts thereof and issue debentures and other securities, whether Particulars of any important events affecting the Company or the outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of Group since the year-end are contained in Note 36 on page 152 of the Acacia or of any third party up to a maximum amount of two times the consolidated financial statements.
Such information is incorporated aggregate of the Groups adjusted total equity, calculated in accordance into this Directors Report and is deemed to be part of it.
with the procedure contained in the Articles of Association.
Borrowings Audit information in excess of this amount require prior shareholder approval.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, New issues of shares there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST the Companies Act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware and each regulations and every other enactment for the time being in force relating Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a to the Directors authority to allot shares and or the disapplication of Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information pre-emption rights and to any resolution of the Company in general and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
meeting regarding the same, the Directors may allot with or without Auditors conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise The Companys auditors are  LLP PwC.
dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms A resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors will be proposed at the as they think appropriate.
Refer to page 104 as part of the consolidated financial Acacias shareholders passed the following resolutions relating to the statements for the Independent Auditors report on such statements.
allotment and pre-emption right disapplications at the 2017 AGM: The Directors were granted authority to allot new shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares up to a nominal value of 13,532,821, equivalent to approximately 33% of the total issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, at the time of passing the resolution.
In addition to this, the Directors were also granted authority to allot additional new shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares up to a further nominal amount of 13,532,821, but only in connection with a rights issue.
Pre-emption rights were disapplied over new shares allotted for cash pursuant to the authority granted at i above, but only: a in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue: or b o therwise up to a nominal value of 4,100,854 equivalent to approximately 10% of the Companys total issued Ordinary Share capital at the time of passing the resolution.
These authorities have not been exercised during the reporting period and will expire on the date of the 2018 AGM.
Equivalent resolutions for a renewal of these authorities will be put to the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The resolution sought as regards pre-emption right disapplication reflects the requirements of the Pre-Emption Groups revised Statement of Principles that provide for certain non-pre-emptive allocations in the context of acquisitions and specified capital investments.
96 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017
