Future Strategic Direction We are looking to implement a growth strategy which is aligned to our improvement initiatives Strategy The Board has considered the Groups strategy This strategy, which focuses the portfolio within evolution and has concluded that Cobham is best these markets, also recognises that Cobhams placed to generate value when it focuses on its positions may mitigate the risk from economic defence, aerospace and space markets in which it cycles.
For example, within its defence security designs and delivers services, systems and products.
markets, Cobham has significant positions funded Cobham can add value where it serves the markets out of government budgets around the world it knows with technology and capabilities where including in the US, Europe, the Middle East, Asia there is real depth in our skill and understanding.
These budgets often do not move in synchronicity, which may reduce the impact from a decline in any one of them.
2017 Portfolio review A review of the portfolio was undertaken during on completion, with completion expected in the theyear.
The AvComm and Wireless businesses firsthalf of 2018.
The businesses recorded The strategy were placed under strategic review to investigate approximately 170m of revenue during 2017, how best to optimise shareholder value, given their orapproximately 8% of the Group.
The divestment is built around strong technology and or market positions.
of these businesses will result in Cobham having a Thereview considered a range of strategic options simplified portfolio of technologies and capabilities, Cobhams organic from better aligning the Groups operations and with a focus on defence, aerospace and space, and management to these businesses, to divesting a reduced risk profile, as it has exited businesses growth potential them to an owner who is better able to add value with little technology, customer or market overlap.
Completion of the divestment will also further strengthen the Balance Sheet.
In February 2018, the agreed divestment of the AvComm and Wireless test and measurement The portfolio review set out below showed that businesses was announced for US$455m in cash AvComm and Wireless were outliers within Cobhams portfolio: The Cobham portfolio Components SCS MES Aero Comms.
Products IES SATCOM AvComm Orchard and Wireless Park Antennas Davenport Subsystems Wimborne Communications and Connectivity Avanced Electronic Solutions Mission Systems Special Helicopter Commercial Aviation Services Mission Services Services Systems Defence Commercial Commercial Aerospace Connectivity Bubble size is approximately proportional to revenue.
com 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT and takes into account our risk appetite Given the overriding necessity to turn the Future growth will be driven by increasing the Existing markets and products performance of the businesses around, the Groups number of the Groups products and capabilities Currently Cobham primarily sells to customers strategy is aligned to its operational improvement sold to existing customers, as well as expanding thatare concentrated in a limited number of priorities set out on pages 14 and 15 as it is Cobhams reach to sell more of Cobhams geographic markets.
As previously set out, technology and capabilities into attractive Cobhams turnaround in performance and its geographies.
The Group will avoid higher risk, Product service development opportunities to generate growth will be largely unrelated diversification.
Sell more leading-edge technologies and achieved through self-help measures, driven by its capabilities to existing customers by offering operational performance improvements.
In In summary, the approach will only succeed when similar capabilities that are complementary to particular, customers will conduct more business high value add technologies and capabilities are what Cobham already supplies.
The anticipated with Cobham, if the Groups delivery consistently combined with improved delivery to customers, in improvement in operational performance, meets the customers schedule and quality line with their needs.
Successful implementation will leading to increased on time and on budget requirements.
This must be combined with customer make Cobham a trusted and valued supplier of key delivery, will enable the Group to expand its desire for competitive prices and the requirement for technologies to its customers.
footprint with its existing customers, increasing technology and know-how to provide enhanced our share of their spend.
The strategy for growth therefore has complementary but different directions of Geographic market development travel, which will underpin the delivery of the Market and sell increasing amounts of existing Groups revenue growth: products and services to customers across a wider range of attractive geographic markets, enabling Cobham to expand its customer base and geographic footprint.
However, Cobham will avoid: Unrelated diversification Diversification into new and unfamiliar markets Market Unrelated selling new products and capabilities to new and unfamiliar customers.
Diversification is a higher risk Development Diversification strategy from which Cobham is less likely to deliver Selling existing capabilities Selling new solutions sustainable shareholder value.
to customers across a range to new customers in of attractive markets new markets Existing Product Service Markets and Development Products Selling more solutions to our existing customers GROWTH Existing Product Services New www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 Existing Customers New GROWTH
