Our Business Model Tier Our core capability is specialist Platforms Fully Integrated Systems Aircraft intelligent hardware, with focus Missiles Medical & Industrial Equipment 1 1 Satellites Commercial & Military on our defence, aerospace and Major Subsystems Complete Apertures space markets Missile Subsystems Complete EW Subsystems 2 2 What we do Integrated Assemblies Cobham predominantly offers subsystems tier 2 The Group also offers tier 1 services, as not only AESA Modules and tier 3 and products within its markets, while does this result in a recurring and sustainable Microelectronic Assemblies also supplying components tier 4 particularly revenue stream through long term contracts, Power Distribution Modules where these can be integrated higher up the but it can help cross-sell our products and 3 3 Actuator Gimbal Assemblies value chain.
demonstrate their capabilities to potential Components customers in a live environment so enabling a product in a service wrapper.
Diodes MMIC Devices Semiconductors 4 4 Rad Hard Components What Cobham needs to do well to be a successful business and how this links to the Groups turnaround strategy Identify Design and Engineer Deliver Strong customer relationships Knowledge and experience in our Manage the supply chain Cobham needs to be in frequent contact with The supply chain is a critical factor in the ability to specialist markets customers to understand their needs, be responsive to manufacture and deliver products on time and to the The ability to deliver products and services in their requirements and deliver to their time schedules.
specialist markets is dependent on deep understanding and experience.
This requires the Link to strategy Link to strategy knowledge and know-how of technical specialists.
We are increasing interaction with our major Supply chain and quality management functions are customers being consolidated under a single leader to drive Link to strategy We are appointing key account managers across performance improvement and standardisation We invest in training and development for the Group We have invested significantly in training and ouremployees We are collecting and reviewing key customer data remediation activities We are attracting emerging talent including We have seconded staff to critical suppliers apprentices and graduates For further details, please refer to Our Turnaround Strategy on pages 14 and 15.
For further details, please refer to Our Turnaround For further details, please refer to CRS section on Strategy on pages 14 and 15. pages 40 to 43.
Leading market positions and reputation Reputation and the proven ability to deliver is a key Operational Excellence Investment in PV consideration in many markets, giving customers Notwithstanding the Groups leading edge capabilities, Cobham is a business that delivers intelligent technology confidence in delivery.
Having a leading market customers want solutions that are delivered on time, and it needs to continually invest in PV to maintain position should also increase the return from to the required quality and which give value for technology differentiation and develop next generation technology investment.
The Group has a Continuous Improvement products and services.
It can never afford to stand still.
CI team, with a CI culture being embedded to enable Link to strategy us to deliver consistently.
Link to strategy We are providing greater oversight on major We are managing our PV investment rigorously to development programmes to maintain our Link to strategy optimise the expected returns marketpositions We are reviewing our manufacturing strategy We are continuing to improve our technology We are investing in our manufacturing facilities We are investing in our facilities to improve capabilities through innovation to improve delivery performance For further details, please refer to Our Turnaround For further details on our manufacturing investment, For further detail, please refer to Our Turnaround Strategy on pages 14 and 15. please refer to Mission Systems on page 22 and Strategy on pages 14 and 15.
Advanced Electronic Solutions on page 24.
Programme management expertise Strong Balance Sheet Cobham often works at the leading edge of We operate in a number of long term markets, where technology and needs to manage and monitor its programmes and platforms can last decades.
Our technology developments, to ensure they are customers must have confidence that we have the delivered on time and to budget.
financial strength to continue to invest and deliver throughout the life of long term programmes.
Link to strategy We are providing greater oversight on major Link to strategy development programmes We completed a Rights Issue in 2017 which reduced We are investing in training and deploying our best our gearing ratio managers across our businesses Cash generation is a continual focus We appointed a new Chief Operations Officer to We aim to reduce working capital over time integrate management of certain technical functions For further details, please refer to the CFO statement For more details, please refer to the CEOs Statement on pages 28 to 33. on pages 6 and 7.
com 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT What sets Cobham apart is its leading edge capabilities and know-how Cobhams true differentiation arises in its specialist capabilities and know-how which are often high value add, and sold to customers who have a requirement for the most demanding environments such as on aircraft, in space or in remote or inhospitable environments.
It is this ability to design, develop and manufacture high-end products, including for extremely demanding applications, that truly sets Cobham apart.
This differentiation means that the Group has often found itself at the forefront of engineering and technology and below are some examples of where its technology has helped customers achieve special results: Cobham Mission Systems: Our Cobham oxygen products have enabled every Cobham Aviation Services: Since 1996 Cobham has operated the largest US astronaut to breathe in space.
outsourced maritime surveillance contract in the world for the Australian Credit: NASA government.
Today, aircraft converted by Cobham are used on this contract that are equipped with a suite of sophisticated sensors and electronics.
Credit: Australian Border Force Cobham Communications and Connectivity: Every Airbus aircraft uses Cobham Advanced Electronic Systems: Cobham provides critical actuators on a Cobhams equipment, including the Groups antennas and avionics, a position number of space exploration vehicles, including the NASA Mars 2020 that will continue with Airbus next generation of aircraft.
These are used to drive the wheels, operate the steering and Credit: Airbus deploy the sensing mast among other critical applications.
Credit: NASA Key factors that underpin our business model Culture training and processes put in place to ensure Environment Developing a high performance and disciplined compliance with all relevant regulations.
For Cobham recognises the importance of developing operational and financial culture is key to Cobhams example, Cobham has a clearly stated Anti-Bribery products that are smaller, lighter and which success as it is essential to deliver products on time and Anti-Corruption Policy, and all employees are consume less power than previous generations and and to budget.
The turnaround in performance required to receive training annually.
In doing this, each new that is underway is dependent upon making product iteration results in increasing environmental improvements to Cobhams culture.
One major Health and Safety benefits, lowering both customer operating costs focus is Cobhams ability to attract, retain and Cobham has a robust attitude towards health and emissions.
develop talent: this is critical to execute on strategic and safety, having a programme which promotes growth plans and deliver against key programmes.
continuous performance improvement, creating a For more details on these enablers, please refer to safe environment for employees.
Health and safety CRS section on pages 40 to 43.
Ethics is of paramount importance and a prerequisite Cobham operates in a number of highly for the Groups success.
A good health and safety regulated markets, often operating with sensitive performance is also linked to operational excellence, technologies and capabilities for government and therefore integral to our turnaround.
This requires Cobhams employees to be aware of their responsibilities and to always conduct business in an ethical way, underpinned by www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11
