Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:27 Page 22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 22 Standardisation & Shared Services S3 The Standardisation & Shared Services programme S3 was established in 2015 with the goal of delivering 20m in enduring cost savings by 2019.
The programme ensures that it does not detract from a businesss autonomy in its market place or restrict its ability to deliver its in-year budget.
S3 has identied areas to improve business Global Business Services 08 01 efficiency and is managing the implementation UK GBS is operational for Property ICT Property of changes as individual projects.
Management, Indirect Sourcing, Payroll, Accounts Payable and Facilities Management The eight illustrated workstreams have 07 02 services.
In the US, GBS has begun to deliver become functions of Ultras Global Business Facilities Indirect Payroll and Sourcing services.
Two GBS shared service centres opened in Wimborne, Dorset in June Continuous improvement techniques are in Global 2016 and in Rochester, New York in place within GBS to develop the services Business Services December 2017.
Working in partnership, businesses 06 03 Direct management ofce drives the portfolio of are recognising the value that comes from Finance Sourcing projects that deliver business efficiencies and collaboration, sharing best practices and realise the savings that have been targeted.
The GBS team 05 04 In 2017 13.5m of enduring cost savings has developed a set of values to underpin its ERP HR were made.
culture of supporting the businesses to achieve its shared target.
These values are shown below.
Empower & Develop Stronger Together Continuing to create opportunities to Supporting Ultra businesses to focus on grow and develop talent across the customers, continually sharing ideas and Group.
Facilitating the bringing together knowledge at every level and across every of great minds, recognising and rewarding area the businesses are touched.
the value of problem solving together.
Innovative & Trusted Service Integral Partner Working in Enabling the future growth of Ultra Recognising the value that comes from partnership, Electronics.
Proactively looking to working together, learning about, and improve, innovate and surpass sharing best practice, challenging the businesses are expectations.
Placing value in the mutual norm, determining the best outcomes, respect and trust of Ultras stakeholders.
recognising the value that comes from collaboration, sharing best practices and challenging historical norms.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 23 01.
Property Direct Sourcing Finance During 2017, through proactive portfolio Each business is accountable for identifying The implementation of a Target Operating management, Ultras property footprint and delivering its own savings plans and Model for the finance function across the reduced by a further 5%, a total of participates in a regional Procurement Council.
Group has commenced, with focus on 2 2 164,626ft.
A further 89,048ft reduction These forums provide visibility of opportunities leveraging the shared services capabilities has been identied for 2018, through a to consolidate spending across the Group and possessed both in the UK and the US by combination of exiting, subleasing and allow businesses to decide which initiatives to implementing standard processes and general consolidation of the estate.
This join depending on their business plans and removing duplicated efforts.
For example, the represents a further 2% reduction in Ultras customer or regulatory constraints.
UK Payroll consolidation will result in a single property footprint.
Through a central process which will remove activity in each of Procurement Councils track and report database of all property leases, GBS has the the six UK operating businesses.
savings, share best practices and target the visibility to assess Group-wide future property optimisation of Ultras supply chain.
In addition to consolidating buying power, requirements.
When S3 completes, the Group the standardised Purchase-to-Payable expects to have achieved a total reduction in System implemented across 2016 and 2017 04. its property estate of 13%.
will support the delivery of streamlined HR finance processes.
Since May 2017, GBS has offered a 02.
During 2018, the roll out of the Target centralised Payroll service to all UK Operating Model will continue both through Indirect Sourcing businesses, the transition to which completes the on-going implementation of the ERP Indirect Procurement savings were achieved in in 2018.
In the US, all employees are paid strategy and the continuing transfer of 2017.
By implementing a common indirect through GBS where processes and certain finance activities into GBS.
procurement system across the UK businesses, procedures in the administration of US payroll the Purchase-to-Pay process and expenses and benets are well advanced.
A review of how Ultra recruits has reduced the With total visibility of all indirect expenditure, number of UK suppliers from 80 to a preferred Facilities Management GBS is now able to negotiate improved pricing supplier list of 10.
GBS now offers UK The first shared service to go live in the UK and supplier terms by consolidating Ultras businesses a consistent recruitment service and was Facilities Management, in early 2017. buying power, and offer a standard service leveraging the commercial scale of the Group.
The service delivers all site maintenance & level to all employees for the reimbursement repair services and meets the Health, Safety A project is taking place in 2018 to move US of business expenditure.
In 2017, the GBS & Environmental management needs of all recruitment to GBS to deliver productivity sourcing team has worked with business businesses.
A Service Desk for the Facilities efficiencies via standardised and centralised representatives to deliver savings of over Management function is accessible across the processes and shared resources.
100k through the consolidation of UK mobile UK via a web-based portal and allows for telephony and savings of over 30% with a standardised reporting to the businesses, leading freight provider.
05. providing an electronic, auditable data trail.
In the US, implementation of Ultras indirect ERP procurement system began in the latter part The Group is implementing an ERP strategy, of 2017 and will complete in 2018.
This which will migrate businesses towards project will see the creation of a North standard technologies and processes.
In the American Indirect Procurement function, last twelve months, two businesses PCS and performing a mirror role to its peer CSS have transitioned to a standard platform organisation in the UK.
and are realising the benets of optimised operational processes, simpler cost and project reporting and lower IT support costs.
Over the next 18 months and beyond, ERP implementations will continue across the Group, rolling out a standard technology and process suite.
