s l a o g s t n e i l c d n a t s r e D e d v n e U l o p i n n o v a t Our business model A client-centric value proposition What we offer How we do it We offer actively managed Our clients are at the centre of our business.
Our resilience investment solutions that and ongoing success is built upon our ability to understand help build our clients future our clients needs.
This allows us to anticipate how these prosperity.
needs will evolve and to construct products that meet their financial goals and build future prosperity.
We design innovative products and bespoke solutions, actively managed by our 41 investment teams across a diverse range of asset classes including equities, fixed income, multi-asset, private assets and alternatives.
Within Asset Management, we work with a broad range of institutional clients, including pension funds, insurance companies and sovereign wealth funds.
We also work with a variety of intermediaries, including financial advisers, private wealth managers and online platforms.
Within Wealth Management we offer bespoke discretionary and advisory Outperformance investment services, lending and deposit taking to private individuals, for clients family offices, trusts and charities.
We differentiate ourselves from our competitors through: Our long-term focus Supported by our shareholder structure and strong capital base, we take a long-term approach in everything that we do.
A collaborative culture Our culture is based on unconditional collaboration and a core belief in working together to bring the whole of the firm to our clients.
Our diversity of thought An inclusive environment where 41 29 4,619 ideas are heard and debated is one of the keys to our long-term success.
Investment teams Countries People A data-driven approach We continue to enhance how we use data across all areas of the business, including deriving unique investment insights, designing innovative products and improving operational efficiency.
18 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 i v e p r s o n d o u i c t t u s l o s e g a n a m y l e v i t c A Strategic report What we deliver for otherstakeholders Our client-led approach allows us to deliver for Understand clients goals arange of global stakeholders, including our We build principled partnerships with our clients shareholders, people, wider society, regulators inorder to fully understand their financial goals.
This allows us to provide a high level of client service and select appropriate products to meet their needs.
Read more about our stakeholders on page 53.
Develop innovative products Shareholders We design innovative products to consistently Our business model focuses on delivering growth over meet our clients financial objectives, whether the long term, which enables us to generate thatis outperforming a benchmark, providing sustainable shareholder returns.
Our progressive aregular sustainable income or delivering dividend policy has seen a 22% increase in the total anabsolute return.
dividend to 113 pence, or a payout ratio of 50%.
Dividend per share Actively manage solutions We take an active approach to managing 113p investment solutions that build our clients futureprosperity over the long term.
Read our business and financial review from page 20.
Read more about how our business isstructured on page 6.
People We seek to maintain a culture of collaboration andinnovation, supporting a talented and diverse workforce, who are key to our ongoing success.
Wehave consistently maintained a high rate ofretention of our most highly rated people.
Employees proud to be associated withSchroders 94% Read about our people on page 28.
Outperformance for clients Society It is only by demonstrating value for money in We are committed to acting as responsible stewards meeting our clients financial objectives that we of capital and promoting sustainability and high levels cancontinue to successfully grow our business.
of governance in the companies in which we invest.
We earn fees charged as a percentage of We are proud to support the communities ourclients assets under management and in which we operate.
We may also earn other Company engagements on environmental, revenues, such as performance fees and social and governance ESG issues transaction related fees.
1,014 Read about our impact on society from page 30.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19
