Our Capabilities in Action Cobhams products are integral to the self-defence and potency of US aircraft carrier battle groups Cobham content is present on every ship, aircraft and missile that makes up a modern US Navy aircraft carrier battle group.
Aircraft Carrier SEWIP Surface Electronic Warfare Improvement Program protects the ship from airborne threats aircraft and missiles by jamming radars and sensors.
Cobham provides SEWIP with antenna array panel assemblies and above deck electronics that focus the systems energy toward the target, and microelectronics to route and convert signals.
Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar a next generation radar for future aircraft carriers which is currently in development.
Evolved Sea Sparrow Missile RIM-162 a guided missile for use against cruise missiles, helicopters and surface threats.
Cobham provides ESSM with microelectronics.
Missiles Cobham provides seeker microelectronics, fuzing and datalinks on the Standard Missile family a shipborne guided missile used to defeat airborne threats including aircraft, anti-ship cruise, and ballistic missiles.
Cobham provides microelectronics used for guiding the AMRAAM AIM-120 airborne anti-aircraft missile and the AIM-9X airborne anti-aircraft missile.
Credit: US Department of Defense Cobham plc www.
com 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Guided Missile Destroyers and Cruisers SEWIP see opposite.
AMDR Air and Missile Defense Radar or AN SPY-6 this new 3D radar will be an integral part of the AEGIS weapon combat system when it replaces the current radar.
The AEGIS system protects ships, aircraft and land based assets by detecting, tracking and targeting airborne threats with missiles and weapon systems.
Cobham provides the AMDR digital receiver exciter and other microelectronics on the AEGIS system.
Cobham also provides waveguide assemblies that route signals throughout the system.
UHF antennas these enable communication via satellite.
Aircraft US Navy aircrew use a variety of Cobham safety and survival products, including oxygen and fuel inerting systems, restraints and water activated release systems.
Cobham provides a range of microelectronics for electronic warfare, radar, communication, navigation and identification these capabilities help keep F-18: E A-18G and F-35 fighter crew safe, aware and able to accomplish their roles.
Cobham provides a variety of equipment including on the V-22 tiltrotor multirole aircraft, E-2 airborne early warning aircraft and MH-60 anti-submarine helicopter including antennas, aerial refuelling systems and microelectronics.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
