OUR LASTING LEGACY Proud to be a part of Tanzanias growth story From consistent exploration and development of mines to infrastructure projects and improving access to electricity and clean water, the Acacia Group and its predecessor companies have always invested in Tanzania and its people.
p50 Sustainability review 4 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BUILDING A LASTING LEGACY DELIVERING ECONOMIC GROWTH CREATING A SOCIAL IMPACT We remain committed to Tanzania We are a major driver of economic growth In the last five years we have invested and to operating as a long-term partner in the regions in which we operate due to heavily in key infrastructure, including for the country in its efforts to realise its our overall financial contribution through schools, roads, health and water facilities, socio-economic goals and in particular the payment of royalties, taxes, employees, and we now seek to add further value its industrialisation agenda.
through the development of the local economies around our mines.
Capital investment in Tanzania Tanzanian tax contribution Number of people positively impacted US$4bn US$143m 60,000 Acacia, and its predecessor companies, have made Acacia contributed US$143 million in taxes In 2017 our Sustainable Communities projects over US$4 billion of capital investment in Tanzania.
to the Tanzanian Government in 2017. positively impacted over 60,000 Tanzanians.
Our employees Tanzanian supplier purchases Community investment 96.2% US$434m US$75m Over 96% of our employees in Tanzania We spent US$434 million with Tanzanian We have spent more than US$75 million are Tanzanian.
suppliers in 2017. on communities since 2010.
Commitment to localisation Direct economic contribution to Tanzania Number of schools 85% reduction US$644m 57 International employees in Tanzania have been We contributed US$644 million We have built or renovated 57 schools in reduced by 85% in the last five years.
towards Tanzanian GDP in 2017. the communities around our mines in the last five years.
CASE STUDY BUZWAGI BUZZING WITH BEEKEEPERS Our Buzwagi mine has supported on the use of commercial beehives as well as training in branding, packaging and marketing a group of beekeepers in Kahama of their honey.
We also built a project office District who were facing a number and two apiaries.
of challenges in producing honey Beekeeping provides an important source of income for people around the Buzwagi on a commercial scale.
It is envisaged that engagement of Their small hives encouraged the division the local beekeeping institute and the district of bee colonies and limited the amount of government authority, as well as knowledge honey they could produce.
In an effort to and skills transfer within the community, will support commercial production, at a cost support sustainable commercial beekeeping of approximately US$85,000 we sponsored practices and boost the local economy for a training programme for the beekeepers years to come.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 5
