GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE Activities in 2017 and plans for 2018 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, comprising in particular the following: Objective Achieved Reviewing Committee composition based on succession planning, skill set and qualification requirements.
Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of corporate governance developments.
Reviewing the external auditors terms of engagement, plans, ANDRE FALZON scope of work, compensation, the findings arising from all COMMITTEE CHAIR external audit work and external auditor performance.
Reviewing Acacias periodic financial reporting.
Percentage Meetings of meetings Reviewing key accounting policies and developments in Members attended attended financial reporting and regulatory environment.
Andre Falzon Chair 5 100% Reviewing the internal audit plan together with internal audit Rachel English 5 100% reports, findings and monitoring related action plans.
Steve Lucas 4 80% Reviewing enterprise risk registers, tax disputes and other litigation.
Reviewing the progress of the annual anti-corruption Introduction compliance programme.
I am the Chair of the Committee and a CPA, CA, CGA Canada, with over 25 years of financial and management experience within Reviewing whistleblowing arrangements to support reporting the mining industry.
During the year, Rachel English and Steve requirements under Acacias Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud Lucas acted as the other members of the Committee.
Details and Anti-Corruption policies and other reports from the of members experience and qualifications are provided as part Companys compliance function.
of the Board of Directors biographies.
Receiving periodic risk management reports and updates as regards the principal risks for which the Committee has The composition of the Audit Committee, whose members have delegated oversight on behalf of the Board.
a wide range of experience with an emphasis on financial and Participating in the Committees annual performance audit committee experience across the extractive industry, assessment.
meets the enhanced requirements of the 2016 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code and of the revised FRC Audit In 2018, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of Committee Guidance published during 2016 which became the above matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
In particular, the Committee will provide support to the Board in its Our terms of reference require us to meet at least four times a on-going review of appropriate measures to be taken to preserve year, and in 2017 we met five times, holding meetings in person cash and to protect the Companys balance sheet.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Legal and Compliance, the Chief Compliance Officer, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, members of the Companys finance function and the external auditors also attend Committee meetings on a regular basis by invitation.
We also hold individual meetings with Acacias external auditors and the Head of Risk and Internal Audit without management present to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
Key responsibilities Our key responsibilities include oversight of financial reporting and internal controls over financial reporting, overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditors and Acacias internal audit function, overseeing the external and internal audit processes generally and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control, including its risk management framework.
In addition, we receive reports from the Chief Compliance Officer as regards anti-fraud, anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance programmes, these being directly related to our oversight of whistleblowing arrangements and related policy reviews.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 71 AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Significant issues considered by the Committee in 2017 due to the move to reduced operations.
As a result Acacia has recorded a net impairment of US$632 million for Bulyanhulu, which includes a pre-tax Uncertain tax positions and taxation litigation write-down of US$122 million for goodwill.
In addition, Acacia has recorded A number of tax assessments have been raised by the Tanzanian an impairment charge of US$12 million for the Nyanzaga Project to reflect Revenue Authority TRA covering existing and prior years which have the current estimate for the potential impact of the new mining laws on been challenged by members of the Group.
We have reviewed the basis the carrying value of the project, which now stands at US$34 million.
of these assessments and discussed with management their views as In addition to the above net impairment, Acacia also raised an additional to why the assessments are incorrect, along with the status of on-going tax provision of US$172 million relating to the estimated uncertain tax disputes and appeals procedures.
We also reviewed the Companys positions for its operating companies, based on an estimate of the impact position in light of Barricks announcement that it had increased of a comprehensive settlement reflecting the key terms of the framework its provision with respect to historical uncertain tax positions from announcements.
This brings total provisions for Acacias uncertain tax US$128 million to US$300 million.
We discussed these matters positions to US$300 million.
Whilst Acacia continues to reserve and with the external auditors and legal counsel where relevant.
protect all its legal rights, including through the arbitrations commenced Based on this review the Committee concluded that the Company had by BGML and PML, and no liability has been incurred by Acacia as a result sufficiently provided for any uncertain tax positions and that any material of the framework announcements, the additional provision was viewed contingent liabilities had been adequately disclosed.
In addition, the as required to meet applicable accounting standards.
These standards Committee reviewed the amount of deferred tax recognised with respect require the assessment of current obligations for accounting purposes to losses incurred in previous periods and was comfortable with the based on an assessment of relevant cash outflows from the relevant amounts recognised.
Once a formal detailed proposal is received operating companies in respect of uncertain tax positions.
The Committee regarding the framework between Barrick and the GoT, the Company has reviewed and examined key assumptions used by management for will conduct a further assessment of the potential impact of the impairment testing and for purposes of assessing the tax provision.
In arrangements on the Companys historical tax position.
particular, the Committee has reviewed and challenged the assessment of the framework announcements in this context, given that Acacia has Indirect tax recoverability not yet received for review and approval a detailed proposal that has As part of on-going monitoring and review of taxation matters, we have been agreed between Barrick and the Government of Tanzania, and no reviewed the status, recoverability and classification of the Groups conclusions can be made by Acacia as to whether any particular terms indirect tax receivables relating to VAT charged on imports and the of settlement would be approved by Acacia, in the event that any proposal domestic supply of goods and services.
In this regard, we have received is received in the future.
In addition, the Committee has reviewed other reports from management on the status of discussions and negotiations assumptions used, such as the long-term average gold price, and discount of such matters between management and the TRA: we have reviewed rate used and the factors relevant to this selection, such as operating managements on-going calculations of amounts so outstanding: the cash cost levels and related factors underpinning relevant mine planning, procedure established to recover refunds and amounts due under the budgets and forecasts.
Views and contributions of the external auditors as escrow account established to fund refunds due in respect of portions regards the impairment testing procedures and tax provision assessments of the receivable: the audit process followed to confirm such refunds: and key assumptions used formed part of the Committees review of these and the overall time frame for the receipt of such refunds against matters.
Following these reviews, the Committee satisfied itself that the amounts outstanding under the receivable from time to time.
The carrying value and tax provision review used to ascertain the carrying value Committee has also taken into account the views and contributions of the Companys CGUs had been appropriately reviewed and challenged of the external auditors regarding recoverability and classification of and were therefore sufficiently robust for use.
The Committee also relevant indirect tax receivables.
Based on the foregoing, the Committee reviewed the disclosure contained in this Annual Report and, in particular, has satisfied itself that the Groups indirect tax receivables remain the disclosure contained in the notes to the consolidated financial recoverable and appropriately classified in the circumstances and is statements as regards impairment and tax provisions in order to satisfy satisfied with the suitability of the related disclosures contained in itself of the accuracy and suitability of the disclosures so made.
Going concern review Carrying value review and tax provision In addition to the matters stated above, all of which are relevant to As a result of developments within our operating environment this year, the Boards assessment of Acacias position as a going concern, the management identified a number of potential triggers for impairment statement relating to which is provided on page 49, the Committee also testing of the carrying value of the Companys assets, including but not reviewed other matters relevant to Acacias liquidity, namely the on-going limited to, the challenges experienced in the operating environment in availability of net cash balances, Acacias hedging strategy and policy, Tanzania, the announcement of new legislation by the Government of material contingent liability exposure and various cash optimisation Tanzania in respect of the natural resources sector and the resulting opportunities, the latter of which also being a focus for the Board.
decision to reduce operations at Bulyanhulu.
As a result, management Management reported to the Committee on each of these matters and has undertaken a carrying value review of the Groups affected Cash was questioned accordingly.
In this regard, the Committee has also taken Generating Units CGUs.
Following this review management considered into account the views of the external auditors in order to satisfy itself that in accordance with applicable accounting standards, carrying values of the position taken by the Board as regards to the appropriateness for the CGUs should be calculated by reference to the key terms of the of the going concern assumption contained in this Annual Report.
framework announcements made by Barrick and by the Government of Tanzania in October 2017, with additional discounting to reflect the uncertainty around the final terms of any comprehensive settlement that might be reached.
The carrying value review demonstrated a potential reduction in value at all three operating assets, but Buzwagi and North Mara have sufficient headroom above their current carrying values.
At Bulyanhulu, however, the impact of the changes was greater, due to the long life of the mine and the delay to a return to positive cash generation 72 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Risk reviews With respect to non-audit services provided by the external auditors, Throughout the year, the Committee has continued to have delegated the Committee reviews the status of all non-audit services on a quarterly oversight of certain financial-related principal risks and the Companys basis and is required to consider, and where appropriate provide prior risk management framework itself, as a component of internal controls approval for, the provision of all non-audit work by the external auditors to systems generally.
Further information regarding risk management and ensure that any such work can be conducted without adversely affecting risk governance is provided and the principal risks for which the auditor independence.
The Committee also reviews the proposed Committee retains oversight are identified on pages 24 to 29.
In this provision of non-audit services against the backdrop of UK and EU regard our risk monitoring activities involve receipt of periodic prohibitions regarding the provision of non-audit services to ensure the risk reports and the monitoring of trends and development relevant Company complies with all restrictions and requirements applicable to it.
to risk environment, as supported by managements oversight and The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit services that implementation of day to day risk management across our operations.
would compromise their independence, objectivity or violate any Fair, balanced and understandable review professional requirements or regulations affecting their appointment as At the request of the Board, the Committee has also reviewed the auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide non-audit services which narrative content of the Annual Report in order to make a do not impair their independence, and where their skills and experience recommendation that the report satisfies revised narrative reporting make them a logical supplier, subject to pre-approval by the Committee.
requirements in that the Annual Report, when taken as a whole, is fair, For example, this may include the conduct of certain matters relating balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary to Tanzanian taxation assessments, given the materiality of taxation for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, considerations to the financial assessment and external audit of the business model and strategy.
In this regard the Committee has taken Company.
The Companys procedures require that any non-audit services advice from the Companys legal function to satisfy itself of the relevant proposed to be provided by the auditors be supported by a justification legal and regulatory framework underpinning this disclosure standard.
as to why the appointment of the external auditors to provide the services is in the Companys best interests, and how auditor Internal and external audit reviews independence would be safeguarded in the specific context of the Throughout the year, the Committee received regular reports on matters proposed services.
In addition to this, the lead audit partner rotates under review by the internal audit function, and has reviewed such at least every five years.
matters and raised questions with the Head of Risk and Internal Audit accordingly.
We also reviewed the internal audit charter, mandate and Fees for non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to performance in order to assess on-going effectiveness, following which approximately US$0.3 million 2016: approximately US$0.4 million the Committee concluded that the internal audit function remains representing 26% of the 2017 audit fees.
Audit related and non-audit effective and performs in accordance with requirements of the business.
services provided by the external auditors included their review of the We have also assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process Companys half-year report.
Further information on audit and non-audit via responses to surveys received from the Chief Financial Officer, fees paid to PwC can be found in Note 10 to the consolidated financial members of the finance and treasury function, and in particular members statements.
of the Companys financial reporting team and the Company secretariat.
As a Company we also maintain a strict discipline on the recruitment of The survey comprised a range of factors including the following: any former employees of the external auditors to ensure independence Progress achieved against the agreed external audit plan is not undermined.
The Committee has adopted a formal written policy regarding the recruitment of former employees of the external auditor.
Competence with which the external auditors handled key accounting The policy prohibits the hiring of any former member of the external audit and audit judgements and communication of the same between team into any financial oversight role or as an officer of the Company management, the Committee and the external audit team for a period of two years following their association with the audit, save Compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance in instances where the appointment has been pre-approved by the on rotation of lead audit partners Committee.
Between meetings, the Committee Chair has delegated Qualifications, expertise, resources and the external auditors own authority to deal with such appointments at his discretion.
Any such assessment of their quality control procedures interim approval must be ratified at the next meeting of the Committee.
The stability and continuity provided to the business as a result of the In addition, any employee of the external auditor who accepts continued appointment of  LLP PwC as employment with the Acacia Group whatever the role must cease all audit external auditors activity immediately and tender their resignation to the audit firm.
Based on this assessment, the Committee concluded that the external auditors remain effective and we will be recommending the reappointment of the external auditors at the forthcoming AGM in light of this assessment.
As regards external audit tender considerations, PwC have acted as external auditors for the Group since its listing on the London Stock Exchange in March 2010.
The Committee has reviewed the requirements of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 Order, which requires mandatory tendering of audit services every ten years by FTSE 350 companies, and determined that an audit tender will be required in respect of the 2020 financial year at the earliest.
We are therefore compliant with the requirements of the Order.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 73 EHS&S COMMITTEE Activities in 2017 and plans for 2018 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised the following in particular: Objective Achieved Reviewing Committee composition, based on succession planning, skill set and qualification requirements.
Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of on-going developments within the Companys business and operating environment.
RACHEL ENGLISH Reviewing Group-wide EHS&S and SC strategies and priorities, COMMITTEE CHAIR performance, metrics, trends and incident reports.
Overseeing the development of a Sustainable Communities Percentage strategy and programme as a driving component of our approach Meetings of meetings 1 Members attended attended to SC and the operation of the Acacia Maendeleo Fund.
Reviewing key risks in the Groups operating environment Rachel English Chair 3 100% regarding EHS&S and SC.
Andre Falzon 2 100% Reviewing key regulatory and other developments relevant to Brad Gordon 3 100% the EHS&S and SC operating environment.
1 B ased on the number of meetings held during the relevant individuals period Reviewing and monitoring the status of occupational, health of membership of the Committee.
and safety targets and systems.
Identifying and reviewing specific focus areas in the context of Introduction performance and strategic reviews, as relevant to EHS&S and I am the Chair of the Committee, with extensive experience of SC matters.
corporate social responsibility and Sustainable Communities Receiving periodic risk management reports and updates from my work with the World Bank Group, as well as Helios Social regarding the principal risks for which the Committee has Enterprise, which I founded to develop renewable energy access delegated oversight on behalf of the Board.
projects in rural sub-Saharan Africa.
I assumed the role of Chair Participating in the Committees annual performance of the Committee from Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu upon him assessment.
stepping down from the Board in July 2017.
Andre Falzon was appointed to fill the vacancy on the Committee that arose as a In 2018, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the result.
Peter Tomsett ceased to be a member of the Committee above matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
From a upon stepping down from the Board in April 2017, at which time risk management and oversight perspective, the specific EHS&S-related Brad Gordon was appointed to the Committee.
Peter Geleta principal risks for which the Committee has delegated oversight are has been appointed to replace Brad Gordon with effect from identified as part of the principal risks and uncertainties table on pages 1 January 2018.
In this regard our risk monitoring activities involve receipt of Details of members experience and qualifications are provided periodic risk reports and the monitoring of trends and development as part of the Board of Directors biographies.
Our terms of relevant to risk environment, as supported by managements oversight and reference require us to meet at least twice a year, and in 2017 we implementation of day to day risk management across our operations.
Those involved in the Companys environmental, We have not changed our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility health, safety and security EHS&S and Sustainable notwithstanding the challenges faced in our operating environment and Communities SC functions also attend Committee meetings the move to reduce operations at Bulyanhulu during 2017.
The on a regular basis by invitation, in order to report on EHS&S SC Committee will continue to monitor that activity during 2018 developments and performance.
to ensure that it is appropriately executed.
Key responsibilities Our key responsibilities focus on the oversight and review of activities that are of core importance to Acacias social licence to operate.
These include Acacias strategy and policy on environmental, occupational health and safety, SC and security matters: reviewing the effectiveness of Group EHS&S systems and controls: and generally overseeing managements monitoring and evaluation of emerging SC issues to assess the potential impact on Acacias business and operations.
In addition, we also have delegated oversight of human rights from the Board, in line with similar oversight responsibilities assumed by EHS&S Committees or their equivalent in peers across the mining industry.
74 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Activities in 2017 and plans for 2018 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised the following in particular: Objective Achieved Reviewing Committee composition based on succession planning, skill set and qualification requirements.
Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of on-going developments within the Companys business and operating environment and KELVIN DUSHNISKY developments within a corporate governance context.
COMMITTEE CHAIR Reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition in the context of the Companys strategic and business objectives.
Percentage Reviewing the Companys core corporate governance policies in line Meetings of meetings 1 Members attended attended with best practice developments and recent trend developments.
Participating in the Committees annual performance Kelvin Dushnisky Chair 2 100% assessment.
1 Michael Kenyon 1 100% Providing oversight and review of the Boards and Board Committees 2 Steve Lucas 1 100% annual performance evaluation and overseeing the adoption of 1 B ased on the number of meetings held during the relevant individuals period recommendations for 2018 work plans.
In this regard an overview of of membership of the Committee.
the 2017 performance evaluation is provided on page 70.
Reviewing periodic training and development requirements Introduction for Directors.
In addition to acting as the Chairman of the Board, I also act as Chair of the Nomination & Governance Committee.
Michael Kenyon and A current key focus is on reducing the number of international employees Steve Lucas act as the other members of the Committee, having joined and contractors in our operations in Tanzania and ensuring that our the Committee following Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu and Peter Tanzanian assets are increasingly led and operated by Tanzanian Tomsett stepping down from the Board during the year.
During 2017 we successfully combined Bulyanhulu and Details of members experience and qualifications are provided Buzwagi under a single management team led by a Tanzanian national.
as part of the Board of Directors biographies.
Our terms of During 2018, a priority for the business is to increase Tanzanian reference require us to meet at least twice a year, and we did so in representation in senior management positions.
The Chief Executive Officer and members from the Company We have employment policies in place which demonstrate the Groups secretariat also attend Committee meetings by invitation to discuss commitment to equal opportunities for all employees, workers and matters within our remit of responsibilities.
applicants for employment, and to ensuring that they will not be subject Key responsibilities to any discrimination, bullying, harassment or victimisation on the We play a leading role in reviewing the structure, size and composition grounds of age, colour, disability, ethnic or national origin, gender, gender of the Board and in reviewing prospective new Board appointments and expression, gender identity, marital status, pregnancy, race, religion or succession planning requirements.
We also have primary responsibility belief, or sexual orientation.
These policies are supported by appropriate for making recommendations to the Board on the composition of Board harassment, disciplinary and grievance procedures.
Committees and we manage recommendations for the retirement and Save for appointments made by Barrick under nomination rights contained replacement of Directors.
In addition, our remit of responsibilities in the Relationship Agreement, Board appointments are made on the basis includes delegated authority from the Board to oversee and review of pre-determined job descriptions which include, as regards independent Acacias corporate governance policies and procedures, including Non-Executive Directors, estimates of time commitment requirements.
independence reviews and the monitoring of Company procedures From a recruitment and candidate search perspective, our existing Directors for the management of actual and or potential conflicts of interest.
provide access to a wide network of potential Board appointment candidates, particularly within the extractive industry, as a result of their collective experience and standing within the extractive sector.
In addition to this, we In 2018, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the above look to retain external search consultants to assist us in identifying potential matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities, and will continue candidates for Board positions, when appropriate to do so.
We did not make to assess Board composition and Board succession requirements, any new appointments to the Board in 2017 and, as such, no external particularly in the context of the changes to the Board during 2017, recruitment consultants were retained for Board recruitment purposes.
as well as in light of FRCs continuing reviews and consultations around During 2017, following the resignation of Brad Gordon, the Nomination succession planning as a driver of Board effectiveness.
Committee oversaw a process to identify a replacement, which took into In the context of diversity, the Company has not adopted a formal diversity account skill sets and experience of candidates, as well as the Companys policy, given the focus during 2017 on addressing the operational succession plans and strategy.
Following this process, Peter Geleta was challenges in Tanzania.
However, as a Company, we base all recruitment appointed to the role of Interim Chief Executive Officer.
I engaged with on the premise that we strive to attract a broad mix of individuals from various shareholders to discuss the changes to the CEO and CFO positions, both the traditional and non-traditional mining labour markets in order to as part of our on-going commitment to dialogue with our investors.
create a diverse workgroup and maintain a unique company culture.
We recognise the value of a diverse workforce and the creative potential that individuals of different backgrounds and abilities bring to their work, to increase and leverage diversity of thought, enhance our risk management capability, drive innovation and remove barriers to success.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 75 INDEPENDENT COMMITTEE Activities in 2017 and plans for 2018 Our activities during the year included the following in particular: Objective Achieved Monitoring the nature and extent of engagement by the Company in the discussions between Barrick and the Government of Tanzania.
Reviewing the disclosure of information by the Company to Barrick, having due regard, among other things, to the Relationship Agreement between the Company and Barrick.
MICHAEL KENYON Reviewing the Companys strategy in connection with the COMMITTEE CHAIR operational challenges in Tanzania, including strategies and actions that may be appropriate in light of these challenges.
Percentage Communicating with Barrick regarding the discussions Meetings of meetings 5 Members attended attended between Barrick and the Government of Tanzania.
Monitoring the need for disclosure to the market in connection Michael Kenyon Chair 14 100% with developments in the discussions of which the Company Rachel English 13 93% becomes aware.
Andre Falzon 14 100% Communication with shareholders regarding the discussions Steve Lucas 13 93% between Barrick and the Government of Tanzania.
Monitoring on-going compliance with the independence Introduction requirements of the Listing Rules and other applicable The Independent Committee was formed by the Board during 2017 regulations in connection with the discussions between as a result of the commencement of discussions between Barrick Barrick and the Government of Tanzania.
and the Government of Tanzania regarding the issues impacting the In 2018, the Committee will continue to focus on the above matters.
As and when any detailed proposal is provided to the Company, the The Committee comprises the Independent Directors of the Independent Committee will be responsible for reviewing and evaluating Company.
Details of members experience and qualifications are these arrangements, including the terms of any document or agreement provided as part of the Board of Directors biographies.
Meetings proposed to be entered into by the Company.
We will then provide a are held at such frequency as I consider appropriate.
During 2017 recommendation to the full Board of Acacia on the appropriate course we met 14 times.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial of action.
Any proposal agreed in principle between Barrick and the Officer and other members of senior management and external Government of Tanzania will require Acacias approval.
advisers may also attend Committee meetings by invitation to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
Key responsibilities We are responsible for overseeing all aspects and implications of the discussions between Barrick and the Government of Tanzania, and any related proposals.
This includes responsibility for ensuring that due consideration is taken of Acacias interests with regard to Barricks discussions with the Government of Tanzania and any related proposals.
In discharging its role, the Committee must ensure that due consideration is given to the Boards overall responsibility to promote the long-term success of Acacia, and the responsibility of the Board to exercise its independent judgement in the context of Barricks discussions with the Government of Tanzania and any related proposals.
The Committee reports back to the Board and shall make recommendations as it sees fit as regards any deliberations and decisions that the Board may consider in the context of this process.
The Committee is entitled to communicate directly with third parties including Barrick or any of their advisers.
In my role as Chair, I provide leadership to the Committee and preside over Committee meetings.
I also facilitate the flow of information to and from the Committee and foster an environment in which Committee members may ask questions and express their viewpoints.
My responsibilities also include reporting to the Board with respect to the significant activities of the Committee and any recommendations of the Committee.
76 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017
