MARKET OVERVIEW Development of mineral wealth is key to the success of the mining industry in Africa COMMODITIES Gold Copper Fuel Trend Gold opened 2017 at US$1,159 oz on During 2017, we produced copper as a At our operations we consume diesel the PM fix and was affected throughout co-product which is recognised as a part of within our mobile fleet and to self-generate the year by global geopolitical uncertainty revenue.
2017 marked a year of recovery power when required.
Diesel is refined which sparked safe haven demand.
in the copper price which traded between from crude oil and is therefore subject to Speculation surrounding monetary US$2.48 and US$3.27 per pound in 2017. the same price volatility affecting crude tightening by major central banks and oil prices and has a significant impact A strong demand outlook from China, a a relatively stable bond market combined on our production costs.
We consumed weaker US dollar and speculation from with a weakening dollar further approximately 367,241 barrels of diesel investors all boosted prices during 2017, contributed to gains in gold in 2017. in 2017 479,000 in 2016. making copper the top performing In total, gold gained 11% in 2017 to close commodity of 2017 with gains of 31%.
Crude oil Brent opened 2017 at US$55 at US$1,291 oz and traded in a range bbl as OPEC cut supply but traded lower between US$1,159 oz and US$1,346 oz during H1 before gaining strongly in H2 throughout the year.
Gold ETF holdings and ending the year up 21%.
traded in a range of US$45 bbl and US$67 bbl during 2017.
US$1,346 oz US$3.27 lb US$67 bbl Peak gold price in 2017 Peak price of copper in 2017 Peak price of Brent Crude in 2017 Our response In 2016, we entered into zero cost collars We utilised an option collar strategy We continued our option collar strategy covering the majority of Buzwagis Q1 for copper production whereby 75% of in 2017 and hedged approximately 75% 2017 production.
Following this the Group our expected annual 2017 production of 2017 usage, with an average floor of was fully unhedged until September when was hedged at an average floor price US$44 and an average ceiling of US$74 we took the decision to ensure a floor of US$2.30 per pound and an average per barrel.
We have continued with our price of US$1,300 per ounce for the ceiling price of US$2.78.
These options hedging programme for 2018 and have majority of our production for the expired without being exercised due put in place collars over 21% of remainder of 2017 and subsequently to our inability to export concentrate.
consumption at a price between at least US$1,300 per ounce for the US$39-US$65 per barrel.
Outlook We will continue to assess opportunities We ceased producing copper as a With Bulyanhulu on reduced operations to provide a floor price for future co-product at the end of Q3 2017 as and mining activity ending at Buzwagi production in excess of our budget Bulyanhulu moved to reduced operations we anticipate our future consumption pricing to provide increased stability and Buzwagi brought forward the planned of diesel will fall, reducing our exposure for our balance sheet.
bypassing of the flotation circuit.
We currently have 186koz of We currently have 12.1 million pounds However we will continue to assess gold stockpiled in Tanzania within of copper stockpiled in Tanzania within whether further hedging strategies the concentrate that is unable to the concentrate that is unable to should be put in place.
be exported given the uncertain be exported.
18 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Relevant pages p30 p44 Operating review Financial review OPERATING ENVIRONMENT In-country developments Trend Political developments established to investigate the tanzanite to other industries with increasing demands During 2017 the Tanzanian Government and diamond industries and post year-end a made on private investors and particularly continued to focus on maximising state 12-member parliamentary committee was set those from outside Tanzania.
revenue collection, with a particular focus up to conduct an investigation into how the Tax on increasing the benefits to the Government country benefits from its oil and gas industry.
Under President Magufuli the Government from the countrys natural resources.
Extractives legislation has undertaken a campaign to ensure The Government plans to increase minings Following the ban on the export of private businesses pay all taxes allegedly contribution to GDP to around 8% by 2020. concentrates, in July 2017 new legislation was owed to the Treasury.
Following the findings Meanwhile the year saw much financial passed by Parliament which made significant of the two Presidential Committees, which decision-making transferred to the Presidential changes to the legal and regulatory framework we have expressly disputed, in July Office and responsibility for tax collection governing all extractives industries in Tanzania.
Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited and Pangea shifted from local to central government.
Among the changes, the legislation seeks to Minerals Limited received adjusted tax The administrations drive to ensure increase Government revenue generated from assessments from the Tanzanian Revenue greater benefits from Tanzanias extractives the mining industry through an increased Authority totalling US$190 billion for alleged industries has included the Presidents royalty rate applicable to metallic minerals such unpaid taxes, interest and penalties.
The urging for the beneficiation of Tanzanias as gold, copper and silver of 6% increased assessments apparently stem from the minerals inside Tanzania, and in March from 4% in addition to a new 1% clearing fee reports of the First and Second Presidential 2017 the Ministry of Energy and Minerals on mineral exports.
The legislation further Committees which claimed that the Acacia announced a ban on the export of metallic grants Tanzanias National Assembly significant Group and its predecessor companies mineral concentrates.
During the year powers over investment terms in the extractives significantly under-declared the contents the Government went on to announce a sector, requires in-country beneficiation of of exports of concentrate, allegations that number of investigations into the countrys extracted minerals and prohibits recourse to Acacia fully denies.
Aside from this, during extractives industries.
The first of these international dispute resolution in the event of 2017 there have continued to be a number investigations saw the establishment of investment disputes.
Post year-end new mining of tax cases that are being dealt with in the two Presidential Committees to examine regulations were also issued which are currently court system in Tanzania which we are existing and historic exports of gold copper being reviewed.
Reforms witnessed in the seeking to resolve.
Subsequent committees were extractives sector have subsequently spread Our response Following the directive to ban the export of imposed by the new legislation as regards first part of 2018 to Q3 2017 in order to metallic mineral concentrates from Tanzania the increased royalty rate and clearing fee on stop concentrate production.
In Q4 2017 we we immediately ceased all exports of our gold mineral exports.
These payments are being also moved Bulyanhulu mine to a reduced copper concentrate and began stockpiling it made under protest, without prejudice to the operation state.
These changes have meant at the affected sites.
Acacia has fully refuted Tanzanian operating companies legal rights that since September 2017 we have been the implausible findings of both Presidential under our MDAs.
able to sell all of the gold we produce.
Committees and reiterates that the Group has Since July 2017, Barrick, the Companys Throughout the year, and in line with the declared all payable minerals produced since majority shareholder, has been in discussions Governments national development it started operating in Tanzania and has paid with the Government in an effort to identify a agenda, the Acacia Group has continued all appropriate royalties and taxes on all possible solution to the dispute.
In October its localisation programme across all payable minerals produced.
2017, Barrick and the Government announced areas of the business, invested in projects Before the new legislation that governs that they had agreed a framework proposing across our communities and contributed extractives industries came into force in a new partnership between the Company and US$143 million in taxes and royalties to the July 2017, in order to protect the Company the Government, including a 50 50 split of the Treasury.
Despite the challenges confronting and Group, Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited economic benefits generated by the Acacia the business during 2017 the Group largely and Pangea Minerals Limited each Groups operating companies operations achieved its projected annual spend on commenced international arbitration against in Tanzania.
Since October, Barrick and the community projects around our mines.
the Government in accordance with the Government have continued discussions aimed As the business has faced operating dispute resolution processes agreed by at agreeing the details of the announced challenges in Tanzania we have continued to the Government in the existing Mineral framework, and Barrick have announced that diversify our portfolio and invest in exploration Development Agreements.
These they are targeting completion in H1 2018. success across Africa.
We will invest US$15 arbitrations remain on-going.
Acacia In the light of the challenging operating million in greenfield exploration in 2018 with continues to monitor the impact of the new environment in Tanzania we have taken a investment in the Liranda Corridor project in legislation in light of its MDAs with the number of decisive steps to manage the Kenya remaining a priority while in Burkina Government.
However, to minimise further changes and stabilise our business over the Faso we continue to invest in more than 65 disruptions to the Groups operations the last 12 months.
On an operational level we targets across our portfolio in the Hound Belt.
Tanzanian operating companies have been, brought forward bypassing the flotation circuit in the interim, satisfying the requirements at Buzwagi mine originally scheduled for the ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 19
