Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:27 Page 12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 12 Ultras four strategies for growth Ultras strategy is to generate long-term shareholder value by gaining strong market positions through being a niche supplier of electronic systems, products and services in growing sectors within the Defence & Aerospace, Security & Cyber, Transport and Energy markets.
Increase the Groups portfolio of specialist capability areas Increase the Groups Concentrate on the customers needs portfolio of specialist Invest in continually improving electronic and software solutions in niche markets capability areas Focus on developing specialist capabilities with demanding and critical requirements, often for demanding environments.
Increase the number of long-term platforms and programmes on which Ultras Increase Widen to generate specialist capabilities are specified number of long-term geographic Identify new platforms and upgrade long-term programmes to apply Ultra capabilities shareholder footprint platforms & Platform lives are typically 30 to 50 value programmes years, which provides a long-term ywheel effect Enables resilient financial performance despite market uctuation.
Broaden customer base Independence allows Ultra portfolio to be sold to a broad range of customers globally Broaden Supply to different project ofces, teams customer base and platform teams within wider customer relationships Build on largest customers, including: US DOD, UK MOD, Lockheed Martin, BAE Systems, Boeing and Australian DOD.
Widen geographic footprint Increased access to two of the largest addressable defence budgets in the world Focus on gaining competitive advantage through measured expansion into the Middle East, India and Asia-Pacic.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 13 Examples of how the Group is performing in each strategy: 1 4 NCS successfully conducted the Herley was contracted by Boeing for acceptance testing of the innovative the provision of American subsonic reactor and plant protection systems it has air-launched cruise missile ALCM and developed for leading US technology conventional air-launched cruise missile developer NuScale Power.
The UK-developed CALCM test equipment micro-electronics.
system will be critical to the operation of Forensic Technology continued to win NuScales innovative technology, which will multiple new contracts for the supply and generate clean, reliable, affordable power in installation of IBIS systems: including the both the US and the UK.
Philippines National Police and Thailand for Ultra signed a Memorandum of the Centre for Forensic Science.
Understanding with CGN of China that will Ultra Electronics USSIs joint venture with see both companies co-operate closely to Sparton Corporation received an IDIQ develop next generation instrumentation and option exercise valued at $220m, enabling it control I&C systems for civil nuclear power.
to extend continuous production for the US The I&C systems include reactor protection Navy.
This ensures continuous production and control, and will be used in China, the and will allow Ultra to deliver seamless UK and other international markets.
service to a major customer in the strategic area of Anti-Submarine Warfare.
Ultra Electronics PCS secured a position on Saabs new Gripen fighter aircraft, with an initial production order valued at 9m, to Ultras ERAPSCO joint venture with equip it with Ultras HiPPAG airborne Sparton Electronics also secured its first compressor system solution.
commercial sale of sonobuoys to support the Indian Navys P-8i fleet of aircraft with a $10.7m multiyear order for both active 3 and passive sonobuoys.
Ultra Electronics USSI was successful Ultra CSS was awarded a contract valued in expanding its life-safety market sector Expanding its footprint in the US Navy at 10m to support the restoration of the by integrating its HyperSpike acoustic Maritime Patrol and Reconnaissance Aircraft Philippine Navys Navy Jacinto Class Patrol array technology into life-safety platforms Programme Office, ATS was contracted to Vessels, contributing to Ultras continued of several primes, including Honeywell support the design, documentation, and expansion into the Asia Pacific region.
development of the distributed data link Ultra secured a $1.5m award from EOS onboard the MQ-4C Triton Unmanned Australia for hand controls for integration Aerial System providing line of sight into Rheinmetalls weapon systems.
This communications through the Joint Tactical strategic award will help position Ultra Radio System.
with the EOS team on Australias LAND400 programme.
2 Ultra Electronics PCS business received an order worth $36m from Pratt & Whitney for equipment used on the F135 engine used in the Lockheed Martin F-35 jet fighter.
PCS will supply Ultra EMS broadened its customer base by the engines Electrical Ice Protection System securing a contract from Turkeys Sedef EIPS as part of a long-term partnership shipbuilding on the Turkish Navys Landing with Pratt & Whitney, effective for the life Platform Dock vessel.
of the programme, or the minimum of 30 years.
Based on potential production volumes, in-service spares, repairs and additional through-life support, the agreement is valued at approximately $500m in total.
