Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 30 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 30 Market-facing segments Aerospace Revenue by segment Manufacturers and operators across both the civil and military Aerospace aerospace sectors are driving to reduce acquisition and operating costs for aircraft and helicopters.
Ultras innovative solutions, 17 which increase efficiency, improve reliability and increase aircraft availability, are well positioned to support these goals.
% of Group revenue Market overview Ultras positions on the Japanese Mitsubishi Commercial aerospace is growing: major Regional Jet and the new Chinese MA700 Ultras portfolio strength manufacturers forecast the need for between regional turboprop, along with significant Ultras CORE capabilities include: 35,000 and 42,000 jet airliners over the next value on the Bombardier Q400 aircraft, give Ice protection and detection 20 years and order backlogs currently exceed good access to the regional aircraft market.
This growth in platform Pneumatic systems and solutions The business aircraft market is set to return numbers is driven by the demand for new Position sensing and control to growth in 2018 and will be sustained over aircraft in developing regions, while the more the foreseeable future.
Ultra has secured Active noise and vibration control established markets require new aircraft to positions on business jet platforms, including Health and Usage Monitoring HUMS replace ageing eets as well as to capture the Cessna Citation Jets, the Cessna Citation greater efficiencies in fuel, emissions and Ground handling equipment Longitude, and the Gulfstream G500, G600 system reliability.
Pilot controls Rising global tensions are leading to an Data and power transfer The large helicopter market is dependent on increasing demand for defence and military oil and gas rig servicing businesses and is Fuel system solutions.
South Korea, Japan, Qatar, the currently impacted by the low price of oil.
United Arab Emirates UAE, Saudi Arabia and These businesses are looking to minimise the India have already started to increase budgets through-life costs of their helicopters and Ultras for the purchase and development of next new Health and Usage Monitoring System generation military equipment.
HUMS specifically targets these requirements.
These acquisitions and developments, along In the military aerospace sector, the xed-wing with the ramp-up of the existing major military combat aircraft market will be dominated for aircraft programmes, and increased spending the next 20 years by the increasing build rate in the US, are resulting in growth in this sector.
and entry-into-service of the F-35 Joint Strike Market outlook Fighter and its F135 engine.
Ultra provides In the civil aerospace market, a forecast need significant content to this aircraft engine for over 8,000 wide-body aircraft by 2036 will combination including precision pneumatics continue to provide significant revenues for HiPPAG for weapons ejection and the engine the supply chain.
In the wide-body market, inlet ice protection system controller.
dominated by Airbus and Boeing, Ultra has a Many nations, including Japan, Turkey and number of positions on the Boeing 787, India, are now seeking to develop their own Airbus A350 and the A330neo.
Ultra has secured several positions on The single aisle market is forecast to require Indias FCA indigenous combat aircraft and will nearly 30,000 aircraft by 2036.
With new continue to seek opportunities in these entrants from China, Russia and Canada to emerging markets.
compete with the established Airbus and Strategy in action In the military transport and special missions Boeing offerings, it is expected that the aircraft market, Ultra has secured positions on In 2017 Ultra secured several major market will become increasingly competitive.
the Embraer KC-390 and on the Airbus contracts for its HiPPAG stores ejection A400M, as well as on the smaller Airbus systems.
This market is stable and relatively systems, Ultra has created an innovative uncompetitive.
design for high pressure hoses.
These hoses allow the carriage of high pressure The UAV market remains a crowded sector gas whilst maintaining the ability to ex.
with many platforms vying for position.
Ultra This allows the hoses to work across a remains interested in the UAV sector, and is moving joint, such as a bomb-bay door, focusing its efforts on the larger, more without reliability issues.
with the latest design of HiPPAG, which is able to provide seeker-head cooling and pneumatic stores ejection from the same unit, positions Ultra to provide highpressure gas solutions for the future stores-management requirements of advanced combat aircraft.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 31 Market-facing segments Infrastructure Revenue by segment Ultra is a trusted international provider and integrator of critical Infrastructure systems and software needed to operate and secure transport and energy infrastructure.
4 % of Group revenue Market overview Market outlook Air and rail transportation remains an area of In the airport sector, the market is still driven Ultras portfolio strength strong investment worldwide.
The increase in by accommodating passenger growth and Ultras CORE capabilities include: global air trafc is driving investment in aircraft deliveries planned for the next ten Broad suite of integrated airport infrastructure, although competition years.
This is achieved by building capacity in infrastructure offerings spanning in this sector is increasing.
Globally, rail North America and emerging countries such airports, rail and energy infrastructure is also growing rapidly as a key as South America and Asia.
commercial and national enabler in both Secure localised network Passenger and baggage solutions continue to established and emerging economies.
In communications for measurement be commoditised, while secure information established economies, infrastructure and control systems provide higher returns in investment is focused on upgrading existing Protection of critical energy and opportunities such as situational awareness capabilities and driving economic recovery.
In transport information systems and data integration.
emerging economies, such investment is Power management and control Ultra will continue to focus upon market being used to secure growth and build intimacy, customer relationships and Compact power solutions national capacity.
Increasing global demand solutions that deliver value to airports over for energy has led to increased investment in Flexible delivery models: outstanding individual products.
power generation, power distribution, secure service reputation power management and the renewables The rail transit power conversion and control Integration and domain expertise markets.
Energy dominates the global trend market is also anticipated to see significant at both technological and in smart infrastructure, with Smart Grid and growth.
The commencement of UK Network programme level.
secure energy management lying at the heart Rails Control Period 6 in 2019 and continued of Smart Cities and Critical National investment in inner city tram and metro Infrastructure.
Whilst global infrastructure systems both in the UK and overseas bodes demand is largely being driven by growing well for Ultras trackside direct current & populations in developing countries, at least alternating current capabilities.
However, with 50% of the global market for smart solutions the exception of the rail control sector and lies in Europe and the US.
the drive towards smart digital solutions, the market is becoming increasingly pricesensitive.
In the power management and renewables sector, the growing need for compact, power-dense solutions plays to Ultras capabilities with power resilience, energy storage and fast switching all being key drivers for growth.
The secure energy management sector is forecast to see substantial investment, particularly in areas related to secure monitoring, analysis and control.
The emergent Smart Grid market relies on the ability to securely identify each connected device.
Ultra has now introduced Strategy in action the cyber-hardened critical infrastructure management system that is used to improve Ultra Electronics 3eTI continues to deliver site management and performance.
security solutions that mitigate both Opportunities in the Smart Grid market are physical and cyber threats, as reiterated likely to remain fragmented until the by the 2017 award of a US $16.2m appropriate regulatory frameworks are modication to a previously awarded established.
However, Ultras broader secure cost-plus-xed-fee contract by the US communication and data portfolio places it in Department of the Navy.
The contract a strong position with the Group able to offer extends Ultra Electronics services providing the highest level of assurance that can be solutions to cyber-secure critical Navy gained for the storage of unique digital keys infrastructure.
These solutions include the and identiers of devices.
cyber hardening of various industrial control systems and electronic security systems in mission essential environments.
2 1 Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 32 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 32 Market-facing segments Nuclear Revenue by segment Through its global experience with Original Equipment Manufacturers, Nuclear the domain knowledge of its Suitably Qualified and Experienced Personnel, and its diverse portfolio of qualified safety systems and 8 sensors, Ultra is well-positioned to support the growing market in the licensing, construction and safe operation of reactors and associated % of Group revenue research and full cycle markets via a full defence in depth approach.
Market overview Market outlook There were over 445 commercial nuclear Although the nuclear market is a long-cycle Ultras portfolio strength power reactors operating in 29 countries one, the outlook is positive.
Much of the Ultras CORE capabilities include: worldwide at the end of 2017, providing over current global fleet of plants will need life Extensive pool of Suitably Qualied 11% of the worlds electricity as continuous, extensions and upgrades.
These plants are Experienced Personnel SQEP reliable, base-load power and they remain an largely older analogue Instrumentation and important part of the low carbon energy mix.
Control I&C designs, with the biggest Nuclear safety system expertise In addition, 56 countries operate around 240 market by far being the US.
The new build, Qualied reactor instrumentation civil research reactors, with many of these in digital I&C market, currently dominated by and control developing countries.
Globally, there were 61 China, India and Russia, is of a similar Radiation detection sensors new reactors under construction.
Ultra has invested signicantly in Nuclear energy management systems the new builds are being developed within new facilities for the testing, development emerging economies and in those countries and manufacture of sensors.
This has shown Nuclear operational support where there is substantial state backing.
its value through further contract wins with Nuclear rod control for submarines.
However, the emphasis in established EDF for the provision of specialist sensors Western markets has largely shifted to a and, with the Strategic Partnership shorter-term focus on safety system announcement with NuScale, to develop a upgrades, life extensions, emergency suite of reactor and plant I&C systems for management and plant sustainment their Small Modular Reactor SMR.
In addition to this, the UK is Group currently provides equipment to over proceeding with a new commercial model it 190 reactors across 17 countries, plus has pioneered in support of new nuclear another 28 reactors under construction.
The nuclear market is is uniquely qualied on eight new types of generally very conservative and supported plants as well as many legacy plants, through large multinational organisations: meaning that it is well positioned for the however, there remain several complex niches future.
Growth in the nuclear emergency served by smaller specialist companies.
It is a management market continues and is highly regulated market, with high barriers to prompted by the Fukushima accident, which entry, and as such is dominated by a number caused a global reassessment of postof well-established global players.
The accident response and support needs.
The qualication of sensors and products across decommissioning and clean-up of legacy multiple standards and platforms is extremely reactors and fuel cycle plants, which utilises expensive and offers further barriers to entry qualied instrumentation and radiation once established.
sensors, is also expected to see further growth.
Ultras experience with global standards and various platforms positions the Group well for these new opportunities.
Strategy in action In 2017, NSPI was awarded a high priority contract for one of Bechtels US sites which included designing and delivering a first-of-a-kind sensor for a specialised process control system.
Ultras NCS and NSPI businesses have been working with Bechtel over a number of years for similar projects and see future opportunities with them in the nuclear and other energy markets.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 33 Market-facing segments Communications Revenue by segment Ultra is well-positioned as one of the most trusted and respected Communications providers of specialised secure communication capabilities in the world offering advanced, interoperable solutions that are scalable 16 and low-risk.
% of Group revenue Market overview Software-dened solutions such as the Ultra The communications market is broad and ORION family of radio systems can provide Ultras portfolio strength spans: airborne, air-to-ground, ground-based, at-the-quick-halt and on-the-move Ultras CORE capabilities include: underwater, and ship-borne communications, communications across multiple military Encryption and key management each encompassing a wide and diverse range echelons.
Being based on a software-dened solutions of requirements and capabilities.
There is radio platform allows the Ultra ORION to continued demand for increased bandwidth maximise exibility to support various Data link systems and broader connectivity, coupled with a need missions while reducing training costs and High-performance, high-reliability for multi-platform and multi-user supporting logistics.
radio and wireless systems interoperability within both the military and Similarly, in the data link communications Secure voice, video and data security sectors.
market, in which Ultras position remains communication platforms Security is a driving factor across networked strong, its wide range of advanced air and Secure wireless mesh networking communications and is especially important ground solutions answer the growing demand Fixed, mobile and transportable whilst nations seek to modernise their systems for secure tactical and full-motion video links.
satellite earth stations using a combination of commercial and Securing communications has become a bespoke solutions.
Identication and autonomous necessity and Ultras ability to understand guidance products The ability to deliver security across real-time how technology can best support this Airborne communication exchange voice and data with ad-hoc mesh capabilities market means the use of technical skills and has become essential.
This is driving products from link to Internet Protocol IP - Personal protective gear investment in a market where proven designs, based cryptographic solutions will continue communications which can be integrated with existing to grow.
Following the market shift to Acoustic hailing devices equipment and are secured from threat actors develop new electronic encryption key Through the earthcommunications.
yet interoperable with allies, are preferred.
distribution and management systems, Ultra has a unique position with proven solutions Market outlook for both commercial and US and UK The increased transfer of data and its government requirements.
translation into useable information continues to envelop all aspects of military, security and The Internet of Things IoT continues to commercial operations.
The secure provision expand the amount of networked devices and, of data that is available where and when it is as we control more of the physical world with required, in a useable format, continues to IT, the merge between cyber and physical push the boundaries of technology.
Ultras threats will continue to emphasise the need communications portfolio supports this need for resilient solutions that securely connect through a multitude of capabilities: satellite and communicate across them.
Ultras proven systems, data link systems, encryption certied security portfolio is well placed to solutions, radio communication systems and deliver cyber defence across all specialist niche systems.
The trend towards greater connectivity and Strategy in action networking continues to persist, driving Ultras Multi-Data Link Management significant further investment in military, System MDLMS is a real-time tactical security, critical national infrastructure and data link interoperability system capable of commercial communications.
operating in a stand-alone or integrated maritime environment.
ATS was awarded a contract to deliver the MDLMS to three destroyers for the Republic of Korea Navy.
ATSs offering provides the ability to communicate tactical information over a secure, jam-resistant data link using the latest Link 16 radio terminals.
This key, regional, strategic win enables ATS to be well positioned to provide more systems in the next class of Korean destroyer planned in 2019.
3 4 Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 34 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 34 Market-facing segments C2ISR Revenue by segment As a trusted supplier of innovative surveillance and security solutions C2ISR to government and commercial customers, Ultra is well positioned to exploit this growing market.
19 % of Group revenue Market overview Market outlook As interconnected, networked data is The increased transfer of data and its Ultras portfolio strength continuing to be collected from a burgeoning translation into useable information Ultras CORE capabilities include: amount of sensory equipment, the necessity continues to envelop all aspects of military, Surveillance solutions for critical to receive, understand, lter and transmit this security and commercial operations.
The national infrastructure, coastal and data into timely, useable information is secure provision of data that is available border security needs paramount to government, security and where and when it is required, in a useable critical national infrastructure operations.
format, continues to push the boundaries of Covert surveillance solutions technology.
Ultras C2ISR portfolio supports Command and Control systems C2 Within defence C2ISR remains a priority this need through a multitude of capabilities capability within global budgets due, Airborne surveillance and targeting for both military and civil applications, primarily, to the increased importance and Electronic Warfare EW solutions, providing the accurate and timely exchange investment in modern warfare systems.
The EW simulators and radar test systems of voice, video and data to military, application of C2ISR solutions across a variety government, law enforcement agencies, Document examination systems of platforms as the principal mechanism for industry and commercial customers in early or urgent delivery of military effect Ballistics and crime scene analysis.
support of the planning and execution of continues to drive the demand for complex and critical operations at all levels of intelligence, surveillance, target acquisition the command structure.
The ability to fuse or correlate data streams into The increased capability, and resulting data, a single real-time integrated picture that can be offered by sensor and communications disseminated to the lowest level will drive solutions means that the ability to collect growth in real-time ISTAR solutions for both data is close to ubiquitous, so the market manned and unmanned platforms and the increasingly shows a need to be able to connectivity between assets in the battlespace.
manage and represent this data in a meaningful way as information.
Ultras leading data fusion, situational awareness and visualisation systems will Alongside operational defence needs, global continue to play well to this growing need.
security threats and the interconnectivity of networked physical and IT devices increases Cyber Electromagnetic Activities CEMA is the importance of C2ISR in the wider border growing the need to be able to understand and security and critical national infrastructure accommodate both radio and IP data into CNI protection markets.
Ultras portfolio spans the development of sensors, communication Interoperability, mobility and a single solutions, and data management techniques integrated useable picture can deliver that use proven software and articial timely situational awareness that makes a intelligence AI solutions.
real difference to combating threats and saving lives.
People and data will continue to move Strategy in action throughout the world.
Whether following ATS was contracted to provide the the economic and political boundaries or Programme Executive officer of the US cutting across them using interconnected Land Systems Marine Corps with its networks, the need to enforce the law and Virtual Air Defense System Integrator mitigate illegal activities will continue to vADSI.
These systems will provide the grow.
Ultras ability to understand this everMarine Corps with the ability to process changing data-driven world helps it to tactical data while automatically provide solutions that meet the growing correlated with air and ground targets, needs of government, critical national thus enabling enhanced decision making infrastructure and commercial customers.
at tactical operations and intelligence centres.
ATS has worked closely to ensure that the Air Defence C2 requirements have been met through both reliable and technical solutions and an understanding of the importance and complex needs of tactical air defence.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 35 Market-facing segments Underwater warfare Revenue by segment Ultra is renowned for its world-leading domain knowledge, acoustic Underwater technical expertise and ability to provide leading technology in warfare underwater warfare performance through rapidly delivered, modular, 25 affordable and reliable solutions.
% of Group revenue Market overview Market outlook Western nations traditional adversaries, The end of the land-based conicts in Iraq Ultras portfolio strength Russia and China, have made rapid and large and Afghanistan coupled with an aggressive Ultras CORE capabilities include: scale submarine investment a cornerstone of push by Russia and China to extend their Expert knowledge of acoustic system their strategy to project power.
Numerous naval spheres of influence has signalled a performance in the maritime domain smaller nations are also rapidly procuring renewed focus on naval recapitalisation.
It is submarines in an effort to cost-effectively expected that the underwater warfare market Design and manufacture of air protect their national interests.
This growth in will continue to grow signicantly over the deployable sonobuoys submarine capability is no longer offset by next decade, driven by a strong demand for Sonar transducer and towed array what was once western underwater warfare new ASW-oriented surface combatants design and manufacture technological superiority and investment in globally.
Nations are increasingly spending on Design and manufacture of acoustic anti-submarine warfare ASW has become a on-board complex electronics and off-board countermeasure for torpedo defence top priority for many nations.
sensor systems compared to the previous Sonar processing, display and generations of vessels.
The underwater battlespace is complex and decision aids the never ending improvements in stealth and US defence spending continues to dominate Recognised integrator of complex the increased submerged endurance of the the military marketplace and ASW and sonar systems both towed and modern submarine has been a catalyst for the submarines remain areas of preferential spend hull-mounted.
development and procurement of a new with increased budget allocation.
The US generation of airborne ASW sensors, warship continues to build two Virginia Class SSNs per and submarine sonar systems and advanced year and has taken delivery of more than 50 Ptorpedoes to detect, track and defeat these 8A maritime patrol aircraft to the US Navy as underwater antagonists.
More emphasis is well as awarding contracts to upgrade both being placed on countermeasure systems that light and heavyweight torpedoes.
Ultra is a can be used to jam or decoy incoming major sonobuoy supplier with annual revenues torpedoes as a last layer of defence for both exceeding 100m and a forecast steady ships and submarines.
growth rate of 2 to 3% as new platforms become operational.
Underwater warfare is a key market for Ultra.
Ultra continues to invest substantially in ASW Elsewhere, several countries have embarked technology and is already recognised as the on a major recapitalisation of their ASW worlds pre-eminent supplier of expendable frigates.
In all, western navies will start sonobuoys and torpedo countermeasures.
construction of more than 30 warships over the next decade and all will be assembled with a significant emphasis on ASW.
In the Strategy in action addressable Asia-Pacic market, spend related Ultra has a long history of providing to ASW systems, including towed torpedo sonobuoys designed to be deployed from defence solutions, is projected to increase large manned aircraft and helicopters.
In from an estimated 400m in 2018 to over 2017, Ultra began development of a new 0.5bn in 2022.
India alone intends to award class of miniature active and passive at least two major ASW-related programmes sonobuoys.
In parallel, work commenced totalling in excess of 100m over the next with Marshall Aerospace and Defence to three years.
develop a lightweight pod that could Ultra continues to invest in new ASW not only carry the miniaturised sonobuoys, but also the radios and technology to meet the market needs.
processor required to capture, analyse, Research and development is underway on and transmit underwater target data to a new active and passive transducers, thin-line towed arrays, miniature sonobuoys and command and control centre.
Ultra ofcially launched its miniature sonobuoy launch mechanisms, enhanced and pod system for UAVs in September countermeasures, and improved target 2017 and has received widespread detection and tracking algorithms.
Development continues as ight trials have commenced with several major UAV primes to help develop a concept of operations for this new capability.
1 Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 36 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 36 Market-facing segments Maritime Revenue by segment Combining its expertise in power electronics and open architecture Maritime design, Ultra provides innovative, scalable, and affordable solutions to meet customer needs in signature management, power-dense 8 motors and electronics, Electro-Optic EO tracking systems, surface search radars and command, control and navigations systems for % of Group revenue maritime platforms.
Market overview Market outlook World tensions continue to grow in the The Maritime segment is a growing market Ultras portfolio strength maritime domain, as Russia, China, North where Ultra has developed and maintains Ultras CORE capabilities include: Korea and Iran are all challenging the certain highly differentiated technologies that Magnetic and electric signature established sea lanes through their desire to support niche applications.
In the UK, Ultra management for naval vessels employ a naval presence to control strategic continues to provide in service support to the worldwide areas of the worlds oceans.
This has sparked Type-45 destroyers and Type-23 frigates.
The increased naval spending in the procurement US Navy has several active warship Specialist power dense motors of new platforms and the extensive production programmes in its quest to reach and drives modernisation and re-armament of existing a 355 ship Navy and Ultra is well-positioned Power conversion and control warships.
The UK, Australia, and Canada have on a number of these programmes, including management recently adopted national shipbuilding Flight III of the Arleigh Burke guided missile Nuclear rod control strategies with a view to stimulate long-term destroyers DDG-51 and replenishment naval Stable positioning for precise new ship construction to meet evolving vessels T-AOX.
With the requirement EO tracking on moving platforms threats.
In the US, the Trump administration denition of the US Navys Future Frigate just has made a 355 ship navy an election promise being completed, Ultra is well-positioned to Customised command, control and and requirements have been established for a supply a myriad of unique power and navigation systems for small ships new frigate with specic focus on increased signature management equipment to this Next Generation Surface Search lethality and survivability.
The US Navy has been Radar NGSSR.
funding Ultra to develop the next generation Submarine production has increased around of surface ship radar for a number of years.
Australia has recently awarded a The recent spate of at sea collisions involving contract to build new conventional US warships has been an impetus to submarines and the US and the UK have both accelerate the technology development and commenced construction of their new introduce an enhanced surface search radar strategic deterrent submarine eets.
In other capability into service as soon as possible.
parts of the world the requirement for increased maritime capability is clear, but Elsewhere, Ultra is beginning the transition scal constraints are driving the desire for life from the design and qualication of new extensions to existing platforms through costdevelopment technologies into the effective capability upgrades.
Consequently, production phase on a number of significant the demand for system sensor upgrades and programmes such as the Virginia Class technology insertion programmes on existing Submarine VCS, where long-term vessels is growing, particularly for navies in production is well funded, and the new Strategy in action emerging nations.
There is ongoing pressure Columbia Class SSBN, which is projected to In 2017, Ultra received a contract to use to establish an indigenous capability as part of provide 12 new hulls beginning in 2021.
High Temperature Superconducting any new production or modernisation Ultra has followed up on its success in the HTSC technology in support of the US programme.
Hence, technology transfer is Indonesian Navys Fatahillah modernisation Navys Unmanned influence Sweep becoming an increasingly important factor to programme by winning a number of System UISS, a mine countermeasure win work in the export market.
international tenders in Turkey, the system designed for use against magnetic Philippines, Australia and Canada to support and acoustic mines.
Ultra continues to both new construction and updates to differentiate itself from its competitors existing platforms, underpinning the through the exploitation of HTSC continuing demand for warship system and technology and is adapting HTSC for use sensor upgrades and this plays well to Ultras in shore-based deperming facilities.
These strength of being able to partner with local installations are used to reduce the industries to provide cost effective and permanent magnetic eld properties of differentiated naval solutions that meet the warships and submarines and the use of customers needs.
HTSC technology greatly reduces shorebased power requirements.
Furthermore, the lightweight cabling enables the ship or submarine to be prepared for deperming much more quickly: thereby increasing platform operational availability.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 37 Market-facing segments Land Revenue by segment Ultra has specialised in-depth knowledge and experience of Land implementing Land Open Systems Architecture which define the integration of power, data and video for vehicles, soldiers and bases.
3 % of Group revenue Market overview Market outlook Mounting instability and unpredictability in the For military vehicles, Ultra has the full range of Ultras portfolio strength Philippines, Ukraine, North Korea, and Syria are skills and a proven track record, to act either Ultras CORE capabilities include: driving market demand for armoured vehicles.
as an integrator of Vehicle Electronics Vehicle systems Growing demand from western nations is Architecture VEA, or as an electronics subunderpinned by the increased US defence system supplier to vehicle Primes.
Ultra has a Soldier systems spending in conjunction with the call for NATO wide product range of VEA subsystems and is Power systems members to increase their defence spending.
actively addressing the growing worldwide Information systems market for high technology vehicle electronics The rising likelihood of state-on-state warfare Control systems for existing vehicle upgrades and new vehicles.
has generated requirements for lighter tanks, Mission systems equipped with sophisticated weapon systems As part of the Army 2020 Rene so as to achieve increased lethality.
There is an programme, the British Army is currently Electronic architectures increased demand for armoured personnel undertaking work on many of its vehicles, all Operating base solutions.
carriers, mine-resistant ambush protected within the next five-year period.
This includes MRAP vehicles and unmanned ground upgrades and extension programmes on vehicles, all with increased lethality, survivability, existing platforms such as the Warrior interoperability and reliability.
Improved Capability Sustainment Programme WCSP communications, situational awareness and and the development and delivery of new vehicle information integration are all vehicles such as the Ajax development prominent requirements for interoperability for programme.
Ultra has positioned itself on both both new and back-tted vehicles.
platforms and is actively pursuing positions on new vehicles in other high-growth markets The concept of the dismounted soldier as an including Turkey, Saudi Arabia, UAE, India, effective electronics and weapons platform is Poland, Ukraine and Australia.
Requirements have been developed in several countries to The US military vehicle market continues to be maximise dismounted situational awareness large with wide ranging requirements and associated lethality.
Ultra is also involved including upgrades to the mature Abrams in initiatives to improve soldier-machine Tank and Bradley vehicles, as well as new interfaces both when within the vehicle, as research and development programmes such well as when dismounted and remote from as the Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle ARV, the vehicle.
Mobile Protected Firepower MPF, Next Generation Combat Vehicle NGCV and.
Maneuver Robotics and Autonomous Systems Strategy in action MRAS.
Ultra is pursuing niche positions on all In September 2017, Ultra launched the of these platforms.
innovative UltraLYNX soldier-worn electronics system.
Through in-depth knowledge of the UK Generic Soldier Architecture GSA standards, and by listening carefully to customers worldwide, Ultra has developed a standard, capable and exible smart hub and integrated connector system which can be readily and quickly customised to individual customer requirements.
The unique smart hub approach that Ultra has taken with UltraLYNX has resulted in intense interest from customers worldwide, including ongoing evaluations by the British and US Army, US Marine Corps and British and US Special Forces.
Police and Fire Services are also customising and evaluating UltraLYNX for their specic use cases.
3 1 Regulators External Audit Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 38 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 38 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties Analysing and managing uncertainty Effective risk management is a fundamental aspect of Ultra Electronics operating, financial and governance activities.
The Group continually analyses the risks it faces and assesses the effectiveness of its response to these risks within the control environment.
This means that Ultra is able to give early consideration to emerging risks and this helps it to deliver on its commitments, improve long-term performance and enhance its reputation in the market.
Profitable growth cannot be achieved without An in-house Group Risk and Compliance A watching brief is being maintained in some degree of considered risk and the Groups Manager was appointed to provide respect of the economic and political objective to generate long-term shareholder ongoing development and coordination of uncertainties in Ultras key markets so that value is reflected in Ultras appetite for risk.
the risk management framework and to it responds effectively to the new realities if Ultras principal risks reflect the high priority it consolidate, challenge and report on all there are potential impacts to business places on compliance with all legislative and risk management information.
Risk is a The risk appetite metrics were reviewed regulatory requirements and the maintenance standing agenda item at the Audit and updated to reect measures that of high ethical standards across the Group, its Committee, and the culture of openness is provide the organisation with a clear view supply chain and in its dealings with its enabling emerging risks to be highlighted on how much risk it is exposed to so that customers.
The Groups strategies for growth at Board level risks are taken strategically centre on delivering change programmes that Deep dive reviews were undertaken in An assessment of the Groups aggregate support the agility of Ultras businesses, respect of information security, pensions risks was undertaken by the Board.
encouraging an entrepreneurial culture of and delivering change.
They included a The risk management focus in 2018 will be on: innovation in its people by having a diverse robust review of existing controls, range of skills and capabilities amongst the Embedding the Risk Management comparison to industry benchmarks, Groups employees.
Ultra has a low-risk Framework at business level to ensure consideration of any changes in internal appetite in situations where its culture, consistency in the reporting and escalation and external factors and the organisations reputation or financial standing may be of risk across the Group and to further response to these changes.
The output of adversely affected.
However, the Group does embed a risk culture the reviews was an evaluation of the consider taking higher risks where the mitigation measures, reassessment of the Conducting deep dive reviews of opportunity is seen to outweigh the potential risk and its impact on the organisations principal risks on a rolling basis.
negatives, provided appropriate levels of strategic objectives mitigating controls are in place.
Where safety may be compromised, Ultra has zero tolerance The risk management process to risk.
Risk management and internal control Board and Committees The Board has overall responsibility for establishing, monitoring and maintaining an effective system of risk management, Executive Team governance and internal controls.
The Board reviews risk as part of its annual strategy review process and risk management is a regular Divisions feature on Board meeting agendas.
This Aerospace & Infrastructure provides the Board with an appreciation of the Communications & Security key risks within the business and oversight of Maritime & Land how they are being managed.
The responsibility for risk oversight is principally delegated to the Audit Committee with the ongoing review and challenge of risk management information First Line Second Line Third Line Risk and control Group and Independent challenge provided by the Executive Team.
processes as part of Divisional oversight to the levels of assurance business as usual provided by management Risk management Group Board & Committee on the effectiveness of oversight and challenge The approach to risk management across the Group Operating Manual governance, risk setting out policies & Executive Team oversight Group is to focus on the early identication of management and internal processes and challenge controls key risks thereby reducing the likelihood of the Training and development Divisional business Internal Audit risk occurring and mitigating the effect of any performance reviews Regulatory and compliance provided by PwC potential impacts.
Over the past year, Ultra has requirements Divisional Control Review Other independent assurance meetings continued to develop the role of Risk Risk registers activities e. g. health, safety Six-monthly Compliance and environment audits Champions at all levels of the business so that it Reports has early visibility of any emerging risks across Review of monthly Business different market segments and business units.
Performance Reports including The work of the Risk Champions is supported Financial Performance Co-ordination of the by the following enhancements which have implementation of the Risk commenced or been implemented during this Management Framework reporting period: provided by Deloitte Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 39 6.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 39 2017 principal risks and uncertainties Risk Management Framework Risk management in operation data.
The focus was not just within the The Risk Management Framework governs organisation but also across suppliers, cloud the approach Ultra takes to managing risk Cyber Security service and critical data feeds.
The cultures and behaviours Globally, the scale and pace of cyber security commissioned an independent review of the inherent within Ultra see pages 48-53 incidents has seen a dramatic rise in 2017 effectiveness of its controls in relation to the ensure risk consideration and commitment to with a significant increase in ransomware level of threat that it faces and its alignment proactively managing risk is embedded into attacks against organisations and with industry practice.
In addition, the introduction of Incident Preparedness The Groups risk management process is the General Data Protection Regulation The review of preparedness to deal with set out in the Risk Management Framework GDPR in May 2018 will increase the impact incidents considered the Groups exibility and facilitates the achievement of the resulting from a cyber breach of personal and responsiveness as well as dwell time for following objectives: Ultras response information.
To ensure that malware containment.
External training was to the risk is adequate, internal and external Identication, measurement, control and provided to the senior management team factors that could make the Group reporting of risk that can undermine the focusing on the key vision for the business vulnerable, including why it may be targeted business model, future performance, and its strategic goals together with blockers and how a successful attack might impact solvency or liquidity of the Group which had the potential to slow progress.
Allocation of resources for the management Overall risk exposure Understanding Exposure and Controls of principal and emerging risks Following the Cyber Security independent The deep dive review focused on Assurance from management that a review and deep dive, the overall severity of understanding the type of data Ultra particular risk is owned by the individual the risk remains unchanged.
manages, and why and where it holds the best positioned to control mitigate that risk Driving business improvements and provision of enhanced intelligence for key and readiness in maintaining business as Delivering Change decision making usual during the transformation phase Ultra Electronics is making significant Support and development of Ultras In addition to the deep dive, the investments in new infrastructure to replace reputation as a well governed and trusted effectiveness of existing controls legacy systems and standardise indirect organisation.
was reviewed and independent external procurement activities.
Other change assessment of the business benets The key components of the Risk Management initiatives include the consolidation of some and robustness of the governance Framework are: of Ultras business units.
Given the perceived process was undertaken.
This included impressions that major change projects are Oversight structure feedback focus groups, Executive Team overly ambitious on their costs, time to and accountability governance over major change complete and achievable benefits, a deep The risk management oversight structure has programmes and the auditable and dive was conducted on this risk and S3 was been developed using the principles of the consistent realisation of benets used as the basis for the case study.
three lines of defence, which ensures risk is Improvements were recommended for considered from both a top down and a Understanding controls and extending good practice on controls and bottom up perspective, with risk information validating benets processes across major change captured at strategic, divisional and individual S3 is an initiative set up to seek to identify programmes.
Business benets realised business levels.
costs savings across Ultra from to date were independently veried and standardising various back ofce functions, Process recommendations on improving the improving the buying power of the Group The risk management process is focused on collation and communication of business whilst maintaining the autonomy and risk identication using cause and effect benets were agreed.
agility of the Ultra businesses analysis, inherent pre controls and residual Overall risk exposure The deep dive review focused on the post controls assessment, control identication Following the deep dive review, it was challenges and areas of concern related to and the development and implementation of agreed that the overall severity of the risk the scale and complexity of the change further mitigation strategies.
following the deep dive remains unchanged initiative, the Groups ability to realise the as S3 initiatives are being delivered and Escalation, monitoring expected benets as well as its resilience business consolidations take effect.
and reporting Changes to risk exposure are notied through the governance structure as required.
Risk leads are identied for all risks and they have responsibility for the ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of current controls and the progress against the implementation of further mitigating actions.
The risk reporting ow is based on a combination of annual, bi-annual, quarterly and monthly reporting to the Board, Audit Committee, Executive Team and divisional individual businesses management teams.
Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 40 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 40 Principal risks Following the November profit warning, the opportunities these may have for the Group.
Principal risk Trend Board and Executive Team have implemented These include: emerging risks and Risk 1.
Growth enhanced controls and procedures in certain opportunities arising as a result of the UKs specic areas, including strategic planning decision to leave the EU: challenges to some of Risk 2.
In addition, oversight and the long-standing political and economic Risk 3.
People & culture management of risk has been further conventions in the USA: and geopolitical strengthened with the appointment of an tensions and concerns in the former Soviet Risk 4.
Information management & security in-house Group Risk & Compliance Manager.
Union, on the Korean Peninsula and The process of setting up a Risk Committee elsewhere.
A working group which reports Risk 5.
Supply chain as a formal sub-committee of the Executive into the Executive Team has been set up to Risk 6.
Governance & internal controls Team, is underway and will be chaired by the monitor the development of these external Executive Team.
The Groups robust response factors in relation to Ultras principal risks.
Pensions to the events in 2017 means that the principal present, the Groups risk exposure remains risks and uncertainties which potentially largely unchanged by these factors.
Legislation regulation materially impact the Groups performance The Groups principal risks are set out below Risk 9.
Health, safety & environment have not changed signicantly from those set and on the following pages with details of out in the Groups 2016 Annual Report & their potential impacts, examples of the Accounts.
Each principal risk continues to have current controls and mitigation actions taken an Executive Team risk lead allocated to it.
to manage the risk and an indication of In the year, the Board considered the impact of whether the risk exposure is increasing, political and economic uncertainties in its decreasing or largely unchanged.
major markets and the potential risks and Risk 1.
Growth Trend: No significant change Changes during 2017 Although the defence market has been challenging in recent years, there are strong indications of a return to growth, particularly in the US, as indicated by the Groups strong order book going into 2018.
Political and economic circumstances in some of the Groups key markets mean that it is cautiously optimistic about any return to organic growth.
The Companys focus in the year continued to be on its market-facing segment strategies, improving its planning for future political and economic developments in its key markets, and exploiting the anticipated market upturn.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : Ultras strategic objective for year on year Poor investment decisions leading to The Group is offsetting challenges in the UK growth requires: the ability to respond to inadequate returns defence market by expanding in targeted changing market dynamics: the capacity to overseas regions that exhibit long term Reduced business opportunity and loss of win new business and deliver successfully growth characteristics reputation, customers, market share, revenue against contracted customer requirements: and profit The market-facing segments enable Ultra to the development of highly differentiated remain competitive and use the capabilities of Specialist capabilities eroded through solutions to address customer needs: and the its businesses to deliver enhanced solutions commoditisation ability to select, execute and integrate more effectively to its customers Reduction in anticipated acquisition value acquisitions effectively.
Improving the capacity and capability of the through overpayment, non-delivery of Groups sales and marketing teams using the synergies and or economies of scale and senior LAUNCH approach and providing training management focus diverted away from delivering business as usual.
Establishment and implementation of rigorous gate reviews of risk appetite for major opportunities so that acceptable margin levels and risk tolerances are maintained The Board conducts a rigorous review of acquisition opportunities including commissioning third party market reports and due diligence.
Post-acquisition reviews are performed on all acquisitions comprising integration effectiveness, operational performance compared to expectation and lessons learned A working group reporting to the Executive P10-13 Team has been established to evaluate the Ultras business model and strategies for growth impact of recent geo-political events on Ultra.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 41 2017 principal risks and uncertainties Risk 2.
Delivering change Trend: No significant change Changes during 2017 The scale and complexity of change has increased as S3 initiatives and business consolidations take effect.
S3 has adopted a multi-faceted and proactive communication strategy and recruited specialist skills to augment Group talent in key roles.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : Effective delivery of major change programmes Expected benets of change not realised An Executive Team sponsor is allocated to all with minimal effect on business as usual is a major change programmes which are also significant increase in change programme costs key component of Ultras continual drive for monitored on a monthly basis by the Board Senior management distraction from business operational improvement.
Recommendations arising from the deep dive as usual review and external review conducted in 2017 Reduction in employee morale are being considered for implementation Disruption of business performance.
An S3 steering committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director, meets monthly to track progress against the plan An S3 Communications Manager has been recruited with responsibility for implementing P22-23 the communications strategy approved by the Strategy for standardisation and shared services S3 S3 steering committee.
People and culture Trend: No significant change Changes during 2017 Ultras culture and how it is reected across its businesses has been the subject of discussion at both the Board and Executive levels, especially in the last quarter of 2017.
Talent and succession planning remained a focus for the Executive Team in 2017 and remains on the Boards agenda as an area of focus in 2018.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : Preserving Ultras culture underpinned by Not recruiting and retaining the right Ultra continues to engage in a number of its behaviours of LEAP: leadership, employees in the right roles would result in initiatives with local schools, colleges and entrepreneurship, audacity and paranoia Ultra being unable to full its contractual universities to gain access to the best people and attracting, developing and retaining obligations and would lead to operational for its apprenticeship and graduate the right people who have the domain inefficiencies and loss of productivity recruitment programmes.
This enables Ultra to expertise and who embrace Ultras culture is grow a broad range of skills and capabilities Staff morale could be impaired resulting in a critical to the Groups strategic objectives.
and to remain successful at innovating to rise in employee-related issues e. g. grievances meet customers needs and sickness Ultras people and their development are Failure to maintain a strong ethical culture fundamental to Group success.
Employee would increase the Groups exposure to legal development needs form part of performance and regulatory breaches.
and development reviews and are aligned to employees specic needs Employee engagement and morale is measured through YOURviews surveys.
The leadership teams in the businesses use the survey to address any areas of concern so that Ultras people remain engaged and committed Talent and succession planning has been, and will continue to be, a focus for the Board P46-57 Sustainability, people and culture The annual Organisation, Succession & Development Plan OSDP results in highpotential employees being identied and their P48-53 Developing Ultras people development monitored.
Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 42 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 42 Principal risks continued Risk 4.
Information management and security Trend: No significant change Changes during 2017 The CORVID Protect and Ultra approach to security provides a high level of assurance.
The global increase in the incidence and sophistication of cyber security crime means this risk continues to be a priority for the Company.
As such, this risk was the subject of a deep dive review in 2017.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : The incidence and sophistication of cyber Reduced product differentiation caused by loss The Groups information security is provided security crime continues to rise.
The effective of intellectual property through its continued investment in Ultras management and protection of information and Cyber Protection Group part of CORVID Reputational damage to Ultra as a highly Ultras IT systems is necessary to prevent the loss Protect.
It provides Group-wide monitoring, regarded provider of secure data systems of data and the disruption of operations.
incident response and continued enhancement Loss of business opportunity with removal of of Ultras IT systems and processes government approval to work on classied The Board is kept updated on how CORVID programmes Protect secures Ultras network, including Disruption of business activity as systems are protecting Ultra from phishing attacks cleansed and restored.
The Groups Information Security Policy is being updated to reect GDPR Recommendations arising from the deep dive review have been implemented Intellectual property is addressed in the bid and contract management process and protected through information security Security clearance processes are in place for all employees Established physical security processes are P39 Cyber security case study implemented at all sites.
Supply chain Trend: No significant change Changes during 2017 The level of risk remains unchanged in the year.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : The Group relies upon suppliers and Failure to deliver against customer Using the visibility created by S3 deliverables to subcontractors to deliver upon its customer commitments consolidate the supply chain and to leverage commitments.
Ultras supply chain needs to the commercial scale of the Group Reduced profit margins and increased be efficient to maintain margins and to be contractual disputes and litigation Building ongoing partnerships with strategic compliant with legislation.
suppliers and managing major supplier Loss of reputation and investor confidence.
risks and issues including single source The Groups manufacturing facilities are arrangements through the bid management exposed to natural catastrophe risks and the and contract management policies Group is exposed to social, economic, regulatory and political conditions in the Establishment of regional procurement countries in which it operates.
councils to target the optimisation of Ultras supply chain for Direct Procurement The Boards commitment to compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 is contained in the Anti-Slavery and Human Trafcking Statement www.
aspx P46-47 Business continuity and disaster recovery plans Sustainability are in place The Group has business interruption, property P22-23 damage, professional indemnity and product Standardisation and Shared Services S3 liability insurance.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 43 2017 principal risks and uncertainties Risk 6.
Governance and internal controls Trend: No significant change Changes during 2017 Ultra does not consider that the level of risk has changed in the year even though the role of Chairman and Chief Executive is being performed by the Groups Executive Chairman until a new Chief Executive is appointed.
This is due to the effectiveness of existing controls, ongoing mitigations and the broader perspective provided by the appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors in 2017.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : Maintaining corporate governance standards significant financial loss e. g. fraud, theft, The Group Operating Manual GOM and as well as an effective risk management and material errors Risk Management Framework provides clear internal control system is critical to supporting instructions on the Groups internal Loss of reputation and investor confidence the delivery of the Groups strategy.
governance and controls Loss of business opportunity with removal of The businesses provide year end disclosures government approval to work on classied on the effectiveness of their accounting and programmes.
internal control systems Internal Audit conducts an audit of the Groups internal control system P61 and 68 The terms of reference for the Board and Governance and accountability committees are reviewed and updated annually.
Pensions Trend: Decreased risk Changes during 2017 Following the closure of the pension scheme to future accrual in 2016, the pension scheme has increased the hedging of its liabilities.
This risk has therefore reduced.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : The Groups UK dened benefit pension Any increase in the deficit may require Annual accounting and triennial pension scheme needs to be managed to ensure it additional cash contributions and thereby valuations are in place and any issues that does not become a serious liability for the reduce the available cash for the Group.
may arise are highlighted to the Board Group.
There are a number of factors including The pension scheme deficit decreased during investment returns, long-term interest rate and 2017 due to improved asset performance and price ination expectations, and anticipated following the closure of the Groups UK members longevity that can increase the dened benefit pension scheme to future liabilities of the scheme.
accrual in 2016 The Pension Trustees and the Company actively consider pension risk reduction activities such as liability matching, dynamic fide-risking, pension increase exchange and retirement transfer options The Pension Trustees and the Company agreed to increased hedging of the schemes liabilities The Board undertakes regular Pension Strategy Reviews Recommendations arising from the deep P18 dive review conducted in 2017 have been The Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme implemented.
Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 44 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 44 Principal risks continued Risk 8.
Legislation regulation Trend: Increased risk Changes during 2017 The Company continues to take compliance very seriously and the Board and Executive Team strive to reinforce an ethical culture.
For example, the Group provided additional targeted training to certain groups of employees on anti-bribery and managing agents.
Ultra is proactively working towards GDPR compliance and has employed legal advisers to help with achieving compliance in this and other legislative and regulatory changes.
The overall level of risk may increase due to various changes in legislation and regulation.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : The Group operates in a highly regulated Failure to comply with legislation and The Group Operating Manual is well established environment across many jurisdictions and is regulations could result in fines and penalties and policies and procedures are regularly subject to regulatory and legislative and or the debarment of the Group from updated to reect changing legislative and requirements.
There is a risk that the Group government contracts regulatory requirements may not always be in complete compliance Reduced access to export markets could have Regular compliance training is undertaken as with laws, regulations or permits.
a material adverse effect on the Groups future part of Ultras commitment to an ethical culture revenue and profit and individual businesses provide compliance Export restrictions could become more statements as part of monthly business arduous and factors outside of Ultras control Loss of reputation and investor confidence.
performance reporting could result in the Group being unable to obtain or maintain necessary export licences.
The Ethics Overview Committee provides independent advice and scrutiny of Ultras business activity.
It provides assurance to the Board that the Groups undertakings are transparent and conducted ethically within the legislative environment Employees have access to a Group-wide condential hotline to report anonymously any concerns they may have about possible improprieties and other compliance issues The Board receives regular updates and presentations on the Companys legal and regulatory requirements A project has been established to evaluate P73-77 Audit Committee Report the impact of the GDPR and to ensure that Ultra is compliant with the regulation External advice has been sought on the impact P55 Ultras approach to ethics of recent changes to the US tax regime on Ultra.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 45 2017 principal risks and uncertainties Risk 9.
Health, safety and environment HS&E Trend: No significant change Changes during 2017 Ultra has strong HS&E processes and procedures.
The Board has zero appetite for HS&E reportable incidents.
The number of lost time accidents per 100,000 hours reduced in 2017 and the reportable recordable accident rate per employee remained unchanged.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : Ensuring high standards of health and safety Incidents may occur which could result in The Board has zero appetite for HS&E risk and of employees and visitors and maintaining harm to employees and visitors, the the Groups leadership is committed to commitment to minimise the environmental temporary shutdown of facilities or other ensuring that this remains a top priority.
Any impact of activities is of paramount importance business disruption material incidents are reported to the Board to the Company.
along with a correction or mitigation plan The Group may be exposed to regulatory action and financial loss Near miss reporting has been introduced in order for Ultra to be proactive in identifying Loss of reputation and investor confidence.
and taking action on early warning indicators to prevent serious injury or fatality The Board undertakes an annual review of HS&E and the Executive Team reviews HS&E on a quarterly basis.
Each business conducts an annual HS&E self-assessment in addition P56-57 to a biannual external audit.
Ultras approach to HS&E Brexit, the long-term nature of Ultras business current position, the principal risks facing the Statement of going concern and its positioning in attractive sectors of its business in severe but reasonable scenarios and Ultras net debt at 31 December 2017 was markets particularly in defence and aerospace the effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
The Groups committed banking which are long-term in nature, taken together assessment has considered the potential impacts facilities amount to 466.3m in total, together with the Groups forward order book, provide a of these risks on the business model, future with a 5.0m and $10.0m overdraft.
The Groups satisfactory level of confidence in respect of performance, solvency and liquidity of the Group revolving credit facility of 300m is denominated trading in the year to come.
Specic scenarios modelled i the in Sterling, US Dollars, Canadian Dollars, impact of a 10% year-on year organic revenue Australian Dollars or Euros.
This facility was The Directors have a reasonable expectation that and underlying operating profit decline during signed in November 2017, and replaces the the Group has adequate resources for a period of each of the three years covered by the assessment previous 100m and 200m revolving credit at least 12 months from the date of approval of period and with operating cash conversion each facilities.
The facility is provided by a group of six the financial statements and have therefore year of 70%, and ii the impact of no organic international banks and has a committed assessed that the going concern basis of revenue or underlying operating profit growth maturity of five years to November 2022, and accounting is appropriate in preparing the during the three years covered by the assessment may be extended to a maximum of seven years financial statements and that there are no period and with operating cash conversion each subject to lender consent.
The facility agreement material uncertainties to disclose.
In each scenario the Group remains permits an additional 150m accordion which is Long-term viability statement well within its permitted financial covenants.
The uncommitted and subject to lender consent and In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 Directors have determined that the three-year can be used in certain acquisition scenarios.
revision of the Code, the Directors have assessed period to December 2020 is an appropriate period The Group also holds a $225m term loan which the viability of the Company over a longer period to provide its viability statement.
In making their was established in May 2015.
This loan, than the 12 months required by the going assessment, the Directors have taken account of denominated in US Dollars, was drawn in full in concern basis of accounting.
The Board the Groups robust balance sheet, its financial August 2015 to complete the Herley acquisition.
conducted this review for a period of three years covenant headroom, its ability to raise new $60m is repayable in late 2018 and the loan to December 2020, to coincide with its review of finance in different financial market conditions expires in August 2019.
The Group also has loan the Groups financial budgets and medium-term and its key potential mitigating action of notes in issue to Pricoa which totalled $70m at forecasts from its Strategic Plan.
The level of restricting dividend payments.
$10m will be certainty is lower in later years due to the inherent This conclusion is based on a review of the repaid on 14 July 2018 and the remaining $60m uncertainties in forecasting future performance.
resources available to the Group, taking into will be repaid on 25 January 2019.
As well as The Strategic Plan is underpinned by the regular account of the Groups financial projections being used to fund acquisitions, the nancing Executive Team reviews of business unit together with available cash and committed facilities are also used for other balance sheet and performance, market opportunities and borrowings, financial covenants and material operational needs, including the funding of dayassociated risks.
The assessment has taken into uncertainties.
In reaching this conclusion, the to-day working capital requirements.
The US account the Groups current position and the Board has considered the magnitude of potential Dollar borrowings also represent natural hedges potential impact of the principal risks documented impacts resulting from uncertain future events or against assets denominated in that currency.
Based on this assessment, changes in conditions, the likelihood of their Details of how Ultra manages its liquidity risk can the Directors have a reasonable expectation that occurrence and the likely effectiveness of be found in note 22 Financial Instruments and the Company will be able to continue in mitigating actions that the Directors would Financial Risk Management.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due consider undertaking.
Though global macro-economic conditions over the period to December 2020.
In making this remain uncertain, and there continues to be statement, the Directors have considered the uncertainty over the future landscape due to resilience of the Group, taking account of its
