A PERSONAL PERSPECTIVE FROM OUR CEO CONTINUED D EC A R B ON I S A T ION D ECE N T R A L I S A T ION D IG I T A L I S A T ION Q: You purchased Younicos, a storage Q: You talk about a sector focus, and integration business, why?
whynot focus on all sectors?
A: Rapid, large-scale changes are A: We have focused the organisation occurring in energy markets, driven onkey sectors, such as Oil & Gas and bythree major themes: decarbonisation, Events see page 24 for a full list.
sectors are aligned to where we believe Decarbonisation is self-explanatory our specialised engineering capability andisdriven by renewables making and high quality equipment can make upagreater proportion of generation.
the biggest difference to our customers.
Renewables are now lower cost By specialising in sectors we develop a andmore accessible, leading to detailed understanding of our customers decentralisation, where power supply is business and are able to tailor products madeup of smaller local power sources, and services to support them.
We are such as domestic solar.
Atthe same time notjust a rental company, we provide j we are seeing increased digitalisation: Y. Cube at our facility in Austin engineered solutions, something larger data flowsrequired to manage thatreally differentiates us from the Y. Cube is a fully integrated integrated and smart energy systems.
In 2018, our engineers These emerging energy systems are It also means we are directing our are redesigning this to fit within multi-dimensional and dynamic, with our standardised containers.
resources efficiently and approaching many more participants.
This creates themarket in a focused manner.
It is not challenges in balancing supply and an exclusive focus: we will always work to demand as higher proportions of support customers in other sectors and renewables create volatility in the incubate sectors that we expect to grow.
Balancing renewable andthermal generation willincreasingly Q: You have outlined medium-term require storage and sophisticated targets for the business, are these systems and software.
This is an opportunity for us.
Our modular A: As we approach the three year and mobile thermal fleet is already well anniversary of establishing our Business suited to a decentralised energy system: Priorities, we are reflecting on what has the addition of Younicos integration been achieved.
We believe that the software and storage capabilities mean initiatives we have delivered, particularly we are well placed to provide increasingly around sector focus, systems and digitalised and renewable solutions.
technology investment, were the right The integration of renewable energy actions to reposition this business for the sources with batteries and thermal future and this has been demonstrated isalsoanother way we can lower by the improved performance in our thecostofenergy for our customers, Rental Solutions and Power Solutions whilstensuring a reliable power supply.
Power Solutions Utility remains difficult and the market 04 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION As energy markets continue to decarbonise, decentralise and become more digital, theintegration and control of multiple energy sources, including thermal and renewable, will be essential to ensurethe provision of reliable power.
Our scale, fleet and global presence, coupled with a smart energy capability, will allow us to D open up new markets and provide Our megawatt-scale technology centre in Berlin our customers around the world This facility enables us to test witha reliable, cheaper and andoptimiseenergy storage systems and components, cleanersource of energy.
Chris Weston Chief Executive Officer has not recovered as we expected and, STATEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE asa result, our returns are not where we want them to be.
We continue to work Climate change is one of the defining challenges of ona number of initiatives to improve our thisera.
The 2015Paris Agreement brought 195 countries returns, including utilisation and working to a consensus on the magnitudeof the challenge.
Finally, we are evolving our In thesame year the United Nations launched its strategy to reflect the gathering pace  Goals to help facilitate oftransition in the energy markets, .
Whilst Goal 13 Climate Change andwe will provide a further update on isclearly relevant to our business, we believe thatthe area we our strategic progress and its financial can havemost impact is Goal 7 Affordable and Clean Energy.
impact at our interim results in August.
In the energy sector we expect this to increase the emphasis Q: As you look forward, what are you on reducinggreenhouse gas emissions, increasing the most excited about in 2018?
use of renewables, and stopping practices such as flaring gas.
Whilst we have definitely seenthis, wehave also seen A: Seeing our new products come on that for many developing countries thepriority remains line, particularly the hybrids: realising the providing power and accessing theassociated socialand benefits of the systems investments we economic benefits.
are making, and at last being able to offer an online service to our customers: and One of our strategic priorities is to invest in technology with seeing the results of the enhanced sales the aim of lowering the cost of energy for our customers focus, leading to further top line growth.
through improved fuel efficiency, whilst also working In short: the reality of the transformation toreduce the environmental impact our products have.
we have all been working so hard on over We are responsible for playing our part in addressing the last three years.
climatechange and we acknowledge that this is inextricably linked to remaining a successful business in the future.
We will also deliver some high profile events, including the PyeongChang WinterOlympics and the Commonwealth Games on the Gold Coast in Australia.
Read more about our Technology page 28 These are important events where we areperforming on the global stage and which make me veryproud of Aggreko and what we do.
We operate in an exciting and evolving market, providing real and relevant services to our customers.
Theopportunity that the energy transition presents will become more real this year, demonstrating that we are well positioned to be a part ofthe futureglobal energy market.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 05
