THE MARKETPLACE CONTINUED D EC A R B ON I S A T ION D ECE N T R A L I S A T ION 4a Energy in transition: 4b Energy in transition: Decarbonisation Decentralisation Despite the US withdrawing from the Paris Agreement in Future energy systems face the challenge of decarbonising at June2017, the transition towards clean energy will continue, least cost while also ensuring that security of supply is met: as the world faces the realities of climate change.
The US are distributed generation solves this problem.
now the only country in the world not to ratify the agreement, There is a clear trend towards distributed generation but individual cities and businesses are still working to comply.
intheUK, for example, power needs were previously met by In recent years, the price of renewables and storage has 80 power stations: now the UK has over 900,000 generating fallen substantially and innovation in technology, business facilities, including domestic solar and wind.
The rise of models and payment structures will continue to support decentralised power has gone hand in hand with an increase decarbonisation.
Whilst 69% of electricity is still produced in the number of individuals, organisations and communities fromfossil fuels globally, the International Energy Agency setting up their own energy assets commonly known as the expects that 40% of total power needs will come from democratisation of the energy system.
Our mobile and modular power is by its nature one of Fluctuations in power supply to the grid as renewable energy decentralised generation: we have the flexibility and the penetration rises will see an increasing need by utilities around know-how to scale up or down, from large-scale utilities to the world for distributed generation such as ours, to stabilise small independent businesses, to meet ourcustomer needs.
the grid supply, and by businesses to guarantee reliability.
Diesel generators have the fastest response time and relatively Industrial customers are increasingly focused on decarbonising easy fuel sourcing, while gas and hybrid technologies offer their operations where there is no economic penalty to do so, acheaper, cleaner alternative incertain conditions.
and our hybrid solutions enable them to do this.
5 Natural disasters and major events Reactive demand is caused by events that happen High value, but low frequency events change the size of infrequently and cause a power shortage for a period themarket on a temporary basis with a need for short-term oftime.
This is impossible to predict, but important work power, heating and cooling solutions.
Typically these are major to support: reputation and fleet availability are essential to sporting occasions like the Olympic Games, FIFA World Cup be able to respond to such an emergency and our global and Commonwealth Games.
Our global scale, expertise and footprintenables us to deliver when we are needed most.
excellent reputation in executing these events means that we are well placed to win these contracts.
In the last year we have Typically this type of work is in response to a natural disaster won contracts for the Olympic Winter Games PyeongChang or in post-conflict reconstruction and military support.
2018 and the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games Examples include Japan where we provided power in Australia.
followingthe 2011 earthquake and tsunami, Hurricane Harvey in North America and the Caribbean in 2017, and historically our military support in Iraq and Afghanistan.
10 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION THE IMPACT OF COMPETITION Across all our markets we compete with regional, nationaland local businesses.
These are a mixture of privately-owned specialist rental businesses, divisions of large plant hire companies or OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer dealerships: few provide the sector specific solutions or engineering expertise that Aggreko does.
In developed markets, we have seen an increase in the largergeneral rental companies moving into speciality sectors, including power, heating and cooling over the last few years.
This poses a potential threat to us and our strategic priorities and individual country and sector strategies are designed to address this.
In emerging markets we have several competitors who cover a wider geographical area across emerging markets, but we believe we are the only company with a truly global footprint.
Overall demand has been slower in recent years due to the global economic downturn and, coupled with an oversupply situation, this has increased competitive tension insome markets.
Our response, to maintain our position in this changing environment, has been to improve ourtechnology offering, efficiency and customer focus.
D IG I T A L I S A T ION 4c Energy in transition: Digitalisation As energy systems become more complex, sophisticated systems and controls are required to integrate a variety of energy sources, whilst ensuring grid stability and reliability, and maximising efficiency.
In addition, data connectivity andtheassociated dataanalytics and insight are transforming howwe consume energy, by raising consumer awareness andgiving more control over consumption.
Digitalisation is also improving the operations of power generation, by giving instant feedback on outages, thus preventing failures and saving time and effort during repair.
Furthermore, through our acquisition of Younicos we now have capabilities around storage and controls software enabling us to monitor and optimise energy production whilst ensuring stability and reliability.
We are also implementing several systems throughout our business and across different functions, such as our remote monitoring service, to change how we generate, deliverand maintain electricity generation for our customers.
SECTOR SPECIFIC MARKET DRIVERS Demand Commodity Natural disasters for power prices Regulation Decarbonisation Decentralisation Digitalisation and major events Utilities Oil & Gas Petrochemical & Refining Quarrying & Mining Events Manufacturing Business Services & Construction AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 11
