y g o l o n h c e t g n d i v l n o v a E m T r u e s t d e d Our business model Creating value for our stakeholders Just Eat operates a highly scalable business model with a beneficial cash flow cycle, creating value for our Customers, Restaurant Partners, People and Shareholders, by increasing revenue andprofits over time.
The strength of our core marketplace business supports investment into our brand and technology.
It also enables the development of delivery models to expand the size of our addressable market.
Our key strengths Our outstanding People Our revenue split Order-driven Top-placement revenue Connection fees andother revenue Accounted for 92% of Group revenue Eligible Restaurant Partners may also One-off connection fees to join the Just 2016: 92%.
Commission paid by payfor promotional top-placement on the Eat network and other services such as Restaurant Partners on successful Just Eat platform and are listed in a clearly branded commodity products accounted orders, servicecharges and delivery fees.
labelled sponsored slot at the top of for 2% of the Groupsrevenue 2016: 3%.
search results in a particular postcode for Connection fees range globally from nil Commission revenue is driven by the a period of up to 12 weeks.
The number of to 750, depending on geography and number of orders placed, average order slots are limited and the restaurant must market maturity.
value AOV and commission rates, meet certain quality and performance agreed with each restaurant.
These fees are charged to cover the cost standards.
Such payments constituted of hardware installed into the restaurant 6%of the Groups revenue 2016: 5%.
and the sales and on-boarding process.
92% 6% 2% of total revenue of total revenue of total revenue Annual Report & Accounts 2017 14 r b e r a n m d s o y t t i l s i b u a l a C c s g n i s a e r c n I Strategic report Total order value Restaurant Partners processed in 2017 Access to Just Eat gives our Restaurant Partners increased orders of highervalue 3.3bn Access to a global brand and leading-edge digital technology to maximise their business reach More efficient order processing by reducing time and communication errors Average orders per Restaurant Services programme, providing exclusive restaurant in 2017 deals and discounts to our restaurant estate Provision of operational data through our 2,300 partnercentre Reviews on our platform Customers A simple ordering process enabling Customers to 32.2m select from favourite local restaurants or repeat orders and pay with securely stored payment card details or cash Convenience of placing an order via apps, gaming platforms, smart TVs and social media platforms Net new Active Customers Huge choice, including many popular QSR chains, in2017 supported by millions ofrelevant Customer reviews Reassurance of ordering from a well-known brand 3.9m and having access to customer service through Just Eats online or offlinesupport Employees who are proud to Our People say they work at Just Eat Just Eats corporate culture embodies ourentrepreneurial spirit 82% The growth of the business has provided many opportunities for existing and new colleagues and we continue to invest in developing and retaining Employees who understand our People and strengthening the team how their role contributes We continue to develop the passion, diversity and to Just Eat's success skills of 2,900 employees as this is key to ours and their success 85% Increase in share price Shareholders 1 sinceIPO Driving long-term value for our shareholders by building sustainable brands and resilient businesses 200% High growth sector supported by secular trends Strong organic growth and investing for futureopportunities Average market penetration 14% Read more about how we do business responsibly on pages42 to 43 1.
260 pence to 787 pence closing price as at 31 December 2017. www.
