overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation VIABILITY STATEMENT The directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period taking account of the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks as documented above.
A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the business was conducted through the year with the review of the risk appetite framework and executive risk summaries contributing to a fuller consideration of those risks which might impact the business model or future performance.
Whilst the Board has no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, three years is considered an appropriate period over which a reasonable expectation of the Groups longer-term viability can be evaluated and is aligned with our planning horizon at both Group and divisional level.
The Board has considered whether it is aware of any specific relevant factors beyond the three year horizon and confirmed that there are none.
The growth acceleration programme which has been initiated during the year is expected to further strengthen the Groups longer-term performance and financial position.
In coming to this view, the Board has considered the inherent volatility in exchange rates and oil prices, the nature of the industry and the business cycles involved.
The Group works closely with its customers on projects ranging from several weeks to several years, discussing operational plans and longer-term capital expenditure programmes.
In making this statement, the directors have considered each of the principal risks, individually and some in combination, and the potential impact they could have in severe but plausible scenarios.
The scenarios contained significant one off financial shocks and significant profit erosion as a result of external actions impacting the Groups revenue.
Financial sensitivity modelling was carried out to assess the impact of these risks on the Groups three year plan.
Assumptions were made concerning market activity levels, the impact of the scenarios on working capital cycles and the mitigating actions that could be taken to reduce the cash and financial impact of the stress-test scenarios.
Given the current position of the Group and the likely effectiveness of mitigating actions, the Board has assessed the impact these would have on the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period and have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three year period.
