BUSINESS MODEL We create value by providing innovative solutions in power, heating and cooling for our customers in key market sectors.
The fundamental inputs we needarealigned with our strategic priorities, which will drive growth.
THE INPUTS 65% 1.2x 563 55 net promoter score net debt ebitda development engineers years Customer Capital & Technology Expert focus operational investment people Our customers are the focus of efficiency Our engineers design We have 55 years of operational everything that we do.
Investing and develop packages to experience and engineering Our scale and strong balance in our services to them enables deliver the lowest levelised capability which combined sheet brings operational us to deliversolutions withthe cost ofenergyand unique with sector expertise efficiencies and minimises our powerto make a difference for tailoredsolutions for enables our people to capital costs.
Financial resources all our stakeholders.
are allocated to deliver the best returns overthelong term.
Other stakeholder relationships Fleet Engagement with all our Our fleet is modular and mobile stakeholders is critical so can be configured into any  number of different solutions ourlicense to operate, and can be moved to where it is particularly in local most needed around theworld.
Read more about Customers Read more about Efficiency Read more about Technology Read more about People on page 24 and our other on page 27 and Fleet on page 28 on page 30 stakeholders on page 26 HOW WE C R E A T E S HA RE D VA L U E THE OUTPUTS THE OUTCOMES Our outputs are the services we deliver to Through our core business activities we meet customer needs.
Power, heating and createand sustain jobs, help businesses to cooling also result in unavoidable emissions, thrive, pay taxes to government and enable which we strive to minimise through our countries and communities to develop.
Webelieve that this opens up opportunity forpeople all over the world Aggreko has 4% underlying revenue growth thepower to make a difference.
195m profit before tax and exceptional items Taxes borne and collected 228m 1.8% reduction in CO emissions 2 Wages and benefits expended 401m 5 regions fully ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 79% local workforce certified with plans for global certification underlying excludes currency and pass-through fuel Read more about our financial performance on page 36 Read more about and about our CO emissions on page 101 our approach to tax on page 44 2 12 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
