O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION We focus on seven key sectors Utilities Petrochemical & Refining Events Business Services & Construction Oil & Gas Quarrying & Mining Manufacturing WHAT WE DO FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Read more on page 7 Operational Identify need Develop solutions Mobilisation Demobilisation support START AGAIN WHY OUR CUSTOMERS BUY INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS FROM US Flexibility Scale Our customers value the flexibility that we Our global reach combined offer them.
That could be in the way that we withlocalpresence means thatwe can increase or decrease the services that we understand customer needs and market provide as their needs change, orinthe way opportunities.
We have theequipment that we work tounderstand their particular and infrastructure in place to quickly needsand provide atailored solution for them.
Total cost of energy Reliability We are continually finding ways Many of the solutions we provide to reduce the cost of energy our customers are critical forour customers, be that supply, where the opportunity C U S T OM ER through improved efficiency, cost for lost production or F O CU S introducing technology reputational damage are not which uses cheaper fuelsand an option.
This makes reliability increasingly the integration a criticalfactorand shapes the ofthermalgeneration with way we design our equipment renewablesand storage.
Health, safety and ethics Emissions The way we do business affects the As climate change becomes an worldaround us.
We operate responsibly evermoreimportant global issue, wehave with a focus on health & safety and aresponsibility to play our part.
We constantly conduct ourselves ethically to support our evolve our equipment to reduce emissions customers, our people and the communities and explore new, more environmentally inwhichwe operate.
friendly fuels whilst also developing new ways to generate power, such as integrating renewables and storage.
Delivered by our two business units DEVELOPED MARKETS EMERGING MARKETS Rental solutions Power solutions 720m 871m Revenue Revenue excluding pass-through fuel AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 13 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES We have the power to make a difference Our markets are dynamic and always evolving.
To make sure that we remain well placed to optimise these opportunities and deliver improved financial performance, wearefocusedonfour strategic priorities.
Customer Focus Tailoring solutions to improve customer experience Focusing on key sectors Developing and deploying engineered solutions Tailoring sales and service channels to customers Maintaining good relationships with other stakeholders Capital & Operational Efficiency Optimising deployment of resources Continued focus on costs Improving processes and systems Disciplined use of capital Technology Investment Reducing the total cost of energy through innovation Develop market leading products Improve fuel efficiency and environmental impact Broaden range of energy sources Maintaining an efficient and optimally sized fleet Expert People Cultivating a high performance organisation Embedding our culture Training and developing our people Health, safety, wellbeing and security 14 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION STORIES AROUND OUR STRATEGY We have a huge sense of pride indelivering excellent, often time critical work for our customers, all over the world.
These are some of the stories that show how we make adifference.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 15 CUSTOMER FOCUS Providing solutions to our The collapse meant that the capacity customers complex problems of the facility fell by between 20% and 40%, costing the plant $5 million Customers rely on Aggreko to use a day.
In 6 days the Aggreko Cooling our 55 years of specialist knowledge, Tower Services team designed combined with a detailed sector and mobilised a solution involving focus, to provide services above 9 miles of cable, 8 MW of gas andbeyond the competition.
power, diesel backup generators Acustomer in the Petrochemical and 30,000 tons of cooling tower &Refining sector learned the capacity.
Initialestimates were that valueofthe Aggreko approach 60,000 tons ofcooling tower would whentheir flagship facilityon be required, but despite the short theGulf Coast experienced a timeframe the team managed to collapsein its cooling tower.
design a solution that cut this in half.
So not only did the solution quicklyprevent a $5 million a day loss, it did so efficiently.
30,000 TONS OF COOLING TOWERS SUPPLIED 16 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION 8 MW DELIVERED IN The team were able to use 6 DAYS experience, engineering knowledge, and sector expertise to respond to an emergency situation with a high quality, efficient and effective solution.
ROBERT HARRISON, REGIONAL SALES, SOUTHERN & CENTRAL UNITED STATES AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 17 CAPITAL & OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY Moving equipment to meet demand The equipment had to complywith local noise and emissionguidelines, Our equipment is designed and so we needed to source it from a packaged to be moved with ease, region with similar requirements.
sothat we can follow customer need Another consideration was cost: around the globe.
Sometimes we shipping equipment costs money.
need to move equipment quickly tomeet our customers requirements.
A site in Japan was offhiring, and by working with the customer, we Victoria, Australia was approaching were able to source the majority of the key Summer season with a tight the equipment from there.
This has power margin and needed a flexible kept the costs low for our customer solution that could help manage andhas enabled us to maintain peak demand.
They asked Aggreko to utilisation of the equipment, despite provide 110 MW for an initial period it having just offhired.
Crucially, of 3 months, to help them ensure wehave ensured that the people reliable supply.
ofVictoria will not suffer blackouts over the Summer.
MONTH INITIAL DURATION 74 MW SOURCED FROM JAPAN 11 MW provided 0 18 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION 11 MW provided 0 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 19 TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT In July 2017 Aggreko acquired Aggrekos traditional thermal Younicos, a market leader offering, such as the G3 diesel indeveloping integrated generators, or new gas engines, energysystems can easily be integrated in such a solution, providing back up power Younicos specialises in developing forperiods of high demand, or complex control systems to where renewables are disrupted integrate renewable power sources and the batteries run down.
with battery storage, and remove This means the customer has the intermittency in supply that aguaranteed, reliable source of renewables create.
For example, energy, and because themain fuel a solar array can provide power to used is renewable, notfossil, they supply the grid, while also recharging can substantially reduce their total the batteries, so these can take over cost of energywhilst reducing their at night or if there is cloud cover.
OVER $100 MILLION INVESTED IN R&D PRIOR TO THE ACQUISITION 20 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION I am thrilled Younicos are joining the Aggreko team.
With their skill set and knowledge ofstorage solutions and energy systems integration we can deliver environmentally friendly, economic solutions to our customer base.
DAN IBBETSON, MANAGING DIRECTOR, GLOBAL SOLUTIONS YOUNICOS ALREADY HAS 200 MW OF INSTALLED SYSTEMS GLOBALLY AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 21 EXPERT PEOPLE Coming together to help Houston Together with All Hands, a non profitorganisation specialising in In August Hurricane Harvey had disaster recovery, the Aggreko team adevastating impact on Houston, set about stripping out the homes thehome of our RentalSolutions and spraying them down with a Head Office and many of toxin cleaner, so they were suitable ouremployees.
for living and ready for further Our people wanted to help, andmore refurbishment.
We also supplied than 70 volunteered torefurbish ourdehumidifiers to the site, for free, homes in the 5th ward, ahistorically to help with thefurtherrecovery.
underprivileged area that had been Our team had the chance to give devastated.
In particular, a complex back to their community, using of homes had been flooded by 15 feet theirteamwork, the Aggreko values, of water and were unfit to live in.
and our market leading equipment.
It was great to see our equipment and our people make a real difference to the community in its time of need: it reminds me what we do every day across the globe.
ERIKA LEE, COMMUNICATIONS MANAGER, RENTAL SOLUTIONS 77 Aggreko emplo y ees volunteered 8 DEHUMIDIFIERS SUPPLIED 22 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION 5 family homes restored AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 23 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED How we have the power CUSTOMER FOCUS tomakea difference Customers are at the heart of what we do.
We are focused on how we interact with them: how we identify them, sell to and service them, and deliver the products and solutions that they We expect to grow ahead need to deliver an exceptional customer experience.
We have a deep understanding of customer needs and we ofourmarkets and deliver usethis to constantly create new applications to help solve margins and returns around their problems and expand our market opportunity.
We are focused on providing a more tailored service to customers 20%in the medium-term.
bybetter allocating our resources and being smarter about theway we meet customer needs.
Our customers range from the very transactional who want standard equipment packages, an easy and repeatable experience and typically minimal human interaction, to full solution customers, who value our engineering and technical expertise.
In both cases they can benefit from our detailed understanding of key sectors and the systems and processes CUSTOMER FOCUS that we are investing in to improve the customer experience.
Tailoring solutions to improve customer experience Market & Sector Expertise We are focused on seven key sectors where we have a deep understanding of customer needs.
In these sectors our ability to provide complex, integrated solutions that help solve our customers problems differentiates us from our competitors.
For customers in these sectors, theopportunity cost of lost production or reputational damage are not an option.
This isnot an exclusive focus and we will invest in new sectors CAPITAL & OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY as they emerge.
Optimising deployment of resources The development of our Market Intelligence Platform, which gives us an in depth understanding of the market dynamics affecting the customers in each of our geographic markets, hasenabled us to focus our attention on areas with the greatest opportunities for our business.
It uses data from multiple sources to give our sales teams a detailed view oftheirmarkets under key areas such as economic and politicalstability: ability of customers to pay: the electricity TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT supply anddemand balance: and fuel availability and pricing.
Reducing the total cost of energy through innovation Key sectors Utilities Expertise in high voltage and grid connections, providing solutions from emergency response to base load power.
Petrochemical & refining Power and temperature control solutions optimise processes and improve production rates.
EXPERT PEOPLE Events Cultivating a high performance organisation A valued and trusted partner, offering high profile event knowledge and experience, combined with flexibility.
Business services & construction Provision of reliable power, heating, cooling and dehumidification solutions to our customers in construction, services and contracting.
Oil & gas Solutions where the grid is unavailable, to eliminate bottlenecks and monetise gas by-products, from exploration to production.
Quarrying & mining Fully flexible, cost effective, solutions for every stage of the mining life cycle.
Manufacturing Solutions to enhance processes and overcome power and temperature control challenges, reducing costly downtime.
24 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Systems & Processes INNOVATING THE WAY We have introduced an enhanced customer relationship WE COLLECT CUSTOMER FEEDBACK management CRM system, which has been rolled out acrossmost of the business and will be complete early in 2018.
As we began our transformation we undertook detailed This allows us to better understand customer requirements research into our customers views.
We also realised that by analysing history and service provision, which will benefit ourexisting tool for collecting more regular feedback was both customer service and sales.
It is alsochanging the way inadequate for todays market.
Towards the end of the year wework, increasing collaboration andthe speed with which we upgraded our Net Promoter Score NPS programme we can serve our customers.
which is now called Aggreko Listens.
During the year we also implemented a new website and improved digital offering.
In time this will evolve to be an ecommerce platform, providing a more agile, cost-effective sales channel and a better service proposition.
Sales Capability & Training We have invested some of the savings generated from streamlining our operating model in recruiting more sales The new programme is designed to engage customers and people with specific industry expertise in our key sectors.
help us address issues that matter most to them.
This will The majority of these are local hires with strong networks help us accelerate revenue growth by uncovering new and complement the wealth of experience we already have.
opportunities and prioritise investments that will benefit our To develop our sales capability, we have created a bespoke customers.
The programme incorporates both experiential training programme for all of our sales people including the feedback about particular steps in the customer journey new joiners.
This is supported by a new online tool which and relationship feedback capturing how customers builds detailed knowledge of our products, how we deliver feel about being an Aggreko customer.
Every member them and our key market sectors, as well as ethics and of our customer facing team will have access to real-time safety.
Our classroom and on the job training modules are feedbackfrom their customers via their mobile phones, comprehensive, ensuring our people arewell-equipped to andthe solution is fully integrated into our CRM system.
understand our customers needs and topropose solutions.
Home Home Add Dashboard Global Accounts & Lines of Business For smaller product lines that are common across Time period: Past 6 weeks Show Filters Executive Calculation: Average theGroup we have established global lines of business.
Overall NPS Response Rate Overall This includes ourrenewables and storage offering, as well as power adjacencies such as temperature control and 0 50 -25 25 40 60 30 70 loadbanks.
By creating a global accountability for these -50 50 20 80 -75 75 products we are incubating them aswelook to capture 10 90 -100 53 100 0 13.6 100 incremental adjacencies.
View Details Actions View Details Actions As a global business, we serve a number of customers NPS Percentages in multiple countries and we are uniquely positioned 150 to provide services globally.
For these larger customers 100 we areimplementing global account management.
65.8 53.6 46.7 50 These areexisting customer relationships which we can 16.7 0 Week of 12 17 Week of 12 24 Week of 12 31 Week of 01 07 Week of 01 14 Week of 01 21 Week of 01 28 develop across geography or sector to replicate solutions, Month savings and share learnings whilst delivering growth and NPS Detractor Passive Promoter abetter customer experience.
We are transforming the way we do business and serve Given the opportunity we see in this area, this has our customers.
Improving the way we collect feedback become astandalone business unit, Global Solutions, isjust another piece of the puzzle that will strengthen in2018 and willbeledby Dan Ibbetson.
As the contracts ourcustomer relationships going forward.
will mainlybedelivered through the Rental Solutions and Power Solutions businesses, it will not result in any changeinreporting structure.
Read more about NPS on page 32 Watch Dan discuss how energy markets are changing online: plc.
com investors investor-centre  AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 25 Percentage OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED S O CI A L CUSTOMER FOCUS CONTINUED Other key stakeholder relationships Our objective is to remain the leading provider of modular, mobile power, heating and cooling, delivering long-term value toShareholders, outstanding service to customers and rewarding careers to our employees.
Open and honest engagement is critical in gaining and maintaining our licence to operate.
As we work in a wide variety of countries, and the end user of our products is not always our customer, it is particularly important that we build and maintain constructive relationships in the communities inwhich we operate.
Our key stakeholders and what we offer them are outlined below: Local Investors Communities Investment in long-term growth with good returns Supporting industry and commerce Exposure to a mix of developed and emerging markets Providing power for communities Sustainable dividend policy Local employment and skills development Employees Suppliers Potential to develop skills and opportunities Partnership Strong Always Orange culture Shared insights and innovation The power to make a positive difference Consistent commercial terms being implemented acrossthe Group Read more about our people page 30 Read more about how we engage with our stakeholders page 74 26 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION CAPITAL & OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY We finance our business with a combination of equity Beyond organic investment our capital allocation framework anddebt: our scale brings operational efficiencies and looks to bolt-on acquisitions for scale or capability where minimises our capital costs.
Financial resources are allocated we see opportunities for growth.
We remain committed to where they can deliver the best returns over the long term, a sustainable ordinary dividend and where we have excess always ensuring we retain a strong balance sheet.
capital will lookto distribute it to our Shareholders.
Given fast changing customer expectations and a competitive How we plan to use our capital environment, it is important that we continue to drive efficiency improvements through our business and optimise deployment Capital allocation framework of our resources.
Invest Bolt-on Sustainable Return Operational efficiency for M&A dividend surplus growth opportunities cash to Over the last few years our focus has been on a number Shareholders of specific actions, in particular removing duplication and streamlining back office processes.
Efficiency is a continuous process and we are working to deliver ongoing savings across the Group through a continued analysis of costsand improving Maintain strong balance sheet processes and systems.
Leverage c. 1 x net debt EBITDA Our procurement programme has now delivered savings Balance sheet strength ofaround 60 million and we expect it to continue to realise Our aim is to maintain a balance sheet structure that safeguards further incremental savings.
We are now looking at how our financial position through economic cycles.
wecan improve fleet utilisation through further automating fleet management and implementing condition based Given the proven ability of the business to fund organic growth servicing.
This will help drive an improvement in return from operating cash flows, and the nature of our business oncapital employed.
model, we believe it is appropriate to run the business with a modest amount of debt.
However, given our high operational The actions that we are taking will enhance our capability and gearing we believe that it is unwise to also have high financial improve our competitive position whilst providing customers gearing.
Therefore, we believe gearing of around one times net the best possible service at the lowest possible cost.
debt to EBITDA is appropriate, recognising from time to time it may be higher for a period oftime as investment opportunities present themselves.
At the end of 2017, net debt to EBITDA was Read more about fleet utilisation page 33 1.2 times 2016: 1.2 times.
Capital allocation During the year, cash flows from operations were 450 million Effective capital allocation is critical to delivering value and, subject to Shareholder approval, the proposed final given the capital intensive nature of our business.
We take dividend of 17.74 pence will result in a full year dividend a disciplined approach to allocating our capital, forecasting of27.12pence per Ordinary Share.
returns for each project before, during and after its completion.
This keeps the business focused on return oncapital employed which is a key metric for ensuring wedeliver long term value.
Read more about our approach to financing page 47 Read more about return on capital employed page 35 Our priority is to invest for long-term growth.
We retain our fleet throughout its useful life, and therefore invest in fleet maintenance.
As demand grows, we invest against the opportunities, both with existing and new technologies.
During the year we spent 246million onfleetcapital expenditure.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 27 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED EN V IR O N M EN T A L TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT We innovate and invest in our technology to better meet We have built a team of specialist engineers at our in-house customer needs, either saving our customers money by manufacturing and technology facility in Dumbarton, lowering the totalcostofenergy, or reducing emissions.
They intimately understand the requirements At aminimum, all our solutions are fully compliant with local oftheenvironments in which the fleet operates and in the emissions regulations, which vary from country to country.
lastfew years we have strengthened our capability to adapt tothe changing market conditions.
Technology life cycle Our substantial knowledge of customer wants and needs As we design and develop our equipment in-house, we have considerable intellectual property.
To capitalise on thiswe by sector and geography allows us to focus on developing productsto suit them.
We then invest to make surewe haveimplemented aprocess to capture and manage it.
have the best equipment in the market.
Out inthefield, our Our technology investment is focused on two main areas, engineers develop unique tailored solutionsfor our customers reducing the total cost of energy and our environmental impact.
which in some cases are patented.
These can then be shared globally to benefit all our customers.
OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE GLOBAL MARKETS AND CUSTOMER NEEDS Decommission Refurbish Project feedback In-house design and 3rd-party buy manufacture Project New product development TEST, VALIDATE 28 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION EN V IR O N M EN T A L TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT CONTINUED Reducing the total cost of energy As fuel is the greatest element of cost in producing power, particularly diesel, we have worked to improve the fuel efficiency ofourequipment and continue to do so under ourstrategic priorities.
Upgrading our existing fleet to improve efficiency Diesel: 25% of our 1 MW fleet is now refurbished to the market Gas: we are gradually replacing our legacy gas fleet with leading G3.
This delivers a five percentage pointimprovement amarket leading engine, Next Generation Gas NGG.
in fuel efficiency and a 14percentage point increase in We have 252 MW of these new engines in the fleet, and will power output versus the original engine.
We undertake this bring moreinwith market demand and as we replace the refurbishment in-house for a lower capital cost than the olderengines at the end of their useful life.
It delivers greater original engine.
power output at a lower capital cost and offers customers a10percentage point improvement in fuel efficiency versus In 2018 we plan to complete around a further 200 MW the QSK60, whichequates toc.
5 million of savings a year ofrefurbishments, and will also introduce an even more foracustomerrunning 80 MWof gas as base load.
Introducing new fuel types and integrating renewables Solar diesel hybrid: in 2017 we signed our first solar-diesel By integrating our diesel or gas fleet with renewables and hybrid contract in Eritrea.
This integrates solar panels with storage we can offer customers lower cost, cleaner and more ourexisting diesel solution.
By prioritising solar energy reliable solutions.
andusing diesel when there is insufficient sun or at night, HFO: we have introduced 177 MW of Heavy Fuel Oil HFO thecustomer lowers its total cost of energy.
HFO is a less expensive fuel than diesel, Younicos: during the year we purchased Younicos, butis more readily available than gas.
a specialist in battery storage and the integration ofmultipleenergy sources.
Flexibility and reliability of fleet Our fleet is modular and mobile, so it can be configured By working closely with our strategic suppliers we take to provide any number of different solutions to meet our established, but market leading, technology and use our customers needs.
It can also be moved to where it is most engineering expertise to package it in a modular, mobile needed around the world, which enables us to quickly format.
Our equipment is designed and assembled by us,  whilst ensuring optimum utilisation.
mostcommonly into 20 foot shipping containers which makesit easy to move, at the lowest possible cost.
There are three main product types: power generation, temperature control and oil free air.
Power generation Our supplier agreements cover the life of the assets, and isthelargest part of the fleet, with a net book value through looking at the ongoing planned and unplanned maintenance as well as the initial build cost, we are reducing of831 millionandgenerating 1,010 million of revenue.
the total cost of ownership.
The substantial performance datathat we collect on our equipment also enables us to gaininsight into the optimum operating conditions over the lifetime and provide a differentiated service to our customers.
Environmental impact The provision of electricity, heating and cooling are essential In 2017, 99% of our greenhouse gas emissions came from the activities in our global economy: however, they comewith operation of our fleet.
Three main factors drive our emissions: challenges, particularly environmental.
As a consequence of the fuel type our customers use: the pattern oftheir usage: the fuel sources that we use in our products, itis inevitable that andthe fuel efficiency of our fleet.
some of our activities will haveanimpact onthe environment.
We are also aware of the other environmental impacts of our Our equipment and processes are designed to comply with operations, such as refrigerant emissions and noise pollution.
applicable laws, regulations and industry standards wherever we In each case we continuously work to reduce the impact that operate in the world.
We are constantly exploring new ways of we have on the environment, for example using custom-built reducing emissions from our fleet and increasing fuel efficiency.
acoustic enclosures, high performance isolation and We regularly review product technologies, looking for advances attenuation systems to reduce noise.
that we can adopt into our product portfolio: our technology roadmap is looking at bio-fuels, fuelcells and waste heat recovery.
POWERING A REMOTE MINE IN ERITREA We acknowledge that the carbon footprint of our fleet In May we signed a 10-year contract to provide solar-diesel issubstantial.
However, in countries where electrification hybrid power to a mining customer, Nevsun, in Eritrea.
rates are low, there is understandably less interest in the environmental impact: cost is more important as power Our solar-diesel hybrid package combines cost-effectiveness helpseconomic development and improves the quality of and clean renewable energy with the reliability ofdiesellife for local communities.
That said, it is our responsibility to generated power to provide uninterrupted power 24 7. mitigate thecarbon footprint ofour products where we can.
Our solution comprises 22 MW of diesel and 7.5 MW of solar-generated power and has reduced the customers fuelconsumption by 3.8 million litres, avoiding 10,500 tons of CO annually.
Read more about our greenhouse gas emissions page 101 2 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 29
