Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Change of control Report and audited financial statements of the Company In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement other and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017. than a scheme of arrangement for the purposes of creating a new holding company or certain other events, unvested The Directors Report contains certain statutory, Executive Director and employee share awards may, in certain regulatory and other information and incorporates, by circumstances, become exercisable.
Such circumstances reference, the Strategic Report and the Corporate may, although do not necessarily, depend on the achievement Governance Report included earlier in this document.
of performance conditions or the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Company does not have Strategic report anyagreements with any Director or officer of the A fair review of the Groups performance during the period Company that would provide compensation for loss and of its position at the period end, including commentary ofoffice or employment resulting from a takeover.
on its likely future development and prospects, is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 43, whilst information The Group has facility agreements in place with its bank on principal risks and uncertainties and key performance lenders which contain provisions giving those lenders indicators is given on pages 22 to 27 and page 19, certain rights on a change of control of the Company.
All this information should be read in Save as otherwise disclosed above, there are no other conjunction with this report.
The Corporate Governance significant agreements to which the Company is a party Report, including the Directors Remuneration Report, on tothat take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of pages 44 to 83, summarises the Companys governance and control following a takeover bid.
Our People report and Corporate social responsibility report on pages 38 to Financial instruments 43 summarises the Groups approach to diversity, health Our risk management policies relating to capital risk and and safety, environmental matters and community matters.
financial risk which includes market risk, credit risk and All these sections form part of this Directors Report, into liquidity risk are detailed within Note 33 of the notes to which they are incorporated by reference.
the financial statements on pages 130 to 134.
In addition, theoverall risk framework and strategy for the Group is Results and dividends included within the Strategic Report on pages 2 to43.
The audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the period under review are set out on pages Employment of disabled persons 90 to 137 and pages 138 to 141, respectively.
The Company Our policy in respect of the employment of disabled intends to retain its earnings to expand the growth and persons is set out in Our People report on page 40. development of its business and, therefore, the Directors do not anticipate paying ordinary dividends in the Employee consultation foreseeable future.
Details of employee consultation are set out in Our People report on page 40.
2018 Annual General Meeting AGM An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed at the Substantial shareholdings AGM, and the recommendation of Directors in relation to At 5 March 2018, the Company had been notified in these, is included in the circular to shareholders accompanying accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules this Annual Report.
Resolutions regarding the authority to ofthe UK Listing Authority, or was aware, that the following issue shares are commented upon later in this report under held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the sharecapital.
Companys shares at that date: The Companys AGM will be held at The Lincoln Centre, 18Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED at 9.30 am Number of % of voting 1 Ordinary shares rights on26April 2018.
The Sara Marron Discretionary 2 Research and development Settlement the SM Trust 91,472,442 13.45 We continue to dedicate resources to improve the Capital Group Companies, Inc. 53,980,409 7.94 Customer experience and enhance our offering to our 3 Deutsche Bank AG 39,101,331 5.75 Restaurant Partners.
Expenses incurred are capitalised BlackRock, Inc. 31,837,455 4.68 when it is probable that future economic benefits will be attributable to the asset and that these costs can be 1.
Total voting rights attached to the issued share capital of the Company measured reliably see Note 6. comprising 680,045,152 Ordinary shares each of 0.01 nominal value, being the 680,045,152 Ordinary shares in issue at 5 March 2018.
STM Fidecs Trust Company Limited is the holder of the registered legal title to the Ordinary shares beneficially owned by the SM Trust.
As at 31 December 2017 Deutsche Bank AG held 40,760,590 shares representing 5.99% of the voting rights in the Company at that time.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 142 Financial statements The Company received no notifications of interests Share capital indicating a different whole percentage holding at Certain key information relating to the Companys shares 31December 2017 other than as shown in the footnotes isshown below: tothe table above.
The Companys shares at the year end comprised entirely Ordinary shares of 0.01 each, which rank equally in Directors allrespects.
The Directors of the Company who served throughout the period and up to the date of signing this Annual Report The rights attached to the shares, in addition to those except where noted were: conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Andrew Griffith Interim Non-executive Chairman and Articles of Association may only be amended by a special Senior Independent Director resolution of the shareholders.
Peter Plumb CEO appointed 18 September 2017 There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on Paul Harrison CFO the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except: i where the Company has exercised its right to suspend Gwyn Burr their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following David Buttress the omission of their holder, or any person interested in them, to provide the Company with information requested Frederic Coorevits by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act Alistair Cox appointed 2 May 2017 2006 the Act : or ii where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the FCAs Listing Rules Roisin Donnelly or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Diego Oliva The Group operates employee share plans as set out in Dr. John Hughes passed away 11 June 2017 the Report of the Remuneration Committee commencing on page 65 and in Note 32 of the financial statements.
Certain key matters in connection with the Directors are shown below: Shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs abstain from voting.
The business of the Company is managed by its Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company Save as described above, shares acquired through the subject to the Articles of Association and UK legislation.
Companys employee share plans rank pari passu with Directors of the Company are appointed either by the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Board or by shareholders under the Companys Articles At the year end, the Company had authority exercisable of Association and may resign or be removed in a similar by the Directors to issue up to 451,456,911 shares subject manner.
The Company will seek to renew Biographical details of the current Directors are set out its authority to issue shares at the 2018 AGM.
The Directors interests in the Ordinary At the AGM on 27 April 2017, shareholders granted the share capital of the Company and any interests known to Company limited authority to make market purchases of the Company of their connected persons are set out in up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
This is a the Report of the Remuneration Committee commencing standard authority which many listed companies maintain on page 65. and which the Company has no current intention of The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity utilising, however, it will seek to renew this authority provisions for the benefit of its Directors in relation to again at the 2018 AGM.
certain losses and liabilities that they may incur in the Save as described under the Board Representation course of acting as Directors of the Company, its subsidiaries Agreement described below, the Company is not aware or associates, which remain in force at the date of this of any agreements or control rights between shareholders report.
No member of the Board had a material interest that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities in any contract of significance with the Company or any or on voting rights.
of its subsidiaries at any time during the year, except for their interests in shares and in share awards and under Further information regarding the Companys share capital, their service agreements and letters of appointment including the changes to this during the year, is set out in disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee Note 24 of the financial statements.
com 143 Directors report continued Board Representation Agreement The table below shows our emissions performance for the At the time of the Companys IPO, the SM Trust the years ended 31 December 2015, 2016 and 2017.
Our 2017 Shareholder Party entered into an agreement the emissions disclosure has been independently verified by Agreement with the Company which entitles the Carbon Credentials against the ISO 14064-3 standard.
Shareholder Party to appoint one Director to the Board of the Company.
Frederic Coorevits, who is the nominated 2017 2016 2015 appointee on behalf of SM Trust, will remain on the Board Scope 1 combustion of fuel and until he steps down or the Agreement lapses in the event operation of facilities tCO 1,118 1,088 1,026 2 of the Shareholder Party ceasing to hold at least 10% of the Scope 2 location based electricity Ordinary shares.
tCO 615 802 627 2 The Shareholder Party has also agreed not to propose the Scope 2 market based electricity appointment of a further Board representative or vote tCO 636 910 n a 2 against the election or re-election of a person the Board Scope 3 business travel tCO 2,625 2,306 771 2 has put forward for election or re-election as a Director of Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions the Company.
location-based 4,358 4,196 2,424 Corporate governance tCO e per m Scope 1, 2 & 3 2 The Company is committed to achieving the highest emissions location based 8.0 11.2 9.8 standards of corporate governance.
Its application of Scope 1 comprises vehicle emissions in relation to operational visits to restaurants.
theprinciples of good governance in respect of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the period under review Scope 2 comprises our energy consumption in buildings.
isdescribed in the Corporate Governance Report on Scope 3 comprises other business travel.
Data notes: The Directors responsibility statement in respect of this We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse Annual Report and the financial statements appears on gas emissions in alignment with the WRIs Greenhouse page145.
Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and ReportingStandard.
Tax governance Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside The Company is committed to high standards of tax ofthe UK are reported in tCO rather than tCO e since 2 2 governance.
In complying with para 16 2 and para 25 1, theInternational Energy Agency emission factors for Sch 19 of the UK Finance Act 2016, the Groups Tax electricity currently account for carbon dioxide Strategy, as approved by the Board, is published on the emissionsonly.
This year we have calculated our Scope 2 emissions Going concern and risk management using the location based and market based methods.
The Companys statement with regard to the going Under the location based method, we have utilised the concern basis for preparing the financial statements is UK Government and the International Energy Agency included in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 23. country-specific emission factors for electricity generation.
Under the market based method, for our The Directors carried out a robust assessment of the European operations, we have utilised the residual mix principal risks facing the Group.
This included those that electricity emission factor published by RE-DISS as we could threaten its business model, future performance, have been unable to obtain tariff specific emission solvency or liquidity.
Details of how we manage and factors from our suppliers, and for all non-European mitigate these are set out in the Report of the Audit suppliers we have utilised the location-based grid Committee on pages 56 to 60. electricity emission factors as residual emission factors have yet to be calculated outside of Europe.
This approach Political donations is in line with the data hierarchy outlined in the GHG The Company did not make any political donations during Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.
In line with previous years we have presented our total Greenhouse gas emissions unaudited emissions in relation to revenue, in order to represent This section has been prepared in accordance with our how our emissions are impacted by the growth in regulatory obligation to report greenhouse gas emissions thebusiness.
pursuant to section 7 of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 144 Financial statements Performance Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are Emissions have increased by 4% which is due to the listed on pages 46 to 47, confirm that, to the best of each continued growth of the business.
In the prior year, persons knowledge and belief: emissions increased by 73% due to M&A and integration the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and activities five businesses acquired in 2015 to 2017 and an understandable and provides the information necessary increase in the number of leased vehicles across the Group.
for shareholders to assess the Companys and the In the prior year, the sale of the Groups business in Groups performance, business model and strategy: Benelux would not have had a material impact on total emissions given its size relative to the remaining Group.
the Company and Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted Related party transactions with Directors by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Please refer to Note 34 for details of transactions entered financial position and profit of the Group and the Parent into with related parties.
Company: and the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a Overseas branches fairreview of the development and performance of the The Company has no branches outside the UK.
business and the position of the Company and the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and Events after the balance sheet date uncertainties that they face.
On 31 December 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of Hungryhouse.
See Note 30 of these financial statements Disclosure of information to the auditor for more details on this acquisition.
Each of the Directors of the Company at the time when this report was approved confirms that: Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Report and the financial statements in accordance with information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and applicable law and regulations.
UK company law requires he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought the Directors to prepare financial statements for each tohave taken as a Director in order to make himself financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared orherself aware of any relevant audit information and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in toestablish that the Companys auditor is aware of accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
Under UK company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they This confirmation is given in accordance with section 418 2 give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group of the Act.
and the Company, and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Auditor Directors are required to: Deloitte LLP, the Groups auditor, has indicated its willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply Audit Committee and in accordance with section 489 themconsistently: ofthe Act, a resolution to reappoint it will be put to the make judgements and accounting estimates that are 2018 AGM.
reasonable and prudent: On behalf of the Board state whether applicable IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Tony Hunter prepare the financial statements on a going concern Company Secretary basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 5 March 2018 Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
