Our markets We operate in markets ofscale with significant structural growth drivers Our marketplace is exciting, fast growing and rapidly evolving, driven by broad, long-term consumer trends as people seek greater food convenience and choice.
1 The optimal market for Just Eat is one with In our markets, around half of takeaway orders Read more about astrong culture of delivered takeaway food, for delivery are still placed on the telephone, our global coverage with a highly fragmented supply side and demonstrating the opportunity for Just Eat on page 5 where the consumer is comfortable transacting toconvert those Customers toordering online.
This has been key inchoosing those onour platform.
territories in which we invest.
Just Eat now Whilst the UK is one of the most developed Read more about operates the leading marketplace platform markets inthe world, the 3.3 billion of our strategy on ineach country we operate, together worth page18 ordervalue processed through JustEat 1 23.1 billion of delivered takeaway food.
The globally represented only 14% of our total 1 UK isthe largest single market at 6.1 billion.
Since the first Just Eat website was launched Growth in Denmark in 2001, we have expanded Whilst we continue to focus on driving strong globally and nowoperate in the UK, Australia, organic growth, we will consider M&A to Brazil, Canada, France, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, compliment our operations, whilst remaining New Zealand, Norway, Spain andSwitzerland.
Whilst the UK is the largest of Just Eats We made no acquisitions in 2017, instead operations, ourinternational markets now wefocused on making progress with the represent 44% of Group revenue.
integration of our acquired Canadian business, In the UK, online ordering has grown faster than SkipTheDishes.
We also gained UK regulatory 2 GDP, driven by the factors listed above.
This approval forour acquisition of Hungryhouse, channel shift is similar to the migration towards whichoccurred in December 2017 and which the use of the internet by Customers in other wecompleted on 31 January 2018.
Lastly, we highly fragmented markets, such as travel, are migrating our Australian business onto financial products, entertainment tickets, our core platform and then consolidating the classified advertising and restaurant bookings.
We remain focused on the significant potential for JustEat to increase its orders, revenue and operating profits within our current markets based onthe relatively low Customer penetration in most countries.
Source: management estimate based on research performed.
Source: Consumer Foodservice in the UK by Euromonitor and EIU.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 16 However, as consumers evolve, particularly with respectto QSR chains, we believe there are significant The UK takeaway sector is a opportunities to develop our delivery capabilities further into a hybrid marketplace model, offering thriving engine of growth restaurant delivery supplemented by third-party In July 2017, Just Eat spearheaded the founding delivery from certain QSR chains and to also develop ofthe British Takeaway Campaign BTC.
non-dinner offerings to drive frequency.
There is also Thecampaign provides a platform for the industry significant potential toutilise our scale and significant to showcase its growing contribution to the UK data resources for the benefit of both our Restaurant economy as well as to lobby government on industry Partners and Customers.
The BTC is backed by major industry bodies representing fish and chip shops, kebab and curry A single brand houses, pizzerias and many more independent We operate under the Just Eat brand in the majority takeaway restaurants across the country.
"The remainder operate under the strong The BTC published the ""Takeaway Economy local brands they traded under at the time the businesses Report"" to highlight the economic contribution were acquired."
Over the medium-term we intend to convert of the industry.
As the report shows, the sector our wholly owned marketplaces to the Just Eat brand.
continues to grow well above the rate of the rest of the economy.
Total UK spending on takeaways reached 9.9 billion in 2016 a34% increase on Our total market opportunity 2009.
In the same period, the sector created 41,000 new jobs and now employs more than 1 230,000 people across the UK.
23.1bn For more information about the BTC, visit: www.
