O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION We believe in the positive impact of power.
The abilityto provide power, heating and cooling opensupopportunity and createspotential for individuals, communities, industries and societies all over the world.
Together and over time, webelieve our services makeamassive difference.
Something that inspires andchallenges us every day.
TRANSPARENT REPORTING To help you better understand how environmental, social and governance ESG factors are integrated into our business, we have highlighted them throughout thereport using the following icons: EN V IR O N M EN T A L S O CI A L G O V ER N A NCE AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 01 A PERSONAL PERSPECTIVE FROM OUR CEO We are beginning to deliver underlying growth Q: And the lowlights?
A Q&A with Chris Weston, CEO A: It is inevitable that in any year there willbe disappointments, but I was deeply Q: What are the highlights of 2017 saddened by an accident in Nigeria foryou?
which caused the death of one of our A: Firstly, I want to thank all our people.
We have The dedication to our customers and investigated the accident and taken thefocus on our strategic priorities have actions to remedy the causes, but of repositioned and stabilised Aggreko, course, no actions taken today can providing a strong foundation from undowhat happened.
This hard work is I cannot express to you how strongly reflectedin the underlying growth Ibelieve that safety is the number wearenow seeing across the business onepriority at Aggreko.
We deal with whenyou exclude the legacy contracts potentially dangerous equipment and inArgentina, which have repriced to itis imperative that we operate in a way reflectcurrent market conditions.
that ensures everyone goes home safely The investment that we are making at the end of the day.
We have made inthe business, both for the immediate good progress over the last few years future and in recognition of longer term butmust redouble our focus on this trends is exciting.
Over the last three critical area.
years we have taken over 100 million ofcostout of the business and invested Q: You talk a lot about customer 20 million in new systems.
This year focus, why is this important when westarted to focus more on how we themajority of Aggrekos customers willtake advantage of the energy market are businesses?
transition that is underway, and I am A: Customers, whether consumers or delighted with the work that our Global businesses, are at the heart of everything Solutions team are doing to lead this.
Ultimately we are dealing with Itisthe first time in Aggrekos history people who have expectations that must thatwe have a dedicated team looking be met.
Anything that jeopardises this up and out, identifying opportunities detracts from our ability to generate forsustainable growth.
We have taken revenue and grow.
some important steps this year, including the deployment of our first solar-diesel End market conditions vary over time, hybrid project and the acquisition of commodity prices fluctuate, customers Younicos, a business based in Berlin that expectations evolve and competition is specialises in integrated energy systems ever present.
As a result, we need to work and energy storage.
harder to maintain our leading position and to grow our market share.
The skills Younicos brings to the table fit well with our modular and mobile fleet.
Through focusing on our customers Combined, we can offer customers a andthe sectors they operate in: flexible, reliable, lower carbon and lower continuing to develop innovative cost energy solution, by integrating andrelevant applications and solutions: renewables, storage and thermal assets.
investing in our systems to enhance ourservice, we are improving our market position.
Our ideal is to be a partner to our customers, developing long-term relationships shaped by their needs.
02 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Watch Chris discuss 2017 performance online: plc.
com investors investor-centre  Q: Can you update on your technology roadmap, have you made progress thisyear?
A: I have been pleased with the progress we have made in delivering our technology roadmap thisyear.
We have upgraded 272 diesel engines to the market leading G3 and itnow makes up 25% of the Groups 1 MW diesel fleet.
We have alsoinvested in 252 MW of our new gas engines, and begun the roll-out of our medium speed Heavy Fuel Oil HFO product, both of which went through extensive testing.
All of these products are consistent with our strategy to provide customers with products thatlower the total cost of energy.
The Younicos investment is also an important step inlowering the total cost of energy, butimportantly also reduces emissions.
Harnessing renewables and using storage means that our thermal products can increasingly become a back-up option, significantly reducing thefuel used.
The technology roadmap is an evolving plan with ongoing investigation into newtechnologies to assess applicability in ourbusiness and I am very pleased withthe progress the team has made.
Q: There have been some arrivals anddepartures in your top team, howhas this impacted the business?
A: Early in 2017 Stephen Beynon joined Aggreko as the Director of our Power Solutions business, replacing Nicolas Fournier.
Stephen comes with fantastic experience running large service based businesses, including divisions of Virgin Media and the business and residential divisions of British Gas.
Stephen brings invaluable B2B experience, has been agreat addition to the team, and has impressed me with his quick grasp ofthechallenges we face and the opportunities ahead.
Our CFO Carole Cran left the business atthe end of 2017 after 14 years with Aggreko.
Carole was a brilliant CFO and Iam personally grateful for the time sheinvested in Aggreko.
She has been succeeded by Heath Drewett, who joins After a challenging few years I ampleased us from WS Atkins, where he was also CFO.
Heath has a great pedigree working to see growth, albeit on anunderlying basis, in similar markets to Aggrekos and I am return to Aggreko.
Ourstrategic priorities excited by the insights he will inevitably bring to the table.
ofCustomer Focus, Technology Investment, Grant Nairn, who has been with us Capital & Operational Efficiency and fouryears, has been promoted to CIO and now sits on the Executive team.
ExpertPeople, arebeginning to deliver Other than that, the team is the same.
andIam excited forwhat the future holds.
Chris Weston Chief Executive Officer AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 03
