Our strategy Our strategic initiatives Our strategy is focused on three interlinking pillars that work individually and collectively to drive future growth and provide an unbeatable takeaway experience for both our Customers and Restaurant Partners.
What we're doing Why its important In 2017 we invested 12.6 million primarily on improving Stability, security and scalability of our service reliability around the world, particularly ourplatforms are key to ensuring that 1 with many of our newly acquired businesses, and Customer orders get through to our simplifying the restaurant sign-up process.
"Improving Over 77% of UK orders were processed via Orderpad, As our Customers expectations evolve Customer enabling the ""order on its way"" notification, which overtime, the design and Customer helps to drive Customer loyalty."
We continue our experience ofour platform must experience international rollout of this technology.
Reviews can only be placed following acompleted order, offering valuable insight.
At31 December 2017, we had 32.2 million reviews across all ourplatforms.
A rapidly emerging secondary market forJust Eat Over time, offering greater choice and are QSRs, who see the valuable growth potential having restaurants that also trade at 2 offered by home delivery and aggregator exposure.
breakfast and lunchtime is expected to In 2017, apart from expanding SkipTheDishes into drive Customer order frequency.
Bringing more than 50 additional Canadian markets, we Working with selective and relevant conducted a number of pilots indifferent greater non-delivery restaurants significantly geographies to develop a hybrid model that allows increases the addressable market in us to continue to work with restaurants that do choice which we operate, which increases the their own delivery, as well as those that require opportunity to scale the business.
Increasing the number of restaurants from which our Customers can order drives demand and increases dining opportunities.
We finished the year with 82,300 Restaurant Partners 2016:68,500.
Following the launch of our new brand identity in In the majority of our markets, the shift the UK in September 2016, we rebranded a further fromtelephone to online ordering is still 3 seven international markets in 2017, and in January inits early stages, which offers significant 2018 we renamed our French business Just Eat.
App Building adoption also varies by market and is still In the UK we were proud to sponsor TheXFactor, growing, with 50% of Group orders placed our brand showcasing the talents of many ofour Restaurant via apps 2016: 44%.
Partners, whilst we expanded our reach in Dublin, to drive Geneva and Milan bysponsoring high visibility Brand investment increases awareness public mass transit systems.
amongst our mass market Customer base, channel and contributes to Customer loyalty.
