OUR BUSINESS TODAY We are a global company focused on customers operating in key sectors.
This sector focus allows us to build our expertise anddevelop products and solutions that address particular problems our customers face.
Tooptimally deploy our equipment and expertise around the worldweare organised into two business units: RentalSolutions andPower Solutions.
We operate in over 80 countries through 193salesandservice centres and with around6,000permanent employees.
ORGANISED TO SERVE OUR CUSTOMERS K EY Rental Power Offices Solutions Solutions Service centres Rental Solutions includes our businesses in North America, Europe, Australia Pacific and Mexico.
Power Solutions includes all our other businesses around the world.
For more information visit: aggreko.
com aboutus 06 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION WHAT WE DO FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Operational Mobilisation Demobilisation Identify need Develop solutions support Our global sales team We will tailor a sector Once accepted, we will Our service engineers Once the customer will approach new and specific solution and mobilise the equipment, are on hand to provide decides to off-hire wetake existing customers submit a detailed install, test and either support, together with the equipment back to understand their proposal for approval.
handover to the customer remote monitoring to our service centres businesses and discuss or begin operating by systems that will to service or upgrade it their requirements.
alertusto problems and make it ready for before they occur.
START AGAIN Rental Solutions Power Solutions We provide power, heating and cooling to customers in We provide power, heating and cooling to emerging developed markets.
These requirements tend to revolve markets.
These requirements tend to be larger industrial around smaller, short-term projects and key events.
and utility customers with longer term power needs.
OUR KEY SECTORS % OUR KEY SECTORS % 1 Business Services and 1 Utilities 53 Construction 21 8 7 2 Oil & Gas 20 6 1 8 2 Petrochemical & Refining 17 5 3 Business Services and 3 Utilities 11 Construction 7 4 4 Events 10 4 Quarrying & Mining 6 7 5 Oil & Gas 9 5 Manufacturing 5 3 1 6 Manufacturing 8 6 Events 4 6 2 7 Quarrying & Mining 5 7 Petrochemical & Refining 1 8 Other 19 8 Other 4 2 5 3 4 Revenue Revenue 720m 871m 45% of Group excluding pass-through fuel 55% of Group EVENTS CASE STUDY UTILIT Y CASE STUDY When one of the US womens National Basketball Association The Sorovskoye oil field in Salym, Russia, has no available teams made theplayoffs, it moved to a bigger stadium which gridconnection.
We mobilised and installed 12 MW of our did not complywith strict league temperature regulations.
QSK60 gas engines, renowned for their ability to operate in Our specialist knowledge and equipment allowed us to extreme cold temperatures, to use by-product petroleum gas provide therequired temperature and humidity conditions.
Read more about Rental Solutions on page 38 Read more about Power Solutions on page 40 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 07 THE MARKETPLACE We are positioned to benefit from long-term trends.
In developed markets, power and related products, likeheatingand cooling, are an essential part of everyday lifeand are taken for granted until they are not there.
In emerging markets power helps countries to industrialise These can vary by country and sector, but can be broadly and enhance living standards, for example hospitals to provide defined within global megatrends.
These megatrends offer medical care and schools to educate future generations.
significant opportunities for our business.
The global power generation market is undergoing substantial We address the market through our two business units change.
Whilst demand continues to grow, we are seeing a whichare well positioned to provide solutions for our transformational shift in regulatory, environmental and societal customers as energy markets transform.
In developing a long-term view onthemarket, manyfactors need to be considered.
GLOBAL MEGATRENDS demand and decarbonisation.
Urbanisation Climate Change Shift in Existing inefficiencies, which Economic Power Urbanisation contributes to Rising greenhouse gas are particularly prevalent in economic development, but is emissions are causing average developed markets, include As an economy grows, so does also a direct result of it.
Today, temperatures to rise which the need for thermal base demand for power: businesses more than half of the global could result in significant load power to cover the want to expand quickly and population live in urban areas and potentially irreversible intermittency of renewables, outsource the supply of and the UN estimates that this environmental changes.
which leads to uneconomic power, heating and cooling is growing by 1.5 million people utilisation of these permanent to maintain productivity and every week: this is already power assets.
70% placing huge demands on In addition, huge volumes Whilst growth in emerging infrastructure globally.
of greenhouse gas of data are collected economies over the last few emissions come by companies and this years has slowed, the long-term is increasingly being trends continue to suggest that from cities 1.5m used to provide insight emerging markets will grow urban population growth into how customers use faster than, and eventually According to the WorldBank, products and services: this every week overtake, many developed cities consume two-thirds can then be translated economies.
Thesharp decline in of natural resources and intocompetitive advantage.
In emerging markets, commodity prices experienced account for over 70% of global investment in new and in 2014 was one of the biggest greenhouse gas emissions.
replacement power supplies factors driving the downturn This has a significant impact Population Growth has not kept pace with seen in many emerging onhealth and wellbeing, demand, resulting in frequent As populations continue to economies, particularly whichin turn impacts breakdowns and damaging grow, demand for electricity in Africa.
As cities continue increases: according to the For example, itis estimated to grow, theincreasing UN, the global population thatin China air pollution demand for power will 4.9% isexpected to rise by more coststhe economy about beamajor challenge.
expected growth in As governments in both emerging markets developed and emerging 1 billion markets introduce regulation In 2018, growth is expected global population growth to tackle emissions, we are to recover across emerging by 2030 seeing a shift in how power markets estimated at 4.9% is generated, including a and with the vast populations Over 90% of this population revolution in transportation of China and India behind growth will come from with the growth of electric the economic recovery the emerging or developing vehicles.
This will change shift in power will continue countries, whichtypically have the demand for power and tomove eastwards.
low electrification rates and itsassociated infrastructure.
Digital Revolution where electricity isavailable, reliability is often poor.
Digitalisation is expected Population growth will toplay a major role in solving inevitably increase the existing inefficiencies in power power shortfall.
networks, many of which have arisen as a result of increasing RESULTANT DRIVERS OF OUR BUSINESS 1 2 3 4 5 Increasing demand Commodity Regulation Energy in transition Natural disasters for power prices 4a Decarbonisation and major events 4b Decentralisation 4c Digitisation 08 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION 1 3 Increasing demand for power Regulation Our markets have historically grown as a countrys economy Governments around the world are removing restrictive grows, particularly inindustrial sectors where finance is legislation in order to support private investment and moreavailable.
The average GDP growth for the countries innovation inpower infrastructure, thereby ensuring in which we operate is forecasttobe around 2% per annum affordability and security ofsupply.
In many countries this inRentalSolutions and 4% per annum in Power Solutions istheonly way to provide the capital needed to generate overthe next few years Source: IMF, October 2017. anddeliver more energy to support growing demand.
In emerging markets, a lack of power can hinder a countrys Policies supporting emissions reductions will continue to economic development and as a result, we expect to see an drive the growth in renewable energy.
As renewable energy increase in opportunities to support industrial customers in penetration increases, grids will become less stable and there these markets.
The Economist Intelligence Unit estimates that will be a need for decentralised generation, such as ours, the average Sub-Saharan African manufacturing firm loses toprovide stability and reliability.
5.5% of annual sales due to power outages, over double the Ageing infrastructure in both developed and emerging global average 2.6%.
Nigeria has nearly 33 outages a month economies and the retirement of technologies which are according to theWorld Bank.
no longer deemed favourable, such as coal, will see a rise in construction of new power plants.
However, with investment 58% in developed market power infrastructure requiring trillions global power demand increase by 2040 ofdollars, we expect to see lower capital investment for power in emerging markets: this provides opportunities for us to meet In addition to increased economic activity, the longer term bridging power needs for both utility and business customers growth in global population and urbanisation will inevitably in emerging markets, whilst deregulation offers opportunities mean upward pressure on power demand and a worsening for us in developed markets as energy systems decentralise.
of the power gap in certain markets.
Bloomberg New Energy Finance forecasts a 58% increase in global power demand between now and 2040.
2 4 Commodity prices Energy in transition Commodity dependent economies were particularly hard hit Globally, the energy sector is going through a major transition: in recent years as prices fell substantially.
In many countries the challenge is to find the optimal way to secure energy this has driven diversification which, coupled with improving supplies, affordably and sustainably.
commodity prices in 2017, has resulted in a rise in industrial There are three key themes of this transition: activity in many of our markets.
Customers in these sectors have become more aware of the cost of energy and in D EC A R B ON I S A T I ON D ECE N T R A L I S A T ION D IG I T A L I S A T I ON response, we have been developing sector specific applications to meet their needs, such as the solar-diesel hybrid on mining sites and flare gas-to-power solutions.
The rise in oil prices, which fell below $30 bbl in 2016 and havesince risen above $60 bbl, have varied effects on our customers.
Those oil dependent countries should see liquidityconstraints ease and commodity customers such asoil producers and miners may increase their output, which is beneficial for our business.
However, higher oil prices will makepower more expensive for other customers and so we continue to look at ways at reducing the overall cost of energy.
We are positioning ourselves for this future through the introduction of solar-diesel hybrid technology, next generation 2016 Change in Commodity Prices gas engines, increasing the overall efficiency of our engines and 1.2 through the acquisition of energy storage integration specialist 1.1 Younicos which will allow us to compete in the energy market of the future.
70 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 09
