REMUNERATION CONTINUED Policy Report continued Treatment of annual bonuses and long-term incentive awards and options on termination of employment and corporate events Timing of vesting payment Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Bad leaver all cases other Not applicable.
No bonus to be paid for the financial year.
Redundancy, retirement At the end of the financial year.
Bonuses will only be paid to the extent that or otherwise at the the performance measures have been met.
Any bonus will be paid on a time pro-rata basis.
Awards normally continue but the Committee Awards continue or pro-rated.
may measure performance to the relevant event and award a pro-rated amount.
All cases other than Vesting: At the time of normal maturity Awards vest in full as pre-earned.
unless the Committee accelerates vesting.
On the occurrence of the relevant event.
Awards vest in full as pre-earned.
LTIP Bad leaver all cases other Not applicable.
In normal thanthose specified below.
circumstances, any holding period on vested awards will continue to apply, although the Committee may release awards early.
Death, ill health, injury, Vesting: At the end of the relevant Awards held for less than one year will normally permanent disability, retirement performance period.
Otherwise awards vest over the original with the agreement of the timescales, subject to the original performance Payment: At the end of the relevant Committee, redundancy, conditions.
Awards are normally pro-rated for holding period.
sale of a division or subsidiary time although the Committee has discretion to or any other reason that the release early or to disapply pro-rating.
In normal Committee determines in circumstances, any holding period on vested its absolute discretion.
awards will continue to apply except on death when it will end early although the Committee may release awards early.
Awards will vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied or would have been satisfied and will, unless the Committee determines otherwise, bereduced pro-rata to take account of the performance period not completed.
Awards maybe exchangedfor awards over shares in the acquiring company in some circumstances.
Any holding period will end early.
Options held under the Sharesave Plans will vest and become exercisable in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan andthe governing legislation to the extent applicable upon cessation of employment or the occurrence of a Corporate Event.
96 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Share ownership guidelines The Committee has a policy of encouraging Executive Directors to acquire and retain a material number of shares in the Company, with the objective of further aligning their long-term interests with those of other Shareholders.
The minimum requirement for Executive Directors is currently 200% of salary.
The Committee proposes to increase this to 250% of salary.
Shares that count towards achieving these guidelines include: shares beneficially owned by an Executive Director or by aconnected person, as recognised by the Committee: deferred bonus shares and LTIP awards which have vested and so are no longer subject to performance conditions butare subject to post-vesting deferral provisions: and shares held under any restricted stock plan or any plan established under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 if not subject to pre-vest performance conditions.
Executive Directors are expected to build their shareholding overa five-year period retaining at least 50% of vested incentives post-tax until such guidelines have been met, butare not required to make personal share purchases ifawards do not vest through failing to meet performance conditions.
For example, a newly-appointed Director may notreach the required level within the period, depending onthe Companys performance against target over the period.
If so, the Committee will review the circumstances and agree an appropriate forward plan.
The Committee retains the discretion to grant dispensation fromthese requirements in exceptional circumstances.
There is no particular requirement for Non-executive Directors to hold shares but they are encouraged to acquire a holding over time.
Directors shareholdings are included in the table on page 86.
Period for policy The policy will take effect from 26 April 2018, being the date ofthe Companys 2018 Annual General Meeting, and isintended to apply for a period of three years.
The Committee is satisfied that the proposed new Remuneration Policy is in the best interests of Shareholders and does not promote excessive risk-taking.
The Committee retains discretion to make non-significant changes to the policywithout reverting to Shareholders.
This Report was approved by the Board on 6 March 2018.
Russell King Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6 March 2018 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 97 STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Directors Report and StrategicReport Share capital The Directors Report and Strategic Report for the year ended On 31 December 2017, the Company had in issue 256,128,201 31 December 2017 comprise pages 56 to 103 and pages 1 to Ordinary Shares of 4329 395 pence each, 188,251,587 Deferred 55 of this report, together with the sections incorporated by Shares of 984 775 pence each, 18,352,057,648 Deferred Shares reference.
We have included some of the matters normally of1 775 pence each, 182,700,915 Deferred Shares of 618 25 pence included in the Directors Report which we consider to be of each and 573,643,383,325 Deferred Shares of 1 306125 pence strategic importance in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to55.
each comprising 29.43%, 40.77%, 0.56%, 29.19% and 0.04% Specifically these are: respectively of the Companys issued share capital.
Details of the changes in issued share capital during the year are shown Future Business Developments on page 14: and inNote 23 to the accounts on page 137.
Risk Information on the Use of Financial Instruments on page143.
Material share interests As at 31 December 2017, the Company had received Disclosures in relation to Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4R, where notifications of the following major shareholdings, representing applicable, are included on pages 80 and 82 in relation to 3% or more of the voting rights attached to the issued Ordinary Long-term Incentive Plans and on page 100 in relation to the Share capital of the Company: dividend waiver arrangements in place for our Employee Benefit Trust.
Number % of total Shareholder of shares voting rights Both the Directors Report and Strategic Report have been AKO Capital LLP 12,781,545 4.99 presented in accordance with applicable company law, and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with those Baillie Gifford 12,584,169 4.91 reports are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided.
The Capital Group Companies LLP 13,446,515 5.25 Other information to be disclosed in the Directors Report Deutsche Bank AG 23,633,682 9.22 isgiven in this section.
Mackenzie Financial Corporation 13,443,784 5.24 Management report Prudential Plc 9,351,326 3.65 The Strategic Report and the Directors Report together Standard Life Aberdeen Plc 27,606,171 10.78 include the management report for the purposes ofDisclosureand Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
Between 31 December 2017 and 6 March 2018, the Company received the following notifications of major shareholdings.
2018 Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at Number % of total 11.00am on 26 April 2018 at 200 SVS, 200 St Vincent Street, Shareholder Date of shares voting rights Glasgow G2 5RQ.
The Notice of Meeting is available on the Deutsche Bank AG 24 01 2018 23,290,315 9.09 Shareholder information pages ofour website.
Standard Life 01 02 2018 28,612,326 11.17 Aberdeen Plc Dividends The interim dividend of 9.38 pence per Ordinary Share Standard Life 02 02 2018 28,734,700 11.22 was paidon 6 October 2017.
The Directors recommend a Aberdeen Plc final dividend of 17.74 pence per Ordinary Share in respect of the year, making a total for the year of 27.12 pence per The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting to 3% or more in the share capital of the Company.
Ordinary Share 2016: 27.12 pence, payable on 22 May 2018 toShareholders onthe register at the close of business on Rights and obligations attached to shares 20April 2018.
Subject to applicable statutes in this section referred to as the Companies Acts and to any rights conferred on the holders Dividend payments and DRIP The Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP allows Shareholders of any other shares, any share may be issued with or have attached to it such rights and restrictions as the Company to purchase additional shares in Aggreko with their dividend payment.
Further information and a mandate can be obtained may by ordinary resolution decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or so far as the resolution does not make specific from our Registrar, Link Asset Services formerly known as CapitaAsset Services, whose details are set out on page 161 provision, as the Board may decide.
andthe Shareholder information pages of our website.
98 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Voting On a return of capital on a winding-up excluding any intraSubject to any special terms as to voting upon which any Group reorganisation on a solvent basis, holders of Deferred shares may be issued or may for the time being be held and Shares are entitled to be paid the nominal capital paid up or to any other provisions of the Articles of Association of the credited as paid up on such Deferred Shares after paying to Company the Articles, on a show of hands every member the holders of the Ordinary Shares the nominal capital paid up who is present in person or by proxy or represented by a or credited as paid up on the Ordinary Shares held by them corporate representative at a general meeting of the Company respectively, together with the sum of 100,000,000 on each has one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy The Board may deduct from any dividend or other moneys payable to a member by the Company on or in respect of any or represented by a corporate representative has one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
In the case of joint shares all sums of money if any presently payable by him to the Company on account of calls or otherwise in respect of holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, is accepted to the exclusion shares of the Company.
The Board may also withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys payable in ofthevotes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority is determined by the order in which the names respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has been standin the register in respect of the joint holding.
served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after The holders of the Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive failure to provide the Company with information concerning notice of any general meeting of the Company or to attend, interests in those shares required to be provided under the speak or vote at any such meeting.
Restrictions on voting Variation of rights No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, entitled Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, rights in respect of any share held by him to vote either personally attached to any class of shares may be varied either with the or by proxy or by a corporate representative at any general consent in writing of the holders of not less than three quarters meeting of the Company or at any separate general meeting in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding of the holders of any class of shares in the Company if any any shares of that class held as Treasury Shares or with the calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general that share remain unpaid or if he is a person with a 0.25% meeting of the holders of those shares.
The necessary quorum interest as defined in the Articles and he has been served applying to any such separate general meeting is two persons with a restriction notice asdefined in the Articles after holding or representing by proxy not less than one third in failure to provide the Company with information concerning nominal value of the issued shares of the class excluding interests in those shares required tobe provided under the any shares of that class held as Treasury Shares, but at any Companies Acts.
adjourned meeting one holder present in person or by proxy whatever the number of shares held by him will constitute a The Company is not aware of any agreement between holders quorum : every holder of shares of the class present in person of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
or by proxy excluding any shares of that class held as Treasury Shares is entitled on a poll to one vote for every share of the Dividends and other distributions class held by him subject to any rights or restrictions attached Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company to any class of shares and any holder of shares of the class may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends present in person or by proxy may demand a poll.
in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend can exceed the amount recommended bythe Board.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Board may pay such interim dividends as appear to the Board to be justified by the financial position of the Company and may also pay any dividend payable at a fixed rate at intervals settled by the Board whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it shall not incur any liability to the holders ofany shares for any loss they may suffer in consequence of thepayment of an interim or fixed dividend on any other classof shares ranking pari passu with or after those shares.
The Deferred Shares confer no right to participate in the profits of the Company.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 99 STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Restrictions on transfer of securities inthe Company Powers of the Directors There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Articles Company, except that: and to any directions given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers bylaws and regulations for example, insider trading of the Company whether relating to the management of the laws, in particular we operate a share dealing code which business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may requires Directors of the Company and certain employees exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money to obtain the approval of the Company before dealing in and to mortgage orcharge all or any part of the undertaking, theCompanys Ordinary Shares: and property and assets present and future and uncalled capital the Deferred Shares are not transferable except in of the Companyand to issue debentures and other securities, accordance with the paragraph headed Powers in relation whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability to the Company issuing or buying back its own shares orobligation of the Company or any third party.
belowor withthe written consent of the Directors.
Powers in relation to the Companyissuing or The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders buyingbackitsown shares of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer The Directors were granted authority at the last Annual of securities.
General Meeting held in 2017 to allot relevant securities uptoa nominal amount of 4,126,149 in connection with an Articles of Association offer by way of arights issue.
That authority will apply until Our Articles are available on our website at www.
the earlier of 30 June2018 or at the conclusion of the Annual Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, General Meeting for 2018.
At this years Annual General the Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Meeting, Shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to Companys Shareholders.
allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 4,126,149, such authority to apply until the end of next years Annual Appointment and replacement ofDirectors General Meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors 30 June 2019. are contained in the Companys Articles.
They include: the number of Directors must not be less than two or more than A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the 15: the Board may appoint any person to be a Director: any Directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash Director so appointed by the Board shall hold office only until uptoa nominal amount of 1,237,844. the next general meeting and shall then be eligible for election: each Director must retire from office at the third Annual The Company was also authorised at the Annual General General Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at which Meeting held in 2017 to make market purchases of up to he was last elected.
However, in line with the UK Corporate 25,612,820 Ordinary Shares.
This authorisation will expire on Governance Code, all Directors will stand for annual election theearlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting atthe 2018 AGM.
ofthe Company for 2018 or 30 June 2018.
A Director may be removed by special resolution of the A special resolution will also be proposed at this years Company.
In addition, the office of a Director must be vacated Annual General Meeting to renew the Directors authority if: i they resign their office by notice in writing delivered to torepurchase the Companys Ordinary Shares in the market.
the office or tendered at a meeting of the Board: or ii by The authority will be limited to a maximum of 25,612,820 notice in writing they offer to resign and the Board resolves to Ordinary Shares and sets the minimum and maximum prices accept such offer: or iii their resignation is requested by all of which may be paid.
the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less The Company may at any time, without obtaining the sanction than three in number: or iv a registered medical practitioner of the holders of the Deferred Shares: who is treating that Director gives a written opinion to the Company stating that that Director has become physically a appoint any person to execute on behalf of any holder of ormentally incapable of acting as a Director and may remain Deferred Shares a transfer of all or any of the Deferred Shares so for more than three months: or v by reason of a Directors and or an agreement to transfer the same to the Company mental health, a court makes an order which wholly or partly or to such person as the Directors may determine, in any case prevents that Director from personally exercising any powers for not more than one penny for all the Deferred Shares then or rights which that Director would otherwise have: or vi they being purchased from him: and are absent without the permission of the Board from meetings b cancel all or any of the Deferred Shares so purchased of the Board whether or not an alternate Director appointed bytheCompany in accordance with the Companies Acts.
by him attends for sixconsecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: or vii they become bankrupt Securities carrying special rights or compounds with their creditors generally: or viii they are No person holds securities in the Company carrying special prohibited by law from being a Director: or ix they cease to be rights with regard to control of the Company.
a Director by virtue ofthe Companies Acts or are removed from office pursuant tothe Articles.
Rights under the employee sharescheme Estera Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Aggreko Directors conflicts of interest Employees Benefit Trust, holds 0.21% of the issued share The Company has procedures in place for monitoring and capital of the Company as at 6 March 2018 on trust for the managing conflicts of interest.
Should a Director become benefit of the employees and former employees of the Group aware that they, or their connected parties, have an interest and their dependants.
The voting rights in relation to these inan existing or proposed transaction with Aggreko, they shares are exercised by the Trustee and there are no restrictions should notify the Board in writing or at the next Board meeting.
on the exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance of any Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to offer relating to, the shares.
The Trustee is obliged to waive these conflicts.
alldividends on the shares unless requested to do otherwise bythe Company in writing.
100 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
