Our Board An experienced and effectiveleadership team Each of our Directors brings a wide range of skills and depth of knowledge that collectively contribute to the effectiveness of the Board as a whole.
A N R I Andrew Griffith Peter Plumb Interim Non-executive Chairman, Senior Independent Director Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Audit Committee Peter was appointed Chief Executive Officer with effect from Andrew was appointed as a Director in March 2014 and serves as Senior 18September 2017.
Peter's most recent role was Chief Executive Officer Independent Director.
In addition, since 28 April 2017, Andrew has acted as ofMoneysupermarket.
com Group PLC, a position he held from February 2009 Interim Chairman.
Andrew is the Group Chief Operating Officer of Sky plc, until he stepped down in May 2017.
In his eight years as Chief Executive Europes largest entertainment and communications company with 23 million Officer, Peter guidedthe business to a market leadership position, led the customers and turnover of $16 billion.
Andrew was appointed Chief Financial acquisition ofMoneySavingExpert.
com, and oversaw a six-fold increase in Officer and a member of the Sky plc board in April 2008.
Andrew joined its share price.
com, Peter was UK Managing Sky in 1999 from Rothschild Group, the investment banking organisation, Director of Dunnhumby Limited, General Manager Europe of Disney Consumer where he provided financial and strategic advice to corporate clients Products, and International Director of Dyson Appliances Limited.
Peter across the technology, media and telecommunications sectors.
Andrew isalso a Non-executive Director of The Co-operative Group Limited.
Peter holds a degree in Law from the University of Nottingham and is a qualified graduated with a first class honours degree in Civil Engineering at the Chartered Accountant.
University of Birmingham and holds an MBA from IMD in Switzerland.
Alistair Gwyn Frederic Peter Paul Andrew Cox Burr Coorevits Plumb Harrison Griffith Independent Independent Non-executive Chief Executive Chief Financial Interim Non-executive Non-executive Director Officer Officer Non-executive Director Director Chairman Annual Report & Accounts 2017 46 Corporate governance S Paul Harrison Frederic Coorevits Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Paul was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in September 2016.
Prior to Fred was appointed as a Director in July 2009.
Fred is an adviser joining the Board, Paul served as Chief Financial Officer for WANdisco plc forSMTrust, for which he has been working for more than 15 years.
Previously, Paul served as Group Finance Director of Hemanages SM Trusts portfolio of investments, which focuses on the FTSE 100 international software company The Sage Group plc for 13 years, areas of eCommerce, software and cloud computing.
Prior to this, Fred having first been Sages Group Financial Controller for three years.
Prior to worked as a Finance Director for i-spire plc and as a Senior Manager for that, Paul held a number of senior positions at .
Fred holds an Paul is also a Non-executive Director at media company Ascential plc MBA and an MSc in Organic Chemistry from Louvain Belgium.
andwas, until November 2017, a Non-executive Director of recruitment A N R I consultancy firm Hays plc.
Paul holds a BA Hons in Business Studies Gwyn Burr fromManchester Metropolitan University and is a Fellow of the Institute Independent Non-executive Director of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Gwyn was appointed as a Director in March 2014.
Gwyn is also Non-executive David Buttress Director of Sainsburys Bank plc, Hammerson plc, MetroAG, Ingleby Farms Non-executive Director & Forests ApS and Taylor Wimpey plc.
From May2005 to March2013, David joined Just Eat UK in early 2006 and was appointed Chief Executive Gwyn was Customer Director and a member ofthe operating board for Officer of Just Eat in January 2013, a position he held until31 March 2017.
JSainsbury plc, with responsibility for brand, ownbrand customer service, Hewas appointed as a Non-executive Director in August 2017.
Beginning corporate communications and corporate and social responsibility and his career in 1998 with Coca-Cola Enterprises, David enjoyed a variety of also, from 2010, human resources.
Gwyn holds a BSc in Economics and senior sales and management roles.
In 2014, David was named Entrepreneur History from the University of Bradford.
of the Year at the Investor Allstars Awards, and was listed as one of the I London Evening Standards top 1,000 influential people.
In 2015, 2016 and Alistair Cox 2017 he was also named as one of Britains most influential people in the Independent Non-executive Director Debretts 500.
David is a partner at 83North aglobal venture capital firm Alistair was appointed as a Director in May 2017.
He began his career at and is Non-executive Chairman of the professional Pro14 Dragons rugby British Aerospace, subsequently moving to Schlumberger in 1982, where team.
David holds a BA Hons in Lawand Business from Middlesex University he held roles in field engineering, management and research science based Business School and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in 2017 for his in Europe and the USA.
He was a manager at McKinsey & Company from services to UK business and entrepreneurship.
1991, before joining Blue Circle Industries plc latterly Lafarge initially as Group Strategy Director and latterly as Regional Director for Asia.
In 2002 he was appointed Chief Executive at Xansa plc, the IT outsourcing organisation.
He also served as a Non-executive Director at 3i Group plc from 20092015.
Alistair is currently Chief Executive of Hays plc, the global recruitment agency, and has held that position since 2007.
Alistair is a Chartered Engineer, having graduated with a first class honours degree in Aeronautical Engineering from the University of Salford and holds anMBA from Stanford Graduate School of Business.
N I Roisin Donnelly Independent Non-executive Director Roisin was appointed as a Director in October 2016.
Roisin has had a 30-year career building market-leading brands with Procter & Gamble in the UK, EMEA, the US and globally.
Most recently, she was CMO for Northern Europe, leading six countries.
Roisin is an experienced digital leader.
She has experience in acquisitions, divestitures and business turnaround.
She is aNon-executive Director of Bourne Leisure and Holland & Barrett and a council member of the Advertising Standards Authority.
She has received awards including Marketer of the Year and Advertising Age's Woman to Watch.
Roisin graduated from the University of Glasgow with a MA Hons and is an Honorary Fellow of the Marketing Society.
A N R I Diego Oliva Independent Non-executive Director Diego was appointed as a Director in September 2015.
Diego has extensive experience in global leadership roles in the technology sector, having spent six years as Regional Director of EMEA at Facebook.
He is currently co-founder and Executive Chairman of Glue, a smart home company.
Diego also serves as limited partner and adviser at Earlybird Venture Capital, White Star Capital and Wamda Capital, VC funds.
Diego holds postgraduate degrees from Harvard Business School, Stockholm University and IE Business School and received a BSc in Economics from Tec fide Monterrey.
A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee I Independent Non-executive Director S Nominee of a major shareholder Roisin Diego David Donnelly Oliva Buttress Independent Independent Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Director Director Director www.
