OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED S O CI A L G O V ER N A NCE EXPERT PEOPLE Our people are central to the great service Aggreko provides OUR VALUES ARE: and are a critical contributor to our success.
We have 55 years ofoperational experience and engineering capability, combinedwith sector expertise and customer focus, Be Dynamic anditiskey that we retain this.
We use our entrepreneurial passion to deliver and Selecting the right people, continuous development, and we thrive onmaking great things happen.
training for capability are important areas we continue to Be Expert improve, coupled with an intent to foster a safe, supportive and stimulating environment for our employees.
Through our We use our blend of experience, expertise and Always Orange culture, we are focused on providing our people planning tokeep us ahead of the game.
with the power to make a difference.
Be Together Ensuring a safe place to work We ask the best of each other and harness our scale and Our business involves electrical equipment which can pose diverse skills to grow stronger together.
safety issues when not handled properly.
We have a number of established policies and protocols designed to protect Be Innovative our employees and customers, including effective training, We learn from the world for a better today and testing and risk assessments.
During the year we implemented for great leaps tomorrow.
an authorisation process for all our people that work on our equipment.
It is with deep regret that we report that one of Together these embody our culture: our employees lost his life in an electrical accident during the Always Orange.
An in depth investigation into the cause of this accident has been carried out and recommendations implemented in Making a massive difference thecountry concerned.
These are now beingrolled out more Aggreko is fortunate to work in a wide variety of countries widely across the Group.
and our social contribution is one way of giving back to the Given that we operate in many areas of the world which can community.
During 2017 we began implementing our new becategorised as high risk, we consider the safety and security community investment strategy.
of our employees working in these locations to be our most We actively engage in supporting the local communities critical issue.
We want everyone who works for Aggreko to we work in and we do this in a number of ways.
We are return home safely every day.
proactive in recruiting locally from the community, with over During the year we implemented a single global travel 100 nationalities across the Group: for example, in both Brazil management system which enables us to know where our and Russia, 99% of the workforce is comprised of local staff.
Our Group security function works We provide extensive on-the-job training for new recruits and with external advisers, who provide us with the on-the-ground give them the skills to become technicians.
We also get the knowledge that we need to make decisions on our operations benefit of highly skilled staff, trained on our own equipment.
in high risk areas: this includes a mobile phone app which It helps us build relationships in the local community which are allows our people to check the latest advice for any country very important when we might be operating a contract for a around the world and automatically updates key advice for number of years.
Our charitable donations are largely focused the country which they are in.
It also has the capability to on the education and wellbeing of children and 2017 marked tracktravellers and an added alarm function, which triggers the 10th anniversary of our partnership with BookAid.
Attracting and developing great people We recognise that localisation of talent provides many benefits to the Group and to the communities in which we operate, Read more about Lost Time Injuries page 34 which is why we actively recruit local peoplewherever possible, training them and providing them with career opportunities with the Group.
Globally, 79% of our workforce is locally employed.
We also have a number of programmes Read more about safety and security risk page 52 around the world to develop the skills of school-leavers, such as Aggreko University Ivory Coast, SelecTech USA and our UKapprenticeship programme.
Always Orange Aggreko is a strong and unique business and our culture This year we delivered over 115,000 hours of employee training reflectsthat.
We have a clear purpose underpinned by anddevelopment, particularly focused on our growing sales fourvalues and associated behaviours.
Whilst it is essential that our people are properly trained, werecognise that investment in our employees has a direct Our purpose and positive impact on our employee retention rates and We believe in the positive impact of power and the ability theengagement levels of our staff: training is a combination tocontrol temperature.
We believe it opens up opportunity of on-the-job learning and specific skill development through andcreates potential for individuals, communities, industries training courses.
Succession planning is used to identify and societies all over the world.
employees for potential future roles and align development with this objective to ensure that theGroup continues Together and over time, we believe our services make tohaveeffective management well intothe future.
Read more about Talent Management risk page 51 30 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Recognising performance Our workforce of around 6,000 people comprises over Aggrekos remuneration arrangements seek to support the 100nationalities, whilst our Senior Leadership Team SLT of delivery of our business strategy by attracting, retaining and around 70individuals, includes 16 nationalities, demonstrating motivating talented people at all levels.
thatwe are already bringing together a variety of experiences and views.
During the year, we also introduced adiversity Pay for performance and rewarding value creation is at the policyfor the Board.
heart of Aggrekos remuneration approach.
The Companys remuneration policy is aligned with the key objectives of The UK Government requires UK businesses with more than growing earnings and delivering strong returns on capital 250 employees to publish their Gender Pay Gap Reporting employed.
These metrics are used for the Groups long-term statistics as at 5 April 2017 within one year of this date, and incentive scheme and senior managers annual bonuses.
Whilst the gender pay gap is not about equal pay for men and women doing the same job, ensuring that we equally pay men and women wherever we operate inthe world is imperative.
The gender pay gap takes Read more about remuneration policy page 90 into account all jobs, at all levels and all salaries within an organisation.
This means the gender pay gap paints a picture Increasing employee engagement ofthe level ofroles that women carry out in an organisation.
Be Heard is our quarterly survey to capture sentiment acrossthe Group on a regular basis.
We assess three areas: In common with many other businesses in our sector, women Say, whether an employee is an advocate for Aggreko: in Aggreko are disproportionally represented in more junior Stay, whether an employee remains loyal and committed verses more senior roles: this will be reflected in our Gender to the business: and Strive, whether an employee does the Pay Gap data.
We have always considered ourselves to be best thatthey can within their team.
The responses can be welcoming of women at all levels and believe that diversity distilleddown into an overall employee engagement score, and inclusion more broadly promotes the inclusion of which for the most recent survey was 75%, up 3% on last year.
different perspectives, which has been proven to deliver Within this, 88%ofpeople said they are proud to work for betterbusiness outcomes.
Diversity and inclusion, and the gender pay gap in particular, are now an area of focus as we acknowledge the need, and desire, to address the imbalance.
We are establishing a team which Read more about employee turnover page 34 will look at diversity on a group-wide basis, determine what changes need to be made and work with the business to Diversity implement them over the next few years.
Our full gender pay gap We are acutely aware that our long-term success depends on disclosure, including the actions we are taking, will be published the people that we attract, retain and develop.
In a diverse and on our website in line with the government guidelines.
competitive world a workforce that reflects the diversity of our Our diversity statistics for 31 December 2017 are below.
customers and the communities in which we operate, together with an inclusive culture, is critical to ensure that we can Gender of Executive Committee deliver a better service for our customers.
% and inclusion including gender, ethnicity, social mobility, Male 7 78% age, religion, disability and sexuality is therefore becoming Female 2 22% increasingly important for us.
We are on a journey to shape theawareness, attitude and behaviour of our people to Since Carole Crans departure and the appointment of Heath Drewett, in January 2018, diversity and inclusion.
our current Executive Committee gender balance is Male 8 89% and Female 1 11%.
Gender of Executive Committee direct reports INVESTING IN THE FUTURE No.
% Male 33 75% It is important that we provide a lasting legacy in the Female 11 25% communities in which we operate.
In the Ivory Coast, closetoour 200 MW gas power station, we worked with We have selected the direct reports of our Executive Committee as we believe this to be a better reflection of our senior management structure than the composition theVridi Canal Group of schools to provide electrical of our subsidiary companies, which is made up of 112 males and 13 females.
expertiseand supplies aspart of their refurbishment.
Gender of permanent employees Our engineers helped train the local school technicians No.
% in how to install lighting, switches and other related equipmentwe donated, along with basic electrical safety Male 4,847 84% skills.
This investment will help secure a better future Female 906 16% forthesechildren, their families and their country.
Nationality diversity of permanent employees No.
Russia 1,813 32% North American 1,045 18% Latin American 919 16% Asian 1,013 18% African 588 10% Australian 301 5% Middle Eastern 74 1% Read more about Board diversity pages 61 and 67 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 31 OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS How we performed Customer Focus, Capital&, Technology Investment and Expert People and  a clear tool tomeasure the delivery ofourstrategic priorities:the remaining financial KPIs aredirectly impactedby thisperformance and are theresulting outcome.
CUSTOMER FOCUS Customer loyalty Customer activity Measure Measure Group Average Power MW on-hire Net Promoter Score NPS.
From 2018 Group average power megawatts MW this will be known as Aggreko Listens.
Historically we have reported 6,613 j The data gathered will be more PowerSolutions Utility order intake 2017 6,613 comprehensive and therefore andoff-hire rate.
This does not represent howwepresent this may change.
the whole Group, only a part of it and 2016 6,571 therefore this year we have changed the Relevance 2015 6,771 metric to better reflect the business mix.
It is important that we understand the 2014 6,621 extent to which we meet our customers Relevance needs.
NPS measures the proportion Average megawatts on-hire across the 2013 6,625 of our customers who think we do an year provides a good measure of the excellent job against those who think activity of the business globally.
It also weare average or worse.
provides a good indicator of how our strategy, sales approach and pricing Target arebeing received in the market.
Sustainable improvements in the NPS over time.
Target Over time we aim to increase the Performance average megawatts on-hire, however The improvement in the year has mainly this cannot be at the expense of been driven by an improvement in price and therefore this KPI should customer feedback in Rental Solutions, always be considered alongside the as the strategic measures we have financial metrics.
Performance During the year we have seen a very Net Promoter Score slight improvement in the average megawatts on-hire, however the chart also shows that over the past 65% j five years this metric has been fairly 2017 65% steady.
This demonstrates the resilience ofourbusiness and the strength of the 2016 63% product and brand.
2015 63% 2014 58% 2013 64% Read more about our Read more about the performance customer initiatives page 24 of the business page 36 32 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION CAPITAL & OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT Capital activity Fleet size and composition Measure Measure Power Solutions: Industrial Utilisation Fleet utilisation by business unit.
Total power fleet size in MW, split between generation type diesel, 68% j Relevance dieselG3, gas, Next Generation Gas We are a capital intensive business and 2017 68% NGG, HFO.
inorder to generate strong returns on 2016 63% ourcapital investment our fleet needs Relevance to be well utilised.
Across our businesses Our strategy is to grow ahead of the 2015 65% we use physical utilisation as a metric market.
To remain competitive we 2014 65% average MW on-hire divided by the haveto offer our customers cheaper totalfleet size in MW.
andcleaner sources of energy that 2013 62% can be adapted to meet their needs.
Target The best way to do this is through more In our Rental Solutions and Power fuel efficient engines and using cheaper Solutions Industrial businesses we are Power Solutions: Utility Utilisation and cleaner fuels where appropriate.
targeting utilisation of between 60-70%, whilst in our Power Solutions Utility Target 74% x business we target over 80%.
Increasing proportions of our market 2017 74% leading products in fuel efficiency, Performance thediesel G3 and Next Generation Gas 2016 79% In 2017 we saw utilisation in our engine, and the introduction of clean RentalSolutions and Power Solutions 2015 77% energy sources such as solar and storage.
Industrial businesses improve as our 2014 76% business priority initiatives helped Performance 2013 74% growour businesses.
We need to see During the year we have refurbished further improvements to meet our more diesel engines to the G3 and targets, but the progress is encouraging.
We have also begun to introduce solar, but this Rental Solutions Utilisation In our Power Solutions Utility business is immaterial in the context of the order intake was slow in the first part overall fleet.
ofthe year, and so utilisation fell.
56% j 2017 56% Power Fleet Composition at 31 December 2017 2016 52% MW 2015 55% 9,920 2014 57% 1 Diesel 64% 71% 5 4 2 Diesel G3 14% 8% 2013 57% 3 3 Gas 18% 18% 4 NGG 3% 2% 5 HFO 2% 1% 2 1 MW 2016 total: 9,666 gures in parentheses Read more about Read more about our Capital & operational efficiency page 27 technology initiatives page 28 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 33
