REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors submit their report which incorporates the management Existence of branches outside the UK report required under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules for The Company has no branches outside of the UK.
listed companies and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 as set out on pages 94 to 139.
In compiling this Share capital report, the directors have consulted with the management of the Group.
Details of the Companys share capital including the rights and obligations attached to each class of shares and the ordinary shares Directors issued during 2017 are summarised in note 17 of the financial The names of the directors in office during the year still in office at the statements.
0.5p ordinary shares represent over 99.9% of the year end, and their biographies and other details, are set out on pages Companys total share capital and 1 9.5% cumulative preference 54 to 55.
John Nicholas and Peter France were directors during the year shares represent less than 0.1% of the Companys total share capital.
and resigned on 24 February 2017 and 27 July 2017, respectively.
There are no securities of the Company carrying special rights with Directors indemnification and insurance regard to the control of the Company.
The Companys articles of association provide for the directors and officers of the Company to be appropriately indemnified, subject to the provisions At the Companys last AGM held on 28 April 2017, the shareholders of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company purchases and maintains authorised the Company to make market purchases of ordinary shares insurance for the directors and officers of the Company in performing their limited to just under approximately 10% of its issued ordinary share duties, as permitted by section 233 Companies Act 2006. capital at that time and of certain issued preference shares, and to allot shares within certain limits approved by shareholders.
These authorities Powers of the directors expire at the 2018 AGM and appropriate renewals will be sought.
As set out in the Companys articles of association, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of The Company did not acquire any of its own shares in 2017. the Company.
The Companys articles of association contain customary restrictions on Appointment and removal of directors the transfer of shares as applicable only in certain limited circumstances The Board may appoint a director, either to fill a vacancy or as an e. g. in relation to transfers to a minor.
Save for those provisions, there additional director.
Any director appointed by the Board must retire are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the at the next AGM of the Company and put themselves forward for Company other than certain restrictions which may be required from re-appointment by the shareholders.
In accordance with the time to time by law, for example, insider trading law.
In accordance with recommendations of the Code, each member of the Board submits the Companys share dealing code, directors and certain employees are them self for re-election on an annual basis.
required to seek the prior approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders In addition to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting 2006, the Company may by ordinary resolution remove any director rights.
The Companys articles of association contain limited restrictions before the expiration of their period of office and may, subject to the on the exercise of voting rights e. g. in relation to disenfranchised articles of association, by ordinary resolution appoint another person shares following the issue of a notice to shareholders under section who is willing to act as a director in their place.
Political donations The Companys share schemes each contain provisions providing voting No political donations were made during the year.
The Group has a rights to the scheme trustee.
policy of not making political donations in any part of the world.
Amendments to the Companys articles of association Dividend The Companys articles of association may only be amended by special The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.35p per ordinary share resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
2016: 3.15p for the year, payable on 23 May 2018 to shareholders on the register on 6 April 2018.
An interim dividend for 2017 of 2.05p per Significant agreements change of control ordinary share 2016: 1.95p was paid on 22 September 2017.
The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Information required in the Report of the Directors set out in Company following a takeover.
There are no agreements between the the Strategic Report Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation Information relating to likely future developments of the Company and for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
its subsidiaries and information relating to research and development activities of the Company and its subsidiaries is set out in the Strategic Greenhouse gas emissions Report on pages 2 to 51.
The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by law are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 48.
Use of financial instruments An explanation of the Group policies on the use of financial instruments Disabled persons and employee involvement and financial risk management objectives are contained in note 26 The disclosures concerning the Groups policies on the employment to the accounts.
of disabled persons and employee involvement are set out on page 38.
Post-balance sheet events Substantial shareholders There have been no important post-balance sheet events.
As at 31 December 2017, the following notifiable interests in issued share capital had been received by the Company under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the UK Listing Authority.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since notified to the Company.
However, notification of any change is not required until an applicable threshold is crossed.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 84 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation Size of Nature of The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that i Identity holding holding are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 4.99% Indirect with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the AXA Investment Managers S. A.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets APG Asset Management NV 5.01% Direct of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Blackrock Inc 4.86% Indirect and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Fiera Capital Corporation 3.92% Direct Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 4.91% Indirect The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. 4.97% Indirect corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
i No changes to the below have been disclosed to the Company in accordance with Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and DTR 5 between the end of the financial year and 5 March 2017. dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Corporate Governance The Companys Corporate Governance Report can be found on Directors responsibility statement pages 56 to 60.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Disclosure of information to auditors The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to performance of the business and the position of the Company and establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Going concern basis of preparation that they face: and After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming business model and strategy.
this view, the directors have considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial commitments, the significant order book with customers Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and spread across different geographic areas and industries and the Transparency Rules significant net cash position.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 54 to 55 confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: Statement of directors responsibility for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable Directors responsibilities set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements Company, together with a description of the principal risks and for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to uncertainties that they face: and prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Annual Report Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the understandable and provide the information necessary for parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model European Union.
Under company law, the directors must not approve and strategies.
the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Properly select and apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that External auditor provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee and approval of the information: Board, a resolution to appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor, and to authorise Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific the directors to determine their remuneration are to be proposed at the requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand forthcoming AGM.
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and On behalf of the Board Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
STEPHEN RHYS JONES Company Secretary 5 March 2018 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 86 overview StrateGic report G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e F Fiin nan anc ciial al S St ta at te em me ent ntS S company inFormation CONTENTS Financial statements 88 Independent auditors report to the members of Rotork plc 94 Consolidated income statement 94 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 95 Consolidated balance sheet 96 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 97 Consolidated statement of cash flows 98 Notes to the Group financial statements 132 Rotork plc Company balance sheet 133 Rotork plc Company statement of changes in equity 134 Notes to the Company financial statements Company information 140 Ten year trading history 141 Share register information 142 Corporate directory ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 87
