Report of the Board Our Board provides leadership inthe development, Our Board leads the Group at the highest implementation and promotion level.
Our principal aim is to continue to of the Groups strategy and, build and preserve long-term value for the monitoring itsimplementation Groups shareholders and other stakeholders on an ongoing basis.
TheBoard while having regard for the interests of ensures that the Companys our workforce, the community and culture and values are aligned environment in which we operate.
with this strategy so that Andrew Griffith Interim Non-executive Chairman consistency can be achieved at all levels within the organisation.
A key part of our role is ensuring that the Group In addition to our Executive Directors, members Further details of hasthe appropriate people, financial and other of senior management are regularly invited to our current Directors resources to achieve these aims.
With our present relevant matters to the Board.
Executive areprovided on pages standing Committees, we also oversee controls, Directors and members ofmanagement may also 46 to 47 risk management and senior remuneration.
We attend and present at Committee meetings, set theframework to develop the cultural tone where appropriate, at the invitation of the for the Group the Group-wide enthusiasm respective Committee Chairman.
which has always been a fundamental part of Directors have the right to request that any our success.
Our aim in this is to maximise value concerns they may have are recorded in the for shareholders and other stakeholders over appropriate Board or Committee minutes although the long-term.
This section of the Corporate no such requests were made in 2017.
Minutes Governance Report summarises therole and are circulated for comment by all Directors activities of our Board and is followed by before being formally approved at the next specific reports from our Nomination, Audit relevant meeting.
Board and Committee meetings Board composition The Board meets regularly throughout the year, both at meetings scheduled as part of its annual Non-independent Executive corporate calendar and other meetings as Non-executive Directors required for specific matters.
At these meetings, Directors it reviews: business performance: operational matters of particular note for theBoard: Total Board strategic considerations: members activities in the Groups industry: 9 potential acquisition opportunities: shareholder communications and feedback: reports of proceedings of Board Committees: and progress against previously agreed actions.
Independent Independent Non-executive Non-executive Directors female Directors male Annual Report & Accounts 2017 48 Corporate governance Key matters considered at each main meeting of the Board during the year included: 2017 February two meetings 1 Consideration of Board changes and decision to April appoint John Hughes asExecutive Chairman.
Review of current Board membership, including Review and approval of 2016 annual results, noting of John Hughes medical condition: including announcement and Annual Report.
appointment of Andrew Griffith as Interim Approval and finalisation of the notice ofAGM, Chairman: and appointment of Paul Harrison including reappointment of Directors as asInterim CEO.
recommended by the Nomination Committee.
Review of UK business detailed presentation Reviews of post-acquisition performance of onthis by UK Managing Director.
Andrew Griffith and Paul Harrison did not participate Review of project and technology intheBoard discussions nor decisions regarding their planningpresented by Chief Product ownappointments.
Review and revision of Non-executive Directorfees.
June two meetings Market and competitor overview from externaladvisers.
July Technology platform update presented by Review of forecast for the second half oftheyear.
Review and approval of half year results.
Approval for the appointment of Peter Plumb Strategy review by Board with presentation from asCEO.
September in Spain December Meeting with and presentations from Spanishmanagement team.
Presentation of first impressions of the business by Peter Plumb as new CEO.
M&A review in context of previous Review of ongoing technology roadmap.
Review of market developments and M&A opportunities.
Review of draft Group budget for 2018. Review and approval of the Tax Strategy for publication on our website.
At every main meeting, the Board also reviews: Report from the CEO, including key developments Investor relations update.
Minutes and actions from previous meetings.
Report from the CFO, including performance of the Confirmation there are no Director conflicts.
Reports from the Board Committees.
Board evaluation commentary on page 63 www.
com 49 Report of the Board continued Membership of the Board This ensures the final conclusions are reached with the At the time of writing, the Board has nine members: support of the Board as a whole.
We believe there is an excellent balance of skills and experience represented on myself, Andrew Griffith, currently Interim Chairman the Board, enabling the effective and successful management aswell as Senior Independent Director: of the Company and its business.
This included the two Executive Directors, Peter Plumb Chief Executive appointment ofa new CEO and new Independent Officer and Paul Harrison Chief Financial Officer : Non-executive Director in 2017.
More recently it also included the appointment of our new Chairman elect.
four other Independent Non-executive Directors, GwynBurr, Alistair Cox, Roisin Donnelly and The Board is confident that its membership is appropriate DiegoOliva:and for this stage in the Groups development and is proactively continuing to pursue Board development, which will be two Non-independent Non-executive Directors, crucial to the future prosperity and direction of the business.
FredericCoorevits, who is nominated by a major shareholder We believe this forward-looking approach is fundamental and has served since before the Companys IPO, and toachieving our long-term strategic goals in the interests David Buttress, who previously served as CEO of the of our shareholders, people and other stakeholders.
For the purposes of assessing compliance with the Support to Directors Code, the Board considers that Gwyn Burr, Alistair Cox, The Directors have unrestricted access to the Groups Roisin Donnelly, Diego Oliva and myself, Andrew Griffith, management and advisers.
They also have the opportunity are independent of management and free from any business tovisit the Companys operations.
When new Directors or other relationship that could materially interfere with the areappointed, they receive a comprehensive induction exercise of their judgement.
Our newly appointed Chairman facilitated by the Company Secretary.
This induction elect, Mike Evans, is also considered by the Board to includes meetings with key members of management, beindependent.
together with briefings on the Groups business, its industry and public company duties generally.
The The diversity of our Directors provides great value to Directors have continuous access to the knowledge and theBoard with a depth and wide range of experience of expertise of senior management and regularly receive both theGroups businesses and of other international theirinput at Board meetings.
These regular interactions businesses, including other publicly listed companies.
develop their depth of knowledge of the business and They bring significant industry expertise which enables alsostrengthen and enhance the relationships between them to make high quality, diverse and relevant contributions the Board and management.
Access to ongoing training to Board discussions.
This enriches debates and allows isalso available to Directors as required for professional carefully considered judgements to be reached, consensus development to refresh their key skills and knowledge, to be arrived at, and informed decisions then taken.
ensuring they are well placed to discharge their duties.
We provide both support and constructive challenge to All Directors also have access to the advice and services management in the review of proposals.
We then monitor ofthe Company Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the performance in the achievement of the aims being Board and each of its Committees.
The Company Secretary targeted over both the shorter and longer terms.
reports to and advises the Board and Committees directly through their Chairman on compliance relevant procedures All our Directors have a deep interest in ensuring the Group and laws and regulations on governance matters.
The achieves its long-term objectives and are collectively Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring there responsible as a Board for this.
They each devote sufficient isgood communication between the Board and its time and focus to their Board duties andresponsibilities, and Committees, senior management and the Non-executive have a shared role in ensuring the successful performance Directors, ensuring that the relevant level of information ofthe Board.
A proper balance of influence has been flows within the organisation.
Directors are also able to established to ensure no one individual, or separate groups take external advice at the expense of the Company, should of people, have unfettered decision-making powers.
All they feel this is necessary.
theNon-executive Directors bring valuable insight to the Boards deliberations and have the opportunity to challenge assumptions and raise concerns at any stage inthe decision-making process.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 50 Corporate governance Role of the Board Key activities of our Board include the following: Agreeing the Groups strategic The Board reviews matters of strategic development of the Groups ongoing importance at each of its main meetings.
brand strategy: aims after considering This is usually done in the context of a recommendations from the the Groups technology and product presentation on a specific matter of Executive Directors.
planning: and strategic interest by a member of senior management.
During 2017, the Board new business opportunities such as the heldan informal strategy meeting with Hungryhouse acquisition.
management and then a more formal Non-executive Directors constructively strategy review with the Executive Team.
challenge matters when they feel In the past year, matters considered appropriate as part of the Board as a haveincluded: whole reaching an overall consensus in its decision-making process.
As a key part the Groups ongoing vision internationally: of its debates, the Board reviews and the ongoing development of both the seeks to identify risks at a strategic level.
customer and restaurant experience: This includes regular reviews of the The Groups Chief People Officer also Aiming to ensure that the Group financial performance and requirements givesregular presentations to the has the necessary financial strength of the Group, presented by the CFO, along Remuneration Committee.
and human resources in place with regular updates from the CEO.
Reviews of the performance of executive Periodically, it also includes presentations management is led by the Nomination from the Chief People Officer on plans Committee with the CEO.
forthe ongoing development of the management team in the context of thegrowth of the Group.
The Board reviews the operational Reviewing Group performance development of the Group and its against the agreed strategy and markets to ensure its strategy remains considering any variations that appropriate.
It then considers and decides may become appropriate to upon any adjustments that may thisstrategy.
Setting the tone as well as The Board leads the Group in a way that This is an important part of ensuring is intended to maximise business thelong-term success of the Group.
oversees implementation of the integrity.
This enables the Groups People Itissupplemented by more detailed Groups values and standards.
and other stakeholders to operate in a reviews of specific areas by the Boards transparent, ethical, as well as standing Committees.
Directors have open and constructive Where appropriate, working with relationships with members of senior the operating management to management who can draw on their assist in the achievement of widebusiness experience outside of, thestrategy.
com 51 Report of the Board continued New Director induction Overview The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, isresponsible for ensuring that new Directors have athorough and appropriate induction.
Each newly appointed Director has participated in a structured induction programme and has received a comprehensive suite of resources providing detailed information on the Group.
Each induction has been based on the individual Directors requirements and included meetings with relevant Directors, senior management and external advisers to ensure that each new Director understands the Companys business, strategy and governance structure.
Objective A global leadership team To provide our new Directors with the resources they need in order to be able to maximise their effectiveness The Board receives regular reports from key in the shortest time practicable.
management on theGroups businesses, and in September, theentire Board visited the Group's Process Spanish operations.
This included allDirectors meeting and receiving presentations from each member ofthe Provision of resources including papers and minutes local senior management team.
Italso included fromprevious Board meetings and key corporate consideration of how the experience being gained in governance policies.
Spain could be morewidely applied across the Group.
Business briefings with the Executive Directors andtheChairman.
Meetings with members ofthe Executive Team andsenior management.
Meetings with external advisers, as appropriate totherole.
Opportunity to visit different Group sites and attend Company events.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 52 Corporate governance Governance calendar for 2017 The overall calendar of meetings of the Board and its Committees for 2017 is shown below: Full report Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Board main meetings p49 Board conference calls p49 Audit Committee p57 Nomination Committee p62 Remuneration Committee p66 AGM Specific calendars for the Board and its Committees are shown in their individual reports within this review.
Attendance at Board meetings The attendance of current Board and Committee members at meetings and calls, as compared with the number ofmeetingsheld: Board attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 1 1 1 Andrew Griffith 100% 2 Peter Plumb 100% Paul Harrison 100% 1 Gwyn Burr 100% 3 David Buttress 100% Frederic Coorevits 100% 4 Alistair Cox 100% Roisin Donnelly 100% Diego Oliva 88% 5 Dr. John Hughes 100% Key: Board eight meetings Remuneration Committee Board or Committee member Director was not invited to attend this 6 sixmeetings not present meeting as it related to his own position Audit Committee Nomination Committee Non-Committee member invited toattend some or all of a meeting three meetings sevenmeetings although not any part of a Remuneration Committee meeting atwhich their own remuneration wasdecided 1.
Appointed to the Board on 18 September 2017.
David Buttress was on leave of absence from 1 April 20179 August 2017.
Appointed to the Board on 2 May 2017.
Passed away on 11 June 2017, but was previously Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee.
Directors do not attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee when the Committee is deciding matters in relation tosuch Directors remuneration.
Where a Director is unable to attend a particular meeting, full documentation for the meeting is issued to them, their views are sought in advance and briefings are provided subsequent to the meeting as appropriate.
All Directors on the Board at that time attended the AGMexcept: John Hughes who was on a medical leave of absence:and David Buttress who was on a leave of absence duetourgent family matters.
com 53 Report of the Board continued Division of responsibilities Whilst the Directors take collective responsibility for the management of the Group, the effective operation of the Board benefits from a clarity of responsibilities.
Key elements of this are set out below: The Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its or its Committees decisions whichinclude: Group strategy, which is internal controls and risk Board structure, composition reviewed by the Board and management, which are reviewed and succession planning, which management regularly during regularly by the Audit Committee: are handled in more detail by the year: the Nomination Committee: accounting policies, which the Groups business plan and arereviewed in detail by the Executive remuneration policy annual operating budget: Audit Committee: and the remuneration of the Chairman, which are determined major investments, acquisitions shareholder communications, by the Remuneration and capital projects, and such as announcements of Committee: and themonitoring of their results, this Annual Report and subsequent performance: the accompanying notice of the remuneration of the AGM to shareholders: Non-executive Directors.
Subject to such reserved matters, and any other matters which the Board determines are appropriate for its specific decision as they arise, authority for the operation of the Group is delegated to executive and other management within a system of defined authority limits.
The matters reserved for the Boards decision are reviewed periodically and updated as considered appropriate as they were in the past year.
Another important aspect of the division of responsibilities in any listed company is between the roles of theChairman and the CEO.
In Just Eat, these roles are separate and distinct except as noted in exceptional circumstances during the past year, with a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company established, agreed and set out in writing: Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director The Chairman is primarily The CEO, together with the CFO, The Senior Independent Director is responsible for managing the has been delegated appropriate available to the other Non-executive Board, facilitating the effective responsibilities and authorities Directors and shareholders, either contribution of all Directors, for the effective leadership of individually orcollectively, should ensuring satisfactory dialogue thesenior management team, the they wish todiscuss matters of with shareholders and that all day-to-day running ofthe concern inan alternative forum.
Board members are aware of the business, carrying outthe agreed views of major shareholders.
strategy and forimplementing specific Boarddecisions relating to theGroups operations.
Standing Board Committees In addition, certain matters have been delegated to three principal Board Committees within clearly defined terms of reference.
These remits, together with the composition of each Committee, are reviewed periodically as they have been in the past year.
The current terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee A summary of the role of the Audit The work of the Nomination A summary of the key matters the Committee is included on page56 Committee is summarised on page61 Remuneration Committee consider isincluded on page66 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 54 Corporate governance Directors tenure as at 5 March 2018 Appointment date IPO April 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Tenure Andrew Griffith 12 03 2014 34 years since IPO Peter Plumb 18 09 2017 01 years Paul Harrison 26 09 2016 12 years Gwyn Burr 12 03 2014 34 years since IPO David Buttress 09 07 2013 4 years since IPO Frederic Coorevits 10 07 2009 4 years since IPO Alistair Cox 02 05 2017 01 years Roisin Donnelly 17 10 2016 12 years Diego Oliva 24 09 2015 23 years Key: Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Shareholder relations Annual General Meeting The Board is committed to ensuring that we maintain All shareholders are encouraged to attend and have the continual dialogue with existing and potential shareholders opportunity to ask questions at the Companys AGM and based on the mutual understanding of the Companys atany other times by contacting the Company.
A comprehensive investor relations astheChairman, the CEO and the CFO, the Chairmen of programme underpins this commitment.
The Board theAudit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees identifies key shareholders to ensure an appropriate level attend theAGM to answer questions relating to the ofcontact is established.
TheChief Executive Officer, responsibilities of those Committees.
theChief Financial Officer andI, in my roleas Interim The notice convening the 2018 AGM, to be held on Chairman, regularly engage with institutional investors 26April2018, will be issued along with this Annual inorder to develop an understanding of their views.
Reportto the shareholders at least 20 working days in Thisfeedback is communicated back to, and discussed advance of the meeting.
This will provide shareholders with, the Board.
The Non-executive Directors use withthe appropriate time, as set out in the Code, to thisinformation to ensure any concerns or issues are consider matters.
Separate resolutions will be proposed understood and, if necessary, addressed appropriately.
The results of the Presentations given to analysts and investors covering proxy votes on each resolution will be collated independently thepreliminary and interim results, along with all results by the Companys registrar and will be published on the and other regulatory announcements as well as further Companys website after the meeting.
information for investors, are included in the investor relations section of the Companys website at www.
Additional shareholder information is also set out on page 148.
Andrew Griffith Shareholders are able to contact the Company through the Interim Non-executive Chairman Company Secretary or Head of Investor Relations at the 5 March 2018 Companys registered office, listed at the end of this report.
Once Mike Evans takes up his role as Chairman, I will again serve as an additional point of contact for shareholders should they feel that any concerns are not being addressed properly and will be contactable through the Company Secretary.
Disclosures in respect of the DTR requirements under DTR7.2.
6 are given in the Directors Report on pages 142 to 145 and are included in this section of the report by reference.
