Strategic review OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model, combining the benefits of global expertise and local service, positions us well to generate sustainable value for our stakeholders.
HOW WE CREATE VALUE We use our unique resources and relationships in our chosen flow control that form our competitive advantage and automation applications OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS WE PROVIDE high quality, technically advanced and Expertise Skilled employees, winning culture With a 60 year history and a wealth of Attracting, developing and retaining outstanding innovative industrial valve long-standing, experienced employees, we offer talented people, many of whom have been with actuation and flow control our customers a superior level of service.
the business for a long time, is key to our success as we aspire to be the employer of choice.
Our equipment, and a superior Innovation open and transparent culture and our values of level of service to support our Our understanding of our customers and the respect, integrity and focus on the customer are markets we serve allows us to continue to develop embedded throughout our business units to customers activities wherever new products and lead the evolution of actuator ensure that our customers receive a consistently they are in the world.
We do and flow control products.
We are focused on high quality service throughout the world.
solutions to reduce the power consumption of our this in a sustainable way with See our people products, improve their efficiency and minimise on page 38 corporate social responsibility their environmental impact in response to our CSR values being entrenched customers requirements.
Strong balance sheet in our business processes.
Brand Our strong net asset position and our ability to Rotork products have a reputation for convert our profits into cash allows us significant technological excellence.
scope for investment in innovation and WE COMPETE in targeted acquisitions to deliver consistent growth and Leading quality and reliability segments of the global flow returns for shareholders.
Our products meet or exceed international control and automation markets technical and performance standards and have a across a variety of industries reputation for quality and reliability.
and geographies where we can command above average margins.
SOURCES OF COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Many of our products are used in critical applications in challenging Broad product portfolio Global operations We have the broadest range of actuators on the Rotorks worldwide geographic base provides a environments and involve the market and a growing range of complementary resilient business portfolio.
Local relationships supply of fundamental resources flow control instruments.
The breadth of our with customers not only means that we have offering ensures we have the appropriate clear sight of value generation in the long term, such as energy, water and power.
product for the widest range of applications but also the ability to recognise customers within a site or a project and can access increased evolving requirements.
Global reach, local presence Independent solutions provider We are able to use our global expertise and Our products sit between the pipeline valve and resources to meet our customers needs, the distributed control system DCS.
We offer delivered through local offices offering local best in class solutions that are independent of technical support and dedicated aftermarket the one stop shop providers with whom our service support.
customers are often in competition.
Diverse end market exposure Capital efficiency Our actuators and flow control products are used Most of our factories receive finished most intensively in the oil and gas, power and components and assemble to order allowing us water markets, but our products are also used in flexibility to react to changing market conditions many other markets.
Wherever fluids or gases are and improving our return on capital.
being moved and the process requires automation, or to contain failsafe controls, actuators and flow control products are required.
Geographic spread The broad geographic spread of our end users reduces the risk of exposure to any particular location or economic area.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 16 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation HOW WE MAXIMISE VALUE to create value for stakeholders Our strategic objectives Shareholders WE SELL through a network We return money to our shareholders of 65 regional offices around through dividends and, through the the world supplying the full execution of our strategy, we grow the value of their investment over time.
These offices are supported by our Employees four divisions which are We provide development opportunities and responsible for product a rewarding place to work and create a safe working environment for our employees.
management, innovation ACCELERATED For more details and manufacturing.
see page 38 GROWTH Suppliers Our suppliers are supported by the procurement of goods and services that we require.
Customers We provide innovative solutions in response to our customers requirements and aftermarket service support.
Communities We support local jobs and skills and STRONG contribute to, and engage positively with, the communities in which we operate.
MARGINS For mor e details see pages 44-45 Governments Through paying taxes in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we support the development of public infrastructure and public services.
Revenue by division n Controls 49% n Fluid Systems 23% SUSTAINABILITY n Gears 13% n Instruments 15% See our divisional r eviews on pages 28-31 See our strategy on pages 14-15 Reinvestment in organic growth and acquisitions ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 17
