CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION G O V ER N A NCE Overview Although 2017 shows another year of earnings per share decline, the underlying business unit results demonstrate significant progress on a number of our strategic priorities.
Both Rental Solutions and Power Solutions Industrial business units reported significant increases in Operating Profits.
However as has been the case for several years, Group Performance has been materially affected by a significant decline in the Power Solutions Utility business, and in 2017 thiswas almost exclusively due to the off-hire and repricing ofour longstanding legacy contracts in Argentina.
The Board believes that the strategic priorities of the Group are totally appropriate and will position Aggreko for a return Ken Hanna to growth.
Chairman Corporate governance reform and considerationof all stakeholders We have paid close attention to the debate on corporate The governance framework put in governance reform in 2017 and will continue to do so, amending our internal policies, procedures and disclosures, place by the Board to support the asguidance is formalised in 2018.
One area of particular delivery of our strategic priorities note isthe move towards asking Boards to improve their isstarting to deliver results.
disclosures in the annual report in relation to stakeholders.
Stakeholders are key to the successful and sustainable development of any business and, without good relationships, we would not have a business to report on.
We also believe that trust in our business and our reputation is driven by how we engage with our stakeholders.
With all of that in mind, we have expanded our usual disclosure to include consideration of a number of other key stakeholders.
We hopethat this new section is useful and informative.
Diversity The Board believes that diversity, both in the Boardroom andthroughout the organisation, is key to our success.
I ampleased to report that 30% of our Board roles are currently held by women 40% prior to Carole Crans departure at the year end.
For the first time, we formalised our approach to Board diversity by adopting a Board diversity policy in December 2017, you can read more about this on page 67.
We do, however, acknowledge that there is more to do to ensure the development of diversity across the organisation.
Diversity and inclusion, and the gender pay gap in particular, are now an area of focus as we acknowledge the need, and desire, to address the imbalance.
We support management intheir efforts to address this by establishing a team which willlook at diversity on a group-wide basis, determine what changes need to be made and work with the business to implement them over thenext few years.
Our full gender pay gap disclosure, including the actions we are taking, will be published on our website in line with the government guidelines.
Talent, development and succession During the year the Board spent considerable time reviewing succession plans for the Executive Committee and their direct reports.
This was a key area of focus arising from the 2016 Board Evaluation Exercise.
I am pleased to report significant progress Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code on the strengthening of our talent management programme Aggreko is committed to maintaining high standards together with the external recruitment of a number of high ofcorporate governance: it is the way we do business potential managers.
anditisatthe core of everything we do.
Summarised on the page opposite and explained in detail throughout this We worked closely with the Nomination Committee to make report, wehave described the key elements which we believe a number of changes to our Board in 2017 and early 2018. are essential for good corporate governance.
We follow the In March 2017, we were delighted to announce the appointments UKCorporate Governance Code the Code, as published by of Barbara Jeremiah and Miles Roberts as Non-executive the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016 and are pleased Directors.
Barbara and Miles undertook comprehensive to report that Aggreko has complied in full with all relevant inductions into the business and the detail on their appointment provisions of the Code throughout the year.
and induction processes were provided in last years report.
56 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Our CFO, Carole Cran, left the business in December 2017 Following the withdrawal of the proposed resolutions relating after 14 years with Aggreko.
The Board and I are extremely to a new Remuneration Policy and Restricted Share Plan at grateful to Carole, her support and dedication to Aggreko our AGM in 2017, fairness and pay has also featured strongly over the years has been outstanding.
Carole was succeeded in the Boards debate this year.
Whilst we were disappointed by HeathDrewett in January 2018.
Heath brings a wealth of to make the decision to withdraw these resolutions, we were experience as a finance professional and his full biography not comfortable with the level of support received from isset out on page 58.
Shareholders and felt we should do better.
The Remuneration Committee has supported this work by reviewing our After nine years with Aggreko, Russell King will retire from remuneration framework and overall policy, going back the Board at our 2018 AGM.
During this time, Russell has to Shareholders to discuss areas of particular concern or served as Chairman of our Remuneration Committee and misunderstanding.
We believe that the new proposed Senior Independent Director.
His experience with Aggreko Remuneration Policy for approval at the 2018 AGM takes has brought stability and oversight and the Board and I are account of those discussions and aligns Aggrekos interests extremely grateful for his service.
I am pleased to announce with those of Shareholders and management.
Further detail that Barbara Jeremiah will succeed Russell as Remuneration onthe proposed Remuneration Policy is on page 76.
Committee Chair and Uwe Krueger will be appointed as Senior Independent Director.
Further detail on both of these Looking ahead to 2018 appointments can be found on page 67.
The Board remains committed to ensuring the highest These appointments bring energy, challenge and oversight standards of corporate governance across the Group in all tothe Board.
aspects of the delivery of our strategic priorities.
I am confident that our people understand fully that how we work is as Board oversight and monitoring important as what we achieve and that, by focussing on our always orange culture and core values, we will deliver on those The Audit Committee has played a key role in ensuring that priorities.
Finally, I would like to thank our employees for their there was appropriate challenge and governance around the dedication and support during 2017. accounting treatment of the decisions taken during the year and ensuring robust risk management, controls and assurance were in place.
Leadership Accountability The Board rigorously challenges strategy, performance, All of our decisions are discussed within the context responsibility and accountability to ensure that every oftherisks involved.
Effective risk management decision we make is of the highest quality.
Read more about Read more about our Leadership page 58 our Accountability page 68 Effectiveness Relations with Shareholders The Board continuously evaluates the balance of Maintaining strong relationships with our Shareholders, skills, experience, knowledge and independence of both private and institutional, is crucial to achieving theDirectors.
We ensure that all new Directors receive our aims.
We hold events throughout the year a tailored inductionprogramme and we scrutinise tomaintain anopen dialogue with our investors.
Read more about Read more about our Effectiveness page 63 our Shareholders and Stakeholder Relations page 74 Remuneration Having a formal and transparent procedure for developingpolicy on remuneration for Executive Directors is crucial.
Our remuneration policy aims to attract, retain andmotivate by linking reward to performance.
Read more about our remuneration page 76 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 57 L E A D E R SH IP Our Board KEN HANNA CHRIS WESTON HEATH DREWETT Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Non-executive Director in October 2010 and January 2015.
Experience Experience Experience Ken has international experience, bringing Chris has experience at a senior level in Heath is an experienced CFOand proven financial and leadership expertise to Aggreko.
the energy industry, proven leadership leader with experience in the engineering, He possesses knowledge of many different skills in a large international business and leisure, transportation and industrial business sectors and is an experienced has consistently succeeded in driving sectors.
He has 28 years of experience senior executive and leader, promoting performanceand growth in his career.
within various finance, corporate finance, robust debate and a culture of openness business performance, financial andstrategic Prior to his appointment as CEO in January 2015, inthe Boardroom.
He has extensive international Chris was Managing Director, International experience in both M&A and corporate Ken is also currently Chairman of Inchcape Plc Downstream at Centrica plc, where he was development activities.
a position he will retire from at their AGM in the Executive Director responsible for the May 2018, Chairman of Arena Events Group Groups largest division.
In this role Chris was Prior to his appointment at Aggreko, Heath Plc, an AIM-listed company, and Chairman operationally responsible for both British was Group Finance Director for eight of Shooting Star CHASE Charity.
Until 2009, Gas in the UK and Direct Energy in the USA.
years at WS Atkins plc where, following Ken spent five years as Chief Financial Officer He joined Centrica in 2001 after a successful the acquisition of WS Atkins by SNCof Cadbury Plc.
He has also held positions career inthetelecoms industry, working for Lavalin, he was most recently appointed as Operating Partner for Compass Partners, both Cable & Wireless and One.
Before that, President, with responsibility for its global Group Chief Executive at Dalgety Plc, Group Chris served in the Royal Artillery.
He has a BSc engineering, design, project and programme Finance Director of UnitedDistillers Plc in Applied Science, as well as an MBA and PhD management business.
Before that, Heath and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe from Imperial College London.
Chris was also worked at British Airways plc within corporate Plc.
He is also a fellow of the Institute of appointed asaNon-executive Director of the strategy, business planning and finance.
Heath is a chartered accountant, having trained at PwC, with a MAin Mathematics from Cambridge University.
RUSSELL KING DAME NICOLA BREWER BARBARA JEREMIAH Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Non-executive Director in February 2009 and February 2016.
Senior Independent Director in April 2014.
Experience Experience Experience Russell brings international experience, Nicola Brewer brings extensive geo-political Barbara brings extensive international Nonacquired across a number of sectors including and diplomatic experience to Aggreko, having executive experience largely in the USA and mining and chemicals, together with strong worked in many of the developing regions Australia together with an executive career in experience in strategy.
the mining, exploration and energy industries.
An experienced Non-executive Director, Nicola is currently Vice Provost at University An experienced Non-executive Director, Russell currently sits on the boards of College London, responsible for international Barbara currently sits on the boards of the Spectris Plc as Senior Independent Director strategy.
She is also a Non-executive Director Weir Group, Russel Metals and Allegheny and Remuneration Committee Chairman of Scottish Power and a trustee of Prince Technologies having recently retired as and Interserve plc as Senior Independent Harrys southern African charity, Sentebale.
Chairwoman of Boart Longyear, a US based Director.
He is also Chairman of Hummingbird In her previous diplomatic career, she worked company in the minerals drilling sector.
Resources plc and a Non-executive Director in Mexico, India and France, was a member Until her retirement in 2009, Barbara spent at BDO LLP.
Prior to this, Russell spent of theForeign and Commonwealth Office over 30 years in a number of roles in Alcoa eightyears at Anglo American Plc, latterly Board from 2004 to 2007, and was High Inc. now demerged into Alcoa and Arconic asChief Strategy Officer and spent 20 years Commissioner to South Africa, Lesotho and Inc., the world leader in the production of insenior roles at ICI.
As a member of aluminium and related products.
Her roles the board of the Department for International in Alcoa included Assistant General Counsel, Russell will retire as Non-executive Director Development, she supervised all UK bilateral VP Corporate Development and Executive VP with effect from the close of the 2018 AGM.
aid programmes in Africa, Asia, Eastern in charge of strategy and M&A.
Barbara is an Europe, the Middle East and Latin America.
American citizen with a BA in political science and is a qualified lawyer.
58 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION KEY TO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Audit Remuneration Nomination Ethics UWE KRUEGER DIANA LAYFIELD PETER KENNERLEY Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Company Secretary Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: February 2015.
Peter is our Group Legal Director & Experience Experience Company Secretary.
Uwe brings expertise of the engineering, services Diana brings extensive international and renewable energy sectors.
He is a physicist experience and detailed understanding of Further details appear on page 60. with a PhD and an honorary professorship how to operate successfully across emerging from the University of Frankfurt and an markets, particularly in Asia and Africa.
honorary PhD from Heriot-Watt University.
She also brings experience in technology, Other Directors who served during 2017: Most of his career has been spent leading finance, sales and strategy.
Diana is Vice President, Next Billion Users at CAROLE CRAN Uwe is currently Global Senior Managing Google Inc, developing products and services Chief Financial Officer Director, Head of Business Services and for users in emerging markets, and in Fintech.
Co-Head of Portfolio Management for Before joining Google, she was Chief Executive, until 31 December 2017.
He also sits on the boards of Africa Region for Standard Chartered Plc SUSIPartners AG and Ontex S. A. and lectures and held a number of senior leadership at the University of Frankfurt on renewable roles over 11 years at Standard Chartered.
Before joining Temasek, Uwe was Prior to Standard Chartered, Diana was Chief Chief Executive Officer of WS Atkins plc, Executive Officer of Finexia Ltd, a technology Board % ChiefExecutive Officer of Oerlikon, Senior Name of Director meetings attended firm, and a consultant with McKinsey & Co, Advisor at Texas Pacific Group, President an international strategy consulting firm.
A B of Cleantech Switzerland, and held various Diana has a BA from the University of Oxford seniorleadership positions at Hochtief AG.
Ken Hanna 6 6 100 and a Masters degree in International Economics and PublicAdministration Chris Weston 6 6 100 Uwe will be appointed as Senior Independent fromHarvard University.
Director, following Russell Kings retirement Carole Cran 6 6 100 atthe 2018 AGM.
Nicola Brewer 6 6 100 1 Barbara Jeremiah 5 5 100 Russell King 6 6 100 2 Uwe Krueger 6 5 83 Diana Layfield 6 6 100 Ian Marchant 6 6 100 3 Miles Roberts 5 4 80 A maximum number of meetings Director could have attended.
B actual number of meetings Director attended.
1 Barbara Jeremiah joined the Board in March 2017.
IAN MARCHANT MILES ROBERTS 2 Uwe Kruger was unable to attend the June 2017 meeting owing to a pre-existing arrangement.
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director 3 Miles Roberts joined the Board in March 2017 and at the time of his appointment, advised that he would be unable Appointed: Appointed: to attend the July 2017 meeting.
Experience Experience Ian brings knowledge of the domestic and Miles brings extensive international business international energy markets, along with experience both as a Chief Executive and a substantial understanding of associated Finance Director.
strategic, financial and regulatory issues.
Miles is currently Chief Executive Officer Until his retirement in June 2013, Ian spent of DSSmith Plc, a FTSE 100 international 21 years at SSE Plc, most recently as Chief packaging group with operations in nearly Executive, and prior to that as Finance Director.
Prior to joining DS Smith Plc Ian is an experienced Non-executive Director, in 2010, Miles was Group Chief Executive currently serving as Chairman of John of McBride plc having previously been Wood Group Plc and Chairman of Thames Group Finance Director.
Prior to this, Miles Water Utilities.
He is also a Member of the worked for Costain Group plc and Vivendi Princes Council of the Duchy of Cornwall, UK.
He also has non-executive experience, Honorary President of RZSS, Chairman of having served on the boards of Poundland the advisory board of the Centre of Energy Group plc as Senior Independent Director Policy at Strathclyde University and former and Care UK plc as a Non-executive Director.
Miles has a degree in Engineering and is alsoachartered accountant.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 59 L E A D E R SH IP Our Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets every month and operates underthe direction and authority of the Chief Executive Officer: itisresponsible for supporting him inall aspects of his role.
Eachofthe principal risks and uncertainties outlined in the StrategicReport has been individually assigned to a member oftheExecutive Committee.
At least twice a year, theExecutive Committee members meet as the Group Risk Committee to review the risks: this helps to embed our riskmanagement processes within our management teams.
1 4 6 8 CHRIS WESTON ANNA FILIPOPOULOS PETER KENNERLEY BRUCE POOL Chief Executive Officer Group Human Group Legal Director & President, Resources Director Company Secretary Rental Solutions Appointed: January 2015.
Anna has responsibility for Peter has overall responsibility Bruce has responsibility human resources and internal for the management of for the leadership of the communications, focusing legal and ethical risk and for Rental Solutions business 2 HEATH DREWETT on talent and leadership supporting the Board in setting overseeing the delivery of Chief Financial Officer development, employee and maintaining standards our strategic priorities within engagement and culture.
Tenure with Aggreko: less than 5 7 9 DAN IBBETSON GRANT NAIRN VOLKER SCHULTE 1 year.
Managing Director, Group Chief Group Manufacturing and Full biography appears on Global Solutions Information Officer Technology Director page58.
3 STEPHEN BEYNON Tenure with Aggreko: 10 years.
Managing Director, Dan has responsibility for Grant has responsibility for Volker is responsible for global the leadership of our Global developing and implementing engineering and technology, Power Solutions Solutions business.
This includes Aggrekos digital platform with including our newly acquired Appointed: May 2017. global business development, the goal of improving customer battery storage and software Tenure with Aggreko: less than account management and service and efficiency.
He is also capability, manufacturing, 1 year.
M&A coordination, providing responsible for building our product management and a criticalfocus on securing advanced analytics capability strategy, as well as our digital Stephen has responsibility growth and maximising and for cyber security.
and data strategy for serving for the leadership of the opportunities into the future.
our fleet of assets with the aim Power Solutions business of delivering market leading andoverseeing the delivery products to our customers.
ofour strategic priorities withinPower Solutions.
9 8 5 1 6 3 2 4 7 60 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Diversity metrics BOARD COMPOSITION AND ROLES AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Executive Independent Non-executive composition of Board Sector experience of Board No.
% Customer 1 Executive 2 22% 90% 1 2 Non-executive 7 78% As required by Code provision B.
1.2, this Finance calculation excludes the Chairman when 50% looking at the Independent Non-executive composition of the Board.
2 Energy 70% Gender of Board Geo-politics diplomacy No.
% 20% 1 Male 6 60% 2 Female 4 40% 2 Operational Since Carole Crans departure and appointment of Heath Drewett, in January2018, our current 70% 1 Board gender balance isMale7 70% and Female 3 30%.
Technology 20% Tenure of Non-executive Directors Independence of Directors The Board reviews the independence of its Non-executive No.
% Directors as part of its annual Board effectiveness review.
3 1 0-3 years 4 57% TheChairman is committed to ensuring the Board comprises a majority of independent Non-executive Directors who 2 3-6 years 2 29% objectively challenge management, balanced against the 3 6-9 years 1 14% continuity on the Board.
The Board considers that all of the 1 2 Non-executive Directors bring strong independent oversight and continue to demonstrate independence.
HOW WE DIVIDE UP OUR RESPONSIBILITIES Chairman Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance.
Setting the agenda to take full account of the issues and concerns of the Directors and ensuringthe links between the Shareholders, Board and management are strong.
Chief Executive Officer Responsible for the day-to-day leadership, management, HSE statement and controlof the Group, for recommending the Group strategy to the Board and ensuring that thestrategy and decisions of the Board are implemented via the Executive Committee.
Chief Financial Officer Responsible for the day-to-day management of the financial risks of the Group and providing general support to the Chief Executive Officer including the operational performance of the business and chairing the Group Risk Committee.
Senior Independent Director Provides a sounding board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary for the otherDirectors when necessary and is available to meet with Shareholders.
Independent Non-executive Directors Constructively challenge the Executive Directors and monitor the delivery of theGroupstrategy within the risk and control environment set by the Board.
Company Secretary Supports the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and is available to all Directors foradvice and support.
Informs the Board and Committees on governance matters and is responsible for development of corporate governance policies.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 61 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Role of the Board and Committees The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the To retain control of key decisions, the Board has a schedule Group.
It sets our strategy and oversees its implementation, ofmatters reserved for the Board that only it can approve, ensuring decisions made reflect our risk appetite.
It provides withother matters, responsibilities and authorities delegated leadership and direction and has responsibility for corporate toits Committees.
governance and the overall financial performance of the Group.
The Board issupported in this role by its principal Committees, outlined inthe table below.
Read our Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board: www.
com Board A UD I T R E M U N ER A T ION NOM I N A T ION E T HI C S C O MMI T T E E C O MMI T T E E C O MMI T T E E C O MMI T T E E Ensures the integrity Determines the Monitors and reviews Monitors compliance of Aggrekos financial remuneration for the the composition and with, and oversees the statements, the Chairman, Executive balance of the Board effectiveness of, our ethical relationship with the Directors and the Executive and its Committees to policies and procedures external auditor, internal Committee members ensure Aggreko has the to ensure that Aggreko auditor and provides and oversees Aggrekos right structure, skills and conducts its business with oversight of oursystems overall remuneration experience in place for the integrity and honesty and for internal control and policy, strategy effective management in accordance with the law.
Committee report Committee report Committee report Committee report page 68 page 76 page 66 page 72 CEO D I S C LOS U RE F I N A NCE A L L O TM E NT E X E C UTI V E GROUP RISK C O MMI T T E E C O MMI T T E E C O MMI T T E E C O MMI T T E E C O MMI T T E E Overseas compliance Responsible for Responsible for the Operates under Responsible for the with Market Abuse approving financial allotment of shares.
the direction and implementation of Regulation and facilities, bonds authority of the CEO our risk framework, supports the Board and guarantees.
and is responsiblefor and processes for in approving the supporting the risk reporting.
final form of any CEOinall aspects announcement or ofhis role.
statement relating tothe performance ofthe Group, or any other potentially price sensitive information.
KEY TO COMMITTEES Board Non-Board 62 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION E F F E C TI V E N E SS Board meetings in 2017 BOARD MEETINGS Jan 17 Feb 17 Mar 17 Apr 17 May 17 Jun 17 Jul 17 Aug 17 Sep 17 Oct 17 Nov 17 Dec 17 In 2017, the Board held six scheduled meetings.
At each The CFO on the performance of the business, capital scheduled meeting the Board received reports from: structure, fleet, budget, treasury and investor relations.
The CEO on strategic, operational and business The Chairmen of each of the Board Committees on developments, people and health and safety.
This report mattersdiscussed at their meetings.
is a particularly important tool, focussing on the key issues The Board also received reports on our ethics compliance affecting the business, so that the Board really understands framework and new technology and product updates.
IN ADDITION TO THE REGULAR ITEMS, THE KEY AREAS OF FOCUS WERE: Topic Activity Discussion Actions arising Progress Strategy Monitor progress Held a one day strategy review session to discuss current thinking, progress against our anddevelopments: strategicpriorities Reviewed our Group strategy for the next five years.
of technology Examined the impact of general rental companies on our Rental Solutions business investment, inNorth America.
customer focus, capital and Looked at the sustainability of our order pipeline in Power Solutions utility and operational industrial sectors.
efficiency and Analysed the likely impact of new technology on our core markets, including expert people renewables anddistributed energy.
Received a detailed update on technology and operations.
Monitored the roll out and performance of field trials and pilot sites for newtechnology.
Reviewed progress against our digital technology strategy, looking at CRM, cyber security and site performance management.
Received detailed updates on strategic initiatives in the Rental Solutions and PowerSolutions businesses.
Monitored the integration of Younicos into Aggreko to ensure an effective operating model and engagement of Younicos employees.
Approved the creation of a standalone business unit, Global Solutions.
Global Solutions is responsible for smaller product lines common across the Group, such as renewables and storage offering, as well as power adjacencies such as temperature control and loadbanks.
Global Solutions is also responsible for global account management for larger customers, replicating solutions, savings and sharing learnings, across geography and sectors, whilst delivering growth and a better customer experience.
Monitor Reviewed a number of opportunities in 2017. opportunities Approved the acquisition of Younicos, a global market leader in the development foracquisitions anddeployment of integrated energy systems, based on battery storage.
 our position and is in line with our strategy to investintechnology in orderto reduce the cost of energy for our customers.
Approved the acquisition of KBT, an Indonesia-based power rental company.
Thisacquisition strengthened our relationship with PLN, the local utility company inIndonesia, adding 200 MW to the 140 MW Aggreko had already contracted.
Approved the acquisition of TuCo Industrial Products, a North American specialist provider of heat and air conditioning equipment to the construction, industrial, commercial and special events industries.
Strengthening our business in these sectors.
Read more about our Business Priorities page 14 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 63
