Lucinda Bell Executive Chairman Finance Director Non-Executive Director EXPERIENCE Martin has extensive experience Jonathan joined Rotork in Lucinda was Chief Financial in the global engineering 2002 after holding a number Officer of the British Land sector.
He worked for IMI plc of finance positions in listed Company PLC until January for over 33 years in a number companies.
She served on the board of senior management roles, experience of the Rotork of British Land from 2011 and joining the Board in 1996, and business initially as Group has held a range of finance roles serving as Chief Executive from Financial Controller, and then as in the real estate industry.
He has served Finance Director of the Rotork on the boards of a number of Controls division, and in 2010 engineering businesses in a nonwas appointed Group Finance executive capacity, both in the Director.
public and private equity arena.
APPOINTED 2014 2010 2014 TO THE BOARD Chairman of Evoqua Water EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Technologies Corp Member of the European Advisory Board of AEA Investors UK Ltd COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Nomination Audit Remuneration Denotes Chair of Committee ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 54 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation 4.
Kevin Hostetler Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Executive Director Gary previously held senior Peter is the Chief Executive Officer Sally was appointed as Senior Most recently Kevin was the CEO management positions, including of international waste-to-product Independent Director of Rotork of FDH Velocitel, a private equity sales and marketing roles, at company Renewi plc formerly plc on 27 February 2017.
Sally backed telecommunications and IBM and BT Group plc and was Shanks Group plc.
Peter has an previously held senior legal roles engineering consulting business in a non-executive director of engineering background and in investment banking in London the USA.
Prior to this, Kevin was Chloride Group plc.
Gary held before joining Shanks Group, he and Chicago, including Managing an executive advisor to private the position of President Logica was a senior executive at Danaher Director and EMEA General equity firms.
His roles included UK until October 2012 and Corporation, a leading global Counsel for UBS Investment CEO of a speciality private valve was a member of the Executive industrial business listed on the Bank.
She has also held the manufacturer and executive Committee of Logica plc.
Prior to Danaher, Peter position of Bursar of Corpus chairman of an engineered highspent seven years at the Boston Christi College, Cambridge.
From Consulting Group BCG based 2005 to 2012, Kevin was in various in both London and Chicago, senior executive roles at IDEX working primarily with industrial Corporation, including leading and pharmaceutical clients.
their Asia and Emerging Markets businesses.
From 1997 to 2004, he held a number of leadership positions and senior strategic and business development roles at Ingersoll Rand.
2012 2010 2017 2018 Founder and CEO of Catquin Ltd CEO of Renewi plc Non-executive director of Moneysupermarket.
com Chairman of New Model Group PLC Identity Ltd Non-executive director of Bank of Non-executive director of America Merrill Lynch International Spirent Communications plc Non-executive director of Hermes Non-Executive Chairman of Investment Management Gooch & Housego PLC Trustee of Legal Education Foundation ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 55
