Strategic review OUR STRATEGY In order to accelerate growth and return to higher margin levels we are engaged in a strategy review of our routes to market, innovation funnel, operations footprint, supply chain, talent development and IT systems.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES STRATEGIC INITIATIVES PROGRESS IN 2017 HOW WE MEASURE PROGRESS FOCUS FOR 2018 LINK TO RISKS Sales growth Deliver profitable sales We delivered revenue growth of 8.8% and The Board has ambitions to return the Increased competition on price or product ACCELERATED GROWTH growth by leveraging our product have seen a gradual increase in the level of business to higher growth and margin levels.
offering leading to a loss of sales globally or Deliver accelerated year-on-year growth in portfolio, reputation for reliability and project activity.
We are currently reviewing our routes to revenues and profits through a our customer relationships.
We have introduced a number of new, market, including our sales channels and A decline in government and private sector combination of organic growth and Innovation Invest in the development of intelligent products such as a smart position sales coverage.
confidence and spending will lead to acquisition.
new technologies that enhance performance indicator and fugitive emissions monitoring.
cancellations of expected projects or delays We are also reviewing our innovation Maximise our return on capital through for our customers.
We increased the number of service engineers funnel and the need for additional optimising manufacturing and supply Service growth Further develop our by 10% and the number of actuators under a investment in new product development Increasing social and political instability chain processes.
aftermarket service capability and maintenance agreement increased by 8%.
in response to changing market drivers and results in both disruption and increased coverage including the Client Support customer needs.
protectionism in key geographic markets.
We continued to pursue a number of Programme CSP.
acquisition opportunities, however none were We expect to expand our service activity Major in field failure of a new or existing Acquisitions Consider growth by considered appropriate.
both in terms of coverage and capability.
Rotork product potentially leading to a acquisition to expand into new geographic product recall, major on-site warranty Acquisitions will be considered where markets, market sectors or new products.
programme or the loss of an existing or appropriate to supplement our capability potential customer.
and support the above plans for growth.
Failure of an acquisition to deliver the growth or synergies anticipated, either due to unforeseen changes in market conditions, or failure to integrate an acquisition effectively.
Manufacturing excellence Consolidate We consolidated two sites into one in Italy.
Continue to develop high added value, Volatility of exchange rates would impact STRONG MARGINS operations and develop efficient, effective We have developed plans for a new differentiated products for mission Rotorks reported results and competitive Maintain strong and sustainable margins world-class manufacturing facilities.
manufacturing facility and global critical applications.
through our market-leading position and headquarters in Bath, UK.
Cost management Continued cost We are currently carrying out a review of Failure of a key supplier or tooling failure at a innovative products and services.
management, reflecting current market We delivered annualised cost savings of our operations.
We aim to optimise the supplier causing disruption to manufacturing condition and development of the global 5.2m in 2017 from sourcing initiatives.
manufacturing footprint, better leverage at a Rotork factory.
our global supply chain, simplify the We completed the successful go live of the Failure to provide, maintain and update organisational structure and accelerate Global business systems Develop and rollout first Microsoft Dynamics AX manufacturing the systems and infrastructure required the introduction of new systems.
our global business systems to enable more site in Bergamo, Italy.
We have paused the rollout of our global Failure to protect Rotork operations, sensitive business system while this exercise is or commercial data, technical specifications underway, however we expect this to be and financial information from cyber-crime.
a key enabler of future growth once the review is finalised.
Positive customer experience Enhance our We maintained our focus on our customers As noted above, we are engaged in a review The nature of Rotorks core business and SUSTAINABILITY customer facing processes to reflect current having a positive experience, focusing on of our routes to market which will include geographical locations involves potential Maintain our track record of strong cash market requirements.
response times and providing the appropriate our approach to key account management risks to the health and safety of our generation to strengthen our balance sheet level of support.
Our aftermarket service team and how we best service our customers employees and other stakeholders.
Employee development Invest to support and ensure we have sufficient resources for assists customers in resolving any issues as requirements.
our growth strategy and promote diversity Failure of our staff or third parties who we investment in innovation and acquisitions.
and inclusion throughout the Group.
As one of the enablers of our programme for do business with to comply with law or Be the supplier of choice for our customers, In addition to continuing to develop our accelerating growth we have commenced a regulation or to uphold our high ethical CSR Communicate best practice throughout sustaining our revenue streams.
global sales training programmes, we initiated talent development review to assist us in standards and values.
the Group, training those responsible and, a gender diversity project during the year and formulating personal development plans.
Be the employer of choice, developing and where appropriate, verifying adoption in Failure to recruit and retain the talented commenced implementation of a new global We are also reviewing current and future retaining our talented employees.
staff needed to deliver to our core HR information system.
We are in the process Group training needs.
of recruiting a new Group HR director.
We will continue to drive safety improvement UK defined benefit pension scheme deficit Our CSR sub-committees continued to and deliver the CSR strategy.
The CSR Report can be volatile due to changes in financial promote improvements in health and safety, is on pages 38 to 51 of this report.
assumptions which might lead to a monitor initiatives to reduce CO emissions, 2 requirement for the Company to increase provide training on ethical behaviour and our cash contributions to the schemes.
employees gave their time and money to many charities around the world.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 14 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES STRATEGIC INITIATIVES PROGRESS IN 2017 HOW WE MEASURE PROGRESS FOCUS FOR 2018 LINK TO RISKS Sales growth Deliver profitable sales We delivered revenue growth of 8.8% and The Board has ambitions to return the Increased competition on price or product ACCELERATED GROWTH Sales revenue growth growth by leveraging our product have seen a gradual increase in the level of business to higher growth and margin levels.
We have introduced a number of new, market, including our sales channels and A decline in government and private sector combination of organic growth and 8.8% Innovation Invest in the development of intelligent products such as a smart position sales coverage.
cancellations of expected projects or delays 17 8.8% We are also reviewing our innovation Maximise our return on capital through for our customers.
We increased the number of service engineers funnel and the need for additional 16 8.0% optimising manufacturing and supply Service growth Further develop our by 10% and the number of actuators under a investment in new product development Increasing social and political instability chain processes.
Return on capital employed We continued to pursue a number of Programme CSP.
Rotork product potentially leading to a acquisition to expand into new geographic 24.9% product recall, major on-site warranty Acquisitions will be considered where markets, market sectors or new products.
programme or the loss of an existing or appropriate to supplement our capability 17 24.9% potential customer.
Failure of an acquisition to deliver the growth 16 23.4% or synergies anticipated, either due to unforeseen changes in market conditions, or failure to integrate an acquisition effectively.
Continue to develop high added value, Volatility of exchange rates would impact STRONG MARGINS Return on sales operations and develop efficient, effective We have developed plans for a new differentiated products for mission Rotorks reported results and competitive Maintain strong and sustainable margins world-class manufacturing facilities.
Cost management Continued cost We are currently carrying out a review of Failure of a key supplier or tooling failure at a 19.4% innovative products and services.
17 19.4% manufacturing footprint, better leverage at a Rotork factory.
our global supply chain, simplify the We completed the successful go live of the Failure to provide, maintain and update 16 20.0% organisational structure and accelerate Global business systems Develop and rollout first Microsoft Dynamics AX manufacturing the systems and infrastructure required the introduction of new systems.
We have paused the rollout of our global Earnings per share growth Failure to protect Rotork operations, sensitive business system while this exercise is or commercial data, technical specifications underway, however we expect this to be and financial information from cyber-crime.
a key enabler of future growth once the 6.0% review is finalised.
17 6.0% -3.8% 16 Positive customer experience Enhance our We maintained our focus on our customers As noted above, we are engaged in a review The nature of Rotorks core business and SUSTAINABILITY Cash conversion Employee satisfaction customer facing processes to reflect current having a positive experience, focusing on of our routes to market which will include geographical locations involves potential Maintain our track record of strong cash market requirements.
Employee development Invest to support and ensure we have sufficient resources for 109.1% N A assists customers in resolving any issues as requirements.
As one of the enablers of our programme for do business with to comply with law or 17 109.1% 17 n a Be the supplier of choice for our customers, In addition to continuing to develop our accelerating growth we have commenced a regulation or to uphold our high ethical CSR Communicate best practice throughout sustaining our revenue streams.
16 130.1% 16 3.6 global sales training programmes, we initiated talent development review to assist us in standards and values.
staff needed to deliver to our core Lost time injury rate Carbon emissions HR information system.
The CSR Report can be volatile due to changes in financial 0.24 -23.3% promote improvements in health and safety, is on pages 38 to 51 of this report.
assumptions which might lead to a monitor initiatives to reduce CO emissions, 17 0.24 17 19.2 tnco e 2 requirement for the Company to increase 2 provide training on ethical behaviour and our cash contributions to the schemes.
16 0.36 16 25.0 tnco e employees gave their time and money to 2 many charities around the world.
See full key performance indicators and definitions See full risks and uncertainties on pages 36-37 on pages 22-25 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 15
