Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 198 Other Statutory Information Other Statutory Information Share capital Share class rights On 31 December 2017 the Companys issued share capital The full share class rights are set out in the Companys Articles comprised of: ofAssociation Articles, which are available at www.
The rights are summarised below.
1,840,597,108 Ordinary shares 20p each 28,429,035,421 C Shares 1p each Ordinary shares 1 Special Share 1 Each member has one vote for each ordinary share held.
Holders ofordinary shares are entitled to: receive the Companys Annual The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Report: attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: appoint one or more proxies or, if they are corporations, corporate representatives: and exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary Payment to shareholders shares may receive a bonus issue of C Shares or a dividend and The Company issues non-cumulative redeemable preference shares on liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
C Shares as an alternative to paying a cash dividend.
Shareholders can choose to: C Shares C Shares have limited voting rights and attract a preferential redeem all C Shares for cash: dividend of 75% ofLIBOR on the 0.1p nominal value of each share, redeem all C Shares for cash and reinvest the proceeds in the paid on a twice-yearly basis.
The Company has the option to CShare Reinvestment Plan CRIP : or redeem the CShares compulsorily, at any time if: the aggregate keep the C Shares.
number of CShares inissue is less than 10% of the aggregate number of all CShares issued on or prior to that time or the event The CRIP is operated by Computershare Investor Services PLC of a capital restructuring of theCompany: the introduction of a new theRegistrar.
The Registrar will purchase ordinary shares in the holding company: the acquisition of the Company by another market for shareholders electing to reinvest their C Share proceeds.
company: or a demerger from the Group.
Shareholders wishing to participate in the CRIP or redeem their CShares in July 2018 must ensure that their instructions are lodged On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of CShares with the Registrar no later than 5.00pm BST on 1 June 2018 CREST shall be entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of holders must submit their election in CREST before 3.00pm BST ordinary shares, to the repayment of the nominal capital paid-up or on 1June2018.
Redemption will take place on 5 July 2017. credited as paid-up on the C Shares held by them, together with a sum equal to the outstanding preferential dividend which will have At the 2018 AGM, the Directors will recommend an issue of 71 been accrued but not been paid until the date of return of capital.
CShares with a total nominal value of 7.1p for each ordinary share.
TheCShares will be issued on 2 July 2018 to shareholders on the The holders of C Shares are only entitled to attend, speak and vote register on 27 April 2018 and the final day of trading with entitlement ata general meeting if a resolution to wind up the Company is to toCShares is 25 April 2018.
Together with the interim issue be considered, in which case they may vote only on that resolution.
on3January 2018 of 46 C Shares for each ordinary share with atotal nominal value of 4.6p, this is the equivalent of a total annual payment to ordinary shareholders of 11.7p for each ordinaryshare.
Further information for shareholders is on pages 202 and 203.
OTHER INFORMATION Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 199 Other Statutory Information Special Share Authority to issue shares Certain rights attach to the special rights non-voting share At the AGM in 2017, authority was given to the Directors to allot SpecialShare issued to the UK Secretary of State for Business, new C Shares up to a nominal value of 500m as an alternative Energy & Industrial Strategy Special Shareholder.
These rights are to a cash dividend.
Subject to the provisions ofthe Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Treasury Solicitor may redeem the Special In addition, a special resolution was passed authorising the Share at par value at any time.
The Special Share confers no rights Directors to allot new ordinary shares up to a nominal value to dividends but in the event of a winding-up it shall be repaid at of 122,588,225 equivalent to one-third of the issued share capital itsnominal value in priority to any other shares.
This resolution also authorised the Directors to allot up to two thirds of the total issued share capital of the Certain Articles in particular those relating to the foreign Company, but only in the case of a rights issue.
shareholding limit, disposals and the nationality of the Companys Directors that relate to the rights attached to the Special Share A further special resolution was passed to effect a disapplication may only be altered with the consent of the Special Shareholder.
of pre-emption rights for a maximum of 5% of the issued share The Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general capital of the Company.
meeting orany other meeting of any class of shareholders.
These authorities are valid until the AGM in 2018, and the Directors propose to renew each of them at that AGM.
The Board believes Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations that these authorities will allow the Company to retain flexibility onholdings to respond to circumstances and opportunities as they arise.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding ofthe ordinary shares or C Shares other than under the Articles asdescribed here, under restrictions imposed by law or regulation Authority to purchase own shares for example, insider trading laws or pursuant to the Companys At the AGM in 2017, the Company was authorised by shareholders share dealing code.
The Articles provide that the Company should to purchase up to 183,882,337 of its own ordinary shares beand remain under UK control.
As such, an individual foreign representing 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
shareholding limit is set at 15% of the aggregate votes attaching tothe share capital of all classes taken as a whole and capable The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires ofbeing cast on a poll and to all other shares that the Directors at the conclusion of the AGM in 2018 or 15 months from 4 May 2017, determine are to be included in the calculation of that holding.
A resolution to renew it will be proposed TheSpecial Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred at the 2018 meeting.
tothe Special Shareholder or his successor or nominee.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Shareholder agreements and consent requirements The Company and Bradley Singer are party to a relationship Electronic and paper proxy appointments, and voting instructions, agreement with ValueAct a summary of which can be found at must be received by the Registrar not less than 48 hours before a www.
The agreement will expire on 3 May 2018 general meeting.
but will be replaced with a new agreement covering treatment of confidential information and conflicts of interest only.
Voting rights for employee share plan shares No disposal may be made to a non-Group member which, alone or when aggregated with thesame or a connected transaction, Shares are held in an employee benefit trust for the purpose of constitutes a disposal of the whole or a material part ofeither the satisfying awards made under the various employee share plans.
nuclear propulsion business or the assets of the Group as a whole, For shares held in a nominee capacity or if plan trust rules provide without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
the participant with the right to vote in respect of specifically allocated shares, the trustee votes in line with the participants instructions.
For shares that are not held absolutely on behalf of specific individuals, the general policy of the trustees, in accordance with investor protection guidelines, is to abstain from voting in respect of those shares.
Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 200 Other Statutory Information Change of control Major shareholdings At 6 March 2018 the following shareholders had notified an interest Contracts and joint venture agreements in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance There are a number of contracts and joint venture agreements with the DTR.
which would allow the counterparties to terminate or alter those arrangements in the event of a change of control of the Company.
% of issued ordinary Shareholder Date notified share capital These arrangements are commercially confidential and their disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. 1 February 2018 10.94 The Capital Group Borrowings and other financial instruments Companies, Inc. 13 October 2017 5.07 The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various banks.
These facilities generally include provisions which Credit Suisse Group AG 3 May 2017 3.91 may require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the alteration or termination of the facility upon the occurrence of a change of control of the Company.
At 31 December 2017, Directors these facilities were less than 22% drawn 2016: 15%.
The names of the Directors who held office during the year are The Group has entered into a series of financial instruments set out on page 70. to hedge its currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.
These contracts provide for termination or alteration in the event that a change of control of the Company materially weakens the Disclosures in the Strategic Report creditworthiness of the Group.
The Board has taken advantage of Section 414C 11 of the Act to include disclosures in the Strategic Report including: Employee share plans employee involvement: In the event of a change of control of the Company, the effect the future development, performance and position oftheGroup: on the employee share plans would be as follows: the financial position of the Group: PSP awards would vest pro rata to service in the performance R&D activities: and period, subject to Remuneration Committee judgement of the principal risks and uncertainties.
APRA deferred shares the shares would be released from Political donations trust immediately.
The Groups policy is not to make political donations and therefore Sharesave options would become exercisable immediately.
did not donate any money to any political party during the year.
The new controlling company might offer an equivalent option However, it is possible that certain activities undertaken by the in exchange for cancellation of the existing option.
Group may unintentionally fall within the broad scope of the Share Incentive Plan SIP consideration received as shares provisions contained in the Act.
Theresolution to be proposed at the would be held within the SIP, if possible, otherwise the AGM, authorising political donations and expenditure, is to ensure consideration would be treated as a disposal from the SIP.
that the Group does not commit any technical breach of the Act.
LTIP awards would vest on the change of control, subject to During the year, expenses incurred by Rolls-Royce North America, the Remuneration Committees judgement of performance Inc. in providing administrative support for the Rolls-Royce and may be reduced pro rata to service in the vesting period.
NorthAmerica political action committee PAC was US$118,104 Any applicable holding period will cease in the event of a 2016: US$42,742.
PACs are a common feature of the USpolitical change in control.
system and are governed by the Federal Election CampaignAct.
The PAC is independent of the Group and independent of any political party.
The PAC funds are contributed voluntarily by employees and the Group cannot affect how they are applied, although under US law, the business expenses are paid by the employees company.
Such contributions do not count towards the limits for political donations and expenditure forwhich shareholder approval will be sought at this years AGM torenew the authority given at the 2017 AGM.
OTHER INFORMATION Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 201 Other Statutory Information Greenhouse gas emissions Branches In 2017, our total greenhouse gas GHG emissions were 715 Rolls-Royce is a global company and our activities and interests kilotonnes carbon dioxide equivalent ktCO e. This represents are operated through subsidiaries, branches of subsidiaries, 2 aincrease of 1%compared with 705 ktCO e in 2016.
This is a result joint ventures and associates which are subject to the laws 2 of increased production and product testing as new engine variants and regulations of many different jurisdictions.
joint ventures and associates are listed on pages 175 to 182.
We have revised our total GHG emissions for 2016 to reflect the actual figures for the full year, rather than estimated figures ITP Aero post balance sheet events prepared in line with our basis of reporting.
This revision is not Following approval from the relevant authorities in Spain in material 5% but does impact the year-on-year trend.
December 2017, the Company has now concluded the acquisition We have included the reporting of fugitive emissions of of a 53.1% shareholding in ITP Aero from SENER resulting in ITP hydroflurocarbons HFCs, associated with air conditioning Aero becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
equipment, into our GHG emissions figures for 2016 and 2017.
The consideration of 718m will be settled over a two-year payment These include emissions from our facilities in the UK, US, Canada period, payable in eight equal instalments, and the agreement with and France only.
We do not anticipate that emissions from other SENER allows the Company flexibility to settle up to 100% of the facilities will have a material impact.
Figures from prior years 2013 consideration in the form of ordinary shares.
The first instalment to 2015 exclude emissions associated with HFCs.
was settled by issuing 9,612,581 ordinary shares on 15 January 2018 and the Company has notified SENER of its intention to settle the Total GHG emissions ktCO2e 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 second instalment in the form of ordinary shares.
Final consideration Direct emissions as to whether the remaining six instalments will be settled in the form Scope 1 394 456 374 368 379 of cash or ordinary shares will be determined by the Company Indirect emissions during the remaining payment period.
Scope 2 325 396 375 336 336 Total emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 719 852 749 704 715 Financial instruments Intensity ratio Details of the Groups financial instruments are set out in note17 total emissions normalised to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
by revenue ktCO e m 0.063 0.062 0.055 0.047 0.043 2 Related party transactions Figures for 2013 do not include GHG emissions associated with Power Systems and therefore are not directly comparable.
The intensity ratio for 2013 has been restated to reflect the exclusion of revenues Related party transactions are set out in note 24 to the associated with Power Systems.
We engaged Bureau Veritas to undertake a limited assurance engagement, reporting toRolls-Royce Holdings plc, using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 over the energy, GHG, TRI rate and STEM data that has been highlighted with and as set out on pages 44 to 48 and inthe table above.
The sustainability assurance statement Information required by UK Listing Rule LR 9.8.
There are no disclosures to be made under LR 9.8.
With the exceptions noted above, we have reported on all of theemission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 StrategicReport and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Management report Thesesources fall within our Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report together are the Wedo nothave responsibility for any emission sources that are management report for the purposes of Rule 4.1.
notincluded in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition as of 31 December 2014, data Disclosure of information to auditors gathered to fulfil our requirements under the Carbon Reduction Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, and emission factors report confirms that: from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016.
So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
The Further details on our methodology for reporting and the criteria Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken used can be found within our basis of reporting, available to as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any download at www.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Act.
