STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 63 Going Concern and Viability Statements Going Concern and Viability Statements Introduction Viability Rolls-Royce operates an annual planning The viability assessment considers solvency In making this statement, the Directors process.
Our plans and risks to their and liquidity over a longer period than have made the following key assumptions: achievement are reviewed by the Board and the going concern assessment.
Consistent that maturing facilities will be refinanced.
once approved are cascaded throughout with previous years, we have assessed our The Group currently has access to global the Group and are used as the basis for viability over a five-year period.
Inevitably, debt markets and expects to be able to monitoring our performance, incentivising the degree of certainty reduces over this refinance these facilities on commercially employees and providing external guidance longer period.
The Groups medium to our shareholders.
In making the assessment, severe but and long-term financing plans are The processes for identifying and managing plausible scenarios have been considered designed to allow for periods of adverse the principal risks are described on pages that estimate the potential impact of the conditions in world capital markets but 59 and 60.
As also described there, the principal risks arising over the assessment not a prolonged e. g. 12 month period risk management process, and the going period, for example: the loss of a key where debt markets were effectively concern and viability statements, are element of the supply chain: the impact closed to the Group: designed to provide reasonable, but not on aircraft travel of a global pandemic: that in the event of one or more risks absolute, assurance.
worsening or new in-service issues on new occurring, which has a particularly Civil Aerospace programmes the base cash severe effect on the Group, all potential flow forecasts include the estimated future actions, such as constraining capital Going concern costs resulting from Trent 900 and Trent spending and reducing or suspending 1000 in-service issues described on page The going concern assessment considers payments to shareholders, would be 24 : or, the impact of a political risk such whether it is appropriate to prepare taken on a timely basis.
The Group as Brexit on the Group see page 59 the financial statements on a going believes it has the early warning for further information on the process concern basis.
mechanisms to identify the need for we are taking to manage the risks such actions and the ability to implement As described on page 197, the Group meets related to Brexit.
them on a timely basis if necessary: and its funding requirements through a mixture The scenarios assume an appropriate of shareholders funds, bank borrowings, that implausible scenarios, whether management response to the specific event, bonds and notes.
At 31 December 2017, the involving multiple risks occurring at the but not broader mitigating actions which Group had borrowing facilities of 5.4bn and same time or the impact of individual could be undertaken, which have been total liquidity of 5.1bn, including cash and risks occurring that cannot be mitigated considered separately.
The cash flow impacts cash equivalents of 3.0bn and undrawn by management actions to the degree of these scenarios were overlaid on the facilities of 2.1bn.
82m of the facilities assumed, do not occur.
five-year forecast to assess how the Groups mature in 2018. liquidity and solvency would be affected.
Signed on behalf of the Board The Groups forecasts and projections, taking The assessment took account of the Groups Warren East into account reasonably possible changes current funding, forecast requirements Chief Executive in trading performance, show that the and existing committed borrowing facilities.
Group has sufficient financial resources.
06 March 2018 It assumed that existing facilities could be The Directors have reasonable expectations refinanced as they mature.
that the Company and the Group are well placed to manage business risks and to On the basis described above, the Board continue inoperational existence for the confirms that it has a reasonable expectation foreseeable future which accounting that the Company will be able to continue standards require to be at least a year in operation and meet its liabilities as they from the date of this report and have not fall due over the next five years.
identified any material uncertainties to the Companys and the Groups ability to do so.
On the basis described above, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the FRC in September 2014.
