Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 26 Business Review SERVICE DELIVERY CENTRES BRING ROLLS-ROYCE CLOSER TO DEFENCE CUSTOMERS The new Defence service delivery centre SDC located at RAF Lossiemouth in Scotland, opened in 2017, supports EJ200 engines powering the resident fleet of Typhoon combat aircraft.
Established in partnership with the MoDs Defence Infrastructure Organisation, it houses a team of specialist Rolls-Royce engineers, together with their RAF and Serco counterparts, working to deliver tailored support services.
SDCs form part of a suite of innovative support solutions that Rolls-Royce is implementing across a global network of over 150 military customers.
During 2017 a further site opened in Bangalore, India, supporting over 750 engines in service with the Indian Armed Forces.
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 27 Business Review Key facts Defence Aerospace 16,000 engines in service around the world Defence Aerospace is a market leader in defence aero engines for military transport Over 150 and patrol aircraft and has strong positions customers in over 100 countries in other sectors, including combat, training aircraft and helicopters.
6,100 average number of employees during 2017 Defence | Key financial data Key highlights Year-on-year Organic 2017 change change Underlying revenue broadly flat with modest decline in both spare Underlying revenue 2,275m 3% -1% parts and LTSA revenue, the latter Underlying gross profit 575m 2% -2% due to the retirement of the UK Underlying operating profit 374m -3% -7% Ministry of Defence Gnome-powered Underlying operating margin 16.4% -100bps -100bps Sea King fleet in 2016 Order book 3.4bn -18% -14% Underlying operating profit down See note 2 on page 132 for further segmental detail.
Organic change is at constant translational currency, excluding M&A.
7% through product mix and higher R&D spend reflecting ongoing future programme development Underlying revenue mix Order intake of over $1.4bn secured in the US, including further funding Other for long-term service contracts with 17% Services Combat US Department of Defense 58% 30% Expansion of service offerings OE 42% through the opening of new service delivery centres in Lossiemouth and Bangalore and extended supply Transport and patrol agreement signed with Aviall, 53% a Boeing company Joint venture signed with Turkish industrial conglomerate Kale Group to develop an indigenous engine solution for the TF-X combat programme Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 28 Business Review Overall the R&D charge of 78m 2016: 71m reliability and fuel efficiency in extended Overview 2017 was slightly higher and included ongoing hurricane operations during major US The Defence Aerospace business had future programme development across storms in 2017.
This helped generate good another solid year.
Original equipment OE our portfolio focused on the combat and international interest with a potential first production focused on executing under transport markets.
Restructuring costs export order currently being evaluated.
long-term contracts in transport & patrol included within C&A were 14m higher Defence Aerospace continued with its as well as delivering technology to improve due to the non-repeat of the one-off benefit strategy of moving into adjacent products fuel efficiency for legacy fleets.
In combat, in 2016 following the closure of the Defence to deepen relationships with existing as well as increasing production for the Aerospace facility at Ansty.
As a result of customers, identifying an additional LiftSystem, the joint venture announced these changes, underlying operating profit platform opportunity for infrared with Kale in Turkey positioned us well to of 374m was 7% lower than the prior year.
suppressors installed on the MH-47 offer an indigenous engine solution for helicopter to be fitted onto C-130 gunships.
During the year, the Defence Aerospace the TF-X fighter jet.
order book was restated by 441 m to The business continued with the A number of core US service contracts reflect a number of assumption changes modernisation programme of its were renewed, covering over 3,000 engines, relating to certain historical orders and manufacturing and technology research and an agreement with Aviall, a Boeing long-term contracts including revised plant in Indianapolis with all key 2017 company, significantly improved the spares scope and lower expectations of price milestones achieved on time.
The plants distribution channel for AE defence engines.
After first turbine production cell came on There were also additions in the UK and order intake of 1.8bn, the order book stream in March and a second is nearing India to further enhance our SDC network.
The modernisation will help The facility modernisation programme in drive meaningful productivity benefits Indianapolis, US, met all of its 2017 milestones and reduce operational overheads by with targeted cost reductions also on track.
We also announced further Finally, we continued to make progress rationalisation of our operational footprint strategic review on the development of next generation with the closure of our repair and overhaul technologies across our portfolio to ensure Activity with key customers included major facility in Oakland, California by 2020. we can continue to offer our customers contract renewals with the US Department of A joint venture agreement with Turkish increased performance and capability Defense supporting engine fleets on aircraft industrial firm Kale Group positions us well for their operations.
such as the C-130 Hercules, V-22 Osprey and to develop an indigenous combat engine T-45 Goshawk.
Together these cover around for Turkey targeting the TF-X fighter jet.
3,000 engines and the orders taken in 2017 Development work has also continued on Financial overview for over $1.4bn provide good visibility on a the Anglo-French Future Combat Air System substantial portion of aftermarket revenues Underlying revenue FCAS feasibility programme, together with for the next five years.
Internationally the Underlying revenue of 2,275m was broadly investment in future technologies to position business signed its first OE export order with flat on the prior year on a constant currency us for new programme opportunities over the Japanese Self-Defense Force to power basis.
OE revenues increased 4% through the next decade.
its new V-22 Osprey fleet and also secured higher transport and patrol volumes, additional Multi Role Tanker Transport Strategic aftermarket initiatives looked partially offset by lower combat sales engine contracts.
to deepen customer relationships and following the completion of Middle Eastern distribution capability, including an Operationally, the Defence Aerospace delivery contracts in early 2017.
Service enhanced spares supply contract with business focused on delivering on its revenue was down 4%, reflecting slightly Aviall, a Boeing company, covering all long-term contracts for core transport lower LTSA revenue related to the 2016 defence variants of the AE engine fleet.
In combat, LiftSystem retirement of the UK MoD Gnome-powered This multi-year contract is expected to production for the F-35B Lightning II Sea King fleet and reduced demand for significantly improve availability and increased, with the current in-service fleet spare parts in India in particular.
We did, logistics, while broadening international performing well.
The aircraft made its first however, see increased overhaul activity opportunities.
In addition, two further SDCs international operational deployment in the US for the F-35B fleet and for the were opened in Lossiemouth and Bangalore with the US Marine Corps to Japan, and Typhoon fleet in Saudi Arabia.
as we continue to find ways to enhance its first UK-based deployment for the MoD our offering with core customers, helping is planned for 2018.
EJ200 production was Underlying operating profit with preventative maintenance and lower following completion of the Saudi Gross profit of 575m was 2% lower than maximising on-wing availability.
Typhoon contract in 2016, although there prior year reflecting lower LTSA margin is the expectation of incremental orders improvements of 68m 2016: 82m, largely from the State of Qatar following the due to lower cost savings compared with Defence Aerospace outlook signing of a contract to purchase 24 2016 on the Eurofighter Typhoon contract, aircraft in December.
Outlook for the new business structure and lower spare parts volumes.
These were under IFRS 15 is discussed in the 2018 mostly offset by the non-repeat of 31m of Technology inserts for the C-130 Hercules Outlook on page 58. one-off costs for the TP400 programme.
legacy fleet met operational performance expectations and demonstrated excellent STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 29 Business Review ROLLS-ROYCE INNOVATES IN THE ENGINE EQUIPMENT MARKET WITH INFRARED SUPPRESSORS Rolls-Royce continues to demonstrate its engineering excellence and innovation with expansion into adjacent engine equipment markets in Defence Aerospace.
Building on the success of the introduction of infrared IR suppressor technology on the MH-47 aircraft protecting the platform from heat-seeking missiles and a successful flight test of an advanced IR suppressor on the V-22, we were awarded a contract with US Air Force Special Operations Command to outfit its AC-130W Stinger II gunships with advanced IR suppressors to reduce the risk of detection during dangerous operations.
Operating environment There is strong service growth potential via technology Rolls-Royce key differentiators insertion and emerging service opportunities using digital Advanced technology and Defence Aerospaces collaboration technology and data analytics to generate new solutions.
and innovation, in conjunction with partners and customers, are its unique hallmarks.
These differentiators ensure successful There is strong interest in electrification and the business delivery of products and services tailored to customers is exploring more electric and hybrid electric propulsion evolving needs.
technologies and power generation for high energy systems.
Market dynamics Business risks As threat levels around the globe increase and economies If a major product failure in service is experienced, then grow, many customers are considering increasing their this may result in loss of life and significant financial and defence budgets, therefore the business expects to see reputational damage.
modest growth across the globe in the coming years.
If global defence spending experiences a further downturn, Revenue has historically been broadly balanced between then financial performance would be impacted.
OE sales and aftermarket services.
If we do not continue to invest to improve the performance In Europe, the political environment has resulted in a tendency and cost of Rolls-Royce products, then market share for large defence programmes to be addressed by consortia may be lost.
For example, Defence Aerospace If the business suffers a major disruption in it supply chain, has partnered with ITP Aero, MTU and Safran on the TP400 then delivery schedules would be delayed, damaging financial engine programme for the Airbus A400M.
Barriers to entry are high, the competitive landscape is not If new applications are not secured, then the business may envisaged to change significantly in the near future.
have to increase investment or accept erosion in capabilities.
Opportunities Combat propulsion remains the largest market segment, with opportunities for current products LiftSystem and EJ200 as well as new international and next generation programmes Turkey TF-X and Anglo French FCAS.
In transport, Defence Aerospace is vitalising existing capability with new products T56 Series 3.5 kit and infrared suppressors and is well positioned for next generation opportunities.
