Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES Our Investment Policy Our acquisition focus Our Investment Policy is to acquire assets that: The assets we acquire typically fall under one or more of our four investment pillars: are let or pre-let, as we will not invest in speculative developments and will only forward fund investments where FOUNDATION a tenant is already contracted: Foundation assets provide the core, low-risk income have institutional-grade tenants, ideally businesses with that underpins our business.
They are usually let on long good growth potential: leases to Customers with excellent covenant strength.
The buildings are commonly new or modern and in prime locations, and the leases have regular upward-only rent are in the right locations in the UK, with good transport reviews, often either fixed or linked to inflation indices.
connections and workforce availability: VALUE ADD are of the right size and age, and possibly with expansion potential, to meet the requirements of major occupiers: These assets are typically let to Customers with good covenants and offer the chance to grow the assets capital value or rental income, through lease have leases to institutional standards, with regular upwardengineering or physical improvements to the property.
only rent reviews and unexpired lease length on purchase We do this using our asset management capabilities typically of at least years, to provide long-term and secure and understanding of customer requirements.
These income flows: and assets are usually highly re-lettable.
ideally are strategically important to the tenant, as evidenced GROWTH COVENANT by extensive investment in fitting out the unit or proximity to These are fundamentally sound assets in good locations, the tenants market and or other key assets.
let to Customers we perceive to be undervalued at the point of purchase and who have the potential to improve We target assets which offer value to our Shareholders and their financial strength, such as young e-retailers or other usually have a geared yield range of approximately -%.
These assets offer We may make exceptions to our policy, where we see an value enhancement through yield compression.
opportunity to deliver value for our Shareholders without significantly increasing the portfolios aggregate risk.
STRATEGIC LAND These are opportunities in strategic land which we will The Investment Policy also allows us to invest in land, either on invest in with a view to securing pre-let forward funded our own or in a joint venture with a developer or a prospective developments.
The land we acquire will usually have customer.
This will allow us to assemble suitable sites for the benefit of outline B planning consent over at least pre-let forward funded developments.
We will only proceed part of the site in order to minimise risk.
This approach with constructing a new Big Box after it has been pre-let to an allows us to own the ultimate investments in locations appropriate customer.
Aggregate land purchases are subject to which might otherwise attract yields lower than we a limit of % of our NAV, calculated at the point of investment.
It can also deliver enhanced returns whilst controlling risk by avoiding speculative development.
Aggregate land purchases, including costs associated with site preparation, are limited to % of net asset value calculated at the point of purchase.
Our objectives Our objectives reflect our aim of creating value for Shareholders, and assume we are fully invested and geared: Dividends Total return For, we are targeting a total dividend of.
pence per Our investment objective is to deliver a total return of share, with the aim of continued progressive dividend growth % per annum over the medium term.
dividends paid plus growth in net asset value.
The target dividend is a target and not a profit forecast.
There can be no assurances that the target will be met and it should not be taken as an indication of the Companys expected or actual future results.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our operational strategy To help us deliver long-term and sustainable returns to our Shareholders, we focus on the following strategic areas: STRATEGIC AREA IMPLEMENTATION AND BENEFITS The Manager has a team dedicated to running the Group, comprising highly Manager experienced and qualified people with a track record of success.
We also benefit Contract with a Manager who has from the skills and experience of the Managers other employees, including the a knowledgeable and talented team, market knowledge they gain from working on other investment businesses and committed to delivering value to the cost efficiencies of utilising some of them part-time.
Customers Building relationships with Customers enables us to work with them to deliver Develop and maintain a deep asset management initiatives that meet their business objectives and unlock value understanding of the businesses for us.
Letting several properties to one customer also creates opportunities for that operate in our market in order mutually beneficial cross-fertilisation, for example by limiting rent increases on one to create long-term partnerships.
property in return for extending the lease term on another, while still enhancing the value of our portfolio.
We have a simple and transparent operating cost base, which largely comprises Operational excellence the investment management fee, the Directors fees, and accounting, audit, legal, Rigorously control costs and deliver valuation, compliance and regulatory fees.
This helps us to focus on efficiency and operational efficiencies, without achieve one of the lowest EPRA cost ratios in our peer group.
Our success in building the portfolio, through an average of approximately one acquisition per month since listing, also demonstrates the quality and efficiency of the Managers operations and its team.
See The Year in Brief, pages -.
The Group is financed through equity and debt.
Using debt can increase Capital risk management Shareholder returns and allows us to further diversify our portfolio.
Looking Achieve the right risk and return forward, we aim to minimise cash drag by temporarily repaying any sums drawn balance of equity and debt, to under our new revolving credit facility with any new equity capital raised.
We are finance our business and enhance targeting an LTV over the medium term of %, which we believe is conservative returns.
given the quality of our investments.
As an externally managed business without any employees, the Groups Corporate responsibility opportunities to make a significant impact in this area are limited.
Even so, we aim Strive to meet our corporate to work responsibly, including buying buildings with A, B or C Energy Performance responsibilities towards society Certificate ratings where possible and working with tenants to help them achieve and the environment, in every their sustainability goals.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
