Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 38 Business Review AUDACIOUS TAKES TO THE SEA April saw the fourth of seven Rolls-Royce powered Astute submarines lowered into the water for the first time in Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, UK.
Audacious is undergoing the next phase of its test and commissioning programme ahead of sea trials in 2018.
For over 50 years, Rolls-Royce has been the sole technical authority for the UK nuclear steam raising plant that powers the Royal Navys submarines and is home to the largest population of experienced nuclear design engineers in the UK.
To support the current fleet, as well as develop and manufacture the new generation PWR3 reactor plant for the new Dreadnought class submarines, Rolls-Royce is investing in new manufacturing facilities, people and infrastructure at Derby, UK.
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 39 Business Review Key facts Nuclear 50 years experience developing nuclear Nuclear is the technical authority for the technologies UK nuclear steam raising plant that powers the Royal Navys nuclear submarine fleet: 200 reactors in 20 countries managing plant design, safety, manufacture where Rolls-Royce nuclear technology and service support.
Our civil nuclear is installed operation supplies safety-critical systems to 4,400 about half the worlds nuclear power plants.
the average number of employees in 2017 Nuclear | Key financial data Key highlights Year-on-year Organic 2017 change change Underlying revenue up 4% on greater submarine activity, but Underlying revenue 818m 5% 4% lower underlying operating profit Underlying gross profit 133m 10% 7% as R&D spend on small modular Underlying operating profit 38m -16% -18% reactors increased Underlying operating margin 4.6% -120bps -120bps Order book 2.0bn 8% 7% Submarines achieves strong improvements in operational delivery: See note 2 on page 132 for further segmental detail.
Organic change is at constant translational currency, excluding M&A.
further investment in facilities Civil nuclear delivered key milestones as part of the long-term, retrofit Underlying revenue mix contracts in France and Finland Services Civil nuclear 53% 23% OE Submarines 47% 77% Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 40 Business Review Internationally, the civil nuclear business Overview 2017 Operational and achieved key milestones on schedule, as strategic review Nuclear plays a key role in the UKs part of its long-term contracts to retrofit submarine programme, acting as the and upgrade safety-critical control systems The Nuclear business focused on improving technical authority, sole supplier and at Loviisa, Finland and for EDFs fleet of cost-control, sustainable quality and on-time provider of through-life support for all nuclear reactors in France.
The business delivery for the key submarine programmes.
submarine nuclear propulsion systems renewed a contract with EDF to provide As part of an overall regeneration of the representing over 75% of sales.
This year, long-term support and secured a contract submarine business capability, a significant work principally focused on the Astute for the partial modernisation of safetynumber of new manufacturing technologies and Dreadnought classes, with significant critical control systems on all 34 units of and systems were introduced.
These have progress made in operational and its 900MW French fleet.
helped to drive significant improvements delivery performance as part of a in delivery of reactor plant components At Fennovoimas new build plant at multi-year improvement programme into the Astute programme.
Hanhikivi, Finland, due for completion and increased investment in the Derby Investment was made into new in 2024, the business was selected as manufacturing facilities.
manufacturing facilities, people and preferred bidder to supply instrumentation The civil nuclear business achieved key infrastructure at Derby.
The business strengthened milestones on large retrofit contracts for a planned expansion of the primary its position in China with new commercial safety-critical control systems in Finland component operations factory, principally agreements signed with CTEC CGN and and France.
Service contracts were signed in support of the new Dreadnought secured orders for the current new build with nuclear utility customers across programme, where production work is programme at Tianwan 5 and 6.
In Canada, Europe, Canada and China while additional increasing in support of the build the contract with Bruce Power to help investment was made into the small modular programme.
The expanded facilities will improve through-life operational efficiency reactor SMR programme where the UK help develop and manufacture the new will utilise cutting-edge digital analytical Government announced a viability study generation PWR3 reactor plant as well tools developed from innovations in the covering a number of technologies.
as support the current submarine fleet.
business and based on capability within Civil Aerospace.
In addition, the contract to deliver the Rolls-Royce welcomed the UK Governments Financial overview nuclear propulsion system for HMS decision to set up an expert finance panel to Agamemnon, the sixth of the new Astute Underlying revenue assess the viability of technology options class submarines was signed during the year.
Underlying revenue rose by 4% driven including short-term deployable SMRs Steady progress was also made towards mainly by increased production activity and will participate in this review in 2018. the establishment of a delivery alliance in support of the Dreadnought class build The announcement in November of a for the Dreadnought class which should programme, together with greater activity technical feasibility study with state-owned provide greater programme and cost control in civil nuclear new build contracts and Jordan Atomic Energy Commission JAEC benefits to help meet the affordability field services.
Submarine revenue grew for the construction of a Rolls-Royce challenges for our MoD customer.
3% to 633m, while civil nuclear revenue SMR highlights the international potential, The civil nuclear business saw good growth grew 9% to 185m.
There was a strong including growing interest from major during the year and is well positioned second half performance, reflecting markets in the Commonwealth and on new build projects.
In the UK, activity phasing within the submarine programmes.
was centred on Hinkley Point C, with a number of projects underway including Underlying operating profit the successful completion of the early Nuclear outlook Gross margin was broadly flat, reflecting contractor involvement ECI phase for the a combination of increased activity offset Outlook for the new business structure design of heat exchangers.
We also signed by additional costs incurred to ensure under IFRS 15 is discussed in the 2018 the main contract to complete detailed higher levels of delivery performance for Outlook on page 58. design work and begin manufacturing and the key submarine programmes.
There was progress charge was 17m higher than 2016 as the on the supply and delivery of both waste SMR programme moved to concept design treatments systems and ultimate diesel activity and did not benefit from the one-off generators under similar ECI arrangements.
change in treatment of R&D credits 2016: 7m credit.
As a result, underlying operating profit was 38m, 7m lower than the previous year.
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 41 Business Review ROLLS-ROYCE PARTNERS TO DELIVER SMRs In 2017, Rolls-Royce announced it had teamed up with leading UK industrial engineering organisations with a track record of delivery including Arup, Laing ORourke and Nuvia to champion the potential of SMRs to meet the UKs energy needs.
Together the partners in this consortium believe that SMRs represent a unique opportunity for the UK to become a global leader in innovative nuclear technologies, creating up to 40,000 highly skilled jobs, opening up valuable export markets and producing energy for as low as 60 MWh competitive against wind and solar.
Operating environment Capturing a higher share of the nuclear services market Rolls-Royce key differentiators through extension of services to a larger geographic reach.
Over a 50-year period, Rolls-Royce has developed unique, leading technology capabilities in the defence nuclear market, and is the Exploiting digital technology to optimise reactor plant only company to provide the nuclear propulsion for the UK operation and maintenance, thereby maximising the submarines programme.
In the civil nuclear market, Nuclear business ability to access commercial incentives.
deploys its offerings globally in partnership with customers across Strengthening the position Nuclear has in the rapidly the nuclear lifecycle.
growing importance of the Chinese and Russian domestic and export markets.
Market dynamics Population growth and improved living standards in emerging Business risks markets are driving a rise in demand for electricity: within the If we experience a major product failure in service, then future energy mix, low-carbon energy is expected to increase, this could result in loss of life and significant damage to with nuclear energy accounting for a significant share.
The competitive landscape has been changing in the last If the pool of suitably qualified and experienced personnel 12 months with some OE manufacturers facing significant is insufficient to support all elements of future programmes, financial difficulty along with programme delays and predicted then we may not have the ability to deliver to customer overspends: aspirations for SMRs places the business in direct requirements.
competition with large reactor vendors.
If public sentiment turns against further reliance on nuclear Internationally, the Chinese and Russian reactor vendors are power, then there will be less support for the development leading the export market, in part due to their ability to of new and existing capabilities and markets would be provide full or partial funding to the operating nation.
Rolls-Royce is the sole custodian of a unique strategic national If political tensions prevent trade or co-operation with capability providing nuclear propulsion for UK submarines state-owned potential partner organisations, then access Nuclear is therefore restricted from any other defence market.
to anticipated nuclear opportunities in the UK and overseas The UK submarine market expands and contracts in line may not be available.
with the MoDs acquisition programme.
The business operates If the products which we offer are not affordable to customers in a partnership model with Babcock and BAE Systems.
or are not delivering the required effect, then demand for the products on offer may be greatly reduced.
Opportunities For large civil nuclear reactor new build in the UK, Nuclear If there is a continued lack of clarity regarding governments is well positioned with opportunities for engineering and long-term energy strategies, then continued investment in supply chain offerings.
technology such as SMRs may be questioned.
SMRs provide a complementary alternative to large nuclear power installations for the global market.
