GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors The Board has five Independent non-executive and two executive Directors: PHILIP YEA VICTORIA VICKY DR TIM MILLER SALLY-ANN HIBBERD DARREN POPE INDEPENDENT JARMAN INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN 64 DIRECTOR 45 DIRECTOR 60 DIRECTOR 59 DIRECTOR 52 Appointed: July 2017 Appointed: May 2014 Appointed: February 2015 Appointed: August 2016 Appointed: December 2016 Skills and Experience: Skills and Experience: Skills and Experience: Skills and Experience: Skills and Experience: Philip joined the Board as a Vicky joined the Board as Tim has extensive Sally-Ann has a broad Darren is a qualified non-executive Director and a non-executive Director experience as a board level background in financial accountant with over 30 Chairman Designate on 3 in May 2014 and became executive across a range of services and technology.
years of experience in the July 2017 and succeeded the Senior Independent sectors.
During his 14 years financial services industry, She previously served as Kevin Beeston as Chairman non-executive Director at Standard Chartered the majority of which has COO of the International in September 2017. in October 2015.
Vicky Bank, he held a number been spent in retail financial division and latterly as is a qualified chartered of director level positions services.
Most recently Philip has considerable Group Operations and accountant, with an early with global responsibility Darren served as CFO executive experience Technology Director of career at KPMG and latterly for areas including human of TSB Bank plc, having in both the quoted and Willis Group, and held a 11 years in corporate resources, compliance, led the initial stages of its private equity sectors, number of senior executive finance at Lazard, where audit, assurance, financial separation from Lloyds having been chief executive roles at Lloyds TSB.
she was Chief Operating crime and legal.
He has held of 3i Group plc from 2004 Other Appointments: Officer.
During her time a number of other senior to 2009.
He is a former Other Appointments: Sally-Ann is a nonat Lazard she successfully positions at Lloyds Banking finance director of Diageo Tim is currently nonexecutive Director of led the restructuring of Group, Cheltenham & plc and, as finance director executive Director of Shawbrook Bank Ltd, UK operations, sat on the Gloucester plc, Egg plc and of Guinness PLC, was Otis Gold Corporation, a a non-executive member Lazard London Board and Prudential plc.
closely involved in the Toronto Stock Exchange of the governing body European Management creation of Diageo through Listed company.
Recently Other appointments: of Loughborough Committee and opened Guinness's merger with he has been appointed Darren is Audit Chair and a University and an advisory Lazards Dubai office.
GrandMet in 1997. as Chairman of the non-executive Director of board member of OEE Vicky holds a Mechanical Academy of St Martin in Virgin Money Holdings UK Other Appointments: Consulting.
Engineering degree from the Fields.
Tim is also a plc and a director of the Philip has been Chairman Leicester University.
Sector relevant: non-executive Director of subsidiary Virgin Bank.
of Greene King plc since Commercial banking: Other Appointments: Equiniti Financial Services May 2016.
He is senior Sector relevant: Retail financial: Insurance: Vicky is an Independent Limited, the Groups most independent director at Commercial banking: Software development: non-executive Director at significant FCA regulated Computacenter PLC where Retail financial: Insurance: Pensions: Life Assurance Hays plc, where she chairs entity.
he will stand down from in Pensions: Life Assurance their Audit Committee, and April 2018, a non-executive Sector relevant: is a non-executive advisor director of Aberdeen Commercial banking: to Knight Franks group Asian Smaller Companies Retail financial: Insurance: executive board.
Investment Trust plc and Pensions Marshall of Cambridge Sector relevant: Holdings Ltd and also Investment Banking an independent director and trustee of the Francis Crick Institute.
N A R N R A Rm Rm CHAIR CHAIR CHAIR CHAIR D A R N A N R N Rm 66 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT GUY WAKELEY JOHN STIER ALISON BURNS CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT 47 OFFICER 51 NON-EXECUTIVE BOARD GENDER DIVERSITY DIRECTOR 54 3 2 Non-executive Male Appointed: January 2014 Appointed: June 2015 To be appointed: April 2018 2 Executive Female Skills and Experience: Skills and Experience: Skills and Experience: 5 2 Board Guy holds an MA in John is a fellow of the Alison has held executive Engineering Science Institute of Chartered and non-executive roles from the University of Accountants and has a within Aviva plc, including Cambridge and a PhD in background in corporate the position of CEO of applications of artificial finance.
She has KEY intelligence to engineering Chief Financial Officer of extensive financial services design.
He is a Chartered Northgate Information experience, gained in BOARD COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES Engineer, a Fellow of Solutions Ltd NIS for over senior roles with Santander, A E the Royal Institution of ten years.
Bupa, Lloyds TSB and Audit Committee Executive Committee Chartered Surveyors, an AXA UK, and brings strong NIS was a FTSE 250 FCA Approved Person leadership and executive RC D organisation until 2007, and a commercial pilot management experience when the business was Executive Risk & Disclosure Committee and flight instructor and within the insurance sector.
Compliance Committee acquired by KKR, the N examiner.
Previously Guy US private equity firm.
Other appointments: Sb was Chief Executive of Nomination Committee Prior to this, he was the Alison is a non-executive Sales and Bid Committee Morrison plc for five years Chief Financial Officer of Director of Hastings plc Rm and has held divisional O Subterra Ltd, a subsidiary where she is a member of leadership positions with Remuneration Committee of Thames Water Plc.
their remuneration and risk Operating Committee Amey, The Berkeley Group, R committees.
GC Sector relevant: General Electric and Risk Committee Software Development: Sector relevant: Rolls-Royce.
Group Investment Pensions Retail financial, & Change Committee Other appointments: Insurance Guy is a non-executive Director of HgCapital Trust plc and a member of the CBIs Public Services Strategy Board.
Sector relevant: Commercial banking: Retail financial: Insurance: Software development: Pensions: Life Assurance E Sb RC O GC CHAIR CHAIR D RC GC D E Sb O 67 GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Company Executive Secretary Committee KATHY CONG ADAM GREEN LIAM MCGRATH MARK TAYLOR COMPANY SECRETARY CHIEF RISK OFFICER GROUP COO CHIEF CUSTOMER INTELLIGENT SOLUTIONS OFFICER DIVISON CEO EQ DIGITAL Kathy was appointed as Company Adam joined Equiniti as Chief Risk Liam started with Equiniti as Mark joined Equiniti in 2009 and Secretary in July 2016.
Prior to Officer in 2015, working as part of Managing Director, Group has over 30 years experience in joining Equiniti, Kathy worked for a the Executive Leadership Team.
He joined the retail financial services industry.
FTSE 250 specialist banking group, has a wide range of experience in Equiniti from Chaucer Insurance He has responsibility for direct to Investec plc, for over 13 years, to financial services, risk management, plc, where he was the UK Division consumer marketing and digital ensure appropriate governance regulation and business change.
Operations Director responsible strategy across the Group.
He has systems were established and Adam was previously interim for all underwriting and claims a track record of new business maintained, particularly in head of UK Compliance for BUPA operations, as well as facilities.
Prior start-ups and product development relation to Directors duties, and prior to that managed a to this, he worked for the Royal in the direct market place.
relevant regulatory requirements core transition work stream at Bank of Scotland Group running a Previously a Director at Virgin and related party transactions, the Financial Services Authority, number of large operational areas, Money, he was responsible including FCA regulated firms.
as it established the Financial including mortgages, credit cards, for growing Virgins savings, Kathy is an active industry Conduct Authority and Prudential loans and overdrafts.
Liam has investments and pensions business contributor, having held the Regulatory Authority.
He has also also worked in senior roles in GE and the launch of Virgins Climate position of the Secretary of the worked at  Consumer Finance, Royal and Sun Change Fund.
Mark was also a Association of Women Chartered helping boards, management Alliance Insurance and Vodafone, Director of Egg Investments, where Secretaries and the London Money teams and change programmes to driving large scale operational he launched the UKs first fully Market Association.
She has a deliver complex risk and regulatory change and improvement.
automated on-line fund trading BA Hons in Law and is an ICSA requirements, which followed his platform.
time as a major groups regulator at partner in Clearwell Ltd, an online the Financial Services Authority.
personal finance software business, prior to its sale to a national IFA network.
Mark also held a number of senior roles in other leading companies such as Fidelity and Charles Schwab and has worked both in the USA and mainland Europe.
D E Sb GC RC O E O RC E 68 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE KEY BOARD COMMITTEES A D N R Rm Audit Remuneration Risk Disclosure Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES E RC Sb GC O Executive Executive Risk & Sales and Bid Operating Group Investment Appointed to the Executive Committee in August 2017 Committee Committee Compliance Committee Committee & Change Committee MARK CHURLEY PAUL MATTHEWS THERA PRINS RIC WILLIAMS GROUP BUSINESS INVESTMENT INVESTMENT PENSIONS DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS DIVISION SOLUTIONS DIVISION SOLUTIONS DIVISION DIRECTOR CEO EQ BOARDROOM CEO EQ INVEST CEO EQ PAYMASTER Mark Churley joined Equiniti in Paul joined Equiniti in 2011 as Thera joined Equiniti at the end Ric joined Equiniti in April 2013 as August 2017 as Group Business Managing Director, Corporate of 2016 to lead the Consumer the Finance Director for Equiniti Development Director.
Paul is responsible for Investment and International Pension Solutions before becoming responsible for growth across working with the UKs leading Payments division: EQ Invest.
the Acting Managing Director, Equinitis core markets, both in businesses to deliver successful Pension Solutions in January 2015.
Prior to joining Equiniti, Thera the UK and overseas, through new transactions, including IPOs and He is now CEO of EQ Paymaster.
spent 20 years in Retail Financial business origination and from our corporate actions, for a client Services working for Visa Prior to joining Equiniti, Ric spent established strategic accounts.
base covering circa 50% of the Europe, Barclays and Lloyds over 20 years with Deloitte and FTSE 100 and circa 40% of the Mark joined Equiniti from NCR Group where she specialised Arthur Andersen becoming a FTSE 250.
Pauls stock market Corporation, a global software, in customer services, and new partner in 1999.
He was Head of experience spans 30 years and services and hardware company.
the Deloittes UK Telecoms industry he currently leads Equinitis Enterprise Software and Strategic During her career she has held practice and led over 25 IPOs partnership with the Global Share Accounts Director, he led new strategy, business performance including those of Virgin Mobile, Alliance.
Prior to joining Equiniti, business development in the improvement, change delivery, Entertainment One and Telecity.
Paul was a Managing Director at financial services sector.
customer service and new product the investment bank JP Morgan delivery roles.
Prior to this, Mark was Head of Cazenove, where he had a Group Business Development successful career spanning with Talaris, a former fide La Rue over 25 years.
company, where he built global sales capabilities and grew revenue.
Over the last 20 years, he held senior positions with companies including fide La Rue and Lucent.
E O E E E 69 GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP Leadership BOARD MEMBERSHIP A SUMMARY OF THE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Details of the Directors, including the skills and IS SHOWN BELOW: experience that they bring to the Board, are on pages 66 to 67.
During 2017, the Board comprised a nonChairman executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief As Chairman, Philip Yeas role is to lead the Board and ensure that it Financial Officer and five independent non-executive operates effectively.
His responsibilities include: Directors including the Senior Independent Director.
For the period July to September, the number of setting the Board agenda: independent non-executive Directors increased to ensuring the Board has adequate discussion time of all agenda six following the appointment of Philip Yea as items: Chairman designate.
For the period of September ensuring the Board receives relevant information in a timely manner to December 2017, the number of independent promoting a culture of openness and debate in Board meetings: non-executive Directors dropped back to four following the resignations of Kevin Beeston and fostering constructive relations between the executive and nonJohn Parker and Philip Yea becoming independent executive Directors: non-executive Chairman.
being a key contact for external investors to discuss governance and strategy: and RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD meeting regularly and individually with the Chief Executive, and The Board is collectively responsible for the longwhen appropriate, with the Chief Financial Officer, members term success of Equiniti and delegates the day-to-day of the Executive Committee, and other senior members of the management of Equiniti to the Chief Executive and management.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Board and the executive management team for the running of the business.
Whilst routine business decisions are delegated to Chief Executive the executive management team, there is a schedule As Chief Executive, Guy Wakeleys responsibilities include: of matters reserved for the Boards decision, together managing the business of the Group: with a delegated authority framework to ensure that unusual or material transactions are brought to the recommending the Groups strategy to the Board: Board for approval.
Decisions reserved for the Board implementing the strategy agreed by the Board: include approval of strategic plans and annual budgets, allocating decision making and responsibilities accordingly: acquisitions, audited accounts and the appointment of managing the risk profile in line with the Groups risk appetite and additional Directors.
The delegated authority schedule categories of risk identified: and sets out the financial parameters of authority, covering the delegation of all areas of the Groups activities leading the process of communicating with the Groups investors.
below Board level to the executive Directors, divisional MDs or business unit managers.
Certain authorities, such as approval of capital expenditure, have different Chief Financial Officer delegated authority limits depending on whether As Chief Financial Officer, John Stiers responsibilities include: the particular expenditure was included in the annual budget or is an additional item of expenditure, where a implementing the financial strategy, including balance sheet higher degree of oversight and approval is appropriate.
management: overseeing the financial reporting and internal controls: and There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman who is responsible for the leadership of the meeting with investors.
Board, and the Chief Executive, who is responsible for managing and leading the business.
The roles are clearly defined so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
70 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP The Board is responsible for setting Equinitis culture Senior Independent Director SID and for determining our values and standards.
As SID, Vicky Jarmans responsibilities include: The cascade of goals and objectives is used as the framework to establish and guide a unified culture acting as a sounding board for the Chairman: throughout Equiniti.
The Board has adopted and serving as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: regularly reviews a number of policies and codes of evaluating the Chairmans performance as part of the Boards conduct, to ensure that Equinitis obligations to its evaluation process: and investors and other stakeholders are clear, understood being available to shareholders should there be a need to convey and observed.
concern to the Board other than through the Chairman or the BOARD ATTENDANCE Chief Executive.
Details of the Directors attendance at the Board meetings held during 2017 is show in the table below.
The attendance at Committee meetings is shown Independent non-executive Directors separately in the Committee reports.
The independent non-executive Directors bring independent judgement, knowledge and varied commercial experience to the Maximum meetings and their responsibilities include: Name Attended possible constructively challenging and helping to shape the Groups 1 Kevin Beeston 9 9 strategy: scrutinising the performance of the executive management team 2 Philip Yea 5 6 in delivering agreed goals and objectives: and Guy Wakeley 12 12 undertaking specific duties as members of the Boards main Committees.
John Stier 12 12 Sally-Ann Hibberd 12 12 Company Secretary 3 Vicky Jarman 11 12 As Company Secretary, Kathy Congs responsibilities include: 4 being secretary to the Board and its main Committees: Dr Tim Miller 11 12 providing advice on corporate governance matters: 5 John Parker 9 9 ensuring compliance with Board procedures: Darren Pope ensuring consistency of and adherence to the Groups governance 12 12 framework at subsidiary board level: and being secretary to Equiniti Financial Services Limited, the primary 1 Kevin Beeston stepped down from the Board on 29 September UK regulated subsidiary of the Group.
He attended all of the meetings held during his tenure.
2 Philip Yea joined the Board on 3 July 2017.
Six meetings were scheduled during his tenure and, before he became Chairman, he could not attend one due to a prior commitment.
The Board receives and reviews regular reports on overall, divisional and 3 Vicky Jarman could not attend one meeting due to a prior individual business unit performance, financial position, health & safety, commitment.
regulatory compliance, HR, corporate compliance and governance issues, 4 Dr Miller could not attend one meeting due to a prior legal matters and investor relations.
In addition, the Board invites other commitment.
5 John Parker stepped down from the Board on 30 September senior managements from around the Group, and external advisers, to 2017.
provide insight into key strategic areas.
The Board agrees an annual budget, together with corporate goals to underpin the delivery of that budget.
The corporate goals will form the basis of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers personal objectives and these goals and objectives are cascaded down to the senior management team, to form divisional and business unit goals and management objectives.
71 GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP A summary of the key activities undertaken by the Board during 2017 is shown below.
Principal Board Activities Responsibilities Activities during 2017 Focus areas for 2018 Strategy and Operational Performance Held a Strategy Day in May 2017 at which a new five year strategic plan was approved Monitor 2018 business plan Links to the following strategy elements: Monitored the performance of the Groups revenue and earnings growth Reviewed and monitored the delivery of the 2017 business plan 1 2 3 4 5 Oversaw the expansion of the Group's addressable markets Oversaw the expansion of service capabilities Reviewed the Groups business development plan Maintained focus on procurement efficiencies and property rationalisation Financial Statements Approved 2016 financial results and dividend Approve financial results and consider dividends as appropriate Approved 2017 half year results and interim dividend Annual Budget Reviewed amendments to 2017 budget Approve 2019 budget Links to the following strategy elements: Approved 2018 budget 1 2 3 4 5 Dividend Policy Monitored dividend policy Review dividend policy Links to the following strategy element: 5 Risk, Governance and Internal Controls Reviewed and approved the risk appetite Review Group risks and risk reporting processes Reviewed the risk management process Review risks facing the business Reviewed the principal risks Approve risk appetite Monitored the effectiveness of the Groups risk management Monitor effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems and internal control systems Reviewed corporate governance compliance Approved the non-audit services and fees policy Approved going concern review Approved viability statement Acquisitions and Disposals Discussed and approved the acquisitions of: Review the acquisition and disposal pipeline Links to the following strategy element: Gateway2Finance Undertake a post-acquisition review of processes followed in acquiring businesses within the last two year Nostrum Group 3 Monitor the integration and embedding of appropriate governance processes WFSS business within the recently acquired WFSS business Values Reviewed and approved the Diversity & Inclusion Policy Review implementations of key initiatives with regards to diversity and inclusion within the Group Annual review and approval of the Modern Slavery Statement Monitor implementation of learning and development initiatives agreed for 2017 Reviewed the draft gender pay gap statement for approval by April 2018.
To approve the gender pay gap statement and to track ongoing actions to reduce it.
Succession Planning Appointment of new non-executive Chairman Successful appointment of new non-executive Director On-going search for a new non-executive Director Continue to monitor Group succession planning Succession planning for executive Directors and senior leadership roles Continue to monitor talent pool Successful appointment of new Group Business Development director to the Executive Committee Development of the talent pool and succession plan to support the leadership team Effectiveness Review Annual external audit effectiveness review completed Consider independent reviewers for the first externally facilitated evaluation of the Board and Committees Internal Board and Committee effectiveness evaluation completed and actions agreed Reviewed the annual employee survey 72 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Principal Board Activities The Board has an established framework Responsibilities Activities during 2017 Focus areas for 2018 for the identification, approval and recording of actual or potential conflicts Strategy and Operational Performance Held a Strategy Day in May 2017 at which a new five year strategic plan was approved Monitor 2018 business plan of interest of its Directors and subsidiary Links to the following strategy elements: Monitored the performance of the Groups revenue and earnings growth company Directors.
All conflicts of interest Reviewed and monitored the delivery of the 2017 business plan must be declared to the Board and are Oversaw the expansion of the Group's addressable markets recorded in Equinitis register of Directors interests.
The Companies Act 2006 the Oversaw the expansion of service capabilities Act and Equinitis Articles of Association Reviewed the Groups business development plan contain detailed provisions for the proper Maintained focus on procurement efficiencies and property rationalisation management of conflicts of interest.
The circumstances in which the Board Financial Statements Approved 2016 financial results and dividend Approve financial results and consider dividends as appropriate can approve the ongoing participation Approved 2017 half year results and interim dividend by a conflicted Director in any discussions or decisions of the Board, where the Annual Budget Reviewed amendments to 2017 budget Approve 2019 budget Director is or may have a conflict, are Links to the following strategy elements: Approved 2018 budget clearly defined.
As part of the framework referred to above, towards the end of the year, Dividend Policy Monitored dividend policy Review dividend policy each director is provided with a copy Links to the following strategy element: of the information held about them personal information, declared conflicts, shareholding in the Company, who their connect persons are requesting that they Risk, Governance and Internal Controls Reviewed and approved the risk appetite Review Group risks and risk reporting processes confirm that the details held are still valid Reviewed the risk management process Review risks facing the business and up to date.
This annual attestation Reviewed the principal risks Approve risk appetite process ensures that the Director is aware of the details held on them and that the Monitored the effectiveness of the Groups risk management Monitor effectiveness of the Groups risk management details are up to date.
and internal control systems and internal control systems Reviewed corporate governance compliance The Board maintains oversight of each Directors external interests, to ensure Approved the non-audit services and fees policy that they continue to be able to devote Approved going concern review sufficient time to discharge their duties Approved viability statement and responsibilities effectively and efficiently.
Where there are external Acquisitions and Disposals Discussed and approved the acquisitions of: Review the acquisition and disposal pipeline commitments, the Board makes sure it Links to the following strategy element: Gateway2Finance Undertake a post-acquisition review of processes followed in acquiring is satisfied that these do not have any businesses within the last two year Nostrum Group adverse effect on Equiniti or the ability of Monitor the integration and embedding of appropriate governance processes any particular Director to discharge their WFSS business within the recently acquired WFSS business duties fully.
More information about the Board and Values Reviewed and approved the Diversity & Inclusion Policy Review implementations of key initiatives with regards to diversity and inclusion the Executive Committee is available on within the Group Annual review and approval of the Modern Slavery Statement pages 66 to 69.
The following documents Monitor implementation of learning and development initiatives agreed for 2017 Reviewed the draft gender pay gap statement for approval by April 2018. are available to review on our website at To approve the gender pay gap statement and to track ongoing actions to reduce it.
com investors shareholder-services corporateSuccession Planning Appointment of new non-executive Chairman Successful appointment of new non-executive Director governance On-going search for a new non-executive Director Continue to monitor Group succession planning Schedule of matters reserved for the Succession planning for executive Directors and senior leadership roles Continue to monitor talent pool decision of the Board: and Successful appointment of new Group Business Development director to the Executive Committee Terms of reference of the committees of the Board, setting out their objectives, Development of the talent pool and succession plan to support the leadership team responsibilities and any delegated Effectiveness Review Annual external audit effectiveness review completed Consider independent reviewers for the first externally facilitated evaluation authority.
of the Board and Committees Internal Board and Committee effectiveness evaluation completed and actions agreed Reviewed the annual employee survey 73
