GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP BOARD Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Reviews the integrity, adequacy Reviews the effectiveness Sets, reviews and recommends Evaluates and makes and effectiveness of Equinitis of Equinitis risk management Equinitis overall remuneration recommendations regarding system of internal control and risk and processes to ensure that key policy and strategy and monitors Board and Committee composition, succession planning and Directors management and the integrity risks are adequately mitigated.
of Equinitis financial reporting, potential conflicts of interest.
whistleblowing and anti-bribery and corruption obligations.
Rm A R N Executive Disclosure Committee Committee Weekly reviews of performance, Oversee continuing obligations allocation of resources and directs in respect of the disclosure and activity to deliver business plan.
control of inside information directly concerning the Company.
E D Sales & Bid Group Investment & Executive Risk & Operating Committee Change Committee Compliance Committee Committee Weekly review of all Monthly review of all capital Assure performance of business Challenge and review of P&L sales submissions, tenders expenditure and acquisitions.
in accordance with policies, relevant performance, business planning and renewals.
and resourcing, budgeting, central costs and overhead.
GC RC Sb O KEY BOARD COMMITTEES A D N R Rm Audit Remuneration Risk Disclosure Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES E RC Sb GC O Executive Executive Risk & Sales and Bid Operating Group Investment Committee Committee Compliance Committee Committee & Change Committee 74 74 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP The Executive Committee is the most senior executive BOARD COMMITTEES management committee and consists of: As shown in the table to the left, the Board has four main Committees comprising only non-executive Directors: Audit: Guy Wakeley Chief Executive Nomination: Remuneration: and Risk.
The Committees John Stier Chief Financial Officer reports that follow on pages 82 to 124 set out their members, Mark Churley Group Business Development Director attendance, responsibilities and activities.
These Committees take the lead with the following: Adam Green Chief Risk Officer the detailed oversight of Equinitis internal and external Liam McGrath Group COO: Intelligent Solutions Division audit work: CEO EQ Digital oversight of Equiniti's risk identification and management: Paul Matthews Investment Solutions Division CEO EQ Boardroom establishing the remuneration policy and overseeing implementation for Equiniti as a whole, and specifically the Thera Prins Investment Solut ions Division Directors and leadership team: and CEO EQ Invest determining appropriate succession and contingency plans Mark Taylor Chief Customer Officer for the Directors and senior managers and undertaking Ric Williams Pension Solutions Division appropriate searches for new Directors as required.
CEO EQ Paymaster Disclosure Committee In addition to the four main Board Committees, the Board The Executive Committee meets weekly to review performance has delegated responsibilities to the Disclosure Committee to and allocation of resources and directs activity to deliver the oversee Equinitis compliance with its obligations as laid down business plan.
Biographies of this executive management team by the UKLA's Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules are set out on pages 68 to 69. and the Market Abuse Regulation in respect of the disclosure The Executive Committee is supported by four management and control of inside information directly concerning the sub-committees: Company.
The Committee will meet as and when it is deemed necessary and its members consists of the Chairman, Chief The Sales & Bid Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary.
meets weekly and is responsible for reviewing performance against P&L budgets and forecast, planning, resourcing and Executive Committees costs, and reviewing sales submissions, tenders and contract In addition to the oversight provided by the Board and renewals.
Committees noted above, the executive Directors are supported The Operating Committee chaired by the Chief Executive, by a number of executive management committees, which help meets monthly and is responsible for reviewing performance them discharge their duties.
These include monthly reviews against P&L budgets, forecast and monitor central costs and with the senior and divisional management teams, covering run the budget process.
areas such as business performance and development, financial management, risk management, HR, IT and operational The Group Investment and Change Committee formerly the performance.
Investment and Projects Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, also meets monthly and reviews capital The Chief Executive leads Equinitis operational management expenditure requests and acquisition targets.
and is supported by the executive management team.
The executive management team gives strategic focus and is The Executive Risk and Compliance Committee is also chaired responsible for managing the operational and financial by the Chief Financial Officer and meets at least quarterly, performance of the Group, by coordinating the work of the to ensure performance of the business is in accordance with specialist business areas.
This enables the efficient and effective policies, legislation and agreed risk appetite.
day to day operation of the Groups businesses.
The Board is kept up to date with developments in the business, including the work of the leadership teams, through the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers regular reports, which are discussed in detail at each Board meeting.
75 GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP BOARD AND COMMITTEE BALANCE It is a core feature of good corporate governance that the Board and Committees have an appropriate balance of skills and experience, as shown in the table opposite independence and knowledge, to enable the effective discharge of their duties and responsibilities, whether individually or collectively.
Part of the role of the Chairman and the Nomination Committee is to keep the balance of skills and expertise on the Board and its Committees under review and make recommendations to the Board where changes are appropriate to maintain that balance.
The Board considers that the range of skills, experience and background of each of the Directors is sufficiently relevant and complementary to allow appropriate oversight, challenge and review of Equinitis progress in achieving its corporate goals.
The individual experience and background of each Director is set out in their biographies on pages 66 to 67.
It is Equinitis policy, in line with the Code, that proposed appointments to the Board follow an open and transparent recruitment process and that candidates are assessed on merit against objective criteria.
DIVERSITY The Board notes and supports the aims of the Hampton-Alexander Review and the aspiration to achieve at least 33% representation of women on the Board by 2020 where deemed appropriate.
We continue to seek to improve opportunities for talented women to progress throughout Equiniti and particularly to the ranks of senior and executive management.
Further details on Equinitis gender diversity statistics as at 31 December 2017 are set out on page 54 and details of the Groups diversity and inclusion policy can be found on page 53.
The Board, supported by the Nomination Committee, values diversity in its broadest sense and when considering new non-executive Director appointments will, in addition to considering gender, age, disability, ethnicity or experience, look to maintain within the boardroom the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of Equiniti and the industry as a whole.
76 76 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT TRAINING, DEVELOPMENT, INDUCTION AND INFORMATION FLOW A key part of my role as Chairman is to ensure all Directors have access to ongoing training and development to provide them with the relevant expertise and skills for their roles on the Board and its Committees.
INFORMATION FLOW AT BOARD MEETINGS TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT ON: The information flow before and after Board meetings is described in the chart below.
the General Data Protection Regulations: The Board uses an electronic Board pack system which provides the Market Abuse Regulations: and quick, easy and secure access to Board papers and materials.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer provide Additional activities included: the Board with regular updates both during and outside of Attendance at a risk workshop: scheduled Board meetings.
Deep dive in-depth reviews on particular areas: Briefings on updates to changes in the UK Corporate Governance Code: Briefings on updates to changes in the regulations affecting the Groups business: and Directors are encouraged to visit Group operational sites and frequently do so.
INFORMATION FLOW AT BOARD INDUCTION MEETINGS On appointment, Directors take part in an induction programme to increase their knowledge and understanding of the business.
The programme is designed for each individual, taking account of their existing knowledge of the business, specific areas of expertise and proposed Committee appointments.
They will receive information about Equiniti including financial data and the key policies supporting Equinitis business practices, together with previous Board and Committee meeting packs.
We also give new Directors details on the Chairman sets Board agenda with input from the Chief role of the Board, its terms of reference, membership of Executive & the Company Secretary the main Board committees and the matters reserved for decision by the Board and Committees.
Agenda and Board papers circulated to the Directors at least four days before the meeting ACCESS TO INDEPENDENT ADVICE: Board meeting schedule at least ten a year Each Director has access to the advice and services of Company Secretary follows up on action points agreed by the Company Secretary and can arrange for independent the Board professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge it is necessary in order to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
There is an agreed procedure An updated action list forms part of the agenda for the next enabling them to do so, which is managed by the Board meeting Company Secretary.
No such independent advice was sought during the year.
77 GOVERNANCE REPORT EFFECTIVENESS BOARD EVALUATION The evaluation was divided into four stages: Progress made against the 2016 Board Evaluation STAGE 1 Completion of questionnaire 2016 Evaluation Progress Against 2016 A comprehensive questionnaire was sent to each Director.
Recommendations: Recommendations: Directors completed and returned the questionnaire to the Company Secretary.
Restructuring Board meetings Meeting packs have been and pack to allow maximum restructured to make them STAGE 2 debate and strategic easier to use, and the time discussion allocated to each meeting Evaluation of responses was extended to allow for The Chairman reviewed the responses to the questionnaire.
STAGE 3 Organising more informal Non-executive Directors hold opportunities for Board meetings, without executive Initial discussion between the Chairman and the Directors members to integrate and management present, The Chairman met with each Director individually to discuss build rapport prior to each scheduled the feedback and gather their views.
Board meeting, for informal STAGE 4 discussions.
Two informal Board dinners, with members Feedback to the Board of the senior management Feedback was provided to the Board as a whole at its Board team invited, were held meeting in February 2018 and an action plan discussed and during 2017. approved.
Continue to evolve the The Committees are Given that the Chairman was only appointed to his role on operations of the Board operating well and continue 29 September 2017, the non-executive Directors will meet, Committees to evolve with best practice without the Chairman present, in late 2018 to discuss his and the change in regulations performance in the role.
Key recommendations from the 2017 evaluation Although overall the Board and its Committees were felt to be 2017 BOARD EVALUATION operating well, a number of new actions were agreed.
These During the year a Board assessment was carried out by Philip Yea included allowing more time for Board discussion through as incoming Chairman, using an initial questionnaire which was extending the average length of meetings and simplifying and then followed up by a series of one to one interviews.
A summary summarising key information packs.
It was also agreed that paper describing its findings was considered by the Board.
The more Board time should be spent on considering medium term evaluation focused on a number of key areas: issues and a schedule of forward topics was agreed to allow this The skills and experience of the Board to happen.
Each of the principal committees was felt to have improved over the last year, and specific actions were agreed to Meetings and Board administration build on the progress.
The effectiveness of the Boards decision making The evaluation of the Board and its Committees during 2018 The Boards role with respect to the Groups strategy will be led by an external consultant in accordance with Clause B.
6.2 of the Code, which states that Board evaluations must be The Boards management of risk externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Boards engagement with key stakeholders, including employees and shareholders The operation of the Boards committees 78 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT EFFECTIVENESS ANNUAL RE-ELECTION OF THE BOARD BUSINESS MANAGEMENT In compliance with the Code, apart from Vicky Jarman who is standing down from The Chief Executive is responsible for the Board at the AGM, all Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment delivering Equinitis agreed strategy and at the AGM to be held on 3 May 2018.
Full details of the resolutions, together with prepares the annual budget, which is explanatory notes and supporting biographies, are set out in the Notice of 2018 subject to formal scrutiny and approval Annual General Meeting.
Alison Burns, who is being appointed to the Board on by the Board.
Progress in delivering this 1 April 2018, will also stand for re-appointment at the 2018 AGM.
annual budget is reported on at each Board meeting.
The Board has reviewed and re-affirmed that it considers each of the non-executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement and that there are no Monthly business forecasts are prepared relationships that might prejudice this independence.
by the operating divisions to identify variances against the annual budget at the earliest opportunity, reflecting changes Date of Term of Independent in expectations and market conditions.
appointment Current Service Negative variances to budget are subject Contract, Notice to rigorous challenge at Operating Period Committee meetings.
Executive Directors There are clear policies outlining delegated authority limits for all types Guy Wakeley 27 October 2015 Rolling contract, of business transactions and associated terminable on 12 authorised signatories.
The authority limits months notice and processes are verified by reviews John Stier 27 October 2015 Rolling contract, undertaken by compliance and internal terminable on 12 audit.
Additional detail on the work of the months notice compliance and internal audit functions is set out on page 87.
Non-executive Directors All employees are required to undergo Philip Yea 3 July 2017 Initial period Yes an objective-based personal appraisal of three years, process, with individual objectives derived terminable on from the corporate strategy and the three months objectives of their line managers and set notice within the context of Equinitis corporate goals and annual budget.
Sally-Ann Hibberd 27 June 2016 Initial period Yes of three years, REGULATED ACTIVITIES terminable on A number of Equinitis businesses include three months regulated activities and the Company notice has several regulated subsidiaries.
The main such subsidiary is Equiniti Financial Vicky Jarman 27 October 2015 Initial period Yes Services Limited EFSL, which has a Board of three years, consisting of two independent nonterminable on executive Directors, two non-executive three months Directors and two executive Directors.
The notice Board works closely with the EFSL Board, Dr Tim Miller 27 October 2015 Initial period Yes to ensure that appropriate governance of three years, is followed in respect of all regulated terminable on activities.
The Board maintains oversight of three months the regulated activities through receiving notice regular reports, and specifically the ICAAP process and risk appetite and framework Darren Pope 6 October 2016 Initial period Yes within EFSL, from the Chief Executive and of three years, the Chief Risk Officer.
Copies of the EFSL terminable on board and committee minutes are made three months available to the Board.
notice Considered independent as defined under The UK Corporate Governance Code 79 GOVERNANCE REPORT ACCOUNTABILITY The Internal audit function advises the executive management ACCOUNTABILITY team on the extent to which systems of internal control are adequate and effective to manage business risk, safeguard THE BOARDS REVIEW OF THE SYSTEM Equinitis resources, and ensure compliance with Group policies OF INTERNAL CONTROL and legal and regulatory requirements, as well as advising The Board has responsibility for Equinitis overall approach on ways in which areas of risk can be addressed.
It provides to risk management and internal controls and considers their objective assurance on risk and controls to senior management, effectiveness fundamental to the achievement of Equinitis the Audit Committee and the Board.
Internal audits work strategic objectives.
During 2017, the Board, through its Audit is focused on the Groups principal risks.
The mandate and and Risk Committees, has reviewed with management the programme of work of the internal audit team is considered process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal and approved by the Audit Committee.
Based on the approved risks faced by Equiniti.
internal audit plan, a number of internal audits took place across the Groups divisions to facilitate improvement of the Groups internal controls.
Findings were reported to the relevant INTERNAL AUDIT operational management and the Audit Committee.
Internal audit follows up on the implementation of recommendations and reports on progress to senior management and to the Audit Committee.
The Group Chief Audit Executive, Group Internal Audit, reports regularly to the Chair of the Audit Committee and attends each Audit Committee meeting to present the internal control findings from the internal audits performed.
The Audit Committee reviews and discusses the effectiveness of internal audits on The Group Chief Audit Executive and his team report on an annual basis with the Group Chief Audit Executive.
This is a day-to-day basis to the Executive Committee.
done by the review of the internal audit plan of work for the year and monitoring progress against the plan and actions identified by internal audit.
The Group Chief Audit Executive meets with the Audit Committee at least twice a year, without executive Directors present, and is a regular attendee at the Risk Committee meetings.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements in accordance with the applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Board to prepare financial statements This work is summarised and reported for each financial year.
The Directors have prepared the Group to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
and parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and accounting estimates that are The Group Chief Audit Executive can raise any issues with reasonable and prudent.
the Audit Committee or its Chair at any time during the year.
State whether applicable IFRSs have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
80 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT ACCOUNTABILITY The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys TO AUDITORS transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time As required by sections 418 and 419 of the Act, each Director the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable has approved this report and confirmed that, so far as they are them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors aware, there is no relevant audit information being information Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 needed by the auditors in connection with preparing their audit and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the report of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the also confirmed that they have taken all the steps they ought to assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and information and to establish that the Companys auditors are other irregularities.
The Directors have a further responsibility to aware of that information.
establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial GOING CONCERN reporting for the Group.
The Groups internal control over Equinitis business activities, together with factors likely to affect financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance its future development, performance and position, are set out regarding the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting and in the Strategic Report on pages 20 to 37.
The financial position includes clearly defined lines of accountability, policies and of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, and facilities, as well as the Companys objectives, policies and preparing consolidated accounts.
The Directors have delegated processes for managing capital, are described on pages 38 and responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups 43.
Financial risk management objectives, details of financial systems of internal financial and non-financial controls to the instruments and hedging activities, and exposures to credit risk Audit and Risk Committees.
and liquidity risk are described in notes 5 and 6.10 - 6.13 to the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Accounts on pages 164 and 170 to 175. of Equinitis website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom During the year, the Directors assessed the viability of the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Company over a three-year period, taking into account the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
A Groups current financial position and the principal risks, copy of the financial statements is available on Equinitis website: particularly those that could threaten the business model.
Directors consider that the Companys business activities and Pursuant to Rule 4.1.
12 of the Disclosure Guidance and financial resources ensure that it is well placed to manage its Transparency Rules each of the Directors, the names and business risks successfully and the Group viability statement can functions of whom are set out on pages 66 to 67, confirm that to be found on page 48. the best of their knowledge: The Directors are satisfied that: The Group's financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, The Companys activities are sustainable for the foreseeable give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial future, and that the business is a going concern.
position and profit or loss of the Group.
It is appropriate to continue to adopt a going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
The Directors have concluded that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy in accordance with the Code.
