SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS LETTER MESSAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE We have also undertaken a significant governance review and improved policies and processes in our FCA regulated subsidiary, COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Equiniti Financial Services Limited, to ensure that this business The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code remains compliant with the changing regulatory landscape.
is the standard against which we measured ourselves in 2017.
A copy of the Code is available from the Financial CONCLUSION Reporting Councils website.
Good progress has been made during the year in enhancing Further to the changes in the Board, I am pleased to and embedding our governance processes within the business.
advise that since October 2017 we have been fully We have made significant progress in our succession planning, compliant with the Code.
However, prior to that date not only at Board level but with the senior leadership team.
we were not fully compliant for the following reason: The talent development programmes that we have in place have proved successful and new intakes have been enrolled in Code provision A.
I am confident that we can continue to maintain a The previous Chairman, Kevin Beeston, for the period strong and effective governance system to enable the business 1 January to 29 September 2017, was not considered to deliver its strategy, generate shareholder value and safeguard independent due to his role as an Operating Partner our shareholders long-term interests.
At the time of his appointment Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the and following our listing up until August 2016, Advent leadership team and all of our employees for their work, energy International together with other Advent companies and passion throughout the year, and for the results that they and Kevin Beeston, were our controlling shareholders.
I am confident that we have an excellent team to This ceased to be the case in August 2016, when steer Equiniti through the opportunities and challenges ahead.
Advent disposed of its controlling interest.
Kevin Beeston did not act on behalf of Advent International in respect of its investment in Equiniti and Philip Yea received no remuneration from Advent International in Chairman respect of its investment in the business or his role with us.
The Board is unanimously of the view that Kevin Beeston was an extremely valuable asset to Equiniti 6 March 2018 during his tenure, including a wealth of experience in publicly listed companies, an understanding of technology and service businesses as well as being independent in character and judgement.
