Strategic Report KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Our objective is to deliver attractive, low-risk returns to shareholders, by executing the Investment Policy described on page.
Set out below are the key performance indicators we use to track our progress.
KPI AND DEFINITION RELEVANCE TO STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RESULT TR measures the ultimate outcome.
Total return TR of our strategy, which is to deliver for the year to December our medium-term TR measures the change in the EPRA value to our Shareholders through :.
net asset value over the period plus our portfolio and to deliver a secure dividends paid.
We are targeting a and growing income stream.
TR in excess of % per annum over the medium term.
The dividend reflects our ability.
pence per share Achieved our.
Dividend to deliver a low-risk but growing for the year to December target dividend in Dividend paid to Shareholders and income stream from our portfolio :.
and set declared in relation to the year.
Our and is a key element of our TR.
a new target of target for was a total dividend.
The EPRA NAV reflects our ability to.
EPRA NAV per share grow the portfolio and to add value at December NAV per share The value of our assets based on an to it throughout the lifecycle of our :.
over the year independent valuation less the book assets.
pence value of our liabilities, attributable.
to Shareholders and calculated in accordance with EPRA guidelines.
The LTV measures the prudence.
Loan to value ratio LTV of our financing strategy, balancing at December medium-term LTV The proportion of our gross asset the additional returns and portfolio :.
target maximum value including cash that is funded diversification that come with using of %.
Our medium-term debt against the need to successfully target is to operate with an LTV of manage risk.
Adjusted earnings per share The Adjusted EPS reflects our.
pence per share Adjusted EPS ability to generate earnings from our for the year to December substantially Post-tax adjusted EPS attributable to Shareholders, which includes portfolio, which ultimately underpins :.
covers the total the licence fees receivable on our our dividend payments.
dividend for See note , page  forward funded development assets, the year.
and adjusts for other earnings not supported by cash flows.
This is a key measure of our.
Total expense ratio TER operational performance.
Keeping for the year to December expected to The ratio of total administration and costs low supports our ability to pay :.
reduce as the property operating costs expressed dividends.
as a percentage of average net asset value throughout the period..
Weighted average unexpired The WAULT is a key measure of the.
years lease term WAULT quality of our portfolio.
Long lease at December above our The average unexpired lease term of terms underpin the security of our :.
the property portfolio, weighted by income stream.
Our target is a WAULT of at least years.
This is a target only and not a profit forecast.
There can be no assurances EPRA NAV is calculated in accordance with the Best Practices that the target will be met and it should not be taken as an indicator of the Recommendations of the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
Companys expected or actual future results.
We use these alternative metrics as they provide a transparent and consistent basis to enable comparison between European property companies.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report See Our Strategy and Objectives Our Investment Policy, page
