STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 11 Our Vision and Strategy Our Vision and Strategy To respond to these key trends, we have refreshed our Group vision and strategy.
Our vision Pioneering the power that matters Rolls-Royce pioneers cutting-edge technologies that deliver the cleanest, safest and most competitive solutions to meet our planets vital power needs.
Our strategy Transform Reinvent Champion electrification our business with digital Vitalise existing capabilities Build a balanced portfolio Champion electrification Vitalise existing capabilities Build a balanced portfolio We will invest in new power solutions We will develop next generation We will seek new markets and products that for our long-term success.
technologies to sustain and grow bring new technologies and capabilities, our current competitiveness.
and generate scale and synergies.
We are building on our strong heritage in thermo-mechanical engineering We are investing in our existing We are investing to manage the transition to produce state-of-the-art thermo-mechanical products to ensure towards electrification and digitalisation.
electro-mechanical and hybrid power that they provide the cleanest, safest We mitigate the risk of long-term investment systems.
Today, we already combine and most competitive solutions for our by increasing our preparedness.
For our engines in hybrid systems for trains, customers.
For example, the UltraFan example, by developing activities where ships and micro-grids.
represents a fundamental upgrade of electrification is relevant today, such as our gas turbines, incorporating micro-grids, we will be better placed to 11 breakthrough technologies.
benefit in activities where electrification is Reinvent with digital still some years away, such as aero engines.
We will be Digital First in everything we do to generate new insights, new solutions Transform our business We are committed to creating and new opportunities.
We will fundamentally change the way an environment where all our we do business to generate substantial We are renowned as a pioneer in the use people are able to be at their best.
of digital solutions for our customer care.
For more information see page 46 We are continuously enhancing the digital We are implementing and improving the twin of our physical activities and seeking Rolls-Royce operating system.
allows us to create entirely new ways of engineering, manufacturing and serving our customers across the Group.
