DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 97 Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report Operation of the Committee Lewis Booth All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Chairman of the Directors.
Beverly Goulet joined the Committee on 3 July 2017.
Audit Committee For the purposes of the Code and DTR 7.1, Beverly Goulet, Irene Dorner and I have recent and relevant financial experience.
Our biographies are on page 67.
The Committees responsibilities are outlined in its terms of reference, which can be found at www.
com, which we review annually and refer to the Board for approval.
During 2017, we made an amendment to cover the revised Provision C. 3.1 of the Code that requires the Committee, as a whole, to have competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates, which the Nominations & Governance Committee confirmed is Key highlights already the case.
Focus on business and functional risks Committee members Preparations complete for the implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Member Attended Eligible to attend Lewis Booth chairman 5 5 Continued strengthening of the control environment Irene Dorner 5 5 PwC confirmed its independence ahead of appointment in Beverly Goulet 3 3 2018 and transition progressing Lee Hsien Yang 5 5 Principal responsibilities Introduction I am pleased to present the 2017 report of the Audit Committee Financial reporting which describes how the Committee has carried out its responsibilities during the year.
I would like to thank the members Financial announcements, focusing on: of the Committee, the executive management team and KPMG for the open discussions that take place at our meetings and the accounting policies, judgements and estimates: importance they all attach to its work.
inclusion of appropriate disclosures: The Group has complex long-term accounting and every year compliance with relevant regulations: and we spend much of our time reviewing the accounting policies and accounting judgements implicit in our financial results.
For 2017, whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
this work has been compounded by preparing for the change in revenue recognition under IFRS 15, which has a major impact on Risk and control environment the presentation of the accounts: management has been pro-active in analysing the effect of this new standard and providing input to Scope and effectiveness of the risk management system.
the market on its impact, and we are satisfied that the interpretation, judgements, and estimates for IFRS 15 are appropriate.
In addition, Monitoring of financial fraud risks.
we reviewed the plans to implement IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Systems of internal control.
As a result of the audit tender completed in 2016, we have been Principal risks preparing for the appointment of  LLP PwC as the Company's new auditor in 2018.
This has required a Business continuity, market and financial shock, significant effort to reassign work from PwC to ensure that they are and IT vulnerability.
independent, and I am delighted that they achieved this in October.
The management team has introduced effective controls to ensure Internal audit that PwC and KPMG until the completion of their audit responsibilities maintain their independence.
Scope, resources, results and effectiveness.
2017 has also seen the finance team strengthened at the senior level.
Significant progress has been made in financial analysis and External auditor reporting and in the supporting management information systems.
Relationship with, and effectiveness of, the external auditor.
This has provided additional support for the Committee's work.
For 2018, work will continue to strengthen the control environment Recommendations to the Board for the external auditors including recommendations arising from the DPAs, review of all key appointment and fees.
accounting judgements, as well as reviewing the progress on IFRS 16 Leases which takes effect from 2019.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 98 Audit Committee Report Audit Committee focus during 2017 Area of focus Matters considered Outcome The appropriateness and disclosure of accounting The accounting policies, judgements and estimates Financial reporting policies, key judgements and key estimates with are appropriate and balanced.
a focus on: Agreed the judgements and estimates to adopt IFRS 9. the methodology for capitalisation and amortisation IFRS 15 interpretations, judgements and estimates of development costs: made are appropriate.
carrying value of goodwill in Marine: treatment, estimation and disclosure of costs in Civil Agreed the approach being taken to implement Aerospace for the remediation of in-service issues IFRS 16 see page 132. on the Trent 1000 and Trent 900 programmes: The Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, restructuring costs: and balanced and understandable.
The implementation projects for IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
In particular, the preparation of the restated information on an IFRS 15 basis which is included in notes 1 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The form and content of the Annual Report.
Continued improvements to the enterprise risk The internal control system meets the requirements of Risk and control environment management and internal controls systems, including the Code.
It will continue to be enhanced during 2018, a focus on core financial controls, and risks at including extending the documentation of internal remote locations.
controls to include compliance controls relating to the DPAs.
The processes for identifying and managing risks.
Reported to the Board that an appropriate process The model for assessing the effectiveness of the is in place to make the viability statement.
Groups systems of internal control.
The process and assumptions underlying the going concern and viability statements.
Managements assessment of the risk of a Appropriate procedures are in place to identify and Principal risks business continuity event.
manage principal risks and all of these have been subject to a review by the Board or an appropriate The procedures for preventing, monitoring and Board committee.
combatting breaches of the security of the Groups IT systems.
Appropriate procedures are in place to manage business continuity, cyber security and market The Groups policies, procedures and controls for shock risks.
identifying, managing and mitigating a market shock.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function, its The scope and extent of internal audit are appropriate Internal audit key findings and trends arising, and the resolution and the function remains effective.
The approach and scope of external audit and the Assessed KPMG as effective and independent.
External audit effectiveness and independence of the external auditor.
No concerns over the nature and amount of the The extent of non-audit services provided by KPMG.
non-audit services provided by KPMG.
The transition to PwC as auditor in 2018.
Recommended that PwC be appointed as the Groups auditors at the 2018 AGM.
Monitored the procedures to ensure that PwC became independent of the Group in October 2017 and approved enhanced policies to maintain this.
DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 99 Audit Committee Report Sector audit committees Financial reporting To strengthen the ownership of accounting policies and controls, During the year, we considered proposals for revisions to the and to support our work, each of the Groups businesses and methodologies applied to determine when development costs principal functions has its own sector audit committee.
These should be capitalised and how they should be amortised.
These committees are chaired by the director of internal audit, comprise are described in more detail on pages 124 and 128.
The Committee business functional leaders and senior finance personnel and are agreed that the experience on the significant number of new attended by KPMG.
They meet twice a year and: programmes in the Civil Aerospace business and changes in the way in which technical risk is being managed on these programmes review the application of accounting policies, judgements indicated that the criteria for the capitalisation of development costs and estimates: were generally met at an earlier stage than has previously been review risk management, internal control systems and issues assessed, and that costs eligible for capitalisation continue to be arising at a more detailed level: incurred after the first engines have entered service.
We were give us further assurance as to the extent of management control satisfied that appropriate governance procedures and controls are and accountability: in place to manage this revised methodology.
The impact of this promote the governance culture within the Group: and change in 2017 is the capitalisation of an additional 83m of costs.
We also agreed that an amortisation methodology that reflects inform areas for further consideration at our meetings.
the number of engines in service better reflects the pattern of The director of internal audit reported to this Committee on consumption of the intangible asset.
key matters arising and also provided updates on the work and A summary of the principal matters we considered in respect of effectiveness of the sector audit committees during the year.
the 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements is set out in the table In 2017, the sector audit committees continued to focus on the on page 100.
Where relevant in particular, in regard to the carrying improvement projects for internal control and risk management value of programme assets and estimates on long-term contractual process, in particular the embedding of these in our normal arrangements we took account of the potential impact of the operational processes.
in-service issues on the Civil Aerospace Trent 1000 and Trent 900 programmes.
These are described on page 24.
Members of the Committee attended at least one sector audit committee each, and we are satisfied that this process is now We continued to monitor the implementation of new standards.
owned by the business and is helping to improve our risk Our conclusions on IFRS 15 are shown in the table on page 100. management and the control environment.
The impact on the Group is not significant and is described on page 130.
In broad terms this requires a balance sheet liability Business and function presentations to be reported for all leases.
We considered progress of the project and analysis of the Groups lease portfolio.
In addition to a regular review of the sector audit committee process and any key issues identified, we have a regular schedule of Since the year end, we have reviewed the form and content of presentations from each of the Groups businesses and its key the Companys 2017 Annual Report, together with the processes functions.
During 2017, we received presentations from the following: used to prepare and verify it.
We have reported to the Board that, taken as a whole, we consider the Annual Report to be fair, balanced Civil Aerospace key business risks focusing on new programme and understandable.
We further believe the Annual Report provides introductions, ramp-up in production and in-service product the necessary information for shareholders to adequately assess the issues : supply chain resilience: internal control environment Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
including financial analysis, the implementation of IFRS 15 in 2018 and planning and forecasting capability to reflect the business In making this assessment, we considered: growth : and accounting policies, judgements and estimates.
the process for preparing the Annual Report, including a steering Power Systems key accounting estimates including warranty committee, the core team, and instructions to contributors: provisions and the impact of the transformation programme : written representations from management in respect of the key business risks including regulatory compliance, business reviews, sustainability, principal risks and Financial competitive position, and transformation programmes : and Statements: the control environment.
the completion of a regulatory compliance checklist: Nuclear key accounting estimates which principally relate all reviews performed including the Board, the ELT and KPMG to accounting for long-term contracts and are affected by the and ensured that all feedback was appropriately reflected: and changing contractual arrangements with the UK MoD : key the presentation and discussion in the Strategic Report of: business risks including government relations, programme i the underlying as well as reported results: ii the in-service delivery, IT security, and safety of nuclear facilities and products : issues on the Trent 1000 and Trent 900 programmes: and iii future of civil nuclear markets: and the control environment.
trends, in particular, the impact of individually significant items.
Group tax director the main drivers of the Groups tax position and key tax risks and how they are managed with specific consideration of tax disputes : key tax law developments and new requirements in particular the new UK corporate offence of failure to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion : key sources of estimation uncertainty in particular the recognition of deferred tax assets : and key tax-related disclosures.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 100 Audit Committee Report Areas of focus for the 2017 Financial Statements Key issue Matters considered Outcome Accounting for Methodology for capitalisation and amortisation We are satisfied that the revised methodology for development costs of development costs see pages 124 and 128 capitalisation and amortisation of development costs appropriately reflects changes in the ways in which risk is managed in the programmes and the consumption of the programme asset.
Impairment of the carrying Assessments of the values of the principal We are satisfied that no write-down of programme values of programme programme assets, including key assumptions assets is required.
assets in Civil Aerospace and estimates see page 143 Determining the Continuing appropriateness of the judgements We are satisfied that the judgements continue to be appropriateness of the appropriate and that the process produces balanced judgements and estimates We considered carefully the estimates used in the estimates, with appropriate consideration of the used in accounting for accounting regarding the cost of the in-service uncertainties.
No significant changes to the basis long-term contractual engine issues on the Trent 1000 and Trent 900 of preparation were made in 2017. arrangements programmes and the resulting performance improvements Classification of The criteria for excluding certain costs from We are satisfied that the agreed criteria have been restructuring costs the underlying results and whether the costs consistently applied.
meet this criteria see page 135 The sale of engines Basis for assessing the selling price see page 166 We are satisfied that the price represents the fair to joint ventures value of the engines.
Indications of impairment The forecasts and the key assumptions on We are satisfied that no impairment is required but, as of goodwill in Marine which they are based see page 143 the headroom remains low, we will continue to monitor this.
We were also satisfied that no adjustments were required in 2017 as result of the reorganisation of Marine announced in January 2018.
Deferred tax assets Basis for recognition of DTAs arising from tax Based on the Groups forecasts and taking account DTAs and advance losses and advance corporation tax in the UK of the current uncertainties in the oil & gas market, corporation tax and non-recognition of DTAs in Norway we are satisfied that the treatment is appropriate.
Acquisition of ITP Aero The acquisition accounting focusing on the We are satisfied that the provisional judgements remeasurement of the existing joint venture and estimates made were appropriate and that, investment and the allocation of the purchase in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, price to the assets acquired, giving rise to the these will be finalised in 2018. recognition of a gain see page 167 Implementation of IFRS 9 The assessment of judgements and estimates We are satisfied that the judgements and estimates necessary to implement IFRS 9 in 2018 are appropriate.
see page 130 Implementation of IFRS 15 The progress of the project to implement IFRS15 We are satisfied that the judgements and estimates in 2018 and the preparation of the disclosures made are appropriate and consistent with the new of the impact of the change for 2017 see pages requirements: that the disclosures of the impact are 55 to 57, 131 to 132 and 170 to 171 appropriate: and that the Group has systems and processes in place to report on the new basis in 2018.
DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 101 Audit Committee Report We have conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups Risk and control environment risk management and internal controls systems, including those Assessment of principal risks relating to the financial reporting process, in accordance with Risk management is a fundamental and integral part of how we the Code.
These systems have been in place throughout 2017. work.
All risks are managed through a risk management system We consider that they meet the requirements of the Code and RMS described on page 59 in accordance with policies and the DTR.
guidance approved by the Board.
Going concern and viability statements Judgement is required in: We reviewed the processes and assumptions underlying the evaluating the risks facing the Group in achieving its objectives: statements set out on page 63.
In particular, we considered: determining the risks that are considered acceptable: the Groups forecast funding position over the next five years: determining the likelihood of those risks materialising: an analysis of impacts of severe but plausible risk scenarios, identifying the Groups ability to reduce the incidence and ensuring that these were consistent with the risks reviewed impact on the business of risks that do materialise: and by the Board as part of its strategy review: ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are the impact of multiple risks occurring simultaneously: proportionate to the benefit provided.
additional mitigating actions that the Group could take in During 2017, on behalf of the Board, we monitored the RMS, extreme circumstances: and including continued developments and improvements.
These are the current borrowing facilities in place and the availability described in more detail on page 59.
We also specifically of future facilities.
considered how risks at remote sites are identified and managed.
As a result, we were satisfied that the going concern and viability This process and the principal risks arising see pages 59 to 62 statements have been prepared on an appropriate basis.
then formed the basis for our assessment of the going concern and viability statements which are discussed on page 63.
The processes are designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk Principal risks of failure to achieve our business objectives.
We considered in detail the principal risks that have been allocated We satisfied ourselves that the processes for identifying and to us by the Board, see pages 61 and 62.
From our discussions managing the principal risks are appropriate and that all risks and we are satisfied that all of the principal risks that we oversee mitigating actions had been subject, during the year, to a detailed have received significant management attention during the year.
review by the Board or an appropriate Board committee.
Based We reviewed: on this and on our other activities, including consideration of the work of internal and external audit and presentations from senior Business continuity management of each business which include risk management, In February, the director of civil aerospace operations updated we reported to the Board that a robust assessment of the principal us on how business continuity risks present in the external supply risks facing the Company had been undertaken.
chain were being mitigated and governed.
In November, the Group's chief information officer updated us on Internal control the programme of work to identify and mitigate potential IT single The Board has overall responsibility to the shareholders for points of failure.
the Groups system of internal control over its business and risk management processes and the risks identified through the In December, the director of civil aerospace operations presented risk management process.
The Committee has responsibility information on supply chain resilience and potential single points for reviewing the systems operation and effectiveness.
of failure in our internal supply chain.
The system comprises: We also spent time reviewing progress made with improvements agreed last year to mitigate specific business continuity risks and entity-level controls covering leadership and direction from to address internal audit recommendations.
the top: and specific control activities, covering detailed process controls, IT vulnerability and internal and external assurance activities.
In May, the director, security, risk & compliance updated the Committee on the potential key risks related to cyber security, how We routinely review controls over the Groups principal risks and the threat landscape is changing and how lessons are being learnt.
the key risks and critical processes in each of the Groups businesses.
We also reviewed the cyber security strategy, designed to improve Both the sector audit committees and this Committee also consider the visibility of threats, enforcement of cyber security policies and KPMGs observations on the Groups control environment.
learning from intelligence gained about the main cyber risk actors During 2017, the Group completed the documentation of core as well as our defence in depth approach.
financial controls in line with the plans established in 2015, and In November, we received an update from the Group's chief commenced a formal programme to continually assess and test information officer on the progress that was being made to the effective operation of those controls across the Group.
In mitigate the cyber security threats that we discussed in May.
addition, it is extending the documentation of internal controls to include compliance controls relating to the DPAs.
In 2017, the We also received ad hoc updates during cyber attacks such testing and assessment of core financial controls identified that as WannaCry.
further improvements are required to fully embed and mature these controls.
Therefore new policies and formalised compensating internal controls specifically in respect of financial reporting were introduced.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 102 Audit Committee Report We are satisfied that the scope, extent and effectiveness of internal Market and financial shock audit work are appropriate for the Group and that there is a sound In July, we reviewed potential key risks, including liquidity and plan for ensuring that this continues to be the case as our business credit rating risks and how they are managed by the Group's progresses and risks change.
I was pleased to see that the continued financial risk committee.
improvement in the function was recognised by the Institute of We also considered the impact of other risks, notably changing Internal Audit when awarding it the Private Sector Outstanding accounting standards and Brexit.
Our risk management system External audit In February, we reviewed the programme to enhance the risk management system and in July and December reviewed progress 2017 audit that had been made.
In December, we also received an update During the year, KPMG presented the audit strategy, which from the head of enterprise risk management on the development identified their assessment of the key audit risks and the proposed of the risk appetite framework to use risk metrics to inform decision scope of audit work.
We agreed the approach and scope of audit making.
The framework includes upper and lower limits and triggers work to be undertaken and we also assessed KPMGs qualifications, to provide early warning if the limit of the Groups capacity to expertise and resources, independence and the effectiveness withstand principal risks was being approached.
of the external audit process.
Key risks and the audit approach to these risks are discussed in Internal audit the Independent Auditors Report pages 183 to 194, which also highlights the other significant risks that KPMG drew to our The director of internal audit provides the Committee with: attention.
We continue to support the extended auditors report and quarterly: a dashboard identifying the key trends and findings KPMGs approach which goes beyond the minimum requirements, from internal audit reports, and the resolution of actions agreed: providing additional clarity on the key judgements and estimates.
biannually: a detailed update of significant findings and his As part of the reporting of the half-year and full-year results, in perspectives on the internal control environment, management July 2017 and February 2018, KPMG reported to the Committee responses to underlying root causes and systemic issues: on its assessment of the Groups judgements and estimates in the results of audits on advisor processes including payments respect of these risks and the adequacy of the reporting.
KPMG and conflicts of interest, as part of the Group's response to the also reported on its assessment of the Groups control environment.
DPAs: It is important that for areas of judgement that are finely balanced, an annual report on compliance with expenses policies for KPMG provide additional insight to assist in making the most the directors and ELT members: and appropriate judgement.
In our meetings and discussions with a work plan for the following year.
KPMG and management, it is clear that this role is being I meet the director of internal audit privately before each meeting performed well.
and on an ad-hoc basis throughout the year, as do other members I meet with the lead partner prior to each meeting and the whole of the Committee.
As a whole, we have a private meeting with him Committee has a private meeting with KPMG at least once a year.
These discussions cover the activities, findings, resolution of control weaknesses, progress against the agreed plan and the resourcing of the department.
Specific topics discussed in Non-audit services provided by KPMG 2017 included: process and control design: compliance to process: In order to safeguard the auditors independence and objectivity, data security and integrity: project management: and accountability.
and in accordance with the FRCs Ethical Standard, we do not engage KPMG for any non-audit services except where it is work The nature and number of issues raised by internal audit and the that they must, or are clearly best-suited to, perform.
Accordingly, time to complete the related actions remains a key focus.
We pay our policies for the engagement of the auditor to undertake particular attention to the small number of overdue actions and non-audit services broadly limit these to audit-related services were pleased to observe a continued reduction in the time to such as reporting to lenders and grant providers.
Fees paid to KPMG are set out on page 141 and summarised on page The plan is developed to focus on the key risks facing the business.
All proposed services must be pre-approved in accordance with We monitor changes during the course of the year.
the policy which is reviewed and approved annually.
Above defined We considered and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups levels, my pre-approval is required.
During 2017, we have further internal audit function, including resources, plans and performance strengthened the process and controls in this area.
We also review as well as the functions interaction with management.
The outcome quarterly the non-audit fees charged by KPMG.
of the 2017 review was positive and identified opportunities for continued improvement which are being implemented.
DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 103 Audit Committee Report Non-audit related fees paid to KPMG during the year were 24% Looking forward 2016: 17% of the audit fee.
Our annual review of the external auditor As well as our regular review of accounting policies, our focus takes into account the nature and level of all services provided.
will include: the audit transition activities: 2017 2016 % of % of the implementation of IFRS 16, including the supporting m audit fee m audit fee processes and controls: Audit 7.6 6.8 embedding and maturing the finance processes and core Non-audit financial controls with continued training and education: 1 Audit-related 0.7 10 0.6 9 completion of the documentation of compliance controls Tax compliance 0.1 1 0.5 7 relating to the DPAs: Other 1.0 13 0.1 1 strengthening the information technology controls over key finance systems: and 1.8 24 1.2 17 the continuing development of the management information 1 Includes 0.3m for the review of the half-year report.
systems and improvements to the underlying systems and tools.
Based on our review of the services provided by KPMG and In addition to the continuing oversight by the Safety & Ethics discussion with the lead audit partner, we concluded that neither Committee of the ethics and compliance programme see page 109, the nature nor the scale of these services gave any concerns we will continue to monitor the Groups actions relating to risk regarding the objectivity or independence of KPMG.
management, internal controls and other matters relevant to the Committee that arise out of Lord Golds recommendations, Auditor transition and appointment of PwC and from the agreements with prosecuting authorities.
The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board Lewis Booth with regard to the appointment of the external auditor.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Following the audit tender process in 2016, we recommended to the Board that PwC be appointed as auditor for the financial year commencing 1 January 2018.
No contractual obligations restricted our choice of external auditor.
During 2017, we have monitored the activities of the audit transition team, which was established to ensure that the transition is as seamless as possible.
A key part of the activities was to ensure that, on appointment, PwC meets the independence requirements and that we have procedures to ensure that this is maintained and that of KPMG until the completion of their audit responsibilities.
This involved moving existing PwC engagements, most significantly global tax compliance, to alternative providers.
PwC became independent in October 2017.
As well as this, during 2017, PwC has attended the Committee meetings and sector audit committee meetings, made familiarisation visits to our major sites and held a global planning workshop.
Following the confirmation of independence, PwC has reviewed KPMGs audit files for 2016 and our key accounting policies and judgements, including those relating to IFRS 15.
We are also working on a detailed plan for each of the subsidiary companies around the world.
KPMG has been the Company's auditor since 1990.
On behalf of the Company, I express my thanks to them for their contribution over this period.
Ian Chambers, as the PwC lead audit partner, will be required to rotate after five years and other key audit partners will be required to rotate every seven years.
We will monitor compliance with these requirements.
The Committee and the Board will recommend PwCs appointment at the 2018 AGM.
Compliance During 2017, the Company complied with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
