Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL We own and manage high-quality The value we add Big Box logistics assets across the UK, Sourcing investments using the Managers experience and The starting point for value creation is sourcing our investments.
This relies on the Managers extensive agency, developer and expertise to assemble and grow a well tenant contacts, built up over many years.
The Manager also diversified portfolio, while prudently develops relationships with asset owners, learning of their triggers to sell.
These relationships and knowledge allow us to applying leverage to increase returns.
source most investments off market, so we can buy at attractive prices.
In a market where personnel changes are common, the consistency of the Managers team helps us to maintain our relationships and work on longer-term deals.
The Managers expertise enables us to move fast, rapidly assessing opportunities, making decisions, performing thorough due diligence and completing transactions.
We have never withdrawn a contract after agreeing terms and believe that our reputation is unrivalled in our market.
This speed and certainty of execution makes us the obvious choice for asset owners looking to sell Big Boxes and can help us achieve better prices.
Buying and selling for value We have a clear Investment Policy see page but we are also pragmatic.
We may buy smaller assets in locations where larger ones are not available, helping us to diversify by geography and building size and spreading lot-size risk.
We may also buy assets with shorter leases, where we see an opportunity to add value such as by regearing the lease or reletting.
Creating value requires capital discipline and patience, and we discount numerous opportunities that do not offer value for money or meet our stringent criteria.
The inputs to our business model We use the following resources to create value for Shareholders and other stakeholders: Financial capital Relationships We are funded by Shareholders equity, third-party debt We build mutually beneficial relationships with our and recycled funds Customers and draw on the Managers extensive contacts with key players across the subsector Physical assets Human capital We have an outstanding portfolio of UK Big Box logistics We have an experienced Board of Directors and a Manager assets, as well as strategically located land for pre-let with a high-calibre, consistent, knowledgeable and forwarddevelopment thinking team The Manager provides expertise in assembling a high-quality, diversified and low-risk portfolio, as well as relationship building, buying for value and speed and certainty of execution Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Delivering returns Our intention is to hold most assets for the long term but we may By acquiring high-quality properties with excellent tenants and carefully managing our assets, we aim to deliver a robust, low-risk sell if we have unlocked value and delivered the assets business and growing rental stream, which supports a progressive target plan, and we have the potential to reinvest the proceeds in a dividend.
Our asset selection and management add value to our more attractive opportunity.
investments, allowing Shareholders to benefit from attractive total returns.
Funding developments The Managers relationships with developers enables us to As our portfolio grows, we benefit from economies of scale, invest in forward funded developments, through which we increased diversification by geography, tenant and building size, a fund the construction of a Big Box which has been pre-let to larger list of contacts and a deeper pool of available capital, helping a specific Customer.
This results in lower transaction costs us to source further investments off market.
A larger portfolio also and enables us to source brand new buildings for institutional gives us greater insight into market developments, more control tenants on long leases.
over the evidence for rent reviews and lease renewals, and greater potential to create multi-asset initiatives with the same tenant.
We can also acquire land which is suitable for pre-let forward Buying assets directly incurs total costs of approximately.
We do not invest in any speculative of which SDLT is approximately.
Standard sale costs are developments ie those which are not pre-let.
This means that frictional costs the total standard costs of selling an asset and reinvesting the proceeds are c.. %.
Our Asset management actual transaction costs are typically lower, as where possible we The assets we buy are usually strategically important to our reduce SDLT by buying the special purpose vehicle which owns Customers.
We work with them to maximise their operational the asset.
Even so, frictional costs influence investment returns, effectiveness, for example by extending buildings or adding particularly in times of lower capital growth.
Our portfolio is weighted mezzanine floors.
This encourages them to sign longer towards Foundation assets because they do not need to be leases, increasing our revenue security and capital values.
This reduces our frictional costs, which supports Whilst recognising that only a limited part of our portfolio is our returns.
categorised as Value Add assets within our investment pillars, In addition, our REIT status protects the value we create for where we buy properties with the potential to add value, Shareholders, as we are not subject to corporation tax on profits and we look to turn them into Foundation assets through asset gains in respect of our qualifying property rental business.
pay dividends that qualify as a property income distribution PID where possible, which offers tax advantages for certain UK investors.
The outputs from our business model The value we add Our business model primarily creates value for our Shareholders and Customers.
Source Buy and sell For Shareholders investments for value We aim to deliver an attractive total return to Shareholders, underpinned by progressive annual dividends and net asset value growth.
pence % per annum annual dividend for, a total return over the up.
% on medium term For Customers Our Customers benefit from occupying Big Box logistics assets which are strategically important to their businesses, Asset Fund helping them to achieve cost savings and economies of scale, management developments and to fulfil their rapidly growing e-commerce businesses.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
