STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strategic Report EPRA PERFORMANCE MEASURES The table below shows additional performance measures, calculated in accordance with the Best Practices Recommendations of the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
We provide these measures to aid comparison with other European real estate businesses.
For a full reconciliation of all EPRA performance measures, please see Notes to the EPRA performance measures.
KPI AND DEFINITION PERFORMANCE PURPOSE A key measure of a companys.
pence per share underlying operating results and Earnings from operational activities which for the year to December an indication of the extent to which excludes the licence fees receivable on our :.
current dividend payments are forward funded development assets.
See note, page Makes adjustments to IFRS NAV.
pence per share to provide stakeholders with the Net asset value adjusted to include as at December most relevant information on properties and other investment interests :.
the fair value of the assets and at fair value and to exclude certain items liabilities within a true real estate not expected to crystallise in a long-term investment company, with a longinvestment property business.
See note, page Makes adjustments to EPRA NAV.
EPRA Triple Net Asset Value, .
pence per share to provide stakeholders with the NNNAV as at December most relevant information on the EPRA NAV adjusted to include the fair :.
values of: current fair value of all the assets i financial instruments: and liabilities within a real estate ii debt and: company.
This measure should make it.
EPRA Net Initial Yield NIY.
% easier for investors to judge for Annualised rental income based on the cash at December :.
themselves how the valuations rents passing at the balance sheet date, of two portfolios compare.
less non-recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the market value of the property, increased with estimated purchasers costs.. EPRA Topped-Up NIY This measure should make it.
% This measure incorporates an adjustment easier for investors to judge for at December :.
to the EPRA NIY in respect of the expiration themselves how the valuations of rent-free periods or other unexpired of two portfolios compare.
lease incentives, such as discounted rent periods and step rents.
% investment property space that is Estimated market rental value ERV as at December :.
of vacant space divided by the ERV of the whole portfolio.
% meaningful measurement of the Administrative and operating costs for the year to December :.
% changes in a companys operating including and excluding costs of direct Both the and ratios include and exclude costs.
vacancy divided by gross rental income.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report See Notes to the EPRA performance measures, pages -
