VIABILITY STATEMENT Viability statement Strong acquisitions track record We have a strong track 1.
ASSESSMENT OF PROSPECTS record of acquiring new platforms and capabilities, successfully Equiniti conducts a significant portion of its business through integrating them into the Group and generating growth from recurring revenue secured via long term contracts and has a them.
Since 2007, we have completed 21 transactions.
stated modest growth strategy, evidenced both by its past performance and resilience and the position it occupies in the 2.
THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS AND KEY market.
A period of three years has been chosen because, ASSUMPTIONS although forecasts are prepared for longer periods, there The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through its is inevitably more uncertainty associated with a longer time strategic and financial planning process.
This includes a detailed frame and the Directors have a reasonable confidence over annual review of the ongoing plan, led by the Group Chief this time horizon.
Executive and CFO in conjunction with divisional and functional The Groups strategy remains unchanged: management teams.
The Board participates fully in the annual process by means of an extended board meeting.
Grow sales to existing clients The output of the annual review process is a set of objectives, Win new B2B clients detailed financial forecasts and a clear explanation of the key Develop and acquire new capabilities assumptions and risks to be considered when agreeing the plan.
The latest updates to the plan were finalised in December 2017.
Reinvest strong cash flows This considered the Groups current position and its prospects Operating leverage over the forthcoming years, and reaffirmed the Groups stated strategy.
The key factors supporting the Groups prospects are: Detailed financial forecasts are prepared, with the first year of Long-term, loyal, blue-chip clients We have a large and diverse the financial forecast forming the Groups operating budget client base, including c70 of the FTSE 100 and 120 of the FTSE and is subject to a rolling forecast process throughout the year.
Our average relationship with FTSE 100 share registration Subsequent years of the forecasts are extrapolated from the first clients is more than 20 years see page 58 and our clients year, based on the overall content of the strategic plan.
Progress typically take an average of seven services from us.
against financial budgets and key objectives are reviewed in Proprietary technology Our well-invested and scalable detail on a monthly basis by both the Groups executive team proprietary technology platforms give us a competitive and Board.
Mitigating actions are taken whether identified advantage and form a barrier to entry, given the substantial through actual trading performance or the rolling forecast experience, time and money required to build them see pages process.
We have more than 30 platforms, all on UK-based Low single digit per annum revenue growth, supported infrastructure.
Our primary platforms are Sirius share registration, by market trends and increased cross selling into our dividend and share plan management : Xanite custody, customer base: investment and wealth management : Compendia pension administration and payroll : and Charter case and complaints Modest margin improvement driven by operating leverage, management.
offshoring, automation, property rationalisation and increasing mix of software licenses: Leadership positions We are leaders in large and growing markets giving us significant growth opportunities and strong No change in the stated dividend policy: momentum see pages 14 to 15.
No change in capital structure given the Group has secured Scale The scale of our business means we can successfully term debt and an RCF facility out to October 2020. handle the biggest transactions.
In 2017, we made payments The viability statement and the projections carried out to support of 88 billion, interacted with c28 million shareholders and it are made based upon the current business model and balance pensioners, and held c70m shareholder records.
sheet together with the assumption that future finance facilities Specialist people We employ people who are experts in their that mature during the three-year period will be refinanced on fields.
At the year end, we had over 4,500 employees, including similar terms.
760 at our offshore facility in Chennai, India see page 54.
48 Equinit Equiniti Gr i Group plc Annual Report 2017 oup plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 SECTION 01 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T VIABILITY STATEMENT This viability assessment takes into account all the committed expenditure of the Group together with transaction costs related to the acquisition of the Wells Fargo Shareowner Services business.
It does not include the financial results, position and prospects of the acquired business nor the related financing facilities.
The acquisition completed on February 2018.
ASSESSMENT OF VIABILITY Although the output of the Groups strategic and financial planning process reflects the Directors best estimate of the future prospects of the business, the Group has also assessed the financial impact of a range of alternative scenarios.
These represent stresses which include the following potential scenarios: Depressed market activity leading to a reduction in Corporate Action revenue: Reduction in revenue growth for a prolonged period of time, with a lag in cost reduction action: Significant change programmes offshoring automation property rationalisation do not deliver anticipated benefits: 20% reduction in planned underlying EBITDA across a 3 year period.
The results of the stress testing, including a combination of the individual scenarios, demonstrated that due to the Groups high cash generation and access to additional funds that it would be able to withstand the impact in each case.
Mitigants considered as part of this stress testing included cost efficiency programmes, dividend reductions and a rationalisation of capital expenditure.
VIABILITY STATEMENT Based on the results of the analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of their assessment.
