GOVERNANCE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Nomination Committee report Dear Shareholder MEMBERSHIP AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE The Committee is comprised of the non-executive Directors and I am pleased to present my first report on behalf of the chaired by the Chairman of the Board, Philip Yea.
Biographies of Nomination Committee the Committee having succeeded the current Committee members are set out on pages 66 to 67.
Kevin Beeston as Chairman of the Company in September 2017.
The Committee discharges its responsibilities through a series In addition to Kevin stepping down as Chairman of the of scheduled and additional meetings held during the year.
Board and leaving the Company in September, John Parker There were four Committee meetings held during 2017 and also stepped down from the Board and left the Company in the Committee members, together with a schedule of their September.
Details of my recruitment to the Board can be found attendance at meetings during 2017, are shown below.
Maximum Name Attended possible Committee Chair: 1 1 1 Philip Yea Our main objective for 2017 was for the Committee to focus Sally-Ann Hibberd 4 4 on leadership, succession and Vicky Jarman 4 4 contingency planning for the Dr Tim Miller 4 4 Board and senior management.
Darren Pope 4 4 Our main objective for 2017 was for the Committee to focus on 1 Kevin Beeston 3 3 leadership, succession and contingency planning for the Board and senior management.
We have done this and further details 1 John Parker 3 3 on the planning can be found on the page opposite.
In February 2017, the Committee recommended to the Board that it approve 1 Philip Yea joined the Committee upon his appointment as Chairman to the the introduction of a Diversity & Inclusion Policy for the Group Board in September 2017, following Kevin Beeston stepping down from the as a whole.
This was approved and was communicated to all Board.
John Parker also stood down from the Board in September 2017.
Further details on this can be found on Directors attended those meetings held in the year during their tenure.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee Our focus for 2018 is: and attends all meetings.
At the request of the Chairman, the to successfully recruit, and induct, a new non-executive Chief Executive, Group HR Director, and New Bridge Street the Director to the Board: external remuneration consultant have been invited to attend all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
to grow our talent pool: ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE to continue monitoring and refreshing the succession plans for The role of the Committee is to develop and maintain a both the Board and senior leadership team: and formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for making to monitor how the implementation of the Diversity and recommendations on appointments and reappointments to the Inclusion Policy is progressing and the feedback received Board.
In addition, it is responsible for reviewing the succession on this from employees.
plans for the executive Directors and the non-executive Directors.
The Committee has also taken on responsibility for ensuring that talent development and succession planning is undertaken for senior management throughout the Group.
Philip Yea Chair of the Nomination Committee The Committees terms of reference are available on the investor section of the Equiniti website: http: investors.
com investors shareholder-services corporate-governance 6 March 2018 98 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT 2017 ACTIVITIES SUCCESSION PLANNING During the year, the Committee met to One of the key roles of the Committee is to ensure that plans are in place for the orderly deal with a number of matters, the key and progressive refreshing of the Board and to identify and develop individuals with outcomes of which are considered to be: potential for Board and Executive Committee positions.
A plan has been developed which provides short to long-term leadership succession and contingency planning over the search and successful appointment the following periods: of a new non-executive Chairman: SHORT TERM emergency cover the establishment of a Diversity and MEDIUM TERM within the next 12 months Inclusion policy which has been rolled LONG TERM within the next two to three years out across the Group.
Further details on this policy can be found on page 53: The succession plan is linked to appropriate talent development and targeted training programmes which are summarised in the table below.
further advancement of the leadership succession and contingency planning and development plans for the Board and executive management team: RISING STARS GRADUATE SENIOR LEADERSHIP PROGRAMME DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME the appointment of the new Group Business Development Director, which is a matter for the Nomination Committee as the role is a member of OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVES the Executive Committee: and Identify and develop leaders of the Create a strong leadership network making progress in reviewing talent and future with ability, aspiration and for a small group of forward thinking leadership development as part of the engagement to make a difference high-potentials succession and contingency planning.
METHOD METHODS Individual Development plans in Individual development combination with formal learning Stretch project online and face-to-face Peer-Learning network including.
Master classes Mentoring programme OUTCOME OUTCOME Create leader bench strength for Solid bench of high performing mid-level roles First time leaders and leaders ready to deliver business leading leaders growth and step up into broader roles As a result of this, both the Board and the Committee have visibility of a wide range of employees with leadership potential, together with their individual development plans.
99 GOVERNANCE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Philip Yea is also Chairman of listed company Greene King plc BOARD CHANGES and Senior Independent Director of Computacenter plc from On 3 July 2017, Philip Yea was appointed to the Board as which he will stand down from in April 2018.
In addition, he is Chairman designate and, following the resignation of Kevin a non-executive director of Aberdeen Asia Smaller Companies Beeston on 29 September 2017, he became Chairman of the Investment Trust plc and Marshall of Cambridge Holdings Company.
Details of the process followed for his appointment Limited.
Philip is an independent director and trustee of The as Chairman are show below.
John Parker resigned as a nonFrancis Crick Institute.
In considering his appointment, the Board executive Director on 30 September 2017.
Alison Burns will be was aware of these appointments and do not consider that they appointed as an independent non-executive Director on impose any restriction on his ability to perform his duties.
Vicky Jarman has decided to step down from the Board at the Companys AGM to be held on 3 May Non-executive Director Succession 2018.
Darren Pope will replace her as the Companys Senior The Chairman, with assistance from the Chief Executive and the Independent non-executive Director SID.
Company Secretary, led the process to appoint Alison Burns as a successor to John Parker.
The appointment process followed Appointment Process was similar to those used for the appointment of both Sally-Ann Vicky Jarman, as SID, took the lead on the selection and Hibberd and Darren Pope in 2016.
More detail on the process appointment process for Philip Yea in succession to Kevin followed for her appointment, and for her induction, will be Beeston as Chairman.
The appointment process for the new included within the 2018 Annual Report.
Chairman is described in the following chart.
The criteria used when seeking a candidate is for someone who has the following: a diverse mix of experience, recognising the importance of Having used Lygon Group Lygon for the diversity, in its widest sense, in Board effectiveness: Search recruitment of Sally-Ann Hibberd and Darren Pope, it was decided to use them again for Consultants could make a genuine contribution to the Board and all its the Chairman's selection as they knew the Selection Committees and add value by offering wise counsel and Company and the Board advice, based on their experience and successful track record of achievement: could attend and contribute to the effective running of all the Committees: Based on the criteria for new non-executive Directors', and following discussions wth has held an executive role or has related business experience Lygon, a specification for the new Chairman Specification was agreed by the Committee and capabilities, particularly in relation to financial services and or accounting, and could provide input on strategic and operational matters: could support the Chairman in ensuring that the Board provides effective direction for and oversight of management A long list of candidates was provided by of the Group and its compliance with its statutory and Lygon to the SID and Chief Executive for feedback and a shortlist of three candidates regulatory responsibilities: and Interviews was then prepared.
Interviews with the selected candidates were conducted by could help set the values and standards of the Group and ensure the SID and Chief Executive.
The preferred that its obligations to its customers, shareholders, finance candidate then met with the remainder of the providers, regulators and others are understood and met.
Board DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND TRAINING A thorough due diligence and referencing Led by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary, process was conducted.
Following a Due Diligence an induction programme is tailored for each new Director prior to satisfactory conclusion of the process, the Recommendation Committee recommended the appointment their appointment to the Board.
of the preferred candidate to the Board for The induction process takes account of the Directors existing approval knowledge of the industry, specific areas of expertise and proposed Committee appointments.
Information is typically Lygon is a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct for executive provided on director duties, the Code, Board and Committee search firms to address gender diversity on corporate boards.
composition, operational and management structure across the Lygon has acted for the Company before in recruiting two other Group, key Group policies and procedures, Group strategy and non-executive Directors', but otherwise has no other connection with the Company.
financials, and governance framework, including matters reserved for the Board, Committee terms of reference, forward agendas, previous Board and Committee meeting minutes, and Board and Committee meetings schedule.
100 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The induction process includes detailed briefings with the Chairman, Chief Executive and Committee Chairs and further meetings with the rest of the Board and key individuals from the BOARD GENDER senior leadership team, in order to understand the issues being discussed at Board and Executive Committee levels.
Members of the Board have access to all Board and Committee papers.
The Chairman discusses training requirements with the Board throughout the year and with the Company Secretary, and arranges meetings, key site visits or information to be provided as appropriate.
As a part of the ongoing development of Directors, they are each supplied with appropriate information in a suitable format.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and independent professional advice.
As part of the Philip Yeas induction as Chairman designate, he met with senior members of the Groups statutory auditor  LLP and with the Groups corporate 72% 28% adviser to gain an independent view of the business, its markets and what the Groups advisers thought the challenges ahead would be.
Philip also met with a number of major investors to ascertain their views on the Group and to provide them with an opportunity to provide feedback on the Group without executive The Board currently consists of seven Directors, two of whom management being present.
Philip also visited the main UK are women, representing 28% of the Board.
The 25% target operational sites in Birmingham, Crawley, Lancing, London and established by the Davies Report and the increased target of 33% Worthing.
by 2020 established by the Hampton-Alexander Review, are both supported by the Board.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION At Equiniti, we want diversity and inclusion to mean In addition to considering gender, age, disability, ethnicity and understanding, appreciating and valuing difference both experience, the Group seeks to ensure that the Board has the visible and invisible, and understanding that these differences appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and in our employees enrich and enhance our culture, creating a knowledge of Equiniti and the industry as a whole.
A similar business that is open and inclusive.
approach is used for the senior leadership team.
In February 2017, we approved the implementation of a Diversity Equiniti is committed to ensuring that our employees are treated and Inclusion Policy which seeks to create an open and inclusive fairly and with dignity, which includes being free from any direct culture able to support, sustain, and develop our diverse or indirect discrimination, harassment, bullying or any other workforce to support our customers and the markets we serve.
Our Whistleblowing Policy and associated We believe this will increase engagement with our people and policies encourage employees to speak up, including through positively impact upon their performance enabling us to achieve an independent whistleblowing contact facility, against any better business outcomes.
Specifically a diverse & inclusive workforce helps us to: make objective decisions about how we organise and optimise resources and work by eliminating structural and cultural barriers & bias, enabling us to working together effectively: protect and enhance our reputation by recognising, respecting and harnessing the needs and interests of diverse stakeholders: deliver strong performance and growth by being able to attract, engage and retain diverse talent: innovate by drawing upon the diversity of perspectives, skills, styles and experience of our employees and stakeholders: and adapt and respond effectively to societal changes and growth.
Further details on the Diversity & Inclusion Policy can be found on page 53.
101 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board of Directors, I am pleased to present Bonus awards you with our Directors Remuneration Report for the year As described more fully in the Strategic Report, the Group ended 31 December 2017.
The Remuneration Committee delivered a strong set of results in a challenging operating the Committee has continued to focus on the need for a environment as we continued to make progress on our strategic clear link between pay and performance during 2017. objectives.
Long-term client relationships are a key strength of our business and we once again retained 100% of our FTSE The Report has two parts: clients whilst extending and expanding a number of major 1.
The Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 104 to 117, contracts.
Our performance in winning new clients was equally sets out details of the remuneration paid to our Directors in strong as we continued to gain market share with a record 2017 and an explanation of the link to Company performance.
number of share registration clients choosing to move from our It also describes how this policy will be implemented in 2018. competitors.
We have also grown our client base through the IPO This report on remuneration, together with this statement, market, securing 17 mandates from newly listed companies.
The is subject to an advisory vote at the AGM being held on Group has delivered revenue and profit ahead of expectations, 3 May 2018. reduced leverage whilst continuing to deliver strong and dependable cash generation, enabling the Group to invest in 2.
The Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy which was growth and supports our progressive dividend policy.
approved at the Company's AGM in 2016 is set out on pages 118 to 124.
The most significant event during the year was our proposed acquisition of WFSS which was announced in July 2017 and The Committee keeps the Policy under review to ensure that it completed on 1 February 2018.
The acquisition combines the still meets our goals.
We believe the Policy continues to be fit for number one UK and number three US share registrars to create purpose and therefore will remain unchanged until its expiry at a multinational share registration and services business spanning our 2019 AGM when a binding vote will be held on a new policy.
the worlds deepest capital markets, creating a more diversified, multinational Group.
Since completion, we have made good Key pay outcomes in respect of 2017 progress on integration activities, having undertaken extensive 2017 Share awards planning and preparation since announcement in July 2017 and The executive Directors were granted awards with a face value we are on track to commence the migration of WFSS clients to of 150% of base salary under the 2017 Performance Share Plan our proprietary Sirius platform from Q2 2018.
These awards will vest three years We grew revenue by 6.1% reflecting strong organic growth and after grant subject to performance against two performance the benefits of our acquisitions.
Underlying EBTIDA rose by 6.6% conditions: average normalised EPS growth 50% of the award : and underlying earnings per share increased by 7% to 16.9p.
and Relative TSR 50% of the award.
The awards are subject to Over the course of the year, a Total Shareholder Return in excess malus, clawback requirements, together with a two year postof 60% has been delivered.
Further detail regarding these award can be found on page 111.
In assessing performance for bonus purposes, the Committee consulted with the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Chief Audit Executive to ensure the performance achieved was consistent with the Group risk objectives and that underlying performance was satisfactory.
The Committee believes the bonus outcome to be representative of underlying Company performance.
102 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 This resulted in the 2017 Annual Bonus award for the executive The Committee is also aware of the future requirement to Directors of 79% of maximum.
The Committee considers disclose the ratio of the Chief Executive's pay to the average that both the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer had of the Groups employees.
This has been discussed by the performed well against the majority of their 2017 objectives full Board and it is intended that this will be disclosed in the with robust underlying financial performance and outstanding Groups 2018 Annual Report.
The Board and the Committee will achievements against their individual objectives.
Based on their also discuss during 2018 the Committees remit with regards achievements, which were delivered whilst at the same time to engaging with the general workforce about remuneration successfully completing the acquisition of WFSS, the Committee as suggested by the proposed changes to the UK Corporate has determined that their performance was outstanding for the Governance Code.
personal element relating to their 2017 objectives, resulting in Shareholder engagement multipliers of 1.5 for both Directors.
Under the Policy, 30% of any The Committee and I value dialogue with our shareholders.
The bonus paid to the executive Directors will be deferred for three Committee considers investor feedback and the AGM voting years into an award of shares under the Group Deferred Annual results each year and were pleased to receive a high level of Bonus Plan DABP.
Further details on the DABP can be found on support for the 2016 Remuneration Report with 99.50% of votes page 111. cast in favour.
Effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee As a Committee, we will continue to implement an executive An internal evaluation of the Committees effectiveness took remuneration framework which is both fair and appropriate and place during 2017, as part of the Board effectiveness review.
The is fully aligned with shareholder interests.
I would like to thank evaluation was positive and it was deemed that the Committee my fellow Committee members, and those who support the acted effectively and independently during the year.
It was noted Committee, for their commitment and guidance during the year.
that Committee papers could be submitted in a more timely I am also grateful for the input received from our shareholders, manner and that training on Committee specific matters could which plays an important part in developing responsible pay be increased.
These areas will be addressed during 2018. practices.
Remuneration for 2018 Our Policy, which was first approved by shareholders at the The Committee is conscious of the UK Government and investor Company's April 2016 AGM, will be due for renewal at the interest regarding executive remuneration and this is considered AGM in April 2019.
During the coming year we will be reviewing when reviewing each executive Directors remuneration package.
the existing Policy and, as appropriate, engaging with our The Committee has proposed salary increases for the executive shareholders in relation to any proposed changes.
Directors, in line with the policy applied to the Group as a I look forward to receiving your continued support at the AGM whole.
For the second consecutive year, the Chief Executive has to be held on 3 May 2018. declined the increase in salary that was offered to him and his salary remains at the 2016 level.
The Chief Financial Officer has received an increase of 3.4% to 320,000, which is in line with Dr Tim Miller increases for other higher performers across the Group.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee Legislative changes affecting remuneration reporting are coming into force during 2018.
The Committee is aware of the 6 March 2018 Gender Pay Gap disclosure requirements that have to be made by the Company by the end of April 2018.
This disclosure has been discussed by the Board as a whole and further details can be found on page 55.
The disclosure will be posted on the Governments gender pay gap reporting portal, and the Companys website, in due course.
