OUR MARKETS Our #1 SHARE REGISTRATION markets #2 THIRD-PARTY ADMINISTRATION Continuing digitisation A LARGE AND GROWING POWERFUL STRUCTURAL TRENDS UK MARKET ARE EXPANDING OUR MARKET Consumers expect to receive highquality service and want to manage their Equiniti has a large addressable market The environment we work in is changing affairs online.
Shorter product lifecycles in the UK.
Its growth is driven by: quickly in the UK.
This challenges our require organisations to build customer clients, who face greater complexity and Macro-economic conditions, including journeys more quickly, through extensive rising costs.
In particular, we see three institutional investor confidence and investment in websites, portals and powerful trends that our clients need help the level of interest rates, which affect mobile apps, which can be difficult and to address.
demand for investment-linked products expensive to do in-house.
At the same and the number of flotations, mergers, Increasing regulation time, they often struggle with legacy acquisitions, rights issues There is ongoing pressure to protect technology, particularly in the banking and buybacks.
consumers interests through greater sector, hampering their ability to respond.
regulation, particularly in the pensions, Our business development activities, Increasing cost consciousness banking, wider financial services and which expand our addressable market With low economic growth and intense healthcare industries.
This means both as we bring new capabilities into the pressure on public finances, companies public and private sector organisations Group.
and government agencies must do more face rising compliance costs and the Long-term structural trends, which are with less.
This requires them to focus on need to upgrade technology in response increasing demand for our services.
their core operations and to be more to new regulations, while they are still efficient.
Technology-led solutions help contending with past regulatory issues.
them to transform their operations and Organisations who fail to meet their deliver efficiencies.
regulatory obligations also face more investigations, which accelerates demand for remediation services.
While Equiniti is affected by compliance costs, we see ongoing regulatory change as more of an opportunity to serve our clients.
14 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS OUR MARKET-LEADING POSITIONS #1 #1 EMPLOYEE PUBLIC SECTOR SHARE PLANS PENSION ADMINISTRATION #4 #4 EXECUTION-ONLY COMPLAINTS, CASE RETAIL SHARE MANAGEMENT AND DEALING REGULATORY SERVICES THE IMPLICATIONS FOR EQUINITI OUR COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT ENTRY INTO THE US MARKET The trends outlined above have several We have both market-leading and Since the end of the financial year, implications for us.
challenger positions across our portfolio we have completed the acquisition of In particular: of services in the UK.
Most of our UK the Wells Fargo Shareowner Services markets are fragmented and we typically business, giving us a significant presence Businesses need to work differently, face different competitors in each.
in the highly attractive US share which requires them to redesign registration market and the potential processes.
Technology is a key enabler In Investment Solutions, we have number to grow the business into new areas.
To succeed, we must one positions in share registration and More information about WFSS and its provide our clients with technology, on employee share plans.
The division market can be found on pages 22 to 25. its own or accompanied by services.
also has challenger positions in global Our platforms are well invested, with nominee and flexible benefits services.
over 100m spent on them since 2007.
Pension Solutions is number one in public sector administration and number two The changing environment means in third party administration, serving existing clients need us to help them approximately 7 million pension scheme in new ways, creating opportunities for members.
We can also meet this growing range of needs Intelligent Solutions has challenger by bringing new technology into the positions in complaints, case management Group through acquisitions.
and regulatory services, loan technology, know-your-customer KYC customer onWe can attract new clients by providing boarding, risk assessment, cyber security, them with technology, for example data analytics and consumer credit.
through software sales, as well as winning work through traditional routes In markets where we have challenger such as share registration services.
positions, we are differentiated by our proven ability to process data and Our strategy see pages 16 to 17 is payments securely and accurately.
Many designed to address these trends and clients are risk averse and given the ensure we are well positioned to succeed critical nature of the services we supply, as the environment continues to change.
operational excellence is critical for winning and retaining their business.
