Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 48 Sustainability STEM STEM A strong pipeline of diverse talent and experience is critical to the future success of our business.
We are committed to inspiring the next generation into science, technology, engineering and maths STEM careers.
We recognise the need to engage young people in STEM at an early age, enabling MUSKAAN PROJECT, INDIA them to make informed education and The Rolls-Royce Muskaan project aims to increase young peoples interest early career choices.
Our education in STEM subjects by demonstrating how fun science and maths can be.
outreach and community investment Muskaan, which means smile in Hindi, is designed to supplement the programmes particularly focus on activities schools regular curriculum through guided interactive learning and that demonstrate the lifelong opportunities classroom kits dedicated to STEM topics.
The project reached more than that careers in STEM can offer.
We are 2,100 school children across India in 2017. actively targeting groups under-represented in STEM sectors to attract more people from diverse backgrounds.
Globally we aim to reach six million people through our STEM activities and SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES programmes by 2020.
1,400 Rolls-Royce We are committed to having a positive impact employees volunteer their time as STEM in the global and local communities where ambassadors, helping us to reach 3.8 we operate.
We focus our engagement 1 million people since 2014.
This includes activities on four key areas: one million people in 2017, 48% of whom Reach 6 million were actively engaged in our programmes.
education and skills, primarily STEM: people by 2020 arts, culture and heritage: We continue to attract high numbers of environment: and applicants to our graduate and apprentice social investment.
These provide a pipeline of talent into engineering and Our activities vary from national programmes, other functions.
such as the Rolls-Royce Science Prize, to local activities with schools and community partners During 2017, we recruited 313 graduates close to our operations.
We encourage our and 339 apprentices worldwide.
74% 1,400 STEM people to volunteer their time as part of of these graduates joined engineering our employee engagement and development ambassadors development programmes.
The proportion of women recruited as We believe there is greater impact in lasting apprentices in our 2017 intake increased to engagement than one-off cash contributions, 21%, and the proportion of female graduates but do make charitable donations aligned increased to 22%.
During 2017, this included one-off donations to the Women in Tech We have agreed a global target to increase Foundation and the Campaign for Science our female graduate population to 30% & Engineering.
7.7m invested by 2020 as part of our diversity and inclusion strategy.
in supporting In total, we invested 7.7m in supporting communities in 2017.
This includes 4.3m communities in cash contributions and 93,900 hours in employee time.
1 Exter final assurance over the STEM, energy, GHG, and TRI rate data provided by Bureau Veritas.
See page 195 for their sustainability assurance statement.
