CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT GUY WAKELEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE 2017 was another year of progress against our strategic objectives.
We retained our existing clients and won new ones, and combined investment in our portfolio with expanding margins and strong cash flow.
We also secured our entry into the large and exciting US market, through the acquisition of the Wells Fargo Shareowner Services business WFSS.
Long-term client relationships are one of the fundamental strengths of our business and we once Continuing again achieved the highest levels of client retention.
We renewed or extended relationships with many of our largest clients, including a new eight-year contract with Lloyds Banking Group, which is our progress largest share registration client, as well as renewals with FTSE 100 companies such as Imperial Brands, Marks and Spencer, Prudential and Smiths Group.
The fidelity of our blue-chip client base remains at 100% which is the best in the industry contributes against our to our excellent visibility of revenues and gives us a platform for organic growth, through cross-selling and up-selling our services.
Our performance in winning new clients was equally strategy strong as we continued to gain market share, with a record number of share registration clients choosing to move from our competitors.
We were delighted to welcome Abcam, Arrow Global, Howdens Joinery, Jardine Lloyd Thompson, Rentokil Initial and J Sainsbury as new clients to the Group.
20 20 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT GUY WAKELEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE We have also grown our client base through the IPO market, registration business.
More information about the business, securing 17 mandates from newly listed companies with wins its market and our plans for WFSS can be found on pages from Bakkavor, Charter Court Financial Services, ContourGlobal, 22 to 25.
WFSS shares some key characteristics with Equiniti, TI Fluid Systems, Ultimate Products and Velocity Composites.
in particular its very high client loyalty, strong customer service Going forward, we have a strong pipeline of organic and complementary culture.
opportunities which will support future growth.
The acquisition completed after year end, as planned, and we We made good progress introducing new products and were able to make good progress with the integration work services that meet our clients evolving needs.
Wells Fargo is working closely with us on the we successfully deployed our bereavement service for Lloyds transition, which is also being supported by WFSSs exceptional Banking Group, having won the contract in 2016, and extended client base.
We are excited that we have acquired a high-quality this offering to a consortium of six UK banks through the British and growing business, with the opportunity to drive further Bankers Association, providing a tell us once service for growth in the medium term by introducing technology and account closure.
We are also providing end-to-end complaints services we have developed in the UK.
handling and remediation for two UK institutions, combining A SUSTAINABLE GROWTH ENVIRONMENT both our technology and service offering.
Our UK markets have attractive long-term growth characteristics, Our technology platforms are a competitive advantage for driven by powerful trends such as the continued growth in us and vital to the quality of our service delivery.
Regulation has an impact on our own business and we upgraded our Selftrade online dealing platform, which launched have invested in 2017 to ensure our compliance with the Markets in November.
This improves the user experience and allows in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II and the General Data customers to access their portfolios and trade on-the-go, backed Protection Regulation GDPR.
We have also invested significantly up by enhanced customer service.
in our compliance functions and regulatory infrastructure, to In addition to organic investment in our portfolio, we enable us to be resilient as new regulations arise.
continue to acquire platforms which add capabilities On balance, however, regulation is more of an opportunity for and provide opportunities for future growth.
us, as our clients look to ensure their own compliance and both In January, we acquired Gateway2Finance, a consumer finance MiFID II and GDPR will be revenue generators for us in the future.
intermediary, securing loans for clients referred by financial Coupled with the other significant trends in our markets such as services companies and price comparison websites.
the shift to digitisation and our clients desire to reduce costs and increase efficiency, we see opportunities for sustainable growth In May, we acquired Nostrum, a provider of end-to-end loan into the future.
management technology that helps banks, finance companies and retail brands provide innovative credit solutions to their customers.
The acquisition strengthens our position in the OUTLOOK lending sector and consolidates our strategy of providing technology-enabled loan and mortgage solutions to meet We are confident in our ability to grow sustainably in the the requirements of this fast-moving market, building on the UK, where we have an excellent business with exceptional technology platforms of Pancredit and the loan, mortgage and clients.
We are also increasingly excited by our entry into insurance servicing permissions of Gateway2Finance.
The US presents a world of opportunity that Equiniti can harvest by leveraging the strengths we have The strategic successes outlined above contributed to our top developed in the UK, allowing us to add value for clients line growth in 2017.
Revenue increased by 6.1% to 406.1m 2016: and shareholders alike whilst maintaining our disciplined 382.6m, including organic growth of 2.9%.
Acquisitions added focus on regulation and payments.
Our objective remains to deliver organic revenue growth Our business benefits from economies of scale and we look to supplemented by growth from capability enhancing rigorously control costs and drive efficiencies by expanding our acquisitions.
The dependability of our revenues, the centre in Chennai, India.
Ownership of our technology platforms platform nature of our operations and progressive also protects our pricing, which supports our margins.
Underlying deleveraging will enable us to grow underlying profits and EBITDA increased by 6.6% to 98.5m with underlying EBITDA earnings ahead of revenue, irrespective of the uncertainties margin at 24.3%.
Equiniti is highly cash generative and we achieved another robust We continue to make progress with our strategy, have cash performance in 2017, with operating cash flow conversion of the resources, technology and specialists to respond to 93% 2016: 100%.
This contributed to a further reduction in net opportunities as they are presented, and see multiple debt.
Adjusting for the proceeds of the rights issue, which took drivers of growth for the future.
place in October 2017, to fund the WFSS acquisition, leverage fell from 2.7x at 31 December 2016 to 2.5x at 31 December 2017.
Profit after tax reduced to 15.6m 2016: 33.4m reflecting a tax charge of 10.0m versus a tax credit of 4.9m in the previous year.
Guy Wakeley Chief Executive SECURING OUR ENTRY INTO THE US MARKET 6 March 2018 On 12 July 2017, we announced the acquisition of the Wells Fargo Shareowner Services Business WFSS, a leading US share 21 US ENTRY WFSS: VALUE-ENHANCING TRANSFORMATIONAL OPPORTUNITY On 12 July 2017, the Group announced the proposed acquisition and carve out of WFSS.
The acquisition was approved at a General Meeting held on 28 September 2017 with 99.99% of shareholders voting in favour of the acquisition and a 97.43% uptake of the associated rights issue.
The acquisition completed on 1 February 2018 for a total cash consideration of $227.0m Wells Fargo Shareowner Services business: Value-enhancing transformational opportunity Combining the #1 UK and #3 US share registrars to create a multinational share registration and services business WELLS FARGO SHAREOWNER SERVICES KEY FACTS RELATIONSHIPS INTERACTION WITH WITH LOOKING AFTER 5 million 1,200 c. 15% 99% 9.2m ACTIVE SHAREHOLDERS PUBLIC AND PRIVATE RETENTION SHAREHOLDER COMPANIES OF CORPORATE ACTIVE CLIENT BASE OF RECORDS PROCESSED OF THE NYSE CLIENTS US ISSUERS 650 AVERAGE RICH c. 475 HIGHEST HERITAGE STATE-OFSINCE 20 RATED THE-ART TRANSFER CALL CENTRE YEARS INDUSTRY 1929 AGENT EXPERTISE EMPLOYEES 22 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT US ENTRY WFSS: VALUE-ENHANCING TRANSFORMATIONAL OPPORTUNITY WFSS serves big share registration clients with very large shareholder bases and companies including Procter & Gamble, Kraft Heinz, Comcast, General Electric, Berkshire Hathaway and, of course Wells Fargo itself WFSS is an excellent fit with Equinitis business.
Founded in As well as being a strong business fit, there is significant 1929, it serves around 1,200 public and private companies, alignment in the Equiniti and WFSS cultures.
The acquisition combines the number highly experienced and committed people who share our one UK registrar with the number three in the US, based focus on creating value for clients and offering marketon the number of issuers served and number two in terms of leading service.
This contributes to excellent client loyalty, shareholders.
It transforms Equiniti into a multinational share with WFSS having the highest client loyalty statistics in the US registration business, spanning the deepest capital markets.
and leading levels of client satisfaction.
Its service quality has made it an award winner for 16 of the past 17 years.
This is a business like our business and this partnership WFSS is a strong and growing business.
In 2016, it delivered shares similarities with our own carve out from Lloyds TSB in revenue of $102.4m and profit of $18.0m, representing a 2007.
It serves big share registration clients with very large margin of 17.6%.
Revenue has grown by an average of 6% shareholder bases.
Like Equiniti, WFSS has an outstanding a year since 2014, supported by high-profile client wins and client base which comprises some of the largest issuers in corporate actions.
the US, companies including Procter & Gamble, Kraft Heinz, Comcast, General Electric, Berkshire Hathaway and, of course Wells Fargo itself.
This gives us the opportunity to take many of our products and capabilities to the US market.
23 US ENTRY WFSS: VALUE-ENHANCING TRANSFORMATIONAL OPPORTUNITY A large and exciting market ACCESS TO THE LARGEST MARKET GLOBALLY WFSS gives us a unique entry point into the US, the largest and most active market for share registration services.
It is a mature industry, with the top three participants accounting for around 80% of the market and a long-term trend of consolidation.
LISTED COMPANIES The US market is much larger than the UK, with more than seven times the number of corporate issuers.
The scale of the market makes us confident that WFSS will continue its track record of growth, by taking further market share and offering new services to clients.
18,464 4,884 3,583 3,037 2,576 2,434 2,055 1,279 775 512 152 24 United States India Hong Kong China United Kingdom Japan Australia Germany Singapore South Africa New Zealand Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT US ENTRY WFSS: VALUE-ENHANCING TRANSFORMATIONAL OPPORTUNITY THE VALUE CREATION OPPORTUNITIES DRAWING ON OUR EXPERIENCE OF SUCCESSFUL ACQUISITIONS We see real opportunities for both cost and revenue synergies.
The near-term opportunity is to introduce our cutting edge We are confident of successfully integrating WFSS.
Sirius platform, replacing WFSSs legacy third-party technology.
We know the business well, having worked with Wells Fargo Empowering WFSS with our platform and automating its in the Global Share Alliance since 2012.
In 2016, we were able processes will drive operational excellence and result in c$7m of to look in detail at its operations and technology to create an the c$10m cost savings we expect to achieve.
The migration to exclusive off-market process to value and then acquire the asset.
Sirius will be measured and will take place over an appropriate Equiniti has substantial experience of delivering carve outs, timescale.
having carved our own business out of Lloyds TSB in 2007.
The acquisition also gives us an exciting opportunity This was followed by three successful banking carve outs, as to take our fully invested platforms and expertise to the worlds we acquired Selftrade from Socit Gnrale, JP Morgan's largest equity market.
Together with the team at WFSS, we will Corporate Dealing business from JP Morgan and NatWests be able to grow their client relationships with our digital and Stockbroking business from RBS.
The integration is being share plan services and our broad suite of regtech capabilities, successfully led by key staff who worked on Equinitis carve out such as KYC, remediation and fraud prevention.
also means that for the first time we can serve businesses with WFSS has an experienced management dual listings in the UK and US, a capability that only one other team, headed by Chief Executive Todd May, competitor can match.
the president of the US Stock Transfer Association, who will continue to manage the business post-closing.
A FINANCIALLY COMPELLING TRANSACTION Wells Fargo is also committed to a successful transition.
We believe that the financial case for the transaction It will continue to share many large clients with WFSS is compelling.
We expect the acquisition to be strongly earnings and our relationship and client teams will work together accretive in the first full year of ownership, with double-digit to serve those clients effectively and grow our relationships with earnings accretion by the end of 2019.
This only takes account them.
WFSS will remain Wells Fargos share registrar and Wells of the cost savings we have identified and excludes any of the Fargo will provide transactional banking, depositary services potential revenue synergies described above, which represent and custodian services to us.
This is a long-term partnership that real upside potential.
Returns for shareholders are also expected to be strong, with post-tax return on invested capital projected aligns the interests of both Groups.
to exceed our weighted average cost of capital in the second full year of ownership.
The cost synergies we have identified total c$10m c8m a year.
SUMMARY We expect to achieve this by 2020, with 50% achieved in the In summary, the acquisition of WFSS is second full year of ownership.
In addition to the savings that transformational for Equiniti.
It offers the scope will come from implementing Sirius, we will improve operational to generate significant value for clients and efficiency by introducing our best-in-class practices to WFSSs shareholders and will create a stronger and more back office functions.
diverse Group with enhanced growth prospects The overall integration spend for WFSS remains unchanged at over the coming years.
Capital expenditure is now a lower proportion of overall spend at 17m and integration costs will be 25m.
80% of this will be incurred in 2018.
In addition there will be 5m of further transaction costs in 2018 post completion of the acquisition related to legal and advisory fees, which brings our overall transaction costs to our original guidance of 17m.
