Strategic Report MANAGERS REPORT The Group delivered a strong performance in with a total return of.
It was a busy year, with assets purchased improving diversification and positioning the portfolio for further growth.
In this report, we provide a detailed analysis of the portfolio, describe the progress the Group has made with its pre-let forward funded developments and asset acquisitions in , set out the achievements of the Groups asset management programme in the year, and explain the Groups financial performance and position.
Delivering the investment strategy During the year, the Group added  assets see page, ending the year with assets plus  acres of strategic land.
As described on page, the Groups investment strategy focuses on four investment pillars.
Our portfolio by investment pillar by valuation Core low risk income Potential opportunities to enhance value Value Add assets, % Foundation assets, % Sainsburys Sherburn-in-Elmet Amazon Peterborough Tesco Chesterfield Whirlpool Raunds M&S Castle Donington Co-op Thurrock Tesco Didcot Dunelm Stoke-on-Trent Morrisons Sittingbourne Euro Car Parts Tamworth Next Doncaster M&S Stoke-on-Trent Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Screwfix Litchfield Wolseley Ripon ITS Wincanton Harlow Bognor Regis Hachette Didcot DHL Skelmersdale The Range Doncaster Unilever Doncaster DHL Langley Mill Kuehne Nagel Derby Morrisons Birmingham Tesco Middleton LOral Manchester Royal Mail Atherstone Kelloggs Manchester Ocado Erith Royal Mail Daventry B&Q Worksop Eddie Stobart Carlisle Argos Heywood Unilever Cannock Growth Covenant assets, % Brake Bros Harlow New Look Newcastle-under-Lyme Tesco Goole Nice-Pak Wigan Dunelm Stoke-on-Trent Matalan Knowsley T. K. Maxx Wakefield Cerealto Worksop Howdens I Raunds Brake Bros Bristol Argos Burton-upon-Trent Strategic Land, % Dixons Carphone Newark Gestamp Wolverhampton Littlebrook Dartford Our investment pillar by weighted average lease term WAULT Foundation assets Value Add assets Growth Covenant assets .
yrs Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Foundation assets provide the core, low-risk income and Building a diversified portfolio made up % of the year-end portfolio by value.
Value Add Occupational supply and demand is most favourable for landlords and Growth Covenant assets made up % and % of the of strategically located, large and modern Big Boxes.
These portfolio respectively and provide opportunities for value assets offer the potential for strong rental growth and tend to be enhancement through asset management.
The remaining % highly attractive to new tenants, if they became available to let.
by value is strategic land, providing us with the opportunity to create enhanced capital returns by securing pre-lets before Recognising the large average financial lot size of our commencing developments and benefiting from an attractive investments, growth of the portfolio has been an important yield on cost.
These descriptions serve as a guide, but they are not factor in providing geographic risk diversification across key exclusive.
For instance, significant value-enhancing opportunities logistics locations in England.
The properties are generally also exist within our Foundation assets.
modern, with % having been built since, ensuring they remain efficient and fit for purpose as customers needs evolve.
 was another highly successful year for the Group, as we The Groups assets are true Big Boxes, with % of the portfolio continued to source attractive assets for its portfolio, raised comprising buildings of, sq ft or more.
As discussed in further equity and debt finance to support its growth, and the Our Market section, these larger logistics facilities are the delivered the dividend and total return targets.
hardest to replicate and this has prevented an oversupply of development in this subsector of the market.
Disciplined capital allocation Capital discipline and patience are required to deliver value at Delivering secure income the point of acquisition and thorough due diligence is needed The Groups portfolio produces a diversified, robust and to ensure quality.
Growth in the portfolio has been supported long-term income stream, secured by some of the UKs by raising equity, at issue prices which have been consistently strongest omni-channel retailers, and a range of top-quality accretive to both the previous raise and NAV per share manufacturers and logistics companies.
at the time of issue, and attractively priced debt financing see page.
This availability of capital, matched against The Groups assets are let to different Customers, with seven a consistent high-quality pipeline of investment opportunities new Customers added during .
The Customer base is highsourced via our industry contacts, allows us to act quickly in calibre, with % of Customers or their parent companies acquiring attractive assets for the Group.
As a result, of the being members of major stock market indices in the UK, Europe assets we acquired in : and USA.
% by value were off-market: and As at  December  the portfolios WAULT stood at the average net initial purchase yield to the Company was.
years as at the date of this Report including assets exchanged but not completed post period, Capital growth ahead of the Groups target of over  years.
As at period end, The portfolio was independently valued by CBRE as at % of leases do not expire for at least  years and just  % of  December  at.
 billion  December : rents are due to expire within the next five years.
billion market value or fair value under IFRS  in accordance with the RICS valuation global standards .
Analysis by investment pillar further highlights the strength of This represents the aggregate of individual property values with the portfolio, with the Groups core Foundation assets having no premium discount being applied for a collective portfolio.
a WAULT which substantially exceeds the portfolio average.
Like-for-like valuation growth on assets was.
% or Well positioned for income growth .
During the year the Group acquired the strategic The timing of rent reviews over the next few years supports land at Littlebrook plus  income producing assets for an the Groups ambition to deliver income growth, thereby aggregate price of.
Acquisition costs on these underpinning its progressive dividend policy.
Rent reviews assets represented an attractive level of only.
% compared typically take place every five years but the Group also benefits to standard costs of.
% due to the lower costs associated from some annual fixed and inflation linked reviews.
Through with acquiring corporate vehicles and forward funded pre-let careful selection we have ensured a balance in the timing of the developments.
At the year end these  acquisitions were valued Groups rent reviews, which provides the opportunity to grow at.
million, representing an increase of .
million or rental income each year.
Combined with the standing portfolio the total capital growth was therefore .
 million As at  December , the Groups annualised rental or.
million, up % over the previous year.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Managers Report This compares with the Estimated Rental Value ERV of Combining the fixed uplifts together with inflation linked .
million, assessed by the Groups independent leases that benefit from a collar, it is notable that % of the valuer, CBRE.
This represents a potential rental reversion Groups rental income is subject to guaranteed increases of approximately.
%, which is the amount the rent would over a five year time horizon assuming no vacancies from increase if all properties in the portfolio were subject to rent lease default or following lease expiry.
reviews as at  December  and were settled at CBREs ERVs.
The like-for-like ERV growth was.
% of the Groups rental income was subject to rent review see Asset management, pages -.
In Of the contracted rent roll as at the year end including rents due , a further.
under agreements for lease from forward funded developments, the breakdown of rent reviews by type was as follows: Open market rent reviews: % These track the rents achieved on new lettings and rent reviews of comparable properties in the market, offering the potential to capture the recent and continued healthy rental growth in the Big Box logistics market.
Fixed uplift rent reviews: % Fixed rent reviews provide certainty of income growth, at either % pa one lease or % pa four leases.
By income, % of these leases have five yearly reviews and % are reviewed annually provide rental increases each year.
Rental income growth and the RPI CPI linked: % These provide inflation protection.
revisionary nature of the portfolio m All but two of these in our portfolio are the more attractive 150 RPI linked variant.
All are subject to caps maximum % pa. Over.
million of our inflation linked income is also 120 135.2 collared benefits from minimum uplifts.
Of the  inflation 126.0 indexed leases,  are reviewed five yearly and four are 90 104.3 99.7 reviewed annually provide rental increased each year.
60 71.9 68.4 Hybrid: % Hybrid rent reviews can be an amalgam of 30 the above, for instance to the higher of open market 36.1 35.0 rents or RPI potentially subject to a cap and collar.
Such 0 arrangements provide the Group with enhanced income Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 growth potential.
Contracted annual rent Estimated rental value ERV per CBRE independent valuation Portfolio rent review frequency Portfolio rent roll expiry % % of annual rent roll subject to rent reviews 50 50 35 30 40 38 31 25 30 20 25 22 24 22 19 15 20 18 19 10 10 10 5 0 0 0-5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20 yrs 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 By annual rent roll as at 31 December 2017 Open market rent review Fixed uplift RPI CPI Hybrid Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION In aggregate, the Group has successfully completed nine Enhancing returns through pre-let developments forward funded pre-let developments between its IPO and We use our knowledge and expertise to enable the Group to  December , all of which were broadly on time and to forward fund pre-let developments with a developer.
These nine assets had an average purchase yield of the Group to acquire prime assets at a discount to the price of.
% and an initial weighted average unexpired term at the a let and standing asset, with the potential to capture much of point of completion of .
This compares to CBREs the financial benefit of development, without taking on the level publically available data stating the average purchase of risk associated with speculative development.
The Group yield for a strong covenant on a  year term as.
% as at never undertakes speculative development ie construction  December .
of a building without a tenant pre-lease.
% yrs completed developments average purchase yield for uplift on acquisition weighted average term totalling.
m sq ft the nine completed assets price at completion Acquisition price m.................... During, four forward funded developments reached practical completion.
m sq ft, pre-let to TJX UK trading as T. K. Maxx, Gestamp Tellant Ltd, Acquisition date Hachette UK Ltd and Screwfix Direct Ltd.
Conditional acquisition Practical completion Target practical completion December Post period Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Managers Report Post period pre-let development acquisitions Capturing the development land opportunity In December , the Company announced that it had In May , Shareholders approved an amendment to the exchanged contracts conditional on receiving planning Companys investment policy.
This allows the Company to consent to provide forward funding for the development of two purchase land and options over land, with the intention of new distribution warehouses at Warth Park, Raunds, pre-let entering into agreements to forward fund pre-let Big Box under two separate year leases to Howdens Joinery Group developments.
The investment policy does not allow any Plc Howdens.
Our acquisition of the land and commencement of the This is a natural evolution of the Companys strategy, allowing development were delayed due to a prolonged challenge to the it to secure a pipeline of best-in-class assets in the strongest planning consent which was resolved in favour of the Group locations.
Forward funding these pre-let developments will and our development partner, Roxhill, in early .
Following enable the Company to acquire them at an attractive yield on this the Group completed contracts for the site acquisition and cost, particularly when compared to the investment yield for forward funding for the development and site works are now completed assets in comparable locations.
therefore enhance returns for Shareholders, while avoiding the risks associated with speculative developments.
The investment price was amended to .
million, to reflect a longer construction period due to the delayed planning consent The Company has already begun to implement its revised and revised construction programme.
Completion of construction investment policy and, following, an extensive  -month UKis expected by winter .
wide search which saw it reject numerous sites, the Company purchased c.  acres of prime development land at Littlebrook, Since the year end the Company also exchanged contracts, Dartford, in September  see page.
conditional on receiving full planning consent, to provide forward funding for the development of a new regional The Company is now actively considering other land distribution centre at Midlands Logistic Park, Corby.
The opportunities, on sites ranging in size from - acres in development is pre-let to Eddie Stobart Limited, with a a number of locations.
guarantee from ESLL Group Limited, for a year term from completion of the development.
Completion of construction is due by January .
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Groups acquisition strategy in action and price.
We also constantly review the market, as well as broader economic and political conditions, so we can adjust the allocation of capital between the Groups four investment pillars: Foundation, Value Add, Growth Covenant and Strategic Land.
In, we had prioritised Foundation assets, which provide the Groups core income.
In, while most of the acquisitions were Foundation assets, we also considered that it was the right time to acquire some Value Add and Growth Covenant assets.
With tenant demand remaining high and Big Boxes in short supply, we are excited by the opportunities these assets provide to create value and convert them into Foundation assets The Group acquired investment assets during the year through asset management.
for an aggregate acquisition price of.
million, further diversifying the portfolio by size and geography.
Value Add assets tend to be smaller lot sizes, as this We have also broadened the Groups range of Customers reduces risk.
While they also, by definition, have shorter and strengthened relationships with a number of existing leases, the overall WAULT of the assets which the Customers by acquiring more assets that they occupy.
years, closely aligned with As in previous years, we continued to source these the Groups average target of over years.
When buying investments at attractive yields, with % acquired off assets with shorter income, quality remains key.
For the assets acquired, the average NIY was target modern assets with strong fundamentals, in the an attractive.
%: this yield supports the Groups ability right locations.
Of the purchases, six were corporate acquisitions and one was forward funded.
In addition, the Group exchanged conditional contracts This significantly reduced the associated transaction to purchase a c. -acre development site at Littlebrook, costs, enhancing the day one running yield.
More information can be found on pages -.
Patience and discipline are key to investing for value, and we only proceed with purchases at the right quality James Dunlop Partner, Investment Director The Groups acquisitions in acres.
% NIY % Big Boxes assets Prime strategic land Average NIY Of assets acquired Ten standing assets, with an at Littlebrook, Dartford at acquisition of the off market aggregate purchase price of Big Boxes acquired.
m sq ft Big Box asset WAULT Logistics space One pre-let forward funded The acquisitions had across the assets development, with an a WAULT of.
years at acquired acquisition price of.
m acquisition Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Managers Report Standing investments acquired Unilever Royal Mail Doncaster Atherstone South Yorkshire Warwickshire Acquired: May Acquired: September  Acquisition price:.
% Gross internal area: c. sq ft Gross internal area: c.  sq ft Eaves height: c.  and metres Eaves height: c. to  metres Built: Built: - Lease expiry: May Lease expiry: September On off market: Off market On off market: Off market Located on Trax Park, close to the M, A M and M, with Located miles north-east of Birmingham with excellent good access to the ports of Hull and Grimsby, and adjacent to connectivity, the property is let to Royal Mail Group Limited, Doncaster Rail Freight Terminal.
the main subsidiary of Royal Mail plc.
This high specification facility was purpose built for Unilever The property benefits from significant capital investment and and fitted out to include a high level of automation.
New year lease: five yearly upward only rent reviews, Acquired with a c. year unexpired lease: five yearly upward to RPI collared at.
% pa, annually only open market rent reviews, the next due in September compounded.
Tenant break option at years and subject.
to a full rental penalty to the end of the lease term.
Morrisons Royal Mail Birmingham Daventry International West Midlands Rail Freight Terminal DIRFT, Northamptonshire Acquired: June Acquired: October  Acquisition price:.
% Gross internal area: c. , sq ft Gross internal area: c. sq ft Eaves height: c. .
metres Eaves height: c. - metres Built:  Built: Lease expiry: May Lease expiry: August On off market: Off market On off market: Off market Located on Birch Coppice Business Park, close to J. of the Situated at DIRFT Daventry International Rail Freight M. The facility was purpose built for Ocado the sub-tenant Terminal on J. of the M, this high-specification parcel with multiple mezzanine floors, high levels of automation and delivery hub benefits from a very low site cover of c. %.
Acquired with a c. year unexpired lease: annual upward Acquired with a c. year unexpired lease: annual upward only only rent reviews to RPI capped at % pa, the next due in rent reviews to CPI, capped at.
Investment pillars: n Foundation n Value Add n Growth Covenant n Strategic Land Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Standing investments acquired Marks & Spencer Cerealto UK Stoke-on-Trent Worksop Staffordshire Nottinghamshire Acquired: October Acquired: November  Acquisition price:.
% Gross internal area: c. sq ft Gross internal area: c. sq ft Eaves height: c.  metres Eaves height: c.  metres Built: Built: Lease expiry: May Lease expiry: September On off market: Off market On off market: Off market Located adjacent to the Groups Dunelm property see below Located at Dukeries Industrial Estate, which has easy access and in a core logistics location close to the M, the property to both the M and A. is one of M&Ss five national distribution centres for general The Cerealto lease is guaranteed by Grupo Siro Corporativo SL, merchandise and is fully fitted out for the tenants occupation.
a global private label food manufacturer.
Acquired with a c.. year lease subject to a tenant break Acquired with a c. year lease: fixed rental uplift due in option or a five yearly upward only open market rent review September with five yearly upward only open market in.
Dunelm Stobart Group Stoke-on-Trent Carlisle Lake District Staffordshire Airport, Cumbria Acquired: October Acquired: November  Acquisition price:.
% Gross internal area: c. sq ft Gross internal area: c. ,  sq ft in two buildings Eaves height: c. .
metres Eaves height: c.  metres Built:  Built: and  Lease expiry: February Lease expiry: August On off market: Off market On off market: Off market Located adjacent to the Groups M&S property see above Located at Carlisles Lake District Airport, close to the M. comprising two interconnected sortation and distribution This modern facility was acquired with a c. year unexpired buildings that work in conjunction with the nearby Dunelm lease: five yearly upward only rent reviews to RPI, collared at National Distribution Centre at Sideway, which is also owned.
review is due in February.
Acquired with two coterminous leases of c. years unexpired without further rent review.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Managers Report Standing investments acquired Pre-let forward funded development acquired in Wincanton and ITS Hachette Harlow Didcot Essex Oxfordshire Acquired: November Acquired: February  Acquisition price:.
% Gross internal area: c. sq ft Gross internal area: c. sq ft Eaves height: c. .
metres Eaves height: metres Built: Built: Completed July  Lease expiries: ITS, November : Lease expiry: July Wincanton, February On off market: Selectively marketed On off market: Off market This high specification facility is strategically positioned close A forward funded development now completed of a new high to the M, the M and Central London.
specification and automated global distribution centre.
Let under two leases to Wincanton % of rent and Industrial Situated in a core South East logistics location close to the Tool Supplies ITS % of rent.
Acquired with a c.. year unexpired lease to Wincanton Acquired with a new year lease, subject to five yearly no further rent review and a c. year unexpired lease upward only open market rent reviews.
During construction tenant break option in to ITS, subject to annual upward the Group received an income return from the developer only rent reviews to RPI collared at % and capped at % pa. equivalent to the lease rent.
Strategic land acquired in Unilever Littlebrook Cannock Dartford Staffordshire South East London Acquired: December Acquired: July  Acquisition price:.
% Site area:  acres of prime strategic land Gross internal area: c. ,  sq ft Eaves height: c.  to metres Built:, extended  Lease expiry: December On off market: Off market Situated in a core Midlands location, close to the M and The site occupies a core location within Londons M access to the wider motorway network.
A adjacent to the Dartford Thames River Crossing.
It provides the opportunity for the efficient The property was purpose built for Unilever and is highly distribution of goods across the densely populated areas of automated.
London and the Home Counties.
Acquired with a new year lease, subject to a five yearly Working alongside one of the UKs leading specialist logistics upward only rent review to RPI, collared at.
% and capped developers, Bericote Properties, the Company aims to deliver at.
one of Londons largest Big Box logistics parks.
Investment pillars: n Foundation n Value Add n Growth Covenant n Strategic Land Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Littlebrook, Dartford project update Within two weeks of completing the purchase, phased demolition Looking forward began of the former power station and associated infrastructure.
The sector continues to benefit from strong demand, The first c. acres will be ready for development during autumn as occupiers invest in their logistics and e-commerce winter .
The final phase of demolition is projected to finish supply chains, which in turn leads to significant in late, with the current National Grid electricity substation investment demand.
We therefore expect some further being relocated and decommissioned by.
yield compression in, supporting capital values.
Part of the site already benefits from c. sq ft of planning While the market is competitive, we see opportunities consent for storage and distribution use.
Planning discussions to acquire high-quality standing assets, forward funded are ongoing with the local authority for consolidation of the pre-let developments and strategic land, to further existing consents, to ensure that a pre-let vertical build can start diversify the Groups portfolio.
We have identified a promptly on phase one.
Separate discussions are under way to pipeline of potential purchases and since the year end progress planning for the remainder of the site.
we have already completed three acquisitions, including the two Howdens assets the Group conditionally The scheme is not being actively marketed until the planning acquired at the end of along with the investment discussions are advanced, but despite this, an encouraging level asset in Crewe, guaranteed by AO World Plc.
We have of occupational requirements have been received or identified.
also exchanged conditionally on one forward funded Construction of new buildings will only begin on a pre-let basis, development asset, pre-let to Eddie Stobart in Corby.
and is expected to start towards the end of  early .
Having refinanced the Groups secured debt in December with a bond issue and a new revolving credit facility see page, we will be able to finance acquisitions more efficiently, while remaining prudently within the Groups % LTV target although we are likely to be operating with an LTV target of % in the short to medium term.
This would enable us to subsequently raise further equity, to provide headroom Post period-end acquisitions for further acquisitions.
This approach will minimise cash drag, while giving investors greater certainty Following the period end, the Group acquired three assets, about the assets they are funding.
two forward funded developments pre-let to Howdens and one standing investment let to AO World.
The Group also conditionally exchanged on a forward funding in Corby, pre-let to Eddie Stobart Ltd.
Combined, the two pre-let forward funded developments total.
million sq ft of new Big Box logistics space, with an unexpired lease term of years including the developers licence fee during construction.
These four investments have a total acquisition price of .
million, reflecting an purchase yield of.
Howdens, II & III AO World Eddie Stobart Raunds Crewe Corby Northamptonshire Cheshire Northamptonshire Acquired: January  Acquired: January  Acquired: February  Acquisition price: .
% Gross internal area:, sq ft & Gross internal area:,  sq ft Gross internal area:, sq ft, sq ft Eaves height: .
metres Eaves height:  metres Eaves height: c.  metres Built: Built: Expected January  Built: Expected winter  Lease expiries: November Lease expiries: Expected January Lease expiries: Expected September On off market: Off market On off market: Off market On off market: Off market Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 46 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Why London needs a large-scale Big Box logistics park inside the M Currently, Littlebrook is the only site available within the M that can potentially accommodate logistics warehouses in excess of, sq ft. London is a thriving city A growth story Londons population is forecast to increase to  million Occupier demand is high, yet the UKs densely populated by , and average spending is expected to grow at % capital suffers from an acute shortage of modern facilities pa over the next five years.
As a result, it is estimated that from which to distribute goods.
Logistics property located in retailers alone will require approximately million sq ft per and around London has recently been one of the strongest annum of additional logistics space in London, of which performing sectors of the UK property market.
million sq ft per annum just from online retailers.
This is logistics headline rents have seen an average uplift of more in addition to the demand expected from other, non-retail than % over the five years to December , with the companies seeking more efficient light industrial and East London area recording one of the highest levels of rental distribution space.
A scarce commodity These characteristics are compelling for those investing Suitable development land within central London and the in prime logistics assets.
London has witnessed yields South East is extremely limited due to pressures from compress from.
Logistics land alternative uses, as a growing population places ever greater prices in the capital have hit an all-time high, with a developer demands on land.
Between  and  approximately reported to have paid over million per acre in February, acres of industrial land has been lost to alternative  for a .
Soaring demand for space, coupled with an acute shortage of land available for development, has resulted in London and the South East becoming the most constrained  Source: Savills, London & South East , sq ft units market in the UK, with grade A availability levels reducing by Source: CBRE  Source: Gerald Eve, London, sq ft units % since Q .
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Managers Report Summary of the portfolio The table below summarises the Groups portfolio at the year end.
Assets are listed in the order the Group acquired them.
NET PURCHASE PURCHASE NEXT RENT MONTH OF PRICE NIY SIZE REVIEW TENANT LOCATION ACQUISITION M % SQ FT DATE Sainsburys Supermarket Ltd Leeds Dec.. May Marks & Spencer plc Castle Donington Dec.. Dec Tesco Stores Ltd Chesterfield Mar.. N A 1 Tesco Stores Ltd Didcot Apr.. Aug Next Group plc Doncaster Jun.. Mar Wm Morrison Supermarkets Ltd Sittingbourne Jun.. Jun DHL Supply Chain Ltd Langley Mill Aug.. Aug DHL Supply Chain Ltd Skelmersdale Aug.. Aug Wolseley UK Ltd Ripon Aug.. Sep Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd Bognor Regis Oct.. Sep CDS Superstores International Ltd Thorne Nov.. Oct trading as The Range Tesco Stores Ltd Middleton Dec.. Dec Kuehne Nagel Ltd Derby Dec.. Apr LOral UK Ltd Manchester Dec.. Aug Argos Ltd Heywood Apr.. Mar B&Q plc Worksop Apr.. Nov New Look Retailers Ltd Newcastle-under-Lyme May.. Apr Nice-Pak International Ltd Wigan May.. May 3 Ocado Holdings Limited Erith May.. Apr Brake Bros Ltd Harlow Jun.. Jul Tesco Stores Ltd Goole Jun.. Oct Dunelm Soft Furnishings Ltd Stoke-on-Trent Jun.. Feb TJX UK trading as T. K. MAXX Knottingley Sep.. Jan Howden Joinery Group plc Raunds Oct.. Jul Matalan Retail Ltd Knowsley Dec.. Oct Brake Bros Ltd Bristol Mar.. Mar Argos Ltd Burton-on-Trent Mar.. Feb DSG Retail Ltd Newark May.. Mar 5 Gestamp Talent Ltd Wolverhampton Aug.. Jul Kellogg Company of Great Britain Limited Manchester Aug.. N A 6 Amazon UK Services Ltd Peterborough Aug.. Apr Euro Car Parts Ltd Birmingham Oct.. Jan Whirlpool UK Appliances Ltd Raunds Oct.. N A The Co-operative Group Ltd Thurrock Oct.. Dec Screwfix Direct Ltd Fradley Dec.. Oct Hachette UK Ltd Didcot Feb.. Jul Unilever UK Ltd Doncaster May.. May Wm Morrison Supermarkets Ltd Birmingham Jun.. May Royal Mail Group Ltd Atherstone Sep.. Sep Royal Mail Group Ltd Daventry Oct.. Aug Dunelm Soft Furnishings Ltd Stoke-on-Trent Oct.. N A Marks & Spencer plc Stoke-on-Trent Oct.. May 7 Cerealto UK Ltd Worksop Nov.. Dec Stobart Group Limited Carlisle Nov.. Feb Industrial Tool Supplies London Ltd & Harlow Nov.. Nov Wincanton Holdings Ltd Unilever UK Ltd Cannock Dec.. Dec Littlebrook Strategic Land Dartford Jul.
N A N A N A Total for assets completed at, .. Post period end Howdens Joinery Group plc Raunds Jan.. Sep Howdens Joinery Group plc Raunds Jan.. Sep 8 Expert Logistics Ltd trading as AO.
com Crewe Jan... Apr #$ Eddie Stobart Limited conditional on planning Corby Feb.. Jan Guaranteed by Tesco Plc 6 Guaranteed by Amazon EU Sarl Now unconditional post period end $ Estimated target practical completion Guaranteed by Hays Plc 7 Guaranteed by Grupo Siro Corporativo SL Weighted portfolio purchase yield date of January Guaranteed by Ocado Group plc 8 Guaranteed by AO World Plc excludes Littlebrook Strategic Land CBRE measured floor area Guaranteed by Experian Finance plc Guaranteed by ESLL Group Limited Estimated target practical completion # Conditionally exchanged Guaranteed by Gestamp Automocin SA date of September STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Managers Report Our asset management strategy in action by acquiring adjacent land.
Such initiatives can improve the customers efficiency and reduce operating costs as well as helping customers to meet their environmental and social responsibility obligations, such as by installing renewable energy systems.
A diverse property portfolio with numerous small or multitenanted assets can provide multiple opportunities for asset management annually, but each will have only a small financial impact on the portfolio.
The Groups portfolio continues to develop in number, now with large income producing assets.
With larger assets the frequency of opportunities to create value though asset management The Groups asset management strategy focuses on are fewer, but the impact of each can be greater.
creating value throughout an assets lifecycle.
Through regularly meeting with our Customers either The potential to protect and enhance income and capital individually or at a range of industry focused events, value is a key consideration when we source assets for hosted or attended by the Manager, we have developed the Group.
We categorise the Groups assets into one strong relationships with key individuals.
These of four investment pillars see page and develop discussions can result in further engagement and business plans for each.
There are opportunities to add opportunities as highlighted in this report.
value to assets across all four of the investment pillars but particularly for Value Add assets, which comprised.
% During we successfully extended three leases for of the Groups portfolio at the year end.
These are typically two of our assets and documented rent reviews on seven let to financially sound Customers and offer the potential of our properties.
We also completed two development to use asset management to enhance capital value and, extensions for Rolls-Royce Motor Cars and commenced for some assets, turn them into Foundation assets.
a building extension for New Look at Newcastle-UnderLyme.
In addition we completed an option agreement We look to use our industry and market expertise and over.
acres of land adjoining one of the Groups strong relationships with the Groups Customers to existing assets.
grow and improve the quality of its income streams.
This can include: negotiating rent reviews, lease extensions, Petrina Austin Partner, Head of Asset Management refurbishment, agreeing new lettings, enhancing the and Sustainability building or extending it, either within the existing site or The Groups asset management highlights in.
% Rent roll Annual equivalent Lease extensions Subject to review increase to the passing rental income c, sq ft Rent reviews of physical extensions to existing facilities settled across.
m sq ft Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION beyond simply the main property contacts, extending to the A strong foundation logistics and operations directors, who often drive the internal The key to unlocking value through asset management is owning strategy.
We work closely with them to better understand their well located, modern, fit-for-purpose buildings that tenants want challenges and unlock opportunities through the most efficient to occupy and which are strategically important to their business.
application of their operational real estate.
In such circumstances they will be committed to the asset.
Aside from engaging with our occupiers, we keep abreast Financially strong occupiers will often make significant of advancements within the logistics and distribution sector investment in the property and continue to do so throughout the by attending industry events and meeting with companies life of the lease.
Changes which benefit the tenant can often also developing systems and equipment which could benefit our provide opportunities for the landlord to benefit from capital value growth, through funding initiatives such as mezzanine Customers, such as evolving automation and robotics.
Protecting value Our customer led approach We regularly review the financial status of our Customers, Our aim is to be an occupiers landlord of choice for their as well as those of potential new occupiers.
This includes distribution property network.
A key part of our approach is monitoring their trading results and statements and analysing to develop strong relationships with our Customers, so that the corporate strategies disclosed in their annual reports, which we understand their requirements and future objectives.
Our could identify property opportunities.
Where appropriate, we Customers are highly valued since the success of their business negotiate a guarantee from the parent company of a tenant to strengthen the financial covenant of the lessee.
can directly correlate with value and generates property opportunities for us.
We look to future-proof our assets, maintaining versatility so they can be adapted to future uses and methods of We proactively assist occupiers considering future space or network reviews, orchestrating technical advice so as to fulfilment.
This includes identifying opportunities both within develop a partnership approach in their evolving decisions.
our ownership and adjacent land.
An example of this is the In order to acquire a balanced understanding, we seek to completion of an option agreement in November , covering acquire a wide contact base within our Customers companies.
acres in Newark, adjoining the Groups DSG, Newark asset.
Our proactive asset management approach Cohesive Tenant covenant Sector specialism Diligent asset business plans analysis Unique knowledge and sector monitoring Asset management plans Key to risk management and insight understanding UK Risk analysis at property and risk assessments are transaction due diligence Big Boxes level prepared annually developed on an asset by and health-checked asset basis monthly A relationship based approach Valuable market Regular meetings and relationship intelligence building with local and national Dedicated in-house teams Extensive network of key customer contacts fundamental A team based approach combining a relationships with agents, consultants to creating asset management dedicated internal property management and in-house research ensuring opportunities and development resource up-to-date market intelligence Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Managers Report Capturing reliable and balanced income growth Annual inflation indexed rent reviews: The timing of rent review events over the next few years Morrisons, Sittingbourne: An annual rent review linked to RPI supports the Groups ambition to deliver income growth, capped at.
% was reviewed effective from June , at an thereby underpinning our progressive dividend policy.
% pa, resulting in an increase of ,  pa to the reviews typically take place every five years but the Group passing rent.
also benefits from some annual reviews.
Annual fixed rent reviews: Through careful selection we have ensured a balance in the Argos, Burton-on-Trent: The % pa annual rent increase was timing of our rent reviews which provides the opportunity to applied in February , reflecting an uplift to passing rent grow our rental income each year.
% of the rent of ,  pa. roll was subject to a review.
LOral UK Limited, Trafford Park: The % pa annual rent Since the start of the year, we have settled seven rent reviews review was applied in September , resulting in an uplift to across.
million sq ft of the portfolio, adding .
million the passing rent of , pa. to the annual rent roll.
This equates to an annual equivalent increase to the passing rental income across these seven assets Hybrid rent reviews: of.
The Co-operative Group, Thurrock: The Company owns a warehouse and adjacent trailer park let under two separate At the year end, the breakdown of rent reviews by type, leases.
The warehouse is reviewed five yearly to the greater calculated as a percentage of contracted rental income, was: of passing rent, open-market rent or, , pa, plus  % ancillary income for fit-out.
The new review was agreed in June , effective from December  at, , pa, reflecting Open market rent reviews: % These track the rents an increase of .
The next rent review on the trailer park achieved on new lettings and rent reviews of comparable lease will be in May .
properties in the market, offering the potential to capture the recent and continued healthy rental growth of Big Box Marks & Spencer, Castle Donington: The five yearly open logistics.
market rent is subject to increases of .
The rent review was settled in April Fixed uplift rent reviews: % Fixed rent reviews provide  effective from December  at the maximum increase certainty of income growth.
% pa reflecting an overall increase of .
By income, % of these leases have five yearly reviews and % are reviewed annually Five yearly open-market rent reviews: provide rental increases each year.
New Look, Stoke-on-Trent: The rent review was settled in September , effective from April  reflecting an increase RPI CPI linked: % Provide inflation protection.
All but two of these in our portfolio are the more attractive RPI linked variant.
All are subject to caps maximum % pa. Wolseley, Ripon: This asset is reviewed to open market rent.
million of our inflation linked income is also The rent review was settled in November , effective from collared benefits from minimum uplifts.
Of the  inflation September , reflecting an increase of.
indexed leases,  are reviewed five yearly and four are reviewed annually provide rental increases each year.
Four open market rent reviews remain unsettled and under negotiation as at the period end.
Hybrid: % Hybrid rent reviews can be an amalgam of the above, for instance to the higher of open market Improving property and enhancing value rents or RPI potentially subject to a cap and collar.
Such When acquiring assets for the Group, one of our key considerations arrangements provide the Group with enhanced income is the potential to implement physical improvements that can growth potential.
protect and enhance capital value while potentially also growing income.
We typically acquire assets that are well configured with low site cover to allow for future occupational flexibility, since we understand that a Customer may need to extend an existing building or alter the layout of a facility as operational requirements evolve.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Through our in-house specialist knowledge and experience in this Lengthening income sector, we can often suggest practical solutions.
The aim of such Physical enhancements, such as constructing an extension or initiatives is not only to grow our income, but also to ensure that improving the specification of a building, can allow us to commit our property assets are resilient and can adapt or evolve to meet capital expenditure in return for not only a higher rent, but also the future demands of supply chain distribution across the UK.
a lengthening of the lease term, thereby protecting longevity of income and or increasing capital values.
During , the Group agreed two building extension projects, which will add a total of c. ,  sq ft of new space to our existing The two previously mentioned extension projects will result in assets in Bognor Regis and Newcastle-under-Lyme.
Following an increase to the unexpired lease terms of the assets, further a seven month construction project, completing in October , demonstrating the assets strategic importance and Customer Rolls-Royce took occupation of two building extensions for a commitment each property: combined, sq ft see case study page.
Rolls-Royce Big Box, Bognor Regis: Both leases were Works are progressing to extend our New Look Big Box in extended by an additional  months as part of the property Newcastle-under-Lyme.
This initiative will extend the facility by extension negotiation.
The tenant intends to commit significant capital expenditure to automate and fit out the building.
New Look Big Box, Newcastle-under-Lyme: The lease was extended by  years as part of the property extension As part of our asset management strategy we also incorporate negotiation.
responsible business initiatives by encouraging our Customers to make environmental enhancements.
Highly mechanised Subsequent to implementing this asset management initiative, buildings and those with mezzanine floors can be energy hungry New Look announced challenging trading conditions, which given the scale of heating, lighting and power requirements.
By they intend to address by rationalising their store portfolio.
using biomass heating systems, wind turbines or roof-mounted The building is critical to New Looks supply chain operation, solar panels such as those we installed on The Range asset being one of only two UK facilities which service their UK in Thorne, we can improve a propertys EPC rating as well and European business, fulfilling both store replenishment as reduce the tenants operational costs and support their and e-commerce orders.
At the period end New Looks rent sustainability commitments.
As with the asset improvements exposure reflected .
% of the total portfolio income.
noted above, by funding these works, we can improve the quality of the property and also generate additional income for the Company see Responsible Business pages -.
Executing our asset management strategy We use our in-house expertise, strong relationships and sector knowledge to turn Value Add acquisitions into Foundation assets.
Foundation assets Foundation assets provide the backbone of our longer-term income.
By creating a Foundation asset from a Value Add asset, we can Value Add assets deliver capital value growth without Usually benefit from attractive running yields.
incurring the significant transactional Typically occupy strong locations with good infrastructure frictional costs associated with connectivity.
selling an asset and re-deploying Can have shorter unexpired lease terms, presenting proceeds into an alternative opportunity for extending the lease or re-letting.
If property fundamentals are sound, there is the potential Extending a lease term in this way to use expertise relationships to convert Value Add assets helps to protect our portfolio WAULT.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Rolls-Royce Big Box, Bognor Regis In October , the Group acquired the forward funded The initiative: development of a , sq ft technology and logistics To increase the combined floor area by, sq ft to centre at Bognor Regis, pre-let to Rolls-Royce Motor Cars accommodate the growing requirements of our customer.
Ltd RRMC, for an investment price of million.
This warehouse and distribution centre is strategically situated The financials: for RRMC, eight miles from its historic home, headquarters Capital commitment:.
and principal UK assembly plant at Goodwood, West Sussex.
Yield on cost of % against the increased rent of, pa.
acre site, this facility had the potential for future expansion within the curtilage of the site.
The outcome: Increased the Income: Rent reviews remain at % pa fixed In August , just  months after practical completion of realised five yearly, applied to the enlarged floor area of the construction of the original two buildings, we agreed, sq ft. to fund enhancement works to extend both buildings.
This Extended the income: Increased the lease term adding a expansion coincided with the launch of the new Rolls-Royce further year to each building lease, extending the unexpired Cullinan.
Construction began in April  with RRMC taking lease term to c.. years.
occupation of the extension soon after practical completion Increased capital values: This asset management initiative in autumn .
has delivered a capital profit of.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strategic Report: Managers Report Post-period events Following the period end, the following asset management Looking forward initiatives were completed: Continuing to develop our Customer relationships, growing our understanding of their businesses and Tesco Big Box, Chesterfield: The Group purchased this asset integrating the Groups properties as key assets in in  at an attractive yield and categorised it as Value Add their supply chain operations is a strategic priority.
due to the short period to lease expiry.
In February  we received notification of the Arbitrators direction in relation to We will continue to keep abreast of advances in the outstanding open market rent review as at May .
technology based applications for warehouse This award confirmed an uplift of the passing rent to, , management processes and systems, identifying from , .
In the summer of , Tesco announced its where the Companys Customers may benefit.
We intention to vacate the property at Chesterfield.
We viewed must also be live to threats and how best to insulate the prospect of a potential refurbishment and re-letting with the Company and assist our Customers with any optimism, given the location, building size and configuration challenges that they face.
in the context of an occupational market bereft of vacant properties of this type readily available to let.
We have conditionally exchanged contracts to accept a surrender of the lease, from Tesco without premium, with completion expected by the end of April .
We have subsequently entered into a  month licence with a high-quality and well known occupier to cover rent and all non-recoverable property costs, whilst the occupier strategy is finalised.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Managers Report The Groups financial strategy in action that the majority of the equity was invested towards the end of that period.
Which had a consequential impact on our Adjusted earnings.
% over, was underpinned by the continued investment supply and demand imbalance for prime logistics assets: the weight of global money looking to invest in the subsector was particularly strong during the second half of the year.
Coupled with the dividend, this NAV growth resulted in a total return of.
One of the most significant events of the year was the strengthening of the Groups capital structure.
In For, the Group had a dividend target of.
pence December, the Group issued its debut, unsecured, per share and a total return target of at least %.
We also dual-tranche loan notes totalling million and with stated that we would explore opportunities to bring in an average term of.
At the same time, we longer and alternative sources of debt financing, without raised million of debt via an unsecured corporate compromising the Groups investment objectives.
Combined, these allowed us to refinance the majority of the Groups secured debt and The Group met its dividend target by declaring the final move forwards with largely unsecured debt, providing quarterly dividend on March, taking the aggregate a flexible platform to support future growth.
As a result, dividends declared to.
the Groups average maturity profile nearly doubled, to The total dividend was substantially covered by the.
years at the point of refinance.
Entry Groups Adjusted earnings which were.
pence per into the public bond market opens the Company up to an share.
In May, we successfully raised an additional increased pool of liquidity which further diversifies our million of equity to further grow the Company and borrowing and will help to support future growth.
We successfully deployed the equity within six months, as planned.
Our patient search for the Frankie Whitehead Head of Finance right investments at attractive prices meant, however, The Groups financial highlights in.
% Dividend per share Total return Portfolio value EPRA cost ratio In line with target Compared with the Increase of % over Declined from.
% medium-term target including all forward funded in of % pa commitments.
p. p. % Adjusted earnings EPRA NAV per share Loan to value per share Increased by.
p or With a further million Dividends substantially.
% of debt commitments covered by Adjusted undrawn earnings per share Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial results The Groups Adjusted EPS was.
pence for  : Net rental income grew by.
This was affected by the size of the May  equity :.
million, reflecting the positive impact of issue and the timing of investment.
Whilst investment of the the investment activity throughout the year as well as the equity proceeds was patently and well in line with our targeted contribution from four forward funded developments that timeframe of approximately six months, some investments were completed during the period.
delayed or took longer to transact than previously anticipated, resulting in a number of transactions concluding towards the The continued growth in the portfolio increased the Groups latter part of the period.
This included the delay caused by contracted rent roll to .
million across assets : an appeal against the planning consent for the two forward.
million across assets, as at  December .
funded developments, pre-let to Howdens, in Raunds, which was originally expected to complete in May , as well as The portfolios strong rental income with upward-only rent delays due to the transaction complexities across the Unilever, reviews generated growth of .
million to headline rents Cannock and AO.
We also made across the seven rent reviews settled in the year, of which three a conscious decision to refinance our shorter term secured were annual reviews and four were five yearly reviews.
Details borrowings, in favour of longer-term fixed rate unsecured of the individual reviews settled can be found on page within borrowings prior to the year end.
In doing so we locked into Asset Management.
long-term attractive rates of borrowing which have since spiked into early  due to further global interest rate volatility and Operating profit before changes in the fair value of investment signals from the Bank of England that rate rises may come properties, as reported under IFRS, grew by.
% to sooner than previously planned.. million :.
Along with the growth in net rental income, administrative expenses have continued Whilst the timing of this refinancing wasnt a necessity, we to fall on a relative basis, achieved through the ratcheted believe this was in the best interest of Shareholders over the investment manager fee and further cost controls.
The Groups long term, secured at an attractive cost and predominantly fixes low and predominantly fixed overhead base translates into our cost of borrowing.
For further details on our refinancing an EPRA cost ratio of .
This arrangements, see Debt Capital below.
continues to compare favourably with our peer group.
Adjusted EPS takes EPRA EPS, adds the developers licence A gain of .
million on revaluation of fees the Group receives on forward funded developments and the Groups investment properties was recognised in the year.
excludes other earnings not supported by cash flows.
We see This was calculated after accounting for all costs associated Adjusted EPS as the most relevant measure when assessing with asset purchases during .
Further information can be found in note .
Net financing costs excluding capitalised interest for the Dividends year were .
million, excluding the From  January , the Group moved to quarterly dividend reduction in the fair value of interest rate derivatives of payments.
Since that date, the Board has declared the following.
The increase in net financing interim dividends: costs reflects the growth in the business and the subsequent AMOUNT IN RESPECT increase in average debt drawn during the year.
Further PER OF THREE PAID information on financing and hedging is provided below.
DECLARED SHARE MONTHS TO TO BE PAID March .
p  December April  Tax  The Group is a UK REIT for tax purposes and is exempt from April .
p  March  May  corporation tax on its property rental business.
p June  August  for  was therefore nil : nil.
p September  November   Profit and earnings Profit before tax for  was.
p  December March  which resulted in basic EPS of .
 The Groups EPRA EPS for the year was.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Managers Report The dividend declared on March  will be paid on March The Group had conditionally exchanged contracts on two , to Shareholders on the register on  March .
forward funded developments pre-let to Howdens at Raunds with an investment commitment totalling .
Dividends in respect of  therefore totalled.
pence per The land acquisition and start on site were delayed as a share, meeting the Groups target for the year and representing consequence of a planning objection lodged during the judicial an increase of.
% on the total dividend for  of.
The Group had also conditionally exchanged on per share.
the purchase of the investment asset let to AO.
com in Crewe, prior to the year end.
Both of these assets were therefore We have increased our target dividend for , to.
pence disclosed as contingent liabilities at the year end, however per share, which is an increase of.
% over  and somewhat completion of the contracts were finalised on  January  ahead of the retail price index which was running at.
% for the and  January  respectively.
Net assets Our distributable reserves position is healthy, following the EPRA net assets were .
The historic conversion of a large part of our share premium EPRA NAV per share at  December  was .
pence account into the capital reduction reserve, which is considered  December : .
% distributable under the Companies Act, along with the stable increase over the year.
This was achieved through a combination and growing retained earnings accumulating within the of purchasing well and booking gains at the point of purchase Company.
As at the year end the total distributable reserves and structuring our purchases efficiently which resulted in available to the Company were.
significant cost savings against standard purchase costs see investment properties above.
Our income stream grew Investment properties organically through the settlement of seven rent reviews, we At  December , the total value of the portfolio, including realised gains following asset management activity across forward funded development commitments, was.
 billion a number of assets see page and the market moved across assets  December : .
billion across further in our favour, delivering yield compression and therefore assets.
The Group invested a total of.
million net of value appreciation across the existing portfolio.
purchase costs in  assets and  acres of development land during the year.
Equity capital During May , we raised equity from Shareholders totalling The gain recognised on revaluation of the Groups investment million.
The initial level targeted was million, property portfolio was .
An average acquisition however due to the considerable support we received from a cost of.
% was incurred across the  assets acquired combination of existing and new Shareholders, the fundraise during , of which four were direct asset purchases, six was upscaled to million.
The issue was accretive to the were corporate transactions and one was a forward funded then net asset value and, ,  new Ordinary Shares were development.
Corporate transactions contributed to returns issued at  pence per share.
p to net asset value versus incurring standard acquisition costs of.
%, Debt capital demonstrating further value through efficient purchasing.
The Group made strong progress this year in terms of raising additional debt capital in both the private and public debt The portfolios average valuation yield at  December  was markets.
This has helped develop a debt platform that provides.
%, including the land at Littlebrook on which the Group the Group with the necessary flexibility and structure to support currently receives no income.
On a like-for-like basis, compared it through further growth.
In total, the Group raised million with assets held at  December , values increased by of new, mostly unsecured debt, allowing it to refinance.
% for the year, excluding any additional capital costs million of existing secured indebtedness.
In the process, incurred in the period.
the Group diversified its sources of borrowing, fixed most of its interest costs at attractive rates and materially lengthened At the year end, the Group had total commitments to forward the average debt maturity from.
years as at funded developments and other asset management initiatives  December , providing the Group with additional security of.
In addition, of funding during a continued period of economic uncertainty.
 million following the purchase of the development land project at Littlebrook, Dartford, On  March , the Group agreed a new  -year, million which is the expected amount required to bring the site to a facility with PGIM Real Estate Finance, secured against a ready state for construction and includes costs of demolition, portfolio of four assets.
The facility has a fixed all-in interest rate remediation, planning and infrastructure works.
% and introduced a new lender to the Group.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION On November , the Group announced its .
billion The issue of loan notes and new RCF allowed the Group to Euro Medium Term Note EMTN Programme, under which it refinance the majority of its secured, shorter-term debt.
can issue loan notes to be listed on the Irish Stock Exchange.
This included the million syndicated facility due to expire Both the Group and the EMTN Programme have been in October and two facilities with Helaba, for.
million assigned an investment-grade rating of Baa stable outlook and .
All early by Moodys Investors Service.
The debut issue under the repayment fees associated with the repayment of these existing Programme followed on  December , when the Group facilities were avoided.
million of issued million of senior unsecured notes more commonly unamortised arrangement fees that were written off as part known as corporate bonds.
The notes were issued in a dual of the refinance upon the extinguishment of these facilities.
tranche, with nine and  year maturities respectively and with This is a non-cash expense recognised in the Statement of an average term of .
They bear interest at a rate of Comprehensive Income during the year.. % and.
The issue was significantly oversubscribed, which is a strong endorsement for On  December, the Group also extended its.
million the Group considering it was its debut issue.
The level of interest facility with Helaba, secured on the Ocado asset at Erith, allowed us to tighten pricing from initial levels by up to - by two years to July.
There was no change in margin basis points across each tranche.
The notes have demonstrated resulting from the extension.
positive levels of trading in the secondary markets, since issue.
The refinancing and new unsecured borrowings reduced the  Simultaneously, the Group announced that it had agreed a new capped cost of the Groups debt from.
% as at  December  million unsecured revolving credit facility RCF, with  to.
At the same time, an initial maturity of five years and the option to extend by a the Groups average maturity profile increased from.
years further two years, with the lenders prior consent.
The facility at the point of refinance to.
years at  December  also contains an uncommitted million accordion option :.
years, moving it closer to the WAULT on the portfolio.
and has an opening margin of .
The syndicate The Group had an all-in running cost of borrowing of.
% for the RCF comprises three of the Groups existing lenders, at  December .
This is a highly attractive cost of debt, Barclays Bank PLC, ING Bank N. V. London Branch and Wells which is primarily fixed.
The Group currently has no refinancing Fargo Bank N. A. London Branch, as well as four new lenders: requirement until December.
BNP Paribas, London Branch, HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Santander UK plc.
We welcome the breadth The extent to which we have extended and fide-risked our of lenders forming the RCF.
maturity profile can be seen in the graphs below.
Debt maturity profile extended December debt maturity profile m December debt maturity profile m Committed Committed amount m amount m 600 600 550.0 500 500 400 400 350.0 300 300 250.0 250.0 200 200 100 100 90.0 72.0 72.0 50.9 50.9 18.6 0 0 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Syndicated facility Helaba Canada Life PGIM Unsecured RCF Unsecured Loan Notes Facility re nanced in 2017 Facility arranged in 2017  Based on gross debt commitment and excluding commitment fees  Calculated using gross debt commitments.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Managers Report The Group now has a scalable and flexible debt platform, which to guidance initially given within our Interim Report, this is a gives access to a significant additional pool of liquidity in the reduction from our medium-term target of %  months ago.
UK Sterling bond market, which will support future growth.
These unsecured financings provide the Group with improved Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM operational flexibility, greater speed of execution and lower The Manager is authorised and regulated by the Financial transactional costs moving forwards.
Conduct Authority as a full-scope AIFM.
The Manager is therefore authorised to provide services to the Group and At  December , the Group therefore had the following the Group benefits from the rigorous reporting and ongoing borrowings: compliance applicable to AIFMs in the UK.
AMOUNT As part of this regulatory process, Langham Hall UK Depositary DRAWN AT LOAN DECEMBER LLP Langham Hall is responsible for cash monitoring, asset ASSET COMMITMENT verification and oversight of the Company and the Manager.
LENDER SECURITY MATURITY M M In performing its function, Langham Hall conducts a quarterly Loan notes review during which it monitors and verifies all new acquisitions,.
 share issues, loan facilities and other key events, together with Bonds Shareholder distributions, the quarterly management accounts,.
 % None Dec .. bank reconciliations and the Companys general controls and Bonds  processes.
Langham Hall provides a written report of its findings to the Company and to us, and to date it has not identified Bank borrowings any issues.
The Company therefore benefits from a continuous RCF None Dec. .
real-time audit check on its processes and controls.
Helaba Ocado, Jul.. Erith Canada Life Portfolio Apr.. of three assets PGIM Real Portfolio Mar.. Estate of four Finance assets Looking forward Total, ..
The Groups financing activities during give it the resources and flexibility to continue its selective At the year end,.
% of the Groups debt commitments acquisition programme and further diversification in were held under fixed-rate facilities.
The Group has a hedging its portfolio.
We have a solid capital structure from strategy for its variable-rate debt, which predominantly includes which to grow the business and our inaugural issuance the use of interest rate caps to allow it to benefit from current in the public debt market should mean that we have low interest rates, while minimising the effect of a significant a deeper pool of liquidity available to us in the future.
rise in underlying interest rates.
The Group therefore holds We have added further longevity and diversity to our derivative instruments which, when including all fixed rate borrowings, which align it further to the length of debt, hedge.
% of all Group borrowing commitments.
The our income stream, allowing for a consistent level of derivative instruments comprise one interest rate swap and recurring earnings into the future.
a number of interest rate caps, each running coterminous with the respective loan.
The assets acquired towards the end of and in the early part of will contribute to our earnings The Group complied with all of its debt arrangements during and earnings growth, supporting the progressive the year and subsequent to the year end.
We will continue to rigorously manage the Groups Loan to value cost base where possible, which is now largely fixed The Group continues to operate with a conservative leverage following the refinancing.
The Group will also benefit policy and medium-term, maximum target of % loan to from further economies of scale as it grows and we value.
The loan to value as at  December  was.
% will continue to grow our income stream through : % : however, once fully invested and geared the look the organic combination of fixed, indexed and open through loan to value which included all of the Groups capital market rent reviews occurring in.
commitments will continue to be approximately %.
Further Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
