STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT The Management Engagement Committees role is to review the performance of the Manager and the Companys main service providers and to recommend the re-tender of their appointments for consideration by the Board.
The Committee is also responsible for overseeing any amendments to the Investment Management Agreement.
We met twice in the year to December, to review the Companys relationships with its main service providers, their performance and the terms of their appointment, and to review Dear Shareholders, the Companys relationship with the Manager, the Managers The Committees main focus since my performance and the terms of the Managers appointment.
appointment as Chair in the summer has been to conduct a detailed review of the services We conducted a comprehensive review of the performance of provided by the Companys key suppliers in order the Manager and, together with the Manager and the Company to implement the rolling re-tender programme.
Secretary, all of the Companys corporate advisers and principal We have also effectively implemented service providers.
This included an assessment of the ongoing the procedural change to the Investment requirement for the provision of such services, the fees paid to Management Agreement and, as a consequence and the performance of such advisers and service providers and of that change, advised the Board to tender the additional added value given by the Manager and the Companys Company Secretarial function.
service providers and advisers, and whether additional services Membership were required.
The review was for the period ending June Susanne Given Chairman, thereby allowing the Committee to refer to figures Richard Jewson, Jim Prower, Aubrey Adams, reviewed by the Auditor in its assessment of performance.
Stephen Smith Under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, Priorities for Implementation of the re-tender schedule commencing the Board has delegated day-to-day responsibility for running with the re-tender of the Company Secretarial the Company to the Manager, including sourcing of investment Function.
opportunities in line with the Companys Investment Policy, Procedural clarification to the Investment Management responsibility for investment and divestment decisions made Agreement.
in accordance with the Companys Investment Policy, asset Annual review of each service provider to ensure management of the existing portfolio, negotiation of debt the quality of service and value for money for the facilities within the parameters of the Companys policy on Shareholders.
gearing and liaising with the Companys advisers on equity fundraisings.
As all of the Companys subsidiaries and therefore Meeting attendance register all of its assets are wholly owned and controlled by the MEETINGS Company, the Board exercises direct control in respect of the ELIGIBLE TO MEETINGS PERSON ATTENDED ATTENDED Groups holdings.
Susanne Given The Investment Management Agreement was formally amended Richard Jewson on September to reflect the clarification made to the Jim Prower investment process adopted by the Company.
This amendment Aubrey Adams establishes that responsibility for investment and divestment decisions is delegated to the Manager in accordance with Stephen Smith ESMA guidance as to the interpretation of the rules under the Stephen Smith was Chair of the Management Engagement Committee AIFMD.
Investment and divestment decisions must be made until his resignation.
Aubrey Adams was appointed to the Management in accordance with the Companys Investment Policy and Engagement Committee on September.
the Board remains responsible for ensuring this is the case.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Governance: Management Engagement Committee Report The Board continues to review all investment and divestment Our review did not reveal any material weaknesses in the advice decisions as well as the asset management policy established and support provided to the Group.
We are satisfied that the by the Manager.
The Service Level Agreement has been Company is benefiting from added value in respect of the services well implemented over and we noted that the Board it procures.
has commented on the improvement in the timeliness of the dissemination of Board papers, the quality of the information However, in order to ensure that the Company continues to received and the quality of the research and training papers.
receive the very best service and value from its service providers, the Management Engagement Committee has recommended a To ensure open and regular communication between the schedule of re-tendering to the Board which sets out a timetable Manager and the Board, the Manager is invited to attend for each professional appointment to be re-tendered.
The reall Board meetings, to update the Board on the Companys tendering programme started in with the re-tender of the investments and discuss the market generally and to discuss Auditor and the appointment of a new corporate finance and the financial performance and strategy of the Company.
Details tax compliance and advisory work to the Group in the form of of the Companys performance in have been set out in the PwC.
Details of the Audit re-tender can be found in the Audit Strategic Report on pages -.
The Manager has adopted a Committee Report.
focused approach to investing with the Company acquiring Big Boxes during the year, which offer opportunities for capital Following the clarification of the Managers responsibilities appreciation through income growth and asset management under the Investment Management Agreement the Committee initiatives.
As a result of acquisitions sourced and executed by recommended to the Board that the Company Secretarial the Manager, the Company has diversified its portfolio by tenant function be re-tendered to ensure that the Company follows and geography while providing a high level of income security.
best practice corporate governance at all times.
% of our rent roll is underpinned by leases of more than launched the re-tender of the Company Secretarial function in years unexpired term.
The Company has also acquired November and it is expected to complete in March in.
a significant development site of prime land at Littlebrook on the south side of the River Thames at Dartford.
Management fee Under the Investment Management Agreement, as amended The Committee also reviews the Managers culture and and restated on September, the Manager is entitled resourcing.
The Manager increased the number of people it to a management fee in consideration for its services.
This is employed in to ensure that the Company is well serviced payable in cash by the Company each quarter and is calculated and made the following appointments of note: Charlie Withers, as a percentage of the Companys Net Asset Value NAV, a highly experienced property specialist, to oversee Littlebrook, disregarding cash or cash equivalents, announced before the future developments and certain asset management initiatives: end of the relevant quarter.
% net of associated costs of the and Sally Bruer as Head of Research with a particular focus on management fee is reinvested in shares of the Company within the Company and its market sector.
The Manager also promoted days following the release of the Companys financial results Bjorn Hobart and Petrina Austin to equity partners.
If the Group buys or sells any assets after the date confident following our review that the Manager continues to at which the relevant NAV is calculated, the NAV is adjusted pro provide excellent service to the Company and provides fair value rata for the net purchase or sale price, less any third-party debt for money to the Companys Shareholders.
drawn or repaid while remaining capped at NAV.
Following an extensive review and full analysis, we agreed with the Manager that the performance of all of the Companys current service providers for the past year continued to be satisfactory, and in several cases exceptional, and, in accordance with the Managers recommendation, that each be retained until the next review.
We did not formally review the appointment of PwC LLP as corporate services and tax advisor to the Company as this appointment is very recent.
The appointment will form part of the review.
We did not suggest any material changes to the engagement terms of any of the advisers or service providers.
See Strategic Report, pages - See Audit Committee Report, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The management fee as a percentage of NAV is as set out below: TRITAX PARTNER OR NUMBER OF PERCENTAGE OF ISSUED PERSON CLOSELY MANAGEMENT SHARE CAPITAL AS AT ASSOCIATED SHARES HELD DECEMBER NAV RELEVANT PERCENTAGE Mark Shaw, .
% Up to and including million.
% Above million up to and including.
% billion Above billion up to and including Bjorn Hobart, .
billion up to and including.
% Staff of Tritax Management LLP, .
% During specified periods after publication of the Companys Total, , .
% annual or interim results the members of the Manager and relevant employees and or their connected parties will use This figure comprises Ordinary Shares issued to staff at Tritax Management LLP under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement and at IPO, and does not % of the management fee net of any VAT, personal taxation include other shares that may have otherwise been acquired by any staff members.
liabilities and dealing costs, including stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax the net cash amount, to subscribe for Ordinary Extension to term Shares in the Company.
The price will be equivalent to the The earliest termination date of the Investment Management prevailing NAV per share, adjusted for any dividend declared Agreement is December.
In order to terminate on that after the NAV per share is announced.
Where this would result date, months notice of termination would need to be given in Ordinary Shares being issued at a price below the NAV per by either party by December.
Thereafter either party share, the Companys Broker will be instructed to acquire can terminate the Investment Management Agreement by giving Ordinary Shares in the market for those persons, to the value at least months notice.
The provisions allowing the parties as near as possible equal to the net cash amount.
The Ordinary to terminate without notice in certain circumstances, including Shares may be issued to any members of the Manager or, at the material breach and or loss of key personnel, remain in place.
discretion of the Manager, to any employee of the Manager.
Conflict management On April, the Company issued, Ordinary Shares The Investment Management Agreement contains restrictive in respect of the net cash amount, relating to the six months conflict provisions and the Manager is not permitted in any to December.
pence per circumstance to manage another fund with an exclusive Ordinary Share, equivalent to the prevailing and published investment strategy focusing on distribution or logistics assets audited basic NAV of.
pence per Ordinary Share less in excess of, sq ft located within the UK.
The Manager the interim dividend of.
pence per Ordinary Share, for is permitted to acquire and manage UK distribution or logistics which the shares did not qualify, paid to Shareholders on or assets which provide less than, sq ft of accommodation around April for the period between October to on behalf of other funds subject to certain caveats designed to December.
On October, the Company issued ensure that any assets which may be of interest to the Company, Ordinary Shares in respect of the net cash amount, are offered to the Company in priority to other funds managed relating to the six months to June.
The issue price was by the Manager.. pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to the prevailing unaudited basic NAV of.
pence per Ordinary Share less We will review the continuing appointment of all of the the interim dividend of.
pence per Ordinary Share, for which Companys principal service providers and the performance of the shares did not qualify, paid to Shareholders in August the Manager on an annual basis and ensure they are in the best in respect of the period from April to June.
Following interests of Shareholders as a whole.
these issues of Ordinary Shares, the Manager as at the year end had the following beneficial interests: Susanne Given Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee March Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
