Governance DIRECTORS REPORT Introduction Directors The Directors are pleased to present the Annual Report, The names of the Directors currently serving the Company including the Companys audited financial statements as at, are set out in The Board of Directors, together with their and for the year ended, December.
Stephen Smith served as a Director of the Company until his resignation on June.
The Directors Report, together with the Strategic Report, comprise the Management Report for the purposes of The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability Disclosure and Transparency Rule.. R. insurance cover, at its expense, on the Directors behalf.
Statutory information contained elsewhere in the Directors interests in shares Annual Report The Directors interests in the Companys shares are disclosed in Information required to be part of this Directors Report can be the Directors Remuneration Report.
found elsewhere in the Annual Report and is incorporated into this report by reference, as indicated in the relevant section.
Future developments An indication of the likely future developments of the Companys Incorporation by reference business is set out in the Strategic Report.
The Governance Report pages - of this Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December is Political donations incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
No political donations were made during the year.
Financial results and dividends Employees The financial results for the year can be found in the Group The Group has no employees and therefore no employee share Statement of Comprehensive Income.
scheme or policies on equal opportunities and disability.
During the year, the following interim dividends amounting to, Financial instruments in aggregate,.
pence per share were declared: Details of the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, together with its exposure to material financial risks, on April an interim dividend was declared in respect are set out in note to the consolidated financial statements.
of the period from January to March of.
pence per Ordinary Share and paid on or around May Share capital to Shareholders on the register on May : In May, the Company issued, , Ordinary Shares at a price of pence pursuant to a Placing, Open Offer and on July an interim dividend was declared in respect Offer for Subscription.
In April and October the Company of the period from April to June of.
pence issued, Ordinary Shares and, Ordinary per Ordinary Share and paid on or around August to Shares respectively pursuant to the Investment Management Shareholders on the register on July.
on October an interim dividend was declared in As at December, there were, , , Ordinary respect of the period from July to September Shares in issue.
pence per Ordinary Share and paid on or around November to Shareholders on the register on GROSS ORDINARY SHARES NUMBER PROCEEDS October.
Balance at start of the year, , , N A Shares issued in April, N A An additional interim dividend in respect of the three months ended December of.
pence per share was declared Shares issued in May, , , , on March.
This takes the total dividend in respect of the Shares issued in October, N A financial year to.
Balance at end of the year, , , , , See The Board of Directors, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company PERCENTAGE NUMBER OF HOLDING OF There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the ORDINARY ISSUED SHARE INVESTOR SHARES CAPITAL Company, except as a result of: BlackRock, , .
% the FCAs Listing Rules, which require certain individuals to Aviva Investors, , .
% have approval to deal in the Companys shares: and Vanguard Group, , .
% the Companys Articles of Association, which allow the Brewin Dolphin, , .
% Board to decline to register a transfer of shares or otherwise Quilter Cheviot Investment Management, , .
% impose a restriction on shares, to prevent the Company or the Manager breaching any law or regulation.
Amendment of Articles of Association The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the of securities that may result in restrictions on transferring Companys Shareholders.
Powers of the Directors Securities carrying special rights The Board will manage the Companys business and may No person holds securities in the Company carrying special exercise all the Companys powers, subject to the Articles, the rights with regard to control of the Company.
Companies Act and any directions given by the Company by special resolution.
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting The Board has considered the requirement to disclose the Powers in relation to the Company issuing its shares Companys measured carbon emissions sources under the At the Annual General Meeting held on May, the Companies Act Strategic Report and Directors Report Directors were granted a renewed general authority to Regulations.
allot Ordinary Shares in accordance with section of the Companies Act up to an aggregate nominal amount During the year ended December : of, , .
Of those Ordinary Shares, the Directors were any emissions from the Groups properties have been the granted authority to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount tenants responsibility rather than the Groups, so the principle of, which is equivalent to % of the Companys issued of operational control has been applied: share capital as at that date non pre-emptively and wholly for cash and authority to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount any emissions that are either produced from the Companys of, to be used only for the purpose of financing or registered office or from offices used to provide administrative refinancing, if the authority is to be used within six months after support are deemed to fall under the Managers responsibility: the original transaction, a transaction which the Directors and determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on the Group has not leased or owned any vehicles which fall Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the under the requirements of Mandatory Emissions Reporting.
Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of the notice of the AGM.
These authorities replaced the equivalent authorities given As such, the Board believes that the Company has no reportable to the Directors at the General Meeting held on May.
emissions for the year ended December.
These authorities expire at the next AGM on May.
Substantial shareholdings Change of control As at February, the Company is aware of the following Under the Groups financing facilities, any change of control at substantial shareholdings, which were directly or indirectly the borrower or immediate Parent Company level may trigger a interested in % or more of the total voting rights in the repayment of the outstanding amounts to the lending banks or Companys issued share capital.
In certain facilities including the issue of recent loan notes, the change of control provisions also include a change of control at the ultimate parent company level.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Governance: Directors Report Appointment and replacement of Directors Details of the process by which Directors can be appointed or replaced are included in the Nomination Committee Report.
Events subsequent to the year-end date For details of events since the year-end date, please refer to note to the consolidated financial statements.
Independent Auditor BDO LLP has expressed it willingness to continue as Auditor for the financial year ending December.
Manager and service providers The Manager during the year was Tritax Management LLP.
Details of the Manager and the Investment Management Agreement are set out in the Management Engagement Committee Report.
The Companys administration was delegated to Capita Sinclair Henderson Limited who were acquired by the Link Group during the year and are now known as Link Asset Services Limited.
Additional information In accordance with Listing Rule LR.. C R, the only disclosure requirement required under LR.. R is the disclosure of capitalised interest, which is disclosed in note, page.
Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held at the offices of: Taylor Wessing LLP, New Street Square, London ECA TW at : am on May.
This report was approved by the Board on March.
Tritax Management LLP Company Secretary March Company Registration Number: Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
