Strategic Report OUR MARKET We believe that the Big Box logistics Our market drivers sector remains one of the most exciting Demand for Big Boxes comes from three main sources: asset classes in the UK property market.
conventional and online retailers, third-party logistics In this section, we explain why Big Boxes companies PLs, and other companies such as manufacturers.
They need Big Boxes for two primary reasons: to improve are so important to UK logistics and why their operational efficiency see page and to meet the the fundamentals of the market continue requirements of a fast-evolving retail market, in particular to to be attractive.
fulfil e-commerce sales, which are growing relentlessly see page.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The challenge of maximising operational efficiency Over time, supply chains have evolved in response to In more recent years, against the backdrop of uncompromising commercial trends and pressures.
The initial driver for change global competition, weaker economic growth and rising to UK supply chains was the transition towards the majority of domestic inflation, companies have again recognised the production being outsourced to overseas low-cost economies, importance of optimising supply chains to meet demand and which has resulted in a significant increase in bulk imports.
to this, logistics frameworks were fragmented with domestically manufactured products held in numerous, small and Companies across all sectors are recognising the need for geographically dispersed retail storerooms or manufacturing substantial investment into national and regional logistics premises.
frameworks that optimise staff and stock management, offer flexibility, economies of scale and low cost of use, with a view to A centralised framework began to evolve in which a single largeincreasing margins and protecting profits, whilst improving the scale building could accommodate the breakdown of goods quality of their commercial offering.
imported in bulk, and then hold the finished goods for efficient distribution across the UK to other parts of the supply chain.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Our Market The evolution of the retail landscape The inexorable rise of e-commerce This is particularly important in grocery shopping, where Mintel E-commerce sales in the UK have grown rapidly in recent years.
reports that % of British online grocery shopping customers As a relatively small and densely populated nation, the UK is want same-day delivery, encouraging Tesco and Marks & the most advanced e-commerce market in the world with UK Spencer to trial one-hour delivery for selected food items in households spending more online than in any other country.
as well as Sainsburys triallingminute Click & Collect.
In addition to pure online retailers, growth is being driven by the The challenge of reverse logistics expansion of omni-channel retailing.
This reflects consumers As online sales have increased, so has the amount of product desires to interact with retailers in different ways at different being returned, with estimates suggesting that nearly a quarter points in their transactions.
To survive, retailers must now offer of online purchases are being returned.
This represents a physical, online and mobile stores, apps and telephone sales.
growing cost of doing business and presents significant logistical challenges to companies involved in the storage, sale Omni-channel retailing has made for a more competitive and and distribution of goods, through often complex domestic and fast-moving battleground for retailers.
It has disrupted their real international supply chains.
estate portfolios and revolutionised their logistics platforms as they face the complexity and expense of ensuring stock Its estimated that to pick and deliver an order costs between availability and fulfilment capacity is flexibly deployed into any and per item, but due to the increased processing, channel as dictated by customer demand.
handling and repackaging it can cost double or treble that amount to be returned and restocked.
The Financial Times Unprecedented surges in demand reports that returned parcels could cost retailers as much as Challenges faced by retailers are being further exacerbated billion a year, c. billion of which relates to internet sales.
by changing consumer shopping habits, which require their logistics and distribution networks to accommodate Retailers must therefore develop cost effective reverse logistics unprecedented surges in demand.
Whether seasonally driven, strategies, in order to minimise the impact on profitability, such as public holidays and Christmas, promotionally led such reputation and market share.
as Black Friday or unexpected celebrity endorsements, the challenges of these demand peaks are being intensified by the The pressure on margins share of sales coming via e-commerce.
Major and fast-paced changes in the retail sector, the unknown impact of Brexit, the living wage and exchange rate fluctuations In Black Friday online retail sales totalled.
billion, are all applying cost pressure to retailers.
At the same time, % ahead of the original forecast of growth for the day, with the continued growth in pureplays such as Amazon, Asos and John Lewis, for example, reporting Black Friday as one of AO.
com is also applying pressure to the price retailers can offer its most successful days during which it had its busiest ever consumers to remain competitive.
single hour of online trading.
Firstly, omni-channel retailers must cut costs by re-calibrating Meeting consumer expectations their property portfolios.
To make the most of their expensive Another major change is the shift in power from retailers to high street store space, they are carrying less depth of stock customers, who have become increasingly demanding.
Todays in-store and are focusing more on the consumer experience, consumers are savvy, fickle, informed and impatient they increasingly offering a broader product line which in turn applies expect to receive their orders wherever and however they want.
more pressure to the speed and reliability of restocking.
At the same time, consumers are increasingly favouring smaller To keep pace with changing customer expectations and convenience stores for food shopping.
These stores generally competitive dynamics, retailers must speed up the time to have very limited storage capacity.
market, reduce inefficiencies and errors, while managing profitability, customer service and reputational risk.
A few years To remain competitive retailers need to invest in logistics space ago, four or five days delivery would have been the norm, today that provides a more cost effective, flexible, agile storage many are increasingly offering same-day delivery, with industry solution as well as supply chain capabilities that help support disrupters such as Amazon already offering a two-hour service greater control of stock and ensure efficient and reliable ways for a limited product range.
of fulfilling customer demand whether in store or online.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Technology drives the pace of change Capitalising on invaluable data and analytics E-commerce in the UK is supported by ubiquitous access to In its purest form, data can help improve customer satisfaction Wi-Fi and smartphones, and widespread availability of G. and increase retailer profitability.
In this age of modern retailing, The Centre for Retail Research reports that many retailers now information collection and analysis, in the form of customer see -% of website browsing on mobile devices.
Spending insight has become an increasingly important means by which on mobile devices is lower, but initial research reports indicate retailers can gain a competitive advantage and plays a critical that mobile-commerce increased significantly in, totalling role in any successful e-commerce operation.
Mobile use is higher among younger people, with research by Mintel showing, for example, that Bar code scanning at store tills provides sales data and can % of millennials in the UK have bought fashion items on their trigger automatic re-stocking, and the same principles apply smartphones.
Cookies, collected when consumers surf the internet, provide additional intelligence which allows retailers to Technology is also creating new distribution channels.
Amazons know what is being bought by whom, where and when, as well Dash service, for instance, allows consumers to order specific as providing trending data that allows them to forecast more products just by pressing a button.
Another example is smart accurately changes in fashion, so they can order product lines appliances such as washing machines will be able to reorder that are more likely to sell, reducing the amount of product that detergents automatically before they run out.
The UK is the home of online spending UK annual online retail sales increased by .
% Online sales in the UK represent for the year to December .
% of total annual retail sales for the year to December E-commerce is expected to grow to.
% of total UK retail sales by x Parcel delivery volumes have doubled in the UK in the last six years due to the growth of online retail Online retail sales on Black Friday totalled % % of UK retailers of UK retailers.
bn are prioritising say investment in e-commerce mobile is their key up.
% investment in omni-channel in on the previous year Source: Office for National Statistics Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Our Market New generation logistics at the core of modern life The emergence of Big Boxes The scale of Big Boxes means that unlike smaller buildings, In a time of economic and geopolitical uncertainty, companies they can act as the breakdown point for goods imported in which want to survive and thrive are increasingly turning to Big bulk containers.
The buildings can also hold all of a companys Boxes to enhance their efficiency and respond to the changing product lines, whatever their size or shape or how quickly retail landscape.
The Big Box subsector has emerged mainly they turn over.
This makes Big Boxes ideal for handling both in the last years, with these large, often technologically store and e-commerce distribution sometimes via urban sophisticated and highly efficient properties offering previously logistics warehouses.
The size of the buildings also means unavailable economies of scale, low cost of use and flexibility.
that occupiers can adjust for demand or supply disruptions, or fluctuations between store and e-commerce sales, far more Big Boxes are cost effective and optimise efficiency easily than using smaller, separate single-focus warehouses.
Big Boxes allow companies to centralise previously dispersed distribution formats, by providing the nucleus for distribution In addition to downstream fulfilment, Big Boxes can handle to other parts of the supply chain or directly to consumers.
returns allowing products to be efficiently restocked.
The These networks may be organised at a national level, but traffic importance of data to successful e-commerce operations congestion and the need to deliver quickly and reliably to any means that Big Boxes dedicated to e-commerce increasingly location mean that most major occupiers now prefer to use also house the retailers data and intelligence centres.
Big Boxes as regional distribution centres.
To drive efficiency, technological advances are resulting in Big Boxes strategic locations add to their efficiency.
They are Big Boxes becoming smarter.
Occupiers increasingly invest in close to major roads and motorways and often near to airports, advanced systems that allow them to stock automatically and sea ports or rail freight hubs.
This allows efficient stocking and rapidly retrieve products, so they can operate on a just-in-time onward distribution.
The properties also tend to be located in basis.
So called four-dimensional automation can pick areas with good workforce availability, helping occupiers to complex online deliveries in the most efficient order possible.
When customised to work with state-of-the-art robotics, such technology currently drives efficiency savings of up to Low-bay buildings are typically used for food distribution.
The tenant will typically own the fit-out and its capital food distribution, the flexibility of a tall building can allow for high investment can be substantial, sometimes eclipsing the value racking and or mezzanine floors, which can double or even triple of the investment.
This makes Big Boxes more attractive to tenants, not least because rents are generally paid on the ground Big Boxes are a strategic necessity floor area only.
Consequently, the cost per square foot on an Land constraints have given rise to a scarcity of new and overall basis has fallen for many occupiers of modern buildings.
modern buildings available to let.
Additionally, a desire for high levels of labour capture in appropriate locations and a tenants Online has created visibility over % of the product line, inward investment by way of automation, mean that they are meaning that any customer can choose to purchase any product willing to sign long leases and increase the potential for renewal that a retailer has to offer, wherever they live in the UK.
These characteristics make the subsector more a retailer may have only stocked say, %, of their product line in resilient to economic downturns and should mean there is scope a particular regional location.
In just a few years the internet has for significant rental growth over long periods.
therefore presented a problem where some retailers have needed to more than double their regional stock capacity.
x as much Big Box space is required for online fulfilment compared with store-based fulfilment Source: Addleshaw Goddard Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Big Boxes are multi-functional: As the complexities of manufacturing and multi-channel retail grow, retailers are combining the control point for multiple functions within Big Boxes.
Big Boxes can: regionally centralise previously dispersed distribution help optimise staff and stock management and expand product ranges provide the breakdown point for goods imported in bulk house highly sophisticated and valuable technology which drives efficiency hold the finished goods for distribution to other parts of the supply chain be quasi-retail outlets distributing finished goods directly to consumers, while also dealing with other channels such as click & collect reliably and more quickly fulfil store replenishment accommodate dedicated returns sections as e-commerce support retailers through peak demand periods and supply disruptions increasingly house occupiers data centres which provide intelligence integral to securing a competitive advantage.
The growth in e-commerce the growth in Big Boxes: Total annual online retail sales in the UK grew by.
% to the end of December and now account for.
By, e-commerce is expected to account for more than % of total retail sales.
This growth in online retail has driven and continues to drive the demand for logistics properties.
Industrial and logistics space taken up by online retailers : - - An increase of.
m sq ft. m sq ft % To start of December Source: Savills Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Our Market Structural trends continue to drive performance Supply and demand fundamentals remain undisturbed As described on pages - the factors influencing occupational.
Occupational take-up by size band, sq ft units demand are deep-rooted and we expect this to remain so for the million sq ft next few years.
The strength of demand has ensured that the 25 limited supply of buildings being produced has been let quickly, and this has led to a continued shortage of completed Big Boxes 20 available to let.
15 was a record year for occupational take-up.
More particularly, larger scale Big Boxes continued to increase their 10 influence on lettings activity.
This was aided by Amazon which leased the largest annual volume of space for a single occupier 5 on record.
0 Relative to the exceptional volumes of the previous year, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 250,000-500,000 sq ft units 250,000 sq ft average annual take-up take-up, sq ft buildings was significantly reduced at --- 500,000 sq ft units 500,000 sq ft average annual take-up.
million sq ft, although this remained just above theyear Source: Gerald Eve and Tritax average.
The lower level was largely accounted for by Amazons reduced activity, fewer available speculative developments because much of the potential product had been pre-let the.
Availability of new early marketed floorspace previous year and the fact that many occupiers particularly, sq ft units and, sq ft units those acquiring larger, more complicated facilities took longer million sq ft to conclude occupational transactions and this resulted in 25 several lettings rolling over into.
20 Take-up records the amount of space being let and so can 15 provide a guide as to levels of demand.
A fall in take-up, however, does not necessarily mean that demand has reduced, 10 because take-up can be constrained by a shortage of available supply, leaving an overhang of unfulfilled demand, as has been 5 the case in recent years.
We expect the continued supply-side shortage of larger scale buildings to constrain take-up levels in 0 the next few years.
Within the first six weeks New early marketed units of 500,000 sq ft Source: CBRE of the year almost million sq ft, sq ft buildings was let and, although notoriously difficult to quantify, occupier enquiries remain high.
This indicates that we should continue to see healthy levels of demand with several property agencies predicting that take-up in will exceed that recorded last year.
Building size distinction is important when analyzing market data.
The availability of completed new, well located and available to let Big Boxes remains low.
As at the year end across the UK there was nearly million sq ft of logistics buildings available in the size category, -, sq ft: this was % down on Q see graph.
Of the million sq ft, million sq ft related to buildings of, -, sq ft and.
million sq ft was in the, -, sq ft category.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Following the recession, as demand increased and available to.
Occupational take-up in of assets, sq ft let stock reduced, developers responded by nearly quadrupling the, -, sq ft supply band in c. months but the supply response for, sq ft buildings was zero over the same period.
We believe that this signals stronger attributes for larger buildings.. million sq ft Take-up of assets, sq ft Two refurbished buildings came to the market in in the, -, sq ft category.
As at December, there was only one used refurbished building and no new completed % buildings of more than, sq ft available to let.
Since then higher than theyear average and the one further used un-refurbished and one new building became third highest total take-up for this size of available the new building was believed by the market to have Big Box in the past decade been under offer at the year end and this may remain the case, but until clarified it will be treated as available.
Suitable land which can accommodate Big Boxes is scarce in key locations.
The process of bringing forward land capable of delivering one or more Big Boxes can take many years.
Occupational take-up by sector in suitable locations will be on agricultural land not zoned for Grade A, sq ft employment uses.
If this hurdle can be overcome, the land needs to be zoned for B distribution, following which the developer 4% will seek to secure outline, and finally detailed, planning consent.
19% The scale of Big Boxes and the extent of traffic movements they generate can present planning challenges.
In addition, Big 40% Boxes require a large pool of suitable labour in the local area some buildings can employ as many as, employees during peak periods and have substantial power and infrastructure requirements, adding further complexity to site identification and delivery.
Savills estimates that a fully automated warehouse 37% can require as much power as, three-bed homes, severely restricting the number of suitable sites.
Retail Manufacturing Logistics Other Big Box supply, therefore, remains very thin and this is expected Source: Tritax to remain the case for some time.
Most developers in the UK are not prepared to speculatively develop very large logistics buildings.
Because the years and costs incurred to achieve planning and prepare the site can be significant and the additional cost of constructing the building can run to several tens of millions of pounds.
There is also a risk that potential occupiers want different-sized buildings and there are many other variables.
For the developer, there is far less risk in waiting and constructing a building following a pre-let: noting that construction times are swift for Big Boxes typically six to nine months.
The level of occupier demand means developers can fide-risk their development by agreeing a pre-let with a tenant.
Building-to-suit on a pre-let basis creates opportunities for investors, such as us, to forward fund these developments and obtain brand new assets on long leases to high-quality tenants.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Our Market Rental growth.
Rental growth versus availability Q As take-up reduced the availability of warehouses following the recession, rents stabilised around midand began to rise 150 in early see graph.
Nonetheless, rents only recovered to their levels at the beginning of.
This is important, 125 because for five yearly open market rent reviews, occurring 100 in-say-, the first half of the review period saw no growth.
This has the effect of suppressing the level of uplift achieved at 75 recent market rent reviews, but as time passes, and assuming rents continue to rise, there will be a full five year backward 50 looking trend of growth to underpin stronger rent review results for landlords.
UK average prime headline rent Volume of availability Typically, the UK is analysed regionally for rents.
When viewing Source: Gerald Eve rental tone, it is important to recognise that rents do not rise on a regular curve.
It might appear that rental growth in a particular regional market has stalled but this could be because  .
U. UK p K pr ri im me l e lo og gi is st ti ic cs h s he ea ad dl li in ne r e re en nt t p pe er s r sq f q ft t of restrictions on the availability of suitable sites then when a a an nd d a an nn nu ua al g l gr ro ow wt th h site is deliverable the rent can jump.
It is necessary, therefore, to look at the broader regional trends over several years and to understand the reasons for the movement, or lack thereof, in each regional market.
For instance, in East and West Midlands and Yorkshire & North East rental growth in was.
% respectively, whereas each recorded zero RE REGIONAL GIONAL A AVER VERA AGE GE headline growth in.
The prime headline rent is typically RENT RENTAL AL GR GRO OW WTH R TH RA ATE TE.
% achieved by the letting of a single building at a new record level.
The fact that a higher level of prime rent has not been achieved since does not negate the potential for lower rented properties to have delivered rental growth.
NOR NORTH TH WES WEST T NOR NORTH EA TH EAS ST T & & Y YORKSHIRE ORKSHIRE Ongoing constraints in supply, coupled with continued strong.. %.. %.
-.. % occupier demand, have combined to deliver attractive levels of rental growth in recent years.
Rising labour and construction WES WEST T MIDLANDS MIDLANDS EA EA EA EAS S S ST T T T MIDLANDS MIDLANDS MIDLANDS MIDLANDS costs partly from imported inflation following the referendum.. %.. %.. %.. % vote are also feeding into rents.
Competition for alternative land uses, particularly housing, have increased land prices within and L LONDON M ONDON M on the fringe of urban environments.. -.. %.
-.. % The transition of sales from the high street to Big Boxes is SOUTH EA SOUTH EAS ST T delivering cost savings because rents, staff and operational.. %.. % SOUTH SOUTH WES WEST T costs are lower, particularly where occupiers utilise the volume.. %.. % S Sour ourc ce: CBRE e: CBRE of high bay warehousing to reduce the effective cost per sq ft.
This explains why there has been little resistance to significant levels of rental growth in the Big Box market and why we expect rents to continue their upward trend in the near to medium term.
Rental growth forecasts from CBRE suggest an average annual rental growth rate of.
% pa for the next four years.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strengthening investment values.
Prime distribution vs gilt yields % Occupier demand for Big Boxes influences investment demand.
8 Investors are drawn by the attractions of modern assets, 7 producing secure and growing rental incomes, from well 6 respected tenants with strong balance sheets.
Both UK and international investors are active in the market, with the latter 5 typically looking for larger lot sizes and assets that offer capital 4 preservation.
3 2 Despite the significant hardening of logistics yields in recent 1 years, they continued to compress during as institutional 0 property funds reweighted sector allocations in favour of 02 03 04 04 05 06 06 07 08 08 09 10 10 11 12 12 13 14 14 15 16 16 17 Sep May Jan Sep May Jan Sep May Jan Sep May Jan Sep May Jan Sep May Jan Sep May Jan Sep May industrial and logistics assets.
Overseas investment into the UK remains strong, despite the prospect of Brexit and partly Prime Distribution Yield UK 10 Year Gilt Yields because the devaluation of the pound has made UK investments Source: CBRE look comparatively cheap for overseas money.
We expect further value growth in but at a slower rate, partly due to lower-end yield resistance and also as a result of rental growth continuing, but at more sustainable levels.
Although yields have hardened, investors can still source attractive assets at prices that represent good value.
Property yields remain well above the cost of debt, maintaining a positive yield gap and a sizeable premium toyear gilts.
The Big Box logistics sector remains in its infancy The growth of e-commerce and search for economies of scale, cost savings and efficiencies have placed the UK at the forefront of the world in terms of the development of Big Box logistics.
Yet as a property sector we believe it remains in its infancy, with many still seeking to secure the buildings they desire.
UK online spending grew % in and is expected to continue at similar levels over the next few years.
Despite this growth, e-commerce still only represents about % of retail sales, suggesting that the capacity for growth is substantial, particularly when some retailers envisage a time when their online sales will eclipse those of the high street.
Part of the success of e-commerce has been the ability of retailers and logistics companies to react to and satisfy their ever-demanding consumers with faster, more reliable deliveries achieving this requires a framework of well located modern logistics facilities.
Such longer-term demand drivers, coupled with supply and demand imbalances both occupationally and within the investment market, suggest that property values in this subsector are likely to remain robust, at least on a relative basis, for some time to come.
Source: IMRG Capgemini e-Retail Sales Index.
Based on average year-on-year UK online retail sales for each month from January to December Source: Office for National Statistics.
Based on internet sales as a percentage of total retail sales for the month of December Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
