Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 42 Technology Technology At Rolls-Royce, sustaining significant R&D expenditure is fundamental to our strategy and long-term growth potential.
Rolls-Royce is a technology rich company, maintain momentum on delivery and seven Advanced Manufacturing delivering world-class products and of core technologies to ensure the Research Centres AMRCs which not only services for its customers.
Technology competitiveness of our products provide research that is directly applied leadership is integral to maximising our and services: in our business, but also gives us access competitive advantage and driving the to a rich talent pool.
drive technology in digital design and Groups long-term success.
The decision manufacture to unlock the productivity to split the technology and engineering benefits of these technologies: Technologies for today functions in 2017 has allowed the newly formed technology team, led by the Chief ensure future skills align with our and tomorrow Technology Officer, to enhance the pace technology strategy and further develop The increasingly demanding requirements and agility with which we harness the speed the Rolls-Royce Fellowship programme: of civil aviation are driving game-changing of change in our markets.
The engineering ensure continuous improvement of the innovation in our aerospace gas turbines.
team is responsible for design rigour, environmental impact of our products The new UltraFan architecture will provide a product safety and ensuring our skills and services: and step change in efficiency and environmental match business needs.
It is headed up by a performance for middle of the market up newly appointed group chief engineer.
The ensure continued focus on products to large widebody aircraft.
We are also Science & Technology Committee provides and technology that will enable transition using our latest technology to meet new oversight to all our technology investments.
to a low carbon global economy.
performance and customer requirements for our military and business jet engines.
Our innovation strategy helps our people contribute great winning ideas and our Creating value from new Rolls-Royce gas turbines are underpinned online innovation portal continues to be technologies and innovation by a range of ever-advancing core successful.
The portal connects employees technologies and physical models.
The Group needs to balance short, medium across the globe and has more than Research to improve our understanding and long-term technology needs against 24,000 users.
of the fundamental physics of gas turbines is market opportunities.
During 2017, actions We are proud of our university partnership central to this and is increasingly supported have been taken to: network which feeds Rolls-Royce with by high-performance computing to establish a single technology world-class applied research to underpin model behaviour.
organisation with responsibility for the technology in our products.
We have current and future technologies: 31 University Technology Centres UTCs Key facts 2017 Gross R&D expenditure m Number of engineers as at 31 Dec 2017 US government 43 EU funding 16 704 German Patents approved for filing government 14 Other 6 Singapore Other government 5 2,315 UK 18,245 government Electrical Number of engineers 273 1,883 across the Group Design Services 8,881 1,276 1.4bn Manufacturing Gross R&D expenditure 3,890 Rolls-Royce 1,035 The number of engineers across the Group has increased from 16,526 in 2016 to 18,245 in 2017 as at 31 December.
We have brought agency engineering contractors who support non-core tasks in new product introduction programmes into our direct headcount following a reinterpretation of export control regulations.
For further headcount detail see page 46.
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 43 Technology Advances in manufacturing technologies are also helping to improve our operational efficiency across the Group through the use of 3D printing technologies including additive layer manufacturing ALM : virtual design and manufacturing: and robotics.
Advanced materials remain vital to improving weight and performance.
We believe that nuclear technology will play a pivotal role in meeting future energy demands.
Our innovative small modular reactor SMR design is an economic solution for low carbon power.
We are working in cross-industry collaboration, using our extensive experience in the nuclear industry, combined with learning from the broader Group in digital and robotics technologies, to develop this solution see case study on page 41.
TECHNOLOGY IN ACTION TODAY ADVANCE3 AND ULTRAFAN Ship intelligence is an important theme in Advance3 is the first major new civil aero-engine architecture for Rolls-Royce our Marine business, developing marketin decades and sets new benchmarks in efficiency, environmental shifting system solutions, and improving performance and precision engineering.
The new architecture and advanced safety and efficiency in the industry see technologies within Advance3 are required to meet the pace of change within case study on page 34. the industry and remain on track to meet ACAREs FlightPath 2050 goals.
Innovations include lean-burn combustion and new manufacturing and Our refreshed strategy places much material technologies, including 3D printing and ceramic matrix composites.
greater emphasis on digitalisation and Advance3 is central to the UltraFan demonstrator programme, which will add electrification as our business gradually power gearbox, composite fan and high-speed turbine technology elements.
moves from being a thermo-mechanical Advance3 will be 20% more fuel efficient than the original Trent 700 engine.
When combined with UltraFan from 2025, that efficiency saving will extend Electrification is already core to our Marine to 25%.
business where permanent magnet electric thrusters, hybrid ships and battery powered ferries are indicative of this change.
In Power Systems, micro-grids are being used for peak load balancing or off-grid power generation, and hybrid technology is also revolutionising the performance of regional trains.
We are now designing, for the first time, electrical propulsion systems for aviation with civil and defence experimental aircraft which can exploit the flexibility in aircraft design brought about by the electrification of aviation.
Our recent announcement on the development of a full-scale hybrid electric demonstrator, jointly with Airbus and Siemens, cements our position as a pioneer of this next generation of aviation propulsion.
Digital technology impacts everything we do.
Using data analytics and artificial FLEXIBLE POWER MICRO-GRIDS intelligence across design, manufacture Rolls-Royce reciprocating engines are increasingly being integrated with and services, we are driving production multiple power generation assets and storage into micro-grids, able to in our business, efficiency for customers dynamically manage the supply of power and react to fluctuations in and generating new innovations.
The rapid start-up, fast increase in output and quick shutdown We are at a point of exciting change.
characteristics of MTU engines make them an ideal component of next Technology is driving core products to generation micro-grids.
Applications include power provision for large ever higher levels of performance while industrial sites and very remote or rural areas.
Micro-grids are increasingly electrification and digitalisation are being seen as the perfect solution for the problem of providing reliable opening market-shifting new opportunities.
