Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 30 Business Review HITACHI RAIL EUROPE HONOURS POWER SYSTEMS AS BEST SUPPLIER In recognition of its outstanding support over the past three years, Hitachi Rail Europe awarded MTU its 2017 Best Supplier accolade for delivery performance.
Power Systems has delivered over 200 MTU PowerPacks a third of the total ordered by the company for rolling stock programmes including GWRs new intercity express trains in the UK on time and at a consistently high quality.
The relationship does not end with the engine deliveries: MTU has secured a ValueCare long-term maintenance contract for the PowerPacks, spanning just over 27 years, that includes preventive maintenance as well as repair and major overhaul.
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 31 Business Review Key facts Power Systems 20,000 reciprocating engines sold per year Power Systems is a leading provider of high-speed and medium-speed reciprocating 1,200 engines, complete propulsion systems and development, production, service and dealership distributed energy solutions.
The business locations serves the marine, land defence, power 10,100 generation and industrial markets.
average number of employees during 2017 Power Systems | Key financial data Key highlights Year-on-year Organic 2017 change change New leadership team driving transformation programme to Underlying revenue 2,923m 10% 3% streamline product portfolio, Underlying gross profit 842m 20% 12% reduce fixed costs and improve Underlying operating profit 330m 73% 61% cash conversion Underlying operating margin 11.3% 410bps 410bps Order book 2.2bn 8% 4% Improved financial performance with 3% growth in underlying revenue See note 2 on page 132 for further segmental detail.
Organic change is at constant translational currency, excluding M&A.
and signs of market recovery Power generation products enjoyed good demand from China and for Underlying revenue mix US data centres Defence 240bp rise in underlying gross and other Services 12% margin to 28.8% and material 33% Marine improvement in cash flow 30% Service revenue growth of 6%: Industrial recovery in US spares demand 25% and growing interest in a repair reconditioning solution: OE and MTUs first long-term availability 67% contract signed with Hitachi Rail in UK Power generation 33% Launch of customer care centres and digital solutions reflect focus on customer service initiatives to provide service capability for the installed base of over 100,000 engines Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 32 Business Review reduced 7% to 331m reflecting cost for their UK Intercity programme, covering Overview 2017 reduction activities in the year.
Overall the period to the early 2040s: and Power Power Systems core business is the design, underlying operating profit which increased Systems sees significant opportunity to manufacture and servicing of reciprocating strongly to 330m 2016: 191m.
develop similar long-term service offerings engines including diesel, gas and for other customers.
hybrid electrical solutions, propulsion Operational and A reinvigorated leadership team under systems and distributed power generation the new CEO, Andreas Schell, helped drive plants.
It has a significant installed engine strategic review the RRPS 2018 restructuring programme.
base across a diverse range of end markets.
Power Systems customers span a range of This was a key contributor to the strong In 2017, strengthening demand in key end end markets providing significant diversity.
performance in 2017, delivering significant markets combined with a clear focus on The strong performance in 2017 reflected operational improvements as the business operational improvements through the growing demand in a number of key end pursued greater efficiencies and focus RRPS 2018 transformation programme.
markets as the overall environment across both R&D and production.
This This enabled the business to deliver a improved.
Engine production increased delivered a 20% reduction in product strong performance achieved against principally due to demand for the core variants and was combined with actions the background of greater operational Series 4000 products, large engines and to improve material costs, quality control, efficiencies and a more balanced annual rail Power Packs.
The business was also inventory levels and a footprint reduction.
Revenue grew slightly successful in greater smoothing of the Greater digitalisation within the development and helped deliver significant profit and sales and production cycle over the year, programmes helped to reduce the time cash flow growth.
reducing the proportion of sales and to product launch, including the online production activity in the fourth quarter, monitoring of the ramp-up fleet and greater Under new leadership the business was which has historically been abnormally high.
able to achieve a material reduction in product variants and greater R&D discipline There was growing order interest through Agreements made in India and China while targeting low-emission technologies.
the year, particularly from naval and are intended to broaden the production There has also been a move to develop government customers with a stronger order capability in lower-cost locations closer more comprehensive and connected book in the second half.
The medium-speed to core end markets.
These included the power solutions leveraging digitalisation business announced two notable power official registration of a 50 50 joint venture as an enabler of service penetration and station orders from Bangladesh.
with Guangxi Yuchai Machinery in China.
Manufacturers active in the construction The agreement will enable localised Power Systems also sought to expand and agriculture market increased orders production of the MTU Series 4000 its geographic reach with manufacturing in advance of new EU emissions regulations diesel engines under license, which comes and assembly partnerships in India and due to come into force at the start of 2019. on-stream in early 2018, and is part of the in the core growth market of China.
The first delivery of the new S4000 marine China growth strategy.
An agreement was natural gas engine which is IMO Tier III also signed with Garden Reach Shipbuilders compliant, was made to the Dutch ferry & Engineers Ltd for final assembly in India Financial overview operator Doeksen.
Gas systems sales in of Series 4000 naval engines, and we are Underlying revenue marine and power generation now make up looking to secure additional partnerships Underlying revenue of 2,923m increased over 14% of revenue from the S4000 range.
for end markets such as power generation.
OE revenue grew 1% while service The business entered into new segments R&D programmes have focused on revenues increased 6%.
Commodity-related such as excavators with products meeting the strategic priorities addressing new markets, such as mining and oil & gas saw the latest emissions standards driven by technologies, alternative fuels and a strong recovery, as did construction and orders from market leaders KATO and JCB.
system-based solutions, reflecting the agriculture.
Power generation products A project agreement was signed with structural shift away from traditional diesel enjoyed good demand from China and for agricultural machinery manufacturer Claas engines expected over the next decade.
US data centres, but was more subdued for the annual supply of around 5,000 This included strengthening the gas engine elsewhere, as was the yacht market for Series 1000-1500 engines.
portfolio, reflecting greater demand from much of the year.
The service business better infrastructure and availability within broadened its market reach with good Power Systems also sought to grow its power generation, industrial and marine interest in our reconditioning service share of its engine service opportunity.
This complements the investment offering and from US customers.
This included the Reman product, where in electrification to expand our hybrid engines are reconditioned and restored capabilities and further development to the latest MTU specification and come Underlying operating profit of micro-grid solutions.
A co-operation with an as-new warranty package, and Overall, gross margins increased 240bps agreement with G L innotec GmbH for which generated strong interest.
Customer to 28.8% reflecting improved product electrical-assisted turbo charging Care Centres were established in key time mix, including from service revenue and technology is part of a programme to zones to greatly enhance technical support programme applications, operational build a range of advanced electrical responsiveness to customers critical gearing and from higher volumes.
An capabilities as a basis for development of requirements and applications were improved balance of production between future hybrid and electrical drive solutions.
launched to deepen customer service and the first and second half of the year also dialogue.
Over time, the business will look helped to achieve better factory utilisation.
to develop more comprehensive power The actions taken as part of the RRPS 2018 Power Systems outlook solutions which will offer higher-value and programme on direct material costs also Outlook for the new business structure digitally connected products which will contributed to the improved gross margin.
under IFRS 15 is discussed in the 2018 deepen the customer experience.
An initial A more focused approach to R&D drove Outlook on page 58. step was the businesss first long-term a 6% reduction to 177m.
C&A costs availability contract signed with Hitachi Rail STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 33 Business Review MTU SERIES 4000 ENGINES STILL LEADING THE PACK When it was introduced more than two decades ago, the Series 4000 engine was ahead of its time.
It was the first fast-running, high performance large diesel engine with common rail fuel injectors, technology that was only just debuting in the automotive industry.
Today, it still leads the pack.
From ships and locomotives, to mining vehicles and electricity generators, it is the all-rounder in the MTU engine range with sales of over 37,000 units.
During 2017, the Series 4000 story opened a new chapter with the establishment of MTU Yuchai Power Co, a joint venture with Chinas Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Company.
From spring 2018, it will manufacture up to 1,500 engines a year for the oil & gas and power generation industries.
Operating environment There is continued growth forecast in emerging markets, Rolls-Royce key differentiators e. g. China and India, where domestic partnerships including Technology leadership and a reputation for market-leading local value creation will continue to be important.
performance and system approach, new product innovation, full lifecycle service solutions and high levels of customisation Tightening emission regulations in several regions will in collaboration with customers will maintain a strong market require clean diesel solutions where the business is well position for Power Systems.
Exponentially growing data usage requires rapid Market dynamics expansion of data centres and infrastructure and therefore Most OE markets started to recover in 2017, with the exception corresponding back-up power solutions, Rolls-Royce of the offshore marine markets.
There is strong demand in generators are in particular demand due to their reliability.
Increased utilisation in recovering resource markets due Increased utilisation in resource industries, especially oil & gas to wear and tear of existing fleets is leading to emerging and mining, is driving aftermarket service demand after several services opportunities.
years of challenging market conditions.
There continues to be increasingly stringent government Business risks regulation in most markets with regards to emissions from If we fail to develop more innovative products than our diesel engines.
competitors, then market share would be lost in our core power ranges and markets.
The industry is increasingly focused on service solutions, electric and hybrid power solutions and digital capabilities: If electrical-storage technologies develop faster than this is stimulating investments in acquisitions, partnerships anticipated, then these may substitute Rolls-Royce products and in-house digital organisations.
Power Systems is experiencing increasing competition If other players in the industry consolidate, then they may in its core power range as existing competitors launch generate synergies or capabilities that outpace the ability new engine series and new players emerge with new of the business to get new products and services to market.
If new disruptive service models, e. g. 3D printing of spare parts or new digital service models are offered by competitors, then Opportunities we may lose attractiveness and competitive edge.
Rising energy demand in developing countries in combination with expansion of renewable energy sources will increase the demand for flexible generating sets and products beyond combustion engines e. g. hybridisation, electrification and gasification.
Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 34 Business Review A WORLD FIRST SETS SAIL Copenhagen harbour witnessed a world first in 2017 with the demonstration of the first remotely operated commercial vessel.
The combination of technical expertise in ship intelligence at Rolls-Royce and global towage operator Svitzers operational knowledge, ensured a successful maiden voyage for the Svitzer Hermod.
The vessel was fitted with a Rolls-Royce dynamic positioning system, which provided data to the Rolls-Royce designed Remote Operating Centre ROC where the captain controlled the vessel.
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 35 Business Review Key facts Marine 30,000 commercial vessels using Rolls-Royce equipment Marine manufactures and services propulsion and handling solutions for the maritime 70 offshore, merchant and naval markets, Naval forces using Rolls-Royce equipment ranging from standalone products to complex integrated systems.
4,600 average number of employees during 2017 Marine | Key financial data Key highlights Year-on-year Organic 2017 change change Underlying revenue 9% lower, reflecting ongoing offshore Underlying revenue 1,077m -3% -9% market weakness Underlying gross profit 225m -5% -9% Underlying operating loss 25 m -7% 15% Underlying operating loss reduced Underlying operating margin -2.3% -10bps -10bps through strong focus on cost control Order book 0.8bn -18% -15% and modest cash outflow See note 2 on page 132 for further segmental detail.
Continued investment in Rauma facility, Finland, to create state-ofthe-art production and test facilities, together with progress on Underlying revenue mix autonomous shipping programme Services Strategic review of commercial Naval 47% 31% marine business underway OE 53% Commercial 69% Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 36 Business Review was broadly flat at 46m, with the focus The main operational focus across the Overview 2017 on developing ship intelligence capabilities Marine business was the continued effort With the average Brent crude oil price as well as on new product development.
to reduce fixed costs to help mitigate the remaining below US$55 barrel for the third C&A costs of 204m were 13% lower, impact of the weaker offshore market.
consecutive year, our commercial marine demonstrating the progress made in The restructuring programme announced business continued to see substantially reducing both headcount and fixed costs, in November 2016 achieved its target reduced activity levels in its historically together with a significant reduction in of 45-50m of annualised cost savings.
important offshore market, but saw inventory which helped mitigate the scale This was helped during the year through opportunities within the merchant sector.
further rationalisation of back office The naval business had a successful year functions, together with the closure with new projects from existing core clients of the Shanghai assembly facility.
such as the UK and US navies and from Operational and Investment of around 20m in the year new geographies.
strategic review was made in a state-of-the-art production As a result of the weak market environment, and test facility in Rauma, Finland, which Lower activity within commercial marine the business focused on executing its will deliver significant capabilities for what reflected the weak market environment as restructuring programmes, reducing is a growing market opportunity.
deep water exploration activities remained its fixed cost base, including significant at depressed levels.
While OE activity The Marine business has also sought headcount reduction, and closing non-core continued to decline, the business was to capitalise on the broader shift from facilities.
At the same time it is repositioning encouraged by the signing of the first mechanical to electrical and digital itself with product development such as offshore service contract since 2015 and technologies, both within its existing product permanent magnet thrusters, investing in a long-term service agreement reached for range and also through investment in future technologies as the industry moves azimuth thrusters.
There was also activity opportunities for integrated ship systems to greater electrification and exploring the across the merchant sector including and remote or autonomous vessels.
The growing potential for remote vessel Norwegian ferry operator contracts for launch of a new energy management operations and autonomous shipping.
new gas engines and thrusters along with solution and the first ever Marine availabilityfurther auto-crossing system product sales.
It was announced after the year end that based contract reflects the growing potential our commercial marine operations would in this area.
Third-party funding was secured Within the naval business a landmark be subject to a strategic review in 2018, to support R&D for land-based control contract was signed to supply the US including the potential for sale, while the centres and a fleet management centre coastguards largest shipbuilding naval operations would be integrated into was established for remote optimisation programme, initially covering up to 11 an enlarged Defence business unit.
Rolls-Royce successfully vessels with a range of propulsion and demonstrated this new technology by related technologies.
In addition, the MT30 partnering with global towage operator, gas turbine continued to demonstrate its Financial overview Svitzer, including the first trial of a remotely attractiveness as a naval engine choice operated commercial vessel that took place with its selection by the Republic of Underlying revenues in Copenhagen harbour.
Korea for three Daegu type frigates.
Underlying revenue was down 9% at 1,077m, reflecting declining OE activity, Work continued with a number of with weakness in both offshore and customers who had previously selected Marine outlook cargo-related merchant markets.
Service the MT30 including factory acceptance revenue was stable, though off a low base in Outlook for the new business structure testing with the Italian Navys landing 2016, and there was a notable improvement under IFRS 15 is discussed in the 2018 helicopter dock vessel and in the UK in naval revenue, particularly in the second Outlook on page 58. both on the Royal Navys Type 26 frigate half.
The 15% decline in OE revenue resulted programme and the two new aircraft in service revenue rising to 47% of the total carriers.
By segment, commercial marine successful sea trials and preparation for was down 14% to 805m 2016: 875m and the first run of the HMS Prince of Wales naval was up 10% to 272m 2016: 239m.
power plants is scheduled for 2018.
The team also announced a concept Underlying operating loss autonomous defence vessel capable Despite the 9% decline in underlying of a range of single role naval missions, revenue there was a 2m reduction in drawing on the expertise across power the underlying operating loss for the and propulsion and autonomous tools.
year to 25m 2016: 27m, helped by the greater proportion of higher margin service revenue and reflecting the positive impact of cost-cutting programmes.
R&D spend STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 37 Business Review HMS QUEEN ELIZABETH TAKES TO THE SEAS HMS Queen Elizabeth, the largest warship ever built for the UKs Royal Navy, left Rosyth dockyard in Scotland to begin sea trials in June 2017.
This was a major landmark for Marines naval business, having been involved in the project since its launch over a decade ago.
The new class of aircraft carrier weighing in at 70,000 tonnes features a range of Rolls-Royce equipment including twin MT30 marine gas turbines, propellers and steering gear, stabilisers, reception points and electrical distribution.
The MT30 continues to attract customers and is proving to be the gas turbine of choice for modern naval combatants with over 40 engines delivered to customers worldwide.
Operating environment Continued trend towards hybrid full-electric propulsion Rolls-Royce key differentiators and integrated electric systems with increased adoption Marine is a leading provider of mission-critical solutions for of energy storage solutions.
the commercial and naval maritime markets, a position built on unique domain knowledge, continuous leadership in maritime Increasing interest from vessel owners in remote and innovation and digital solutions that allow close partnership with autonomous solutions, which Rolls-Royce is pioneering, our customers globally across a broad range of ship types.
to improve performance, reduce cost and increase safety.
Increasing evidence of suppliers partnering with vessel Market dynamics operators to deliver digital solutions to create greater Marine operates in three key markets: merchant, offshore availability and reduce operational risks.
Growth within these markets is fundamentally driven by GDP, trade, oil price and defence spending.
Business risks Naval budgets and naval shipbuilding are growing across If offshore exploration and production expenditure remains target countries.
The US market is stable and remains the low, then there will be sustained pressure and further delay largest market, although Asian markets are growing strongly.
in market recovery for both new build and aftermarket.
The offshore market broadly continues to be challenging If competitors react to a depressed market by pricing linked to significant oversupply in several vessel segments aggressively on new equipment to protect future aftermarket and financial constraints within the customer base.
revenue, then Marine could experience further pressure on near-term margins.
Opportunities continue to be exploited in stable markets including naval, passenger, and tugs where we have also If continuing market downturn leaves key customers, suppliers seen growth in interest in autonomous solutions.
and competitors exposed to strain, then there could be further consolidation impacting the competitive landscape.
Key competitors continue to seek internal cost savings, whilst developing electrical and digital offerings.
If market shifts in technology e. g. electrification and digitalisation proceed at a faster rate than expected, then the Opportunities business may not be positioned to take full advantage of this Historically cyclical marine markets are expected to recover potential growth.
across the range of merchant and offshore segments, but with a new focus on efficiency and cost.
