Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 110 Science & Technology Committee Report Science & Technology Committee Report Principal responsibilities Sir Kevin Smith Chairman of the Technology strategy Science & Technology Committee Review the strategic direction of the Groups research, technology and development activities.
Ensure investment is allocated appropriately.
Keep under review the key technology programmes.
Assist the Board in its oversight of major R&D investment and provide assurance on its competitiveness and the adequacy of R&D investment.
Key highlights Cross-sector technology Technology strategy, investment and programmes review Oversee the effectiveness of key engineering and technology processes and operations, including delivery of major product Electrical systems strategy development and technology programmes.
Additive layer manufacturing ALM strategy Competitiveness of civil aero engines and Technology capabilities and skills reciprocating engines Oversee processes for ensuring effective resourcing and Emerging and disruptive technologies development of required technological capability and skills.
Virtual tour of Advance3 build shop and UltraFan power Conduct visits to R&D facilities.
gearbox test facility Visits to Trent XWB final assembly, a large engine test Technology trends and risks bed and the National Composites Centre Provide assurance on the identification and management of key technological risks.
Review and consider any other topics or risks appropriate Introduction to the overall remit of the Committee as delegated by the Board.
The Group invests more than 1 billion each year in R&D to conceive, design and deliver world-class technology that meets our customers Principal risk disruptive technologies and business models current and future needs.
In a fast-changing world, the Committee provides dedicated focus, directional input and oversight of the Oversee one of the Groups principal risks.
This risk was added Groups scientific and technological strategy, processes and in 2016 to reflect the increasing importance of transformative related investments.
technologies and new ways of doing business.
Operation of the Committee Areas of focus for 2018 All members of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors.
Oversight of the Groups technology programme Lewis Booth stepped down from the Committee in April 2017 when he joined the Remuneration Committee.
Our biographies are on A review of technology partnering strategy pages 67 to 68.
The Committees responsibilities are outlined in Update on key programmes including Advance3, UltraFan its terms of reference, available at www.
com, which we and small modular reactors review annually and refer to the Board forapproval.
Technology for services The Committee held four meetings face to face and two via teleconference during the year.
Advanced manufacturing technology and industry digitisation A review of electrical and digital skills and capability Committee members development Member Attended Eligible to attend Sir Kevin Smith chairman 6 6 Lewis Booth 1 1 Ruth Cairnie 6 6 Brad Singer 6 6 Jasmin Staiblin 5 6 See page 70 for reasons of non-attendance.
DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 111 Science & Technology Committee Report Science & Technology Committee focus during 2017 Area of focus Matters considered Outcome The Groups technology strategy Confirmed that the strategic objectives and associated Technology strategy investment funding allocations were appropriate.
Investment allocation Supported the strengthening of the approach to Review of key technology programmes electrical systems.
Review of competitiveness of civil aero engines Endorsed the creation of the Chief Technology Officers organisation.
Review of competitiveness of reciprocating engines The reviews of competitiveness shaped inputs and recommendations for the Board strategy discussions in September and helped confirm the appropriateness of our technology plans.
The Groups electrical systems strategy and Endorsed the initial programme of electrical systems Cross-sector technology advanced manufacturing strategy technology demonstrators and the creation of a dedicated management structure at Group level.
Had early sight of the Groups updated advanced manufacturing strategy, provided comments and identified areas of follow-up.
A new focus on electrical systems requires additional Requested a more detailed electrical system skills Technology capabilities resources, new capabilities and skills and a different and capability development plan which would be and skills way of thinking reviewed in 2018.
Visits to Trent XWB final assembly test bed and Visits were insightful, provided physical evidence of the National Composites Centre progress on key technology programmes and provided an invaluable opportunity to meet the teams.
Live virtual tours of Advance3 and UltraFan power gearbox rig Disruptive potential from various sources including We are satisfied that the Group has robust processes Technology trends and risks digital technologies, novel materials and manufacturing in place to identify disruptive threats and opportunities and develop appropriate actions.
Opportunities and threats in electrical systems The principal risk of disruptive technologies and We are confident that we are receiving enough Oversight of principal risk business models was reviewed twice during the year detail around this principal risk and on the ways the risk is being kept under review by the Group.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 112 Science & Technology Committee Report 2017 overview The Committees main focus for 2017 was on our technology strategy and on aligning this to the Groups strategic reviews, the allocation of technology funding and our competitiveness in key technology and product areas.
At the beginning of the year, we reviewed the programme of work to deliver in 2017 and the investment funding allocation and received an update on the progress made on technology plans for each business.
Of note was a significant increase in spend in our aerospace businesses as activity on our technology demonstrator programmes ramps up.
Although there were resource constraints, the overall programme was considered reasonable.
We gave our support to management in seeking to take a new approach to strategic planning for technology.
In the past, investment has been allocated principally by matching resource bids from the businesses to our product strategies.
At the beginning of the year, it had been decided by management that a stronger Group-driven approach should be developed to allocate investment across different types of technology programmes which provided synergy and opportunity across the Group.
This will achieve a better balance of product-specific technologies with broader sector opportunity.
Each Committee member gave time to management individually and provided input to help shape the approach and align it to the Groups strategy.
We received a briefing on the Groups activities in additive layer manufacturing ALM, its development, supply chain and reasons ADVANCE3 for its importance.
In May, we viewed a live virtual tour of the Advance3 where we We noted that the use of ALM globally has been rising at a were shown some of the expert work on how the demonstrator 35% compound annual growth rate.
The Group is exploring engine was being assembled and the high degree of a number of partnership and supply chain strategies to accelerate instrumentation required in preparation for the initial engine test.
The Groups technology focus in ALM is on The Advance3 reflects a new engine core architecture the specialised materials, such as high temperature alloys and parts high pressure system and the intermediate pressure system with high value and high manufacturing complexity.
The Committee differ from the Trent engine family and includes new benefited significantly from a visit to the ALM research facility technology such as a radically revised fuel system.
in 2016 and will keep the delivery of the Groups strategy for ALM under review.
Throughout the year, the Committee discussed technology competitiveness and carried out a specific review on the Civil The Committee was updated on each of the businesses electrical Aerospace business and the market for large engines.
We looked systems demonstrator programmes which vary significantly in at: the business product and technology strategies and product complexity and pace.
This highlighted implications in terms of skills, evolution path: the relative position on key technologies versus the requirement for a resourcing strategy, as well as a shift in competitors: the fundamental capability drivers and enabling thinking for senior leadership.
technologies: and an analysis of our R&D R&T spend compared to Rolls-Royce has a solid platform of electrical activities on which competitors.
A similar session was held with the Power Systems team to build, covering rail hybrid trains, power generation including to discuss competitiveness of our reciprocating engine technology.
micro-grids, marine hybrid and full electric ships and applications We also reviewed the Groups emerging electrical systems strategy.
We also noted the strong opportunity for There is a growing demand for electrical capability across all our cross-company synergies in electrical systems.
platforms hence this is an important area of focus to ensure the In May, as part of the review of competitiveness of civil aero engines, Group positions itself competitively for the future.
We heard about we visited our site in Derby, UK, where we received a tour of the potential future applications of hybrid electrical configurations Trent XWB final assembly and test facility, the large aero engine for aircraft in the aerospace businesses and how electrical systems development test facility and test preparation area.
technology was rapidly increasing in the markets addressed by our Marine and Power Systems businesses.
DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 113 Science & Technology Committee Report We also received a virtual tour of the UltraFan power gearbox rig via videolink from Dahlewitz, Germany.
This facility is the largest of its kind in the world and is critical to supporting changes to engine architecture and component technologies to form the core of the next generation of more efficient Rolls-Royce aero engines.
The rig simulates real in-service pitch and roll conditions by tilting the gearbox to place it under different torque and load, which enables analysis of oil flows for heat management.
The rig is now fully functional and provides the Group with a very powerful capability for the future.
In September, the Board visited our site in Bristol, UK and also had the opportunity to visit the National Composites Centre NCC.
The NCC was established by the University of Bristol, in collaboration with sponsors including Rolls-Royce, and its key objective is to enable UK design and manufacturing enterprises to deliver winning solutions in the application of composites.
The visit provided valuable background to our understanding of the technology development route for the UltraFan composite fan system.
In December 2016, the Committee was allocated responsibility for overseeing management of the Groups new principal risk of disruptive technologies and business models.
This was brought to the Committee twice for discussion in 2017.
We were updated Deborah Harris, STEM Ambassador and Rolls-Royce on the key processes the Company has developed to keep the risk engineering graduate, hosted the 2017 Science Prize under review, including five advisory boards with external subject award event at the London Science Museum matter experts that report to and support the ELT.
ROLLS-ROYCE SCIENCE PRIZE The science prize initiative was launched in 2004 as part Looking forward of the Groups continuing commitment to science education.
In my view, the Science & Technology Committee is the most It is designed to foster, recognise and reward outstanding exciting and uplifting of the Board committees and I feel privileged work in science and maths teaching.
It promotes innovative to chair it.
Our subject matter is the life blood of the Group vested and sustainable strategies for teaching and contributes to in some extremely talented people.
I am grateful to all of them for continuous professional development by providing science the support they have given during the year.
and maths teachers with the support they need to implement big ideas.
Since the launch of the programme, over 20,000 I have been pleased with our progress this year as the Group has applications have been received and 1.5 million has been carried out a detailed review of its technology strategy.
given out in prize money to over 600 schools across the UK.
In 2018, we will continue to focus on supporting management and the Board in further deploying this strategy with a particular focus on technology skills and capability development and building partnerships to accelerate progress.
Sir Kevin Smith Chairman of the Science & Technology Committee
