Strategic Report GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY The Strategic Report describes the Company financial position, Anti-bribery and corruption cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
The Group The Board has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is currently has substantial headroom against its borrowing committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
covenants, with a Group LTV of.
In considering The Bribery Act , at the date of this report, the Board had assessed the perceived risks to the Company The Company also benefits from a secure income stream from arising from bribery and corruption and to identify aspects of leases with long average unexpired terms, which are not overly the business, which may be improved to mitigate such risks.
The reliant on any one tenant and present a well-diversified risk.
Manager actively reviews and monitors perceived risks in order The Companys cash balance as at  December  was to mitigate them.
Responsibility for anti-bribery and corruption.
It has been assigned to the compliance officer within the Manager also had undrawn amounts under its debt facilities of a further who has sufficient time and seniority to manage it effectively.. million.
The Company had capital commitments totalling The Manager maintains a risk register, where perceived risks and.
million, plus a contingent liability reflecting the conditional associated actions are recorded and this is regularly shared with exchange of contracts on two pre-let forward funded asset the Board for approval.
purchases, subject to satisfactory planning permission with an investment price of .
million plus a standing asset with an Assessment of viability investment price of.
These assets completed on The period over which the Directors consider it feasible and  January  and  January  respectively.
appropriate to report on the Groups viability is the five year period to March.
This period has been selected because In December  the Company refinanced a large part of its it is the period that is used for the Groups medium-term secured borrowings with unsecured borrowings.
The unsecured business plans and individual asset performance forecasts.
borrowings were raised via the issue of a nine and  year loan notes totalling million plus a million revolving credit The assumptions underpinning these forecast cash flows and facility.
Following the refinancing the Company now has a much covenant compliance forecasts were sensitised to explore the deeper pool of liquidity available to it in the sterling bond market, resilience of the Group to the potential impact of the Groups but also greater certainty over its debt platform with a weighted significant risks, or a combination of those risks.
As a result, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to The principal risks on pages - summarises those matters manage its current and future financial commitments and other that could prevent the Group from delivering on its strategy.
A number of these principal risks, because of their nature or potential impact, could also threaten in the Groups ability to The Directors believe that there are currently no material continue in business in its current form if they were to occur.
uncertainties in relation to the Companys ability to continue for a period of at least  months from the date of approval of the The Directors paid particular attention to the risk of a Companys financial statements.
The Board is, therefore, of the deterioration in economic outlook which would impact property opinion that the going concern basis adopted in the preparation fundamentals, including investor and occupier demand which of the Annual Report is appropriate.
would have a negative impact on valuations, and give rise to Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
