Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 12 Business Model Business Model Our resources Rolls-Royce is one of the worlds leading industrial technology companies.
We provide power solutions for Brand Our brand enables us to our customers which combine three elements: advanced sustain relationships, secure business and attract talent.
technologies: system solutions: and system life.
These are delivered as part of a virtuous cycle which begins with the People and culture development of cutting-edge technologies.
We optimise Our success is a result of the commitment, skills and the value of our power solutions throughout their lives.
ingenuity of our employees and their determination to be Trusted to Deliver Excellence.
Cutting-edge technologies Technology Our technology enables us to meet emerging customer needs.
Dynamic 1 Resilient technology Engineering capability Our engineering expertise business management enables us to embed cutting-edge technologies into outstanding products.
5 2 Advanced manufacturing capability Our manufacturing processes enable us to embed advanced technologies in our products quickly and efficiently.
4 3 Service capability Long-term Compelling Our service orientation enables our customers to value creation customer focus on their core activities.
propositions Rolls-Royce operating system Our operating system enables us to drive best practice and value across the Group.
Our competitive advantage comes from: Partners Our partners enable us to collaborate in technology, manufacturing and services.
Advanced System System technologies solutions life Financial strength Our financial strength enables us to pursue long-term cutting-edge We apply cutting-edge We package technologies We care about the technologies and to support technologies to provide into systems that provide performance of our our customers throughout cleaner, safer and more complete solutions for our solutions throughout the entire product lifecycle.
Our whole-life technologies ensure that our mean that our customers capabilities maximise customers have power that have power from a single, availability and enable meets their emerging needs.
us to meet changing customer needs.
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 13 Business Model Value creation for Cutting-edge Compelling 1 3 technologies customer propositions our stakeholders in 2017 Cutting-edge technology allows Our customer relationships are us to meet emerging customer our greatest strength.
We offer our Gross R&D Customers needs.
We instinctively pursue customers a combination of advanced We develop product expenditure new technologies that will help technology, in a complete systems solutions that improve our us deliver cleaner, safer and more solution, optimised throughout its life.
We create combinations of We identify the key horizon technology, systems and aftermarket technologies that will generate performance that make our customers a competitive advantage for more competitive.
Investors Total shareholder Rolls-Royce in the long term.
We generate attractive return See below for details of how we do this.
returns for investors over A B Link to risks the long term.
B C D E 25.4% Link to risks Dynamic technology 2 Long-term management 4 value creation Employees Invested in Our future technological world is We create an environment complex with many exciting new Our activities are complex and global.
training and where each employee is challenges across everything we We share best practice across the development able to be at their best.
We respond to this with broader Group and assess where and how and deeper collaboration with others, activities can offer the best value.
31.2m and with a more dynamic approach We use the Rolls-Royce operating to ensure that our technology brings system to generate greater value.
the most value to our customers Partners Spent with and our business.
E Link to risks We create partnerships external suppliers based on collaboration We are inclusive in the pursuit, where each partner co-operative in the application and 8.7bn benefits from the aggressive in the commoditisation 5 Resilient business relationship.
Our activities have a major impact A B Link to risks on our planet, the global economy Communities Hours of and on communities.
To ensure that We improve the employee time we are free to operate and invest for communities that we the long term, we are thoughtful volunteered impact locally, nationally and careful about the business we and globally.
undertake, our financial resources 93,900 and our wider impact.
We build balance in our activities, Governing bodies and regulators strength in our balance sheet and We aim to create trusted relationships with behave sustainably.
governing bodies and regulators, meeting all legal Link to risks F G H I J and regulatory commitments and requirements.
Our power solutions create revenue from: Link to principal risks A Disruptive technologies and business models original equipment sales B Competitive position maintenance, repair and overhaul sales C Major product programme delivery secondary or repurposing sales D Product safety additional products and services E Talent and capability F Business continuity G Our intimate knowledge of our customers and our products enables us to IT vulnerability optimise the value of our power solutions throughout their lives.
We share H Market and financial shock this value with our customers by offering power as a service.
I Political risk J Compliance Revenue recognition page 125 Principal Risks page 59
