Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors report The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Chairmans Statement, Strategic report and corporate governance report form part of this report and should be read inconjunction with it.
Review of business The Group income statement for the year is set out on page 90.
The Group objective, business model and strategy is set out on pages 4, 5, 16 and 17.
KPIs are set out on pages 18 and 19.
Important events including post balance sheet events affecting the Company are set out on pages 2 to 32.
The principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 20 and 21.
The use of financial instruments are set out on page 30, and in note 23 to the Group financial statements.
The risk management objectives are also detailed in note 23 to the Group financial statements.
The Groups likely future developments are set out on pages 2 and 3.
Directors Biographical details of the current Directors of the Company are set out on pages 46 and 47.
As explained in the Corporate Governance Report on page 50, Philip Mortstedt, Joseph Crawley and Thomas Lundquist also served as a Directors of the Company during the year until 7 March 2017, 15 May 2017 and 31 December 2017, respectively.
All Directors will be subject to annual re-election at the 2018 AnnualGeneral Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In his role as Executive Chairman, Henry Klotz recommends the re-election of the retiring Directors at the 2018 Annual General Meeting, given their performance and continued important contribution to the Company.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director recommends the re-election of Mr Klotz.
Directors remuneration and interests in shares is set out on pages 62 to 76.
Related party transactions are set out in note 33 to the Group financial statements.
Dividends An interim dividend of 2.05 pence per share was paid on 29 September 2017.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend of 4.30 pence per share making a total dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 6.35 pence per share.
The final dividend will be paid on 27 April 2018 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 3 April 2018.
Purchase of the Companys shares There were no purchases of the Companys own shares during the year.
A resolution will be proposed at the 2018 Annual General Meeting to give the Company authority to make market purchases of up to 40,739,576 shares, being 10% of the current issued share capital.
Share capital Changes in share capital are shown in note 24 to the Group financial statements.
At 31 December 2017, and at the date of this report, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 438,777,780 ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each, of which 407,395,760 held voting rights and 31,382,020 shares were held as treasury shares, and all of which ranked pari passu.
Therights including full details relating to voting, obligations and any restrictions on transfer relating to the Companys shares, andthepowers of the Directors in that regard, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
77 Corporate governance Directors report continued Major interests in the companys shares Other than Mr Sten Mortstedts 50.99% interest referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report, on page 71, as at 7 March 2018 the Company has been notified of the following interests above 3% in the Companys issued share capital: No.
of shares % FIL Limited 40,899,575 10.04% Bengt Mortstedt 28,072,550 6.89% Bank of Montreal 21,562,981 5.29% Schroder Investment Management Limited 13,166,570 3.23% Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the Remuneration Committee Report on page 71.
There are no shareholders who carry special rights with regard to control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights.
The Company knows of no agreements between holders of securities which would result in restrictions on the transfer ofsecurities or on voting rights.
Significant agreements change of control A change of control of the Company may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its active subsidiaries is party, such as commercial trading contracts, banking arrangements, property leases and licence agreements, to alter or terminate or provisions in those agreements to take effect.
In the context of the Group as a whole, only the banking arrangements are considered to be significant.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employeesproviding for compensation for loss of office or employment that occur because of a change of control.
Relationship agreement controlling shareholder As at 31 December 2017, Creative Value Investment Group Limited CVIG, the investment vehicle for the Sten and Karin Mortstedt Family and Charity Trust, held 50.99% of the Companys shares in issue and was therefore seen as a controlling shareholder under the Listing Rules.
4, the Company has entered into a relationship agreement which shall only be terminated in the event that CVIG ceases to be a controlling shareholder, or if the Company ceases to be admitted to listing on the premium segment of the Official List.
Throughout the period under review, the Company has complied with the mandatory independence provisions and procurement obligations in the relationship agreement, and as far as the Company is aware, CVIG has also complied.
Property portfolio A valuation of all the investment properties and properties held for sale in the Group at 31 December 2017 was carried out byCushman and Wakefield for the UK and Germany, and Jones Lang Lasalle for France, which produced an aggregate market value of 1,771.3 million 2016: 1,536.6 million.
Corporate governance The Corporate Governance Statement, prepared in accordance with rule 7.2 of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, is set out on pages 38 to 76 and forms part of this report.
Employees, environmental and social issues The Groups policies on employment, environmental and social issues including the information required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, including charitable donations, are summarised in the Corporate, Social and Environmental Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 37.
No political donations to any parties, organisations or candidates, or political expenditure were made during 2017.
The Group notes the Equality Act 2010 GenderPay Gap Information Regulations 2017 which came into force in April 2017.
The regulations apply to companies withover 250 employees, and as a result the Group is not required to report this information, however it is actively looking atways in which to gather and report this data on a voluntary basis in the future.
The Group has also published a CSR Report, which is available on line at www.
78 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Human rights The Board ensures the Group upholds and promotes respect for human rights in all its current operating locations and aims to prevent any negative human rights impact.
As the Group operates in the UK, Germany, France and Sweden it is subject to the European Convention on Human Rights and the UK Human Rights Act 1998.
The Group respects all human rights and in conducting its business regards those rights relating to non-discrimination and fair treatment to be the most relevant and to have the greatest potential impact on its key stakeholders, which are deemed to be customers, employees and suppliers.
The Board has also noted its moral and legal obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The Board has a zero tolerance towards modern slavery, and throughout the year the Company has contacted its first tier contractors and suppliers.
Our full statement on Modern Slavery can be found on our website at www.
The Groups policies seek to ensure that employees comply with the relevant legislation and regulations in place to promote good practice.
The Groups policies are formulated and kept up to date and communicated to all employees through the Group Intranet and, where appropriate, individual presentations.
In the year to 31 December 2017, the Group was not aware of any incident in which the organisations activities have resulted in an abuse of human rights.
Insurance of directors and indemnities The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal action against its directors and officers.
The Company has granted indemnities to each of the Directors and other senior management, uncapped in amount but subject to applicable law, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur in the course of acting as directors or employees oftheCompany or one or more of its subsidiaries or associates.
Auditor A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
2018 Annual General Meeting The 2018 Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, 25 April 2018.
The notice of meeting, including explanatory notes for the resolutions to be proposed, will be posted to shareholders.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each Director has confirmed at the date of this report that: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern The current macro-economic conditions have created a number of uncertainties as set out on pages 20 and 21.
The Groups business activities, and the factors likely to affect its future development and performance, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 37.
The financial position of the Group, its liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic Report and in notes 18 and 21 of the Group financial statements.
The Directors regularly stress-test the business model to ensure that the Group has adequate working capital and have reviewed the current and projected financial positions of the Group, taking into account the repayment profile and covenants of the Groups loan portfolio, and making reasonable assumptions about future trading performance.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and further details of this analysis are set out in the Viability Statement on page 52.
Therefore, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
79 Corporate governance Directors report continued Disclosures under listing rule 9.8.
4R The table below is included to comply with the disclosure requirements under Listing Rule 9.8.
The information required bythe Listing Rules can be found in the Annual Report at the location stated below.
Listing Rule Information required Disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group Note 13 9.8.
4 2 Publication of unaudited financial information None 9.8.
4 4 Long-term incentive schemes with directors None 9.8.
4 5 Directors waiver of emoluments Page 66 9.8.
4 6 Directors waiver of future emoluments None 9.8.
4 7 Non pro rata allotments for cash issuer None 9.8.
4 8 Non pro rata allotments for cash major subsidiaries None 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is subsidiary of another company None 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of significance with a director None 9.8.
4 11 Contracts of significance with Controlling Shareholder None 9.8.
4 13 Waiver of future dividends Not applicable 9.8.
4 14 Relationship Agreement with controlling shareholder Page 78 The following table is included to comply with the additional disclosure requirements under the Listing Rule 9.8.
6 Listing Rule Information Required Disclosure 9.8.
6 1 Directors and Connected Persons interests in CLS shares at year end Page 71 andatnot more than one month prior to the date of the AGM notice 9.8.
6 2 Interests in CLS shares disclosed under DTR5 at year end and not more Page 78 thanone month prior to the date of AGM notice 9.8.
6 3 The going concern statement Page 79 9.8.
6 4 a Amount of authority to purchase own shares available at year end The Company had the authority to purchase 40,739,570 shares at the yearend 9.8.
6 4 b Off-market purchases of own shares during the year None 9.8.
6 4 c Off-market purchases of own shares since year end None 9.8.
6 4 d Non-pro rata sales of treasury shares during the year None 9.8.
6 5 Compliance with the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code Page 40 9.8.
6 6 b Details of non-compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Pages 38 to 61 9.8.
6 7 Directors proposed for re-election: the unexpired term of any directors Pages 77, 46 and 47 servicecontract and a statement about directors with no service contracts On behalf of the Board David Fuller BA FCIS Company Secretary 7 March 2018 80 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors responsibility statement Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with FRS101 of United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed andexplained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company willcontinue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view ofthe assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
This statement of responsibilities was approved by the Board on 7 March 2018.
On behalf of the Board David Fuller BA FCIS Company Secretary 7 March 2018 81
