INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EQUINITI GROUP PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements OPINION BASIS FOR OPINION In our opinion, Equiniti Group plcs Group financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International and Company financial statements financial statements : Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for year then ended: our opinion.
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs INDEPENDENCE as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation requirements.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonAnnual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Company audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not statements of financial position as at 31 December 2017: the provided to the Group or the Company.
consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive Other than those disclosed in the Directors Report, we have income, the consolidated and Company statements of cash provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in flows, and the consolidated and Company statements of changes the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Overall Group materiality: 3.1 million 2016: 2.7 million, based on 3.5% of Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA.
MATERIALITY Overall Company materiality: 2 million 2016: 2 million, based on 1% of total assets but capped to a level below overall Group materiality.
Of the Group's 33 trading entities, we performed full scope procedures on five trading entities and also on a further two holding Companies.
AUDIT Specific procedures were performed on deferred and accrued revenue in three SCOPE additional statutory entities.
Overall this accounted for 78% of Group revenue and 70% of Group EBITDA.
Revenue recognition on complex contracts.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Recognition and recoverability of accrued income.
Classification and presentation of exceptional items.
130 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EQUINITI GROUP PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 correspondence with legal advisers, enquiries of management THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT and review of significant component auditors work.
There are As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it including testing journals and evaluating whether there was operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including material misstatement due to fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk KEY AUDIT MATTERS of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery of the financial statements of the current period and include the or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation and the Financial the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we Conduct Authoritys Client Asset Sourcebook.
Our tests included, make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed but were not limited to review of the financial statement in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a of correspondence with and reports to the Financial Conduct separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of Authority in respect of the Groups regulated business, review of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition on complex We assessed whether the revenue recognised on these contracts was in line with the Groups accounting policy and IAS 18. contracts For a sample of multiple element contracts, we assessed whether each element The Group has entered into a number was separately identifiable and whether it was reasonable for specific elements to of complex revenue contracts.
These be considered as a separate performance obligation.
We performed testing over arrangements can straddle accounting the fair value of each element by comparing the margins or selling prices used periods and include multiple elements.
in managements calculations to those achieved on similar contracts when sold We focused on revenue recognition in separately.
connection with these contracts which can be complex, can involve a significant For software licence revenue, we assessed whether the customer had an enforceable degree of management judgement and right to use the licence at the year end and if Equiniti had an enforceable right may not be in accordance with IAS 18 and to payment and where necessary challenged management to provide additional the Groups stated accounting policy for evidence of delivery and acceptance of the related deliverable.
In certain instances such items see note 2.1. we sought and received additional evidence directly from the customer.
We obtained sufficient and appropriate evidence to support the accounting treatment adopted by management.
Recognition and recoverability of We obtained a breakdown of the 32.7 million of accrued revenue as 31 December 2017 including an analysis of the ageing of this balance.
accrued income We assessed whether the revenue recognised on these contracts was in line with The Groups results for the year ended the Groups accounting policy and IAS 18 and also obtained explanations from 31 December 2017 include a number management to understand why accrued revenue items that were more than six of items where management have months old as at 31 December 2017 had not been invoiced to customers.
recorded accruals for revenue in advance of invoicing customers.
We focused We obtained sufficient and appropriate evidence to support the accounting on this area as elements of accrued treatment adopted by management.
revenue involve a degree of management judgement and estimate see note 2.1.
131 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EQUINITI GROUP PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We obtained an analysis of amounts that management had proposed to classify as Classification and presentation of exceptional items and were able to agree them to supporting documentation such as exceptional items invoices from external providers or allocations of internal costs.
As the classification Management had initially proposed to of these costs involved a degree of management judgement and subjectivity, we classify certain transaction, integration challenged the nature of certain items that were intended to be presented as and restructuring costs totalling 10.5m exceptional.
We specifically focused on costs that could recur from one accounting as exceptional items during the year, a period to the next, were not incremental or for which the Group would derive significant portion of which were in relation ongoing benefit.
to the Groups acquisition of Wells Fargo Following our procedures and in-depth discussions with management and the Audit Share Registration & Services Business Committee, management concluded that it was appropriate to move away from WFSS see page 42. the presentation of specific costs as exceptional items in the income statement.
We focused on this area as exceptional The approach was changed to disclose Non-operating charges which highlights items are not specifically defined in items that may obscure the understanding of the underlying results of the operating International Financial Reporting Standards business.
The narrative in the Strategic Report was aligned to this new presentation and as such the classification of such items and management have disclosed the representation of items previously reported in can involve a degree of management the income statement in note 2.1. judgement and subjectivity.
We considered the revised and expanded disclosure of the non-operating charges in the Strategic Report, including related narratives.
They are supported with appropriate documentation and are consistent with our discussions with management and the Audit Committee.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised into three operating divisions Investment Solutions, Pension Solutions and Intelligent Solutions which comprise 33 trading entities and a further 25 holding Company entities, and our Group audit approach was aligned with this structure.
All but 11 of these entities are based in the UK.
All of the overseas entities are financially insignificant to the Group.
We performed full scope audit procedures on five trading entities which are financially significant to the Group financial statements.
In addition to this we performed audit work on two holding Companies including Equiniti Group plc.
These seven entities contributed 78% to Group revenue and 70% to Group EBITDA.
Of the five full scope audits, four audits are completed by the Group engagement team in Gatwick.
For one entity, MyCSP Limited, a separate component audit team performed the audit under instruction from the Group team.
The risks and proposed response for MyCSP Limited were agreed with the component team prior to the commencement of that audit.
The Group engagement team reviewed the work of the component team and attended the clearance meeting to discuss the findings to ensure the risk and the planned response had been appropriately executed.
As part of our work we also visited the Groups dedicated shared service centre in Chennai, India to understand the finance related processes conducted outside of the UK that are relevant to the preparation of the financial statements.
A sample of transactions processed by the shared service centre were subject to audit procedures that were performed by the Group audit team from the UK.
Specified audit procedures in relation to deferred and accrued income were performed at three additional entities to gain sufficient audit coverage over these balances.
Additionally the Group engagement team performed all audit work over tax balances, exceptional items, share based payments, and business combinations as these balances are controlled centrally.
The Group engagement team also performed audit procedures over the consolidation.
132 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EQUINITI GROUP PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 MATERIALITY The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements 3.1 million 2016: 2.7 million.
1% of total assets How we determined it Rationale for benchmark applied We believe EBITDA is an important We believe that total assets is the primary measure used by shareholders to assess measure used by the shareholders in the performance of the Group.
And is assessing the performance of the entity, hence and appropriate benchmark for us and is a generally accepted auditing to use to calculate materiality.
Materiality for the Company using this benchmark was capped to a level below overall materiality used in the Group financial statements.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.3 million and 2.0 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 150,000 Group audit 2016: 150,000 and 150,000 Company audit 2016: 150,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the draw attention to.
However, because directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting not all future events or conditions can in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material be predicted, this statement is not uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern a guarantee as to the Groups and over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial Companys ability to continue as a going statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
133 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EQUINITI GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 87 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 87 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules 134 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EQUINITI GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER CODE PROVISIONS We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 81, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 86 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements AAs explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 80, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
135 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EQUINITI GROUP PLC Other required reporting COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 10 February 2011 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 8 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2017.
Jaskamal Sarai Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Gatwick 6 March 2018 136 SECTIOAN 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 137
