Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Our climate-related financial disclosure ensure we can cover our future commitments and meet the promises we have made to our customers, so insurance claims and Our climate-related pensions will be honoured.
To do this we look very carefully at how different investments meet our risk appetite in the longer term, financial disclosure when transition risks become much more important.
Avivas strategy to implement the TCFD recommendations includes conducting climate-related scenario analysis consistent with the recommendations, wherever possible using commonly agreed sector subsector scenarios and time horizons.
This will enable us to better anticipate and manage climate risks, as well as 1 As an international insurance group, our sustainability and identify climate-related opportunities.
This work will involve an financial strength is underpinned by an effective risk management inter-disciplinary team including Group Risk, Group Capital, Aviva system.
Our business will be directly impacted by the effects of Investors, Group Reinsurance, the General and Life insurance climate change and therefore we need to build resilience to and businesses, and the Corporate Responsibility and Public Policy mitigate the risk of the impact of climate change for our customers team.
We will partner with industry associations and sector peers to and investors.
drive consistency in scenarios, including one for limiting average We believe unmitigated climate change presents a real threat to o temperatures from rising by more than 2 C by the end of the financial stability over the coming decades, both at a governmental century.
We will report on the progress of our work on scenarios to and corporate level, to the point where it will permanently impair Avivas relevant board committees and aim to first report against total asset value.
scenarios in our disclosure next year.
We have been reporting on climate change in our Annual report We recognise that the increased severity and frequency of and accounts since 2004.
This disclosure builds on our 2016 initial weather-related losses has the potential to change events that response and takes into account the final version of the Taskforce could benefit our earnings, to ones that will negatively impact our on Climate-related Financial Disclosure TCFD recommendations profitability.
Consequently, large catastrophic CAT losses are published in July 2017. already explicitly considered in our economic capital modelling to These pages, along with an expanded version available at ensure we are resilient to such CAT scenarios.
com TCFD are Aviva plcs second annual response to We are closely monitoring sectors or subsectors particularly the TCFD framework in our multiple roles as an asset owner, insurer, exposed to transition risk and analysing the risk to Aviva of our investor and asset manager.
In 2017, we worked with 2 Degree Investing Initiative to analyse how close we are as an asset Governing climate-related risks o owner to achieving a 2 C future.
Using the European Commissions At the Aviva Plc Board level, the following two Committees oversee Sustainable Energy Investment metrics, the reports show how our our management of climate related risks: equity and bond portfolios are aligned to the Paris Agreement, both now and in 5 years time.
We have fed them into the investment Board risk committee strategy review of our businesses to help further shape our ongoing This Committee met eight times in 2017 and reviews, manages and response.
Further strategic work is ongoing to understand the monitors all aspects of risk management in the Group, including impacts of our investments through all asset classes and on a more climate risk.
Climate change is highlighted as an emerging risk in granular basis.
Climate change is part of our asset management the Risk and risk management section of this report and it is House View, which outlines the framework we use to analyse the therefore assessed for its proximity and significance to Aviva via our global financial markets.
It is updated quarterly to provide key local markets and group emerging risk processes.
The Committee climate-related physical or policy trends and developments.
has incorporated emerging risk scenarios into our scenario Over the past few years we have developed insurance products planning, enabling us to review the most significant risks that would and services that support customers choices to reduce their affect the Companys strategy.
environmental impact, such as bespoke electric vehicle policies and a generation of domestic scale renewables.
We are also building our Board governance committee support of commercial-level opportunities around environmental One of this Committees responsibilities is to oversee the way Aviva meets its corporate and societal obligations.
This includes setting goods and services.
In 2017, we had 20 such products across our markets.
the guidance, direction and policies for Avivas customer and corporate responsibility agenda and advising the Board and Risk management identification, assessment and management management on this.
This Committee met six times in 2017 and When making investments we need to think long term, since many formally considered Avivas strategic approach to climate change of our liabilities fall decades in the future.
This means we need to be during the year.
The Committee continues to ensure the Board careful and considered in our investments.
Within these constraints remains informed on the issue.
we have an appetite to invest in low carbon projects around the world.
Strategy The ways in which the insurance sector could be impacted by While Avivas climate change strategy relates to the entire Group, climate change are diverse, complex and uncertain.
However, for the businesses that form Aviva work to different risk horizons.
For the purposes of our response we have focussed on the three risk example, general insurance GI has primarily an 18 month outlook factors that the Prudential Regulation Authority identified in its 2015 although recognising there are longer term risks and focuses on 2 report Physical, Transition, and Liability.
the physical impacts of climate change.
As a life insurer and pension provider we also make investments.
This is, first and foremost, to 1 Aviva is an asset owner with assets to the value of 490 billion and Aviva Investors has assets under management of 353 billion.
co. uk - media boe files  publication .
pdf?la en&hash  Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 31 S S S S S St t t t t tra ra ra ra ra rate te te te te tegi gi gi gi gi gic repor c repor c repor c repor c repor c report t t t t t G G G G G Go o o o o overn vern vern vern vern vernan an an an an ance ce ce ce ce ce IF IF IF IF IF IFRS RS RS RS RS RS f f f f f fi i i i i in n n n n na a a a a an n n n n nc c c c c cia ia ia ia ia ial l l l l l st st st st st sta a a a a at t t t t temen emen emen emen emen ement t t t t ts s s s s s O O O O O Ot t t t t ther in her in her in her in her in her inf f f f f fo o o o o orma rma rma rma rma rmat t t t t tio io io io io ion n n n n n Our climate-related financial disclosure Continued 1.
Physical risk challenges and any associated fines are likely to be limited to a.
We recognise that weather-related events may become more frequent, severe, clustered and persistent.
These single and Metrics and targets Operational cumulative losses may impact our ability to write profitable new We have measured, monitored and reduced our operational carbon business over the longer term.
This has driven a focus on explicitly emissions since 2004, on an absolute and relative basis, and considering the impact of climate and weather in financial planning disclose related metrics on an annual basis in our public filings.
Our GI business exposure is limited by being Although we do not consider these material, we have a long-term predominantly in Northern Europe and Canada.
We require our GI reduction target of 70% by 2030, from a baseline of 2010.
These businesses to protect against all large, single catastrophe events in figures can be found at www.
com ESGdatasheet 2017 line with local regulatory requirements, or where none exist, to at least a 1 in 250 year event.
Factors determining these decisions Investment include: capital efficiency, appetite for GI earnings volatility, We have enhanced our Environmental, Social, and Governance heat predictability of cash flows and dividend paying capability and map to include proxy climate risk metrics.
This heat map is reinsurance market competitiveness.
Canada is moving to 1:500 available to our analysts and fund managers and updated on a reinsurance limits in line with government requirements.
It includes a composite carbon exposure metric We consider our top insurance climate-related risks to be: based on the carbon-intensity of business activities, the extent of Our actuarial pricing assumptions and projections which may operations in jurisdictions with stringent carbon emissions prove incorrect regulations and the quality of a companys carbon management.
The levels of coverage available to make assets insurable We targeted a 500 million annual investment in low-carbon Financial results volatility resulting from the potentially increasing infrastructure from 2015-2020, and an associated carbon saving scale of weather losses.
In 2017, we signed 527.5 million of new investment into wind, solar, biomass and energy We purchase reinsurance to protect against the severity and efficiency.
Aviva holds over 744 million in green bonds.
frequency of large CAT events, and review the adequacy of the cover In 2015, we identified 40 companies with more than 30% of their and the programme structure annually at renewal.
business revenue associated with thermal coal mining or coal A change in climate can mean that disease may spread to new power generation and undertook focussed engagement with them, and expanded geographic areas.
Therefore Aviva uses external including 51 in depth conversations.
In 2017, we were asked to reinsurance for its life business to manage its exposure to life review our holdings against a list of 120 coal companies.
We had insurance risks such as pandemics, and manages capital in an beneficial holdings in 26 companies with a total market value of efficient manner in line with the Aviva Groups risk appetite.
55.6 million or 0.01% of our total assets.
11 of these companies are also part of the list of 40 companies identified and engaged with b.
More details of this engagement can be found on When acquiring property, Aviva Investors strategy is to commission aviva.
This covers important More broadly, in 2017, we engaged with 989 companies on potential risks, such as flood exposure and historic and potential strategic, social and or governance ESG issues.
In the same period pollution.
Within our real estate portfolio, we use the Global Real we supported 52% of climate change related shareholder Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB to understand the climate resolutions.
resilience and broader sustainability of individual properties and funds.
The majority of our real estate and infrastructure investments Insurance are located in Europe.
We build the possibility of extreme weather events into our planning to help us understand the impact and ensure our pricing is 2.
Catastrophic event model results are supplemented by With the Paris agreement to pursue limiting global temperature o in-house disaster scenarios.
A 1:800 CAT event is required in order increases to below 2 C, there will be an increasing number of for Aviva to incur losses after reinsurance above 1 billion.
climaterelated policies and regulations to assist this transition, Therefore, multiple very large CAT events would have to occur in a which will impact sectors in different ways.
We consider active year in order to adversely impact Avivas capital position estimated stewardship to be a fundamental responsibility for us as investors.
pro forma Solvency II capital surplus 12.2 billion.
This includes considered voting at Annual General Meetings AGMs Each of our GI businesses has a Major Incident Response in and engagement on climate risk, disclosure and performance.
We place to provide customer service and manage costs of major claim have focussed on in-depth engagement with companies events and service demand surges.
We continue to invest in strategically exposed to climate related risks due to their significant analytical solutions such as flood mapping, predictive analytics and carbon impact and exposure to transition risks and opportunities.
risk mitigation techniques that help us better understand risks We undertake this engagement individually and collaboratively, being transferred to us from our customers and to respond more actively supporting or co-filing shareholder resolutions as rapidly when our customers need us.
Find out more about our approach at www.
com TCFD We continue to be committed to increasing our investment in low carbon infrastructure and to considering how best we support the financing of the transition to a lower carbon economy.
Liability risk Aviva has negligible exposure to litigation risks on the insurance side through liability contracts such as professional indemnity for Directors and Officers and Pension Trustee Liability insurances.
However, we may have holdings in companies that could be subject to regulatory and legal challenges due to their climate-related impacts and level disclosures.
The direct impact from legal Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 32
