Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Chairmans statement In addition, we also have six strategic investments, in China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Vietnam, Turkey and India.
These are Chairmans markets with enormous potential for us and they represent the prospect of higher long-term growth in the future.
statement 2017 challenges Of course, the year has not been without its challenges.
There is still market uncertainty and volatility to navigate.
Although Brexit does not have a significant operational or financial impact on our business there is still a long way to go before the full implications Businesses need to know why they exist.
All businesses need to become clear.
In addition, performance across the Group has not generate value for their shareholders, of course, but some also have been as universally strong as we would wish, notably in Canada due a clear social purpose.
Simply put we are here to a change in the trend of prior year reserve releases from to help our customers Defy Uncertainty.
favourable to unfavourable and increased claims frequency.
To ensure we can fulfil our purpose, both today and for the We have enjoyed three years of sustained high levels of years to come, we depend on getting the fundamentals right.
This customer advocacy, but this years scores have marked a decline.
means having a robust financial position, a clear strategy executed We are working hard to boost customers loyalty by making things well, and strong values that inform all our decision making as part simpler and putting them in control, for example with the launch of of a healthy corporate culture.
our simplified home insurance proposition.
The industry is also I am pleased this years report demonstrates that the facing risks around cyber crime and changes in public policy.
You fundamentals are in good shape.
These results come amidst can read about these risk factors in the Risk and risk management unprecedented political, economic and technological changes that section of this report.
have an effect on all aspects of our society.
Nevertheless, we remain focussed on delivering for our customers, so that they can navigate Our performance these uncertain times.
1 We have grown Group adjusted operating profit and cash 2 remittances and further strengthened our Solvency II capital Our culture position.
The benefit from foreign exchange movements is offset by I am pleased to report that our overall people engagement score in the sale of businesses in Europe.
Excluding disposals profit has 2017 has increased to 75%.
In 2017 the Board spent a lot of time improved for the ongoing businesses despite experiencing developing metrics to assess the Companys culture and its ability significantly lower prior year reserves releases in general insurance.
to accelerate growth, and our focus on delayering, simplifying Profit before tax attributable to shareholders profit increased to processes, and increasing the speed of execution all show signs of 2,003 million 2016: 1,193 million reflecting higher Group adjusted improvement.
These measurements are used as part of a broad 1 operating profit, lower integration and restructuring costs and the dashboard of metrics, providing the Board with a holistic view of the impact of the Ogden discount rate change in 2016. culture in our business and a view on the progress made.
You can read more on our culture in the Our People section of this report.
Dividend The Board proposes a final dividend of 19.00 pence per share 2016: Our community 15.88 pence per share which corresponds to a 50% dividend payout I am particularly proud of our commitment to act sustainably and ratio.
In line with improved earnings quality and cash flows, in responsibly as part of the wider community where we live and work.
November 2017 we announced we would increase our dividend In 2017, the Aviva Community Fund supported over 800 3 payout ratio target to a range of 55-60% of operating EPS by 2020. inspirational projects from Canada to Poland.
Our partnership with the British Red Cross has also seen Aviva provide support for those Looking forward affected by the Manchester and London terrorist attacks and the 2018 is the year where we will accelerate our plans for growth.
At tragic Grenfell Tower fire in London.
our Capital Markets Day in November 2017 we announced our Climate change poses serious risks to our customers and in turn intention to pay down debt in 2018, while continuing to invest in our our business.
In October 2017 we were awarded the United Nations future growth.
Momentum for Change award in recognition of a decade of work in As disclosed in our 2016 Annual report, the Lord Chancellor reducing the environmental impact of our business and helping announced the decision to lower the Ogden discount rate to - inspire action on climate change.
More information can be found in 0.75%, from the previous level of 2.5% and we await the final the Corporate Responsibility sections of this report.
outcome of the Ministry of Justice review.
We will continue to monitor developments on this during 2018.
Our markets This years performance is testament to the hard work and In line with our strategy to focus on those markets and businesses dedication of our nearly 30,000 people around the world.
I have no that have the strongest returns and best prospects for growth, we doubt there will be more change in the year to come but I am have now finished the process of simplifying the Group.
equally confident in the skills and commitment of my colleagues to This means we have focussed our business on eight major adapt and deliver for our customers and our shareholders, whatever markets of the UK, Ireland, France, Poland, Italy, Canada, Singapore 2018 has in store.
We believe that here we are best placed to compete on the strength of our scale, brand and distribution.
The Sir Adrian Montague Group adjusted operating profit from these markets excluding Chairman divestitures and businesses held for sale increased by 6%.
Group adjusted operating profit is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which is used by the Group to supplement the required disclosures under IFRS.
Please refer to note B in the Accounting Policies section and to the Other Information section within the Annual report and accounts for further information.
2 This is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which provides useful information to enhance the understanding of financial performance.
Further information on APMs, including a reconciliation to the financial statements where possible, can be found in the Other Information section of the Annual report and accounts.
3 This measure is derived from the Group adjusted operating profit APM.
Further details of this measure are included in the Other information section.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 01
