156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 8 Managers Report Introduction ASCoT rode the wave of rising equity valuations around the world in 2017 and delivered a strong performance in both absolute and relative terms.
Its NAV total return was 22.1%, which may be compared with 19.5% for its benchmark, the NSCI XIC, and with 13.1% for the FTSE All-Share index, which is a gauge of the performance of larger companies.
All of ASCoTs relative gains were secured in the first half of the year: as the year progressed, conditions became more hostile to the value investor, details of which are provided in the Investment Performance section of this report.
That the value style should have encountered such headwinds is at one level surprising.
One of the most notable developments of 2017 was the synchronisation of economic recovery around the globe, with all major economies enjoying GDP growth for the first time since the financial crisis.
While the rate of progress of the US economy eased, tax reform offers the prospect of renewed impetus.
Meanwhile, Chinese activity benefited from a bout of stimulus and, perhaps more significantly, the Eurozone returned to growth as the impact of quantitative easing was finally felt.
The broad trend of improvement was seized upon promptly by the equity markets and has been termed the reflation trade.
Its sustainability was, however, brought into question by the words and actions of the worlds central banks, apparently keen to display their inflation-fighting credentials.
Three interest rate rises in the US have been accompanied by commentary on how and when the Federal Reserves balance sheet, bloated by quantitative easing, might be run down.
To date, the Eurozone has seen no action but plenty of rhetoric, while the UK has witnessed its first interest rate rise for ten years.
It is to be hoped that the central banks are not too focused on fighting yesterdays war and that they have judged the risks of runaway economic activity and inflation accurately.
In this regard, a bit more nervousness on the part of government bond markets might have been encouraging: yields in 2017 were essentially unchanged and thus remain at extremely low levels in a historical context.
The behaviour of bond investors suggests that the reflation trade is merely another of those false dawns to have punctuated the period since the financial crisis and that underlying economic issues of debt and demographics are so intractable as to condemn the world to very low rates of economic growth for years to come.
Such prospects are some of the factors contributing to the emergence of reactionary populism around the globe, though, again, bond investors appear little concerned by the inflationary effects of populist policies.
To be fair, a useful test-case of populism, the UKs EU referendum, has hardly been a cause of concern for bond markets.
There was no implosion in the immediate aftermath of the vote, but the second order effects of sterlings devaluation are now permeating the economy: inflation is picking up, real wages are coming back under pressure and to this extent the outlook for real growth is deteriorating.
Though GDP growth forecasts should be taken with a pinch of salt, the trajectory that has taken the UK from the fastest growing G7 nation in 2014 to the slowest in 2017 is hardly encouraging.
Meanwhile, the government is in a difficult position, undermined by the outcome of the general election, riven ideologically by differing views on the EU and inevitably focused on divorce negotiations.
Against this complicated background, investment in small UK quoted companies in 2017 was remarkably straightforward.
Leaving aside for now a small number of highly valued growth stocks, the most important issue was the split of exposure to those companies earning their profits overseas and those that rely on the domestic economy.
To have had a lot of the former, which benefited from the weak pound and saw their profits expand to historically high levels, was a significant boost to investment returns.
ASCoT was a beneficiary and its experience is described in the Investment Performance section of this report.
Investment Performance ASCoTs NAV total return in 2017 was 22.1%: the NSCI XIC s was 19.5%.
The table below analyses the difference between these two figures, while the subsequent paragraphs provide more detail on how ASCoTs performance was achieved.
For the 12 months ended 31 December 2017 Basis points Stock selection 412 Sector selection 70 Attributable to the portfolio of investments, based on mid prices 342 after transaction costs of 22 basis points Movement in mid to bid price spread 47 Cash gearing 25 Purchase of ordinary shares 23 Management fee 79 Other expenses 6 Total attribution based on bid prices 258 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the total return of the NAV and the Benchmark Index i. e. NAV 22.08%: Benchmark Index 19.50%: difference is 2.58% being 258 basis points.
8 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 9 Managers Report Style The dynamics behind the reflation trade of 2017 should have been conducive to a strong relative performance from the value style.
While this was indeed the case in the early months of the year, the growth style fought back as government bond yields failed to respond.
For the year as a whole, analysis of data from both the London Business School LBS and Style Research points to significant headwinds for the value style: indeed, the LBS model suggests it was the ninth worst year since 1955.
In this context, ASCoTs positive relative performance might be considered so surprising as to call into question the Managers dedication to value investment.
However, two other factors size and sectors described below offered mitigation and some strong individual stock selection numbers, as illustrated in the table above, helped the portfolios performance exceed that of the benchmark.
The experience of 2017 also usefully illustrates the difference of approach between the third-party models and Aberforth in determining value: the former use only price to book, while the Managers methodology encompasses other valuation metrics, notably the ratio of enterprise value to earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
Nevertheless, the chance of ASCoT overcoming a repeat of such adverse conditions for the value style is not high.
Size The size factor within the NSCI XIC was a slight boost to ASCoTs returns in 2017.
The NSCI XIC represents the bottom tenth of the UK stockmarket by value and includes companies with market capitalisations up to around 1.5 billion.
It thus overlaps with the FTSE 250 index.
At the start of 2017 this overlap represented 62% of the value of the NSCI XIC.
In 2017, the performance of the FTSE 250 stocks within the NSCI XIC, its larger constituents, was very slightly behind that of its smaller constituents.
This was to ASCoTs advantage, albeit to a modest degree, since 59% of its portfolio was invested in smaller small companies at the start of the 2017.
The reason for this disposition is the valuation premium accorded to larger companies and set out in the Valuation section of this report.
While the superior returns from smaller smalls reduced their valuation advantage in 2017, it remains wide and with the bottom-up prospects for these businesses still positive, the portfolio enters 2018 in a familiar shape with regard to size.
Sectors The crucial sector issue in 2017 was the divergent performance of overseas and domestic companies.
As noted above, relative performance was improved by a comparatively high exposure to those companies earning their money outside the UK.
At the start of the year, 47% of the aggregate sales of ASCoTs portfolio holdings was generated overseas, more than the 41% for the NSCI XIC.
As a gauge of the benefit afforded by this positioning, the NSCI XIC may be divided into groups of sectors determined by where these sectors earn their money and the performance of these groups may be compared.
The overseas group enjoyed a total return of 32% in 2017, whereas the domestic groups return was 19%.
Sterlings weakness after the EU referendum explains the gap: the overseas group benefited from the translation of profits at more favourable exchange rates and almost two thirds of the companies therein have seen profit expectations for 2017 raised since the referendum: in contrast, the domestic group has had to contend with the impact of sterling on inflation and real wages, so that only one third of its companies has enjoyed higher estimates.
The net effect has been a widening valuation premium of overseas exposed companies to domestics, even though sterling itself was unchanged on a trade weighted basis in 2017.
At the margin, this has motivated the Managers to bias purchases through the latter part of the year to the domestics, always taking into account the likelihood of more challenging trading conditions in the UK economy.
However, experience suggests that the stockmarket is prone to overreact and when strong businesses with a domestic bias but attractive financial characteristics and defendable market positions are significantly fide-rated the Managers are willing to commit capital.
So far, this re-orientation of the portfolio, which is consistent with the application of a value investment philosophy, has been modest, with the portfolio at the start of 2018 still generating 46% of its aggregate sales from overseas.
Stocks In 2017s challenging environment for the value style, the portfolios exposure to smaller small companies and to overseas earners offered some mitigation.
However, stock selection also played an important role, as the table at the top of this section makes clear.
In last years Managers Report, it was argued that for ASCoT to generate superior returns for its shareholders, getting more investment decisions right than wrong probably does the job.
While over time the Managers investment approach and experience can hopefully ensure that this deceptively unambitious target is met, it is fair to state that good fortune played a part in the high stock contribution in 2017.
Despite an uptick in profit warnings across the stockmarket as the year progressed, ASCoT encountered few serious declines in share prices and, on the other hand, saw its patience rewarded with unusually large rises in the valuations of some of the long-standing holdings into which capital had been fed steadily over time.
Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 9 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 10 Managers Report Additionally, the stockmarket offered several opportunities to take advantage of the fide-ratings of previously inherently strong but highly valued businesses whose trading difficulties had precipitated substantial share price falls.
While holdings in these businesses were taken with a five year investment horizon, in some cases the actual holding period proved much shorter as trading improved and the stockmarket chose once again to re-rate the prospects of the company in question.
When the stockmarket will yield such opportunities in the future is uncertain.
What is certain is that there will be years in which, despite the consistent application of the value investment philosophy through a seasoned investment process, stock selection will prove as unrewarding as it was rewarding in 2017.
Corporate activity With 17 bids for NSCI XIC constituents completed or outstanding at the end of the year, M&A activity in 2017 was at a similar level to that of 2016.
Both these years undershot the 27 deals that took place in 2015 and it is tempting to attribute some of the slowdown since then to the uncertainties stemming from the EU referendum, even though the weakness of sterling ought to add to the appeal of UK assets to overseas buyers.
Of the 17 bid situations, ASCoT held six, though in three cases the announcement of the approach and thus the boost to the share prices came at the end of 2016.
Overall, M&A was a very small boost to returns in 2017.
The number of initial public offerings in 2017 was 21, which represents a modest rise on the previous year.
ASCoT does not often participate in IPOs but did take part in two of the 2017 deals.
In both cases, the Managers judged that the valuation offered sufficient compensation for the informational advantage usually enjoyed by the private equity sellers of the businesses.
Balance sheets For much of the last ten years, the small UK quoted company universe has been characterised by strong and strengthening balance sheets, which inevitably reflected the impact of the financial crisis on the thinking of company directors.
In the last three years, however, there have been indications of less caution.
In the case of ASCoTs portfolio, this is manifest in the proportion of the portfolio that is invested in companies with net cash on their balance sheets, which has declined from 35% in 2014 to 21% at the end of 2017.
For the Managers, this development is on balance positive, since it is driven by more investment, returns of surplus cash and, though not to be welcomed in every case, acquisitions.
Clearly, however, higher leverage brings risks, particularly if it coincides with an economic downturn.
Comfort may be derived from the portfolios bias to businesses with less than two times leverage net debt divided by earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, which was almost 75% at the end of 2017.
Those with higher leverage ratios tend to be property companies, though the portfolio always has some exposure to more highly indebted businesses where the potential upside justifies the additional risk.
Income The table below splits the portfolios holdings into categories that are determined by each companys most recent dividend announcement.
The profile is familiar from similar analyses in recent years: a small minority of dividend cutters, the persistence of several nil payers and a bias to companies that most recently increased their dividends.
The Other category includes companies that have returned to the dividend register or that have paid dividends for the first time and that therefore do not have a meaningful comparative payment in the previous year.
Down Nil payers No change Increase Other 7 13 22 41 3 The portfolios dividend experience reflects what remains a buoyant backdrop for dividends across the universe of small UK quoted companies.
Robust balance sheets and dividend cover of 2.8x for the portfolio, are supportive of further increases, though it would seem likely that the rate of dividend growth across the NSCI XIC is moderating from the low double digits of recent years to mid to high single digits.
However, in comparison with inflation, this degree of progress remains well above the 62 year average real dividend growth from smaller companies of 2.7%.
Turnover Portfolio turnover in 2017 was 22%, which is up from 17% in 2016.
It is often the case that headline turnover is influenced by situations in which ASCoT is effectively required to sell, notably through an M&A approach or when an investee company grows too large for continued inclusion in the NSCI XIC.
Adjusting for these, underlying turnover in 2017 was 17%, compared with 12% in 2016.
This increase was correlated with the improvement in investment performance.
Consistent with their value investment philosophy, the Managers strive to rotate capital from holdings that have performed well and are close to their target valuations into companies with depressed valuations and greater upside.
This basic dynamic ought to benefit returns, but it can only be put into action if the broad stockmarket is inclined to re-rate ASCoTs holdings, as was the case in 2017.
10 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 14:16 Page 11 Managers Report Active share Active share is a measure of how different a portfolio is from an index.
It is calculated as half of the sum of the absolute differences between each stocks weighting in an index and its weighting in the portfolio.
A higher active share would indicate that a portfolio has a better chance of performing differently from the index, for better or worse.
The Managers target a ratio of at least 70% for ASCoT in relation to the NSCI XIC and at the end of December the ratio was 77% 2016: 76%.
Valuations The strength of equity markets in 2017 has seen valuations rise and, as the table below sets out, the universe of small UK quoted companies has participated in this trend.
The 14.3x PE of the NSCI XIC at the end of December was 6% above its average since 1990 of 13.5x, while the 12.5x PE of ASCoTs portfolio was 4% above its 12.0x long term average.
While neither the asset class nor the portfolio is significantly above normal, the same cannot be claimed of large companies.
The historical PE of the FTSE All-Share at the end of 2017 was 21.7x, which is 42% above its average since 1990.
This PE reflects the implicit expectation of strong profit growth from large companies in coming months, helped by the translation of overseas profits at lower sterling exchange rates, by the restructuring undertaken in recent times by resources companies and by the effect of rising commodity prices on these companies profits.
31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Portfolio Characteristics ASCoT NSCI XIC ASCoT NSCI XIC Number of companies 86 350 87 349 Weighted average market capitalisation 712m 878m 617m 800m Price earnings ratio or PE historic 12.5x 14.3x 11.3x 12.5x Dividend yield historic 2.9% 2.8% 3.0% 2.8% Dividend cover 2.8x 2.5x 3.0x 2.9x The following table sets out the forward valuations of ASCoTs portfolio and the tracked universe, which is the set of stocks covered closely by the Managers and represents 97% by value of the NSCI XIC.
The valuation metric the ratio of enterprise value to earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EV EBITA is the one favoured by the Managers.
As should be expected of a portfolio put together in accordance with a value investment philosophy, ASCoTs holdings are cheaper than the tracked universe as a whole and much cheaper than a subset of 44 growth stocks: at the end of December, the premium of the growth stocks to the portfolio was 74% on the basis of 2018 estimates.
EV EBITA 2017 2018 2019 ASCoT 12.1x 10.4x 9.0x Tracked universe 285 stocks 14.2x 12.8x 11.3x - 44 growth stocks 21.8x 18.1x 16.0x - 241 other stocks 13.2x 12.0x 10.6x The final valuation table highlights a valuation anomaly that has persisted for several years.
Despite the superior returns from smaller small companies in 2017, the lowest valuations in the UK stockmarket are still accorded to the smallest companies and, as a consequence, ASCoTs exposure to those companies is higher than that of the NSCI XIC as a whole.
In the Managers experience, the present relationship is unusual: in the years before the financial crisis, the superior growth of smaller small companies tended to be rewarded by higher valuations.
However, many investors are today nervous about illiquidity and are reluctant to commit to the stockmarkets smaller denizens.
ASCoTs status as a closed end fund allows it to take a longer term view, a strategy that paid off in 2017.
Market capitalisation range: 100m 100-250m 250-500m 500-750m 750m Portfolio weight 3% 15% 25% 22% 35% Tracked universe weight 1% 5% 18% 15% 61% Tracked universe 2018 EV EBITA 7.4x 10.3x 11.4x 12.2x 13.9x Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 11 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 14:14 Page 12 Managers Report Conclusion & outlook In broad terms, todays universe of small UK quoted companies can be split into three groups, a framework that has been useful for the majority of time since the financial crisis.
The first comprises secular growth companies, whose valuations benefit from the low discount rates that encourage investors to extend their investment horizons well beyond historical norms.
Decent memories are now required of the last time that capital became effectively costless for growth companies during the TMT boom.
This is not to deny the existence of some truly outstanding business franchises among the technology behemoths of the US and China or even, indeed, within the NSCI XIC.
However, experience suggests that capital does not remain costless indefinitely, that many growth businesses are being valued as if they are the next Amazon and that few businesses succeed in retaining high stockmarket valuations for extended periods.
The second group comprises companies whose growth is low but dependable and that tend to pay out a large proportion of their profits as dividends.
Before the financial crisis these would have been described pejoratively as dull or ersatz bonds and, condemned to low valuations, might have fitted into a value portfolio.
However, since the advent of quantitative easing with its suppressive effect on bond yields, the increasingly desperate search for income has seen them re-rated to high valuations.
The final group is everything else the rump of companies that are lowly valued, typically cyclical, often reliant on the domestic economy, sometimes illiquid and thus uncomfortable for many investors to own.
None of these characteristics means that these are all poor businesses that face an existential threat.
Some will undoubtedly fall victim to the forces of disruption and these are to be avoided, unless prevailing valuations exaggerate the rate of decline and offer an opportunity for investment.
However, many members of this group boast defendable market positions, volatile but good returns on capital through the cycle and the opportunity to grow though not necessarily year-in-year-out.
For better or worse, these are the typical holdings of a small cap value fund just now.
An implication of this characterisation is that the big-picture issues of macroeconomics, government bond yields and politics are at present disproportionately influential on the valuations of the three groups that make up the universe of small UK quoted companies.
The uncertainties stemming from the EU referendum play a part, but the more significant influence remains the extraordinary monetary policies that anchor bond yields in many parts of the world at very low levels.
As long as this continues to be the case, issues specific to individual businesses are likely to play a secondary role in determining ASCoTs returns, though the experience of 2017 suggests that stock selection can make a difference with the help of some good fortune.
So what might move the worlds major bond markets?
A year ago, a reasonable response, though one that appeared unlikely to come to pass, might have mentioned a bout of synchronised global growth accompanied by higher inflation, tax cuts for the worlds largest economy and monetary tightening.
And yet government bond markets are unyielding.
Perhaps in the face of a decades-long bull market in bonds, which has only intensified since the financial crisis, more convincing evidence is required and perhaps 2017s reflation trade will be condemned to the same fate as 2013s great rotation.
Financial markets certainly remain set up for more of the same: corporate bond spreads are extremely narrow, equity markets are led by a small number of beneficiaries of low rates and, to judge by the world of small UK quoted companies, funds tend to be heavily biased to those favourite stocks.
With its commitment to value investment, ASCoT continues to stand apart and in doing so is arguably as relevant as at any point in its 27 year history.
Aberforth Partners LLP Managers 26 January 2018 12 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
