Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information The horizon: where the world is going The horizon: where the world is going Our strategic framework responds to and anticipates the nine long-term trends which will impact our industry over the next few years.
We acknowledge the risks they present and aim to turn these trends into opportunities for future growth.
Expected increase in UK mobile transactions 2017 to 2022 My life, my way 121% Customers will continue to want to be much more in control, Source: CACI, June 2017 expecting self-service and simpler, faster access to products and services.
Insurance customers willing to receive computer-generated Winning through data & analytics advice about the type of insurance coverage to purchase Those who interpret data quickly and intuitively to inform the development of products and services that provide real value 74% Source: Accenture June 2017 for customers will lead the way.
Daily active Facebook users on average The power of communities Government influence is reducing as the role of communities of 1.4 billion Source: facebook.
com, stats, December 2017 mutual interests and connected networks, both virtual and local, increases.
Economic loss in US dollars caused by global natural disasters in Ever-changing planet 2018 Changing climate and extreme weather events will have a significant impact on both society and business.
$330 billion Source: Munich Re, catastrophe losses, January 2018 Estimated Global Insurance premium share of growth from Shifting wealth emerging economies by 2025 Developing markets will have a much larger share of the worlds savings and assets pool.
47% Source: Munich Re, April 2017 Increase in UKs average life expectancy at birth between 2010 Older and healthier and 2030 People will live longer and be healthier.
Markets will be driven increasingly by attitudes and needs as family structures evolve.
3 years Source: Imperial College, London, February 2017 Customers conducting business with at least one non-traditional The age of disruption firm New agile competitors will act faster to disrupt established 50.2% businesses with customers embracing fintech providers.
Source: Cap Gemini world Fintech report 2017 Estimated global cost of Cybersecurity breaches by 2021 New threats in a connected world The proliferation of connected devices and the dominant role of $6 trillion Source EY Global Information Security Survey 2017-2018 social networks in modern life is raising the threat from cyber attacks and infringements to privacy.
Payment volumes in China processed by non-bank institutions Blurring of sector boundaries The clear boundaries between sectors no longer exist, from 54% Source Global Financial Development Report 2017 2018 technology players offering banking services to telecom providers creating media content.
Read about where the world is going at www.
com about-us Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 07
