156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 19 Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Directors The Directors of the Company during the financial year are listed on page 31.
Further information about the Board can be found in the Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of this Directors Report.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
In common with the majority of investment trusts, the Company has neither executive directors nor any employees.
However, the Board has engaged external firms to undertake the investment management, secretarial, depositary and custodial activities of the Company.
Objective, Investment Policy, Investment Strategy, Dividend Policy and Risks These are explained fully in the Strategic Report on pages 1, 4 and 5.
Return and Dividends The total return attributable to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2017 amounted to a gain of 262,347,000 2016: gain of 62,352,000.
The net asset value per Ordinary Share at 31 December 2017 was 1,543.72p 2016: 1,292.57p.
Your Board is pleased to declare a final dividend of 19.75p and a special dividend of 6.70p total of 24,598,000, which produces total dividends for the year of 35.5p total of 33,098,000.
The final and special dividends, subject to Shareholder approval, will be paid on 6 March 2018 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 February 2018.
Investment Managers Aberforth Partners LLP the firm, Managers or Aberforth act as Alternative Investment Fund Manager and Secretaries to the Company.
The business was established in 1990 to provide institutional and wholesale investors with a high level of resources focused exclusively on small UK quoted companies.
Since then funds under management have grown to 2.5 billion as at 31 December 2017.
The firm is wholly owned by seven partners, six of whom are investment managers.
The investment managers work as a team managing the Companys portfolio on a collegiate basis.
These services can be terminated by either party at any time by giving six months notice of termination.
Compensation would be payable in respect of this six month period only if termination were to occur sooner.
Aberforth receives an annual management fee, payable quarterly in advance, equal to 0.75% of the net assets up to 1 billion, and 0.65% thereafter.
The management fee amounted to 9,641,000 in the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: 8,296,000.
The secretarial fee amounted to 81,692 excluding VAT during 2017 2016: 79,940, excluding VAT.
It is adjusted annually in line with the Retail Prices Index and is subject to VAT, which is currently irrecoverable by the Company.
The Board reviews the Companys investment management and secretarial arrangements on an on-going basis and formally at its October meeting, where each Director completes a Managers Evaluation questionnaire.
The Board then considers the results of the questionnaire and discusses the following matters, amongst others, in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment objective, policy and strategy: the continuity and quality of personnel managing the assets: the level of the management fee: the quality of reporting to the Board: the alignment of interests between the Managers and the Companys shareholders: the administrative services provided by the Secretaries: and the level of satisfaction of major shareholders with the Managers.
Following the most recent review, the Board was of the opinion that the continued appointment of Aberforth as investment managers, on the terms agreed, remains in the best interests of shareholders.
Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 19 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 20 Directors Report Depositary National Westminster Bank plc carry out the duties of Depositary as specified in the Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive in relation to the Company, including: holding or controlling all assets of the Company that are entrusted to it for safekeeping: cash monitoring and verifying the Companys cash flows: and oversight of the Company and the Managers.
In carrying out such duties, the Depositary acts in the best interests of the shareholders of the Company.
The Depositary is contractually liable to the Company for the loss of any securities entrusted to it.
The Depositary is also liable to the Company for all other losses suffered as a result of the Depositarys fraud, negligence and or failure to fulfil its duties properly.
National Westminster Bank plc receives an annual fee, payable quarterly in arrears, of 0.0085% of the net assets of the Company and their appointment may be terminated at any time by giving at least six months notice.
A Depositary may only be removed from office when a new Depositary is appointed by the Company.
Capital Structure and Share Buy-Backs At 31 December 2017, the Companys authorised share capital consisted of 333,299,254 Ordinary Shares of 1p of which 92,999,137 were issued and fully paid.
During the year, 1,404,155 shares 1.5% of the Companys issued share capital with a nominal value of 14,042 were bought back and cancelled at a total cost of 18,142,000.
No shares are held in treasury.
Share buy-ins may succeed in narrowing the discount between the Companys share price and net asset value per share NAV or in limiting its volatility, but their influence is inevitably subject to broader stockmarket conditions.
Irrespective of their effect on the discount, buy-ins at the margin provide an increase in liquidity for those Shareholders seeking to crystallise their investment and at the same time deliver an economic uplift for those Shareholders wishing to remain invested in the Company.
Accordingly, it is the intention to continue to use the share purchase facility within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
Continuation of the Company The Company has no fixed duration.
However, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, shareholders are asked every three years to vote on the continuation of the Company and an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held in March 2020.
If such resolution is not passed, the Directors will prepare and submit to shareholders for approval by special resolution proposals for the unitisation or appropriate reconstruction of the Company.
In putting forward such proposals the Directors will seek, inter alia, to provide shareholders with a means whereby they can defer any liability to capital gains tax on their investment at that time.
If such proposals are not approved, shareholders will, within 180 days of the relevant Annual General Meeting, have the opportunity of passing an ordinary resolution requiring the Company to be wound up.
On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets will be paid to the holders of Ordinary Shares and distributed, pro rata, among such holders.
Going Concern In accordance with the report Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council, the Audit Committee has undertaken and documented an assessment of whether the Company is a going concern.
The Committee then reported the results of its assessment to the Board.
The Companys business activities, capital structure and borrowing facility, together with the factors likely to affect its development and performance are set out in the Strategic Report.
In addition, the Annual Report includes the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Companys assets comprise mainly readily realisable equity securities, which, if necessary, can be sold to meet any funding requirements, though funding flexibility can typically be achieved through the use of the bank debt facility.
The Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to meet its day-today working capital requirements.
In summary and taking into consideration all available information, the Directors have concluded it is appropriate to continue to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Voting Rights of Shareholders At shareholder meetings and on a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote.
On a poll, every shareholder present in person has one vote for each share he she holds and a proxy has one vote for every share in respect of which he she is appointed.
20 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 21 Directors Report The Board is pleased to offer electronic proxy voting, including CREST voting capabilities.
Further details can be found in the Notice of the AGM.
Notifiable Share Interests The Board has received notifications of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company as at 31 December 2017 and 26 January 2018.
The total number of votes amounted to 92,999,137 at 31 December 2017.
Since 31 December 2017, 67,000 shares have been bought back and cancelled and therefore the total number of votes at 26 January 2018 amounted to 92,932,137.
Notified interests Percentage of Voting Rights Held Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 8.5% Brewin Dolphin Limited 8.4% Rathbone Brothers plc 5.6% Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held onThursday, 1 March 2018 at 6.00 p. m. at 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS.
The following special resolution will be proposed at the AGM.
Purchase of Own Shares The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Shares of the Company expires at the end of the AGM.
Resolution 10, as set out in the Notice of the AGM, seeks renewal of such authority until the AGM in 2019.
The price paid for shares will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per share and the maximum price shall be the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
Any shares purchased under the authority will be automatically cancelled, rather than being held in treasury, thereby reducing the Companys issued share capital.
There are no outstanding options or warrants to subscribe for equity shares in the capital of the Company.
Directors Recommendation The Directors consider each resolution being proposed at the AGM, to be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of them, as they intend to do so in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Additional information in respect of the Companies Act 2006 The following information is disclosed in accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised on pages 20 and 21.
Details of the substantial shareholders in the Company are listed above.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are discussed on pages 23 and 24.
Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue shares on a non pre-emptive basis or buy back the Companys shares requires a special resolution to be passed by shareholders.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements to which the Company is party that might affect its control following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss ofoffice.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions As the Board has engaged external firms to undertake the investment management, secretarial and custodial activities of the Company, the Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions-producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 21 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 22 Directors Report Bribery Act 2010 The Company has zero tolerance of bribery and is committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
Aberforth Partners, the Companys Investment Managers, have confirmed that anti-bribery policies and procedures are in place and have a zero tolerance towards bribery.
Post Balance SheetEvents As stated above, since 31 December 2017, the Company bought in and subsequently cancelled 67,000 shares at a total cost of 912,000.
Independent Auditor Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Future Developments The future success of the Company is dependent primarily on the performance of its investments.
Although the Company invests in companies that are listed or quoted in the United Kingdom, the underlying businesses of those companies are affected by various economic factors, many of an international nature.
The Boards intention is that the Company will continue to pursue its investment objective and the stated investment strategy and policy.
By Order of the Board Paul Trickett Chairman 26 January 2018 22 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
