Business model OUR BUSINESS MODEL PROVIDES THE FRAMEWORK TO DELIVER VALUE FOR ALL OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS WHAT MAKES THE RESOURCES THE WAY RSA DIFFERENT WE USE WE MANAGE Best-in-class ambition Financial Strategy Our values and culture support a 4.5bn of capital equity and debt is employed within RSA Focused high-performing and inclusive RSA.
to support customers and generates shareholder returns.
A leading general insurer, The collective drive of everyone focused on the UK & Expertise at RSA raises the Groups ambition International, Canadian Technical excellence is crucial to gaining competitive and potential to improve.
Our intellectual capital is stored Brand quality in the underwriting expertise of our people, which has Stronger With over 300 years of experience, built up over our history and is enhanced through our Operate with capital we have developed trusted technical academies.
and recognisable brands in our People Better markets, supporting our strong RSA is a people-centred business.
Over 12,600 employees Our ambition is to operate customer franchises.
across our business ensure that our operations at best-in-class levels Insights run smoothly.
We understand that our business operates Relationships and partnerships We aim to improve in a broader market context.
By adapting Relationships across our value chain are a key resource performance with key to our environment, we ensure that our for RSA.
We rely on relationships with brokers and partner levers across the areas of business remains responsive and relevant organisations to distribute 55 percent of our business.
customers, underwriting to our customers and markets.
Relationships with our supply chain enable us to provide and costs.
Balance of scale and focus an efficient claims service.
Our strategy is executed Our unique mix of scale and focus across Data and technology within a robust risk our three regions enables agility and RSA is harnessing the power of technology through management see pages brings intense performance discipline.
e-enabled distribution and customer service, increased 33 to 37 and governance Operating in market-leading positions, operational efficiency in policy and claims administration, framework see pages 42 we also benefit from diversification enhanced data and pricing analytics that support greater to 96. of capital and stable returns.
customer responsiveness and market competitiveness.
8 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report OUR HOW WE OUR IMPACT SUSTAINABILITY CREATE VALUE IN 2017 PRIORITIES Responsible business Understanding risk and pricing effectively Financial value Acting responsibly in everything W e are in the business of risk management.
663m that we do, helping to build trust We strive hard to understand the risks our Operating profit in our business.
customers want us to insure and make sure that we price our products appropriately.
Safe, secure world 15.5% Developing products and G lobal expertise and geographic Underlying return on tangible equity programmes that give our diversification customers confidence to A s an international business, we seek lead their lives.
to maximise the benefits of our reach Social value without losing touch with the differing 1.9m Thriving communities needs of the markets we operate in.
Value of communities Giving back to our communities 1 contributions through education, employability, S erving customers well and enterprise and entrepreneurship.
proactively managing claims 9,000 T he expectations of our customers are Sustainable future Volunteer hours in increasing.
We aim to constantly improve our local communities Supporting our customers in the service and experience that we offer responding to a changing climate throughout the customer journey, paying and encouraging sustainable Environmental claims quickly and efficiently.
value 4.3% E ffective product distribution Reduction in our W e distribute our products through many carbon emissions See more on our corporate website 2 per person different channels, directly and through rsagroup.
Efficient access to customers is key if we are to continue to develop our business.
Customer value c. 80% P rudent investments that protect Customer retention policyholders and capital Note: O ur business generates significant assets 1.
P ayments to charities, employee fundraising, which are prudently invested so as to be value of volunteering and gifts in kind.
available to pay claims when they are due.
F or information on our methodology please see page 96.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9
