Strategic priorities Great customer experience GREA T CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Good business starts with our customers, and we strive to keep them at the heart of what we do.
This means providing consistent support and excellent service.
We are focusing on being proactive and digitally enabled, and providing tailored products that meet evolving customer requirements.
Our focus Digital platforms for customer convenience, flexibility and speed High service standards Increase customer satisfaction and retention Sharpen customer acquisition tools.
Our progress Returned to growth across all divisions in Canada.
Strong retention of 92.5 percent contributing to 4 percent growth in Johnson Affinity 1 Highest EPSI score amongst peers in Codan Personal Lines.
Top line trends improved due to retention focus and sales efficiency improvements More Th n brand relaunch generating uplifts in sales Johnson digital success: Over 200,000 self-service transactions in 2017, up 47 percent, and 86 percent very satisfied with online chat experience Improving claims efficiency through automated claims handling in Sweden: 108,000 automatic SMS status sent continuing to reduce incoming calls Market leaders in novice drivers in the UK Customer service portal in Denmark showing early indication 2 of improving customer satisfaction metrics: 16 points NPS 2 increase in Liability and 6 points NPS increase in Workers Compensation Industry leading same-day service at 96 percent in small or medium-sized enterprise SME in Commercial Lines Canada Nationwide: Simple, easy to understand modular product: 85 percent retention at renewal and 65 NPS in sales and services.
Ongoing initiatives Significant activity planned in digital sales, servicing and claims journeys, self-service and data analytics.
Customer satisfaction index measured on industry level.
14 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report WE ARE ENHANCING CUSTOMER OFFERINGS IN ALL OF OUR MARKETS.
IN 2017 WE ACHIEVED AN AVERAGE RETENTION ACROSS THE GROUP OF 80 PERCENT.
Agile and digital claims processing: An effortless customer experience is a key loyalty driver.
By implementing digital claims tools, such as our new customer service portal in Denmark and automatic claims handling for simple, low value motor claims in Sweden, we can provide a smoother, quicker and more effortless claims experience for our customers.
Johnsons digital platform: As customers increasingly move online, we need to serve them there, as well as maintaining excellence in our other channels.
In Canada, our Johnsons business is focused on delivering an effortless experience at every interaction.
This is accelerating our digital capability development and is driving growth whilst improving customer satisfaction.
16% Increase in online quotes in Johnson Home Auto insurance year-on-year RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 Strategic priorities Disciplined and expert underwriting EXCELLENT PROGRESS USE OF DATA IN PRICE SOPHISTICATION AND ANALYTICS Pricing tools have been greatly enhanced Data science advances: in Personal Lines.
Radar Live and Earnix Competitions in data science and predictive advanced point of sale pricing engines modelling have been run across the Group.
continue to be rolled out across our The first machine learning competition businesses.
Significant benefits have been generated 29 new approaches to price observed when the new tools have gone modelling and estimated loss ratio live: in Canada Household, new business benefits of up to 3 percent.
Underwriting automation in Trygg-Hansa: Early results in Swedish Personal Motor New SME underwriting framework based show increased hit rate within target on deep analysis of customer data and segments and new business starting introduced automated case handling to pick up.
approach to handle high volume, low value cases.
51% of manually written cases automated in Trygg-Hansa MACHINE LEARNING Postcode classification: Machine learning techniques and advanced analytics tools can rapidly process large datasets and through the use of algorithms, identify patterns and generate predictions and insights on structured data.
Using traditional techniques, a typical postcode classification would take c. 2 months to complete.
Using machine learning, a new postcode classification is possible within four days and a refresh is possible in day.
16 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report DISCIPLINED AND EXPERT UNDERWRITING Underwriting is our core discipline.
We want to be the best we possibly can, and amongst the very best in our industry.
Our focus Elevate underwriting disciplines Ongoing portfolio re-underwriting Invest in tools and technology Optimise reinsurance.
Our progress 1 Attritional loss ratio 55.3 percent in 2017, improved from 58.3 in 2014 394m record underwriting profits in 2017 Canada COR of 93.9 percent best amongst peers First release of ClaimCenter in Canada fully developed and live, enabling end-to-end claims lifecycle management Addressing key vulnerability and learnings from adverse 2017 large loss experience across the Group Successful execution of remediation plan based on decile and large loss propensity analytics in Commercial Lines in Canada Quartile analysis triage performed on all large NatCat and property losses in the UK.
Where required, immediate underwriting actions have already been taken Policy administration platform projects in Denmark and Norway planned to go live during first half of 2018 Two robotics interventions now live in UK Home and Motor claims Automatic claims handling in Swedish Motor: end-to-end automated process with no human intervention where appropriate Auto-to-home cross-sell models implemented in direct and broker Auto Canada Claims cost models have been enhanced by the use of machine learning techniques.
Our initiatives Activities in progress to improve all dimensions of underwriting and claims processes, capabilities and technology.
G roup excluding disposals at constant FX.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 Strategic priorities Managing our cost base MANAGING OUR COST BASE Driving cost efficiency will always be a key requirement for the business.
To be competitive for customers, to invest in better capabilities and to properly deliver for shareholders, we need to permanently reduce costs.
Our focus Simplify and automate end-to-end processes Optimise procurement Streamline spans and layers Lean working and site consolidation Selective outsourcing Technology change, a key enabler in reducing costs.
Our progress Group written total controllable costs of 1,425m were 6 percent 1 lower in 2017 2016: 1,512m 395m gross costs savings to date, against upgraded cost savings target of 450m by 2019 1 21.5 percent earned controllable cost ratio, down 4.4 points since the start of 2014 Group FTE down 23 percent excluding disposals since the start of 2014 and 6 percent during 2017 Footprint optimisation and site consolidation continue: 50 percent less office space in Toronto, 60 percent in Stockholm, and 25 percent in London.
Swedish call centre consolidation to Malm announced and will be in full effect mid year 2018 Selective outsourcing BPO : Outsourced voice calls in UK Motor: BPO projects underway in Scandinavia and Canada Lean practices streamlining of our processes across the Group showing great improvements in efficiency First process automation portal delivered in More Th n Pet and Motor, reducing call wrap times from three minutes to 40 seconds through the use of robotics.
Initial findings suggest that 30-40 percent of our processes could be semi or fully automated by 2020.
Ongoing initiatives Future efficiency gains will be largely driven by technology, outsourcing and new analytical and cultural tools Continuous focus on increasing efficiency metrics e. g. revenue per FTE to best-in-class levels.
Group excluding disposals at constant FX.
18 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report ZERO-BASED BUDGETING In 2017, our UK business adopted zero-based budgeting ZBB to help drive towards best-in-class cost performance.
ZBB is a structured and softwareenabled approach to costs which facilitates forensic insight and drives a cost management culture, where every pound budgeted is rigorously challenged to minimise excess in budgets.
It creates room for investing in agreed strategic priorities in the pursuit of best-in-class.
Planned roll outs across the rest of the Group in 2018 and beyond.
CANADA LEAN Deepening lean capability across Canada to embed a continuous improvement mindset.
At the end of 2017, 60 percent of RSA Canada has lean practices in place.
Over 20 percent of efficiencies have been achieved in some cases and approximately 500 waste items have been identified in finance and human resources processes.
The average Personal Lines policies underwritten per person and per day more than doubled.
Our ambition is to have lean in place across all of RSA Canada by the end of 2018.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19
