Directors and Corporate Governance Report GROUP INVESTMENT COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Group Investment Committee Report for 2017.
Details of the Committee members and their attendance at meetings are shown on page 53.
The Committee is authorised by the Board represent just 4 percent.
The Group has The Committees main areas to manage all aspects of investment policy also maintained its commitment to high of responsibility are: and strategy for the Group and provide quality assets with 70 percent of bonds Investment strategy oversight of the operation of the Groups having credit ratings of AA or higher and Review and approve investment investment portfolios within established just 2 percent rated lower than BBB.
strategy framework for Groups strategy and risk frameworks.
The Group investment portfolios Similarly, the Groups pension investment Investments Director attends all meetings Review, challenge and approve exposures maintained a broadly of the Committee to provide an update on major investment strategy proposals unchanged conservative disposition with the economic and market background and Oversight of Group Asset Management approximately 85 percent in bonds and Committee outlook affecting the Group, the investment other low risk assets and the remainder activities carried out since the Committee Market and Portfolio review held in a diversified range of higher return last met, an overview of performance and Review of portfolio dispositions to strategies including equities.
to seek approval of any proposed changes ensure consistency with strategy framework and risk appetite required to investment strategy.
Over the last few years, the Groups Review operational framework investment portfolios have been gradually As Committee Chairman, I report to the of global investment portfolios building an exposure to less liquid bond Board on the outcome of Committee Review performance of and loan instruments.
These investments, investment assets meetings and the Board also receives which include infrastructure loans, loans the minutes of Committee meetings.
Oversight of Defined Benefit backed by property and trade receivables Pension schemes Key activities during 2017 have been targeted to take advantage of Challenge and approve changes The global economy saw a largely the additional yield offered for illiquidity to Pension Investment strategy encouraging year of growth in 2017. relative to traditional quoted bonds.
Review of disposition and Outside the UK, GDP levels in Europe Investment into these instruments performance of Pension Scheme were generally above expectations and continues to be very carefully managed investment portfolios.
within North America conditions were and has been targeted so that it maintains sufficiently positive for central banks the strong underlying credit quality of the to undertake further modest interest Groups investment portfolios.
In total, the rate increases to dampen any build of Group now has committed allocations Total assets as at 31 December 2017: 13.01bn inflationary pressures.
to these assets of approximately 1.6bn with around 1.3bn of this invested at This economic backdrop continued to the year end.
e a d c support strong asset valuations with the US stock market hitting new highs and The Committee reviewed and approved corporate bonds remaining underpinned the increased allocation to illiquid credit.
Although remaining In addition, the progress on implementation close to historic highs, government bonds of allocations and the performance of saw some declines in price as the stronger invested assets has been subject to b growth environment fuelled expectations ongoing review to ensure performance of future interest rate rises.
continues to be in line with expectations.
Cash 8% Against this background there were no b.
Fixed Income 82% c. Property Investments 2% substantial changes to the core disposition d. Equities 2% of the Groups investment portfolios.
e. Alternatives and Other 6% Joseph Streppel Bonds and cash continued to represent Non-Executive Director and Chairman the substantial majority of assets Details of the Groups investments can be of the Group Investment Committee 90 percent while equities and property found on pages 118152 21 February 2018 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Corporate Governance Board Committee Reports continued GROUP NOMINA TION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Group Nomination and Governance Committee Report for 2017.
The Committee members and their attendance at meetings are shown on page 53.
The Committee has delegated authority In making these recommendations, the The Committee has four main from the Board to focus on Board Committee considered the directors areas of responsibility: effectiveness and good governance independent contribution to the Board 1.
Board and committee composition: as well as Board and committee and committees and the balance of their Leadership and Diversity: composition and succession planning.
skills, knowledge and experience with balance of skills and experience, those of the other directors.
recommendations from The Chairman reports to the Board on Davies Review the outcome of Committee meetings Particular attention is given to directors Identify and recommend suitable and the Board also receives the minutes being appointed for a third three-year Board candidates to the Group Board of Committee meetings for review.
The Committee gave detailed Recommendation of re-appointment consideration to the expertise that and annual re-election of directors Key activities during 2017 to the Board Alastair and Joseph bring to the Group Board and committee composition Recommendation of membership Audit Committee and Group Investment The Committee keeps Board and of the Audit, Remuneration, Committee respectively when considering Investment and Board Risk committee membership under review their re-appointment.
Committees in consultation with to ensure that the Board and each of the Chair of those committees.
its committees have the appropriate Directors do not participate in any 2.
Succession planning: balance of skills, knowledge, diversity debate or decision about their own Ensure appropriate succession and experience.
plans are in place for members of the Board During the year, the Committee made In addition, an assessment of the criteria Review of executive succession a number of recommendations to set out in the Code is undertaken planning the Board: in relation to independence.
Hudson has a pre-existing entitlement Kath Cates succeeded Hugh Mitchell to a deferred pension from one of the 3.
Governance: as Chair of the Group Remuneration Groups defined benefit pension schemes Review and approval of the Committee with effect from Committees disclosures in the relating to a previous employment with 1 December 2017 Annual Report Royal Insurance, which ended in 1993.
Martin Strobel succeeded Kath as Chair Monitor the Groups compliance with Taking into account a number of factors, the UK Corporate Governance Code of the Board Risk Committee with effect including the size of the pension benefit from 1 December 2017 Review of the Committees Terms and its relative immateriality to her of Reference.
Joseph Streppel was re-appointed overall retirement planning, it remains the 4.
Effectiveness: for a third three-year term on Committees view that Isabels pension Evaluate Board and committee 3 October 2017 entitlement in no way compromises performance Alastair Barbour was re-appointed her independence of character and Review of Board rolling agenda for a third three-year term on and scheduling judgement.
10 October 2017 Review of time commitment The Committee has concluded that of the non-executive directors.
Enrico Cucchiani was re-appointed all Directors proposed for re-election for a second three-year term on continue to be effective members of 1 December 2017. the Board and that each Non-Executive Director remains independent.
Therefore, the Board are proposing the re-elections as set out in the 2018 Notice of Annual General Meeting.
58 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Succession planning Governance During the year, an evaluation of the During the year, the Committee undertook The Committee monitors the Groups Board and its committees has taken a detailed review of Board and committee compliance with the Code ensuring that place.
The Committee reviewed and composition for the next 10 years, from there are clear governance processes in discussed the results of the evaluation both a short and long-term succession place to aid effective, efficient and riskprior to the Senior Independent Director planning perspective, ensuring that the aware decision-making at a Group level.
presenting the results to the Board.
Board has individuals with a diverse yet A formal assessment of compliance against Further information relating to the Board relevant set of skills, knowledge and the Code is carried out by the Company evaluation process and results is included experience who will work well together Secretary twice a year and reviewed by on page 52. to lead the Group, whilst ensuring the Committee.
Any non-compliance is The Committee reviews the Board rolling statutory requirements are met.
discussed and it is agreed whether action agenda at least twice a year to ensure that is required to remedy the non-compliance, As part of the Board succession planning the focus and balance of presentations or, if there are circumstances which justify process the tenure of each director is scheduled for discussion at the Board is the non-compliance, an explanation is considered as well as the applicable in line with business requirements.
The Company has complied with statutory requirements.
Committee meeting in December 2017, the Principles and Provisions of the Code some additions were suggested to reflect Executive and senior management throughout the year.
some of the emerging themes in the FRCs succession planning is regularly reviewed The Committee has also undertaken proposed revisions to the Code issued for by the Committee to ensure that a review of board governance of the consultation in December 2017. any individuals identified as possible regulated subsidiaries of the Group.
future candidates to join the Executive During 2018, the Committee will focus Committee senior management team on subsidiary Board governance matters have tailored development plans.
such as subsidiary Board composition, This approach develops a pipeline of governance and oversight.
Martin A Scicluna talented individuals across the Group.
Chairman and Chair of Group Nomination During 2017, the Committee undertook Diversity and Governance Committee a review of the Committees disclosures The Committee periodically monitors 21 February 2018 in the Annual Report and reviewed its diversity through the lens of gender as Terms of Reference.
well as considering the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge Effectiveness on the Board.
As at the date of this report, The Committee has reviewed the time Breakdown of topics discussed at the Board comprises 80 percent male commitment of Non-Executive Directors Committee meetings held during 2017 and 20 percent female directors, however and considers that each Non-Executive the Company remains committed to Director devotes sufficient time to Lord Davies target for female board discharging their duties.
All appointments are made considers new external appointments b on merit against agreed selection criteria to ensure that they do not give rise to to ensure a balance of skills, experience, conflicts of interests and do not impact independence and knowledge.
As a matter the directors time commitment to the a of Group Board policy, the importance Company.
In each case considered in the of diversity of gender, social and ethnic year, the Committee was satisfied that backgrounds, and of cognitive and external appointments could be approved.
personal strengths is recognised by the a.
Further information relating to Diversity and Recruitment 31% diversity is included on pages 40, 41 and 50.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Corporate Governance Board Committee Reports continued BOARD RISK COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Board Risk Committee Report for 2017.
The Committee members, their attendance at meetings and regular meeting attendees are shown on page 53.
Throughout 2017, the Committee operated The Committee conducted its annual Role and responsibilities under the leadership of Kath Cates as review of the Groups risk strategy and The Committees main duties are to: Chair until 1 December 2017 and I thank appetite, recommending minor changes Review and recommend to the Board her for her exemplary stewardship and to the Board.
In addition, emerging risk the Groups System of Governance, efficient handover.
analysis was used to anticipate future which includes the Groups Risk Management System risk issues that might arise and to The Committee has a pivotal role in Approve and monitor the outputs from support development of stress ensuring the key risks to the Group are the Annual Risk Management Plan and and scenario testing plans.
assurance activities within the risk functions understood, are effectively managed Consider, approve and recommend within risk appetite and appropriately Key activities during 2017 to the Board, the Group risk strategy, reflected in the Internal Model, in the The Committee met with regional risk appetite framework and risk limits interests of shareholders and Chief Risk Officers from Scandinavia, Through regular monitoring and policyholders alike.
UK & International and Canada during the reporting, ensure the Group remains year.
This enables the Committee to better within appetite and risk limits or The Committees effectiveness has been appropriate actions are taken understand the risks present in each assessed through a formal evaluation, Ensure material risks have been region, to explore specific regional topics which concluded that the Committee identified, understood, are managed and in more depth, and relay the insights was effective.
appropriately reported, with reference and best practice considerations of to known control weaknesses, incidents Private meetings are held ahead the Committee.
During 2017, the Board or events, and breaches in policies or procedures visited Scandinavia, spending time of each Committee meeting to discuss Review results of stress and scenario any concerns and agree areas of focus.
with the regional management to testing and implement actions to gain greater insight into the regional The Group Chief Risk Officer was asked mitigate identified risk to attend one private meeting so the business, its activities, and local risk Review outputs of the Internal Model and governance matters.
Committee could share risk insights Model, including Solvency II capital ratios and committee enhancements.
Maintenance of the Model with reference Pensions and investment risk has been to assumptions, changes in the business Business risk review considered during the year, given their and or risk profile and Model validation.
importance to the financial stability of The Group Chief Risk Officer provides a This work includes a review of the capital adequacy assessments to ensure capital quarterly update on the key risks and themes the Group and the dependence on market remains within appetite conditions.
Whilst the risks remain inside that potentially impact the Group, including Review the Groups Own Risk and an assessment of whether risks are within risk appetite there is significant exposure, Solvency Assessment ORSA approach which the Committee wished to explore appetite and any actions necessary to and report, including the performance ensure the Group remains within agreed in order to confirm they are appropriately of associated stress and scenario tests understood and managed.
Subject matter Review and approve revisions to the Groups Risk Policies experts supplement this view providing exploration included a detailed report Review and monitor managements on pensions risk by the Group Chief more granular insight into specific risk responsiveness to findings and areas and the remediating actions.
Based on this analysis the recommendations of Group Chief Committee is satisfied the right steps Risk Officer are being taken and there is sufficient In conjunction with the Group prudence in the approach.
Remuneration Committee, ensure risk is properly considered within the Groups Remuneration Policy Provide advice to the Board on strategic transactions identifying risk and the impact on the Groups risk appetite and risk tolerance.
60 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Effective management of insurance risk Risk and governance matters Breakdown of topics discussed at is key to the Groups performance and The Committee oversees the System of Committee meetings held during 2017 longer-term success.
Every agenda of Governance and Groups Risk Management the Committee includes a general update System to ensure they remain robust and f with a focus on specific topics.
Further information e a dives selected for 2017 have included can be found in the risk management Canada earthquake exposure, skills section of the Strategic Report on d and capabilities, external delegation pages 33 to 37. of authority, cyber underwriting and b c large losses.
Following on from 2016, IT has remained an area of focus as the Committee a. ORSA Risk and Compliance Overall 26% Martin Strobel b.
Insurance Risk 22% continues to monitor progress in c. Capital and Financial Risk 20% Non-Executive Director and Chairman responding to the revised risk appetite d. Specic Risk Topics Deep Dives 13% of the Board Risk Committee framework and execution of priority e. Governance 12% 21 February 2018 f. Regional CRO Dialogue 7% remediation steps committed to in 2016.
Given the range of external security threats and the complexity of mitigating these risks, IT will remain a focus for 2018 as these priority remediation steps continue to be delivered and any new steps required are responded to.
In addition, compliance with General Data Protection Regulation GDPR has received attention in 2017 ahead of the May 2018 deadline.
During 2017, a Resolution Plan was developed as requested by the regulator, following the creation of the Recovery Plan in 2016, which the Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval.
The plans were developed using subject matter experts with the support of external specialists.
The Committee continues to maintain a focus on capital sensitivities and buffers, and how capital levels have responded to developments during the year.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Corporate Governance Board Committee Reports continued GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Group Audit Committee Report for 2017.
The Committee oversees and as appropriate challenges the integrity of the Companys financial statements and the robustness of the Groups systems of internal control and financial and regulatory risk management.
The Committee is responsible for Sufficient resourcing to support Role and responsibilities overseeing and monitoring the objectivity internal audit and Group regulatory The Committees main duties are to: and operation of both external audit and compliance plans Coordinate and oversee the integrity internal audit.
Satisfactory levels of training and of the financial reporting process awareness concerning the prevention The Committees key activities during Monitor compliance with relevant of financial crime regulations, industry codes and the year are described later in this report.
legal requirements The role of the Committee with regard to Financial results narrative to confirm Oversee the effectiveness and the oversight and challenge of Solvency satisfactory balance and objectivity objectivity of the internal and II judgements and reporting is now fully Planning concerning non-audit services external auditors embedded in the Committees annual to ensure the widest pool of audit firms Monitor the effectiveness of the process and reflected in the terms systems of internal controls remains available should there be a need of reference, which were reviewed to put the audit to tender in future.
Provide assurance to the Board on the in October 2017. effectiveness of the Groups financial The Committee was subject to internal and regulatory risk management During the year, the Committee received arrangements.
evaluation as part of the wider review training or separate briefings on a number of the Board and its Committees during of items including Solvency II governance 2017.
Further details are available in the and disclosures, the potential impact Effectiveness section on page 52. of the Lord Chancellors review of the Committee composition, Ogden discount rate and the impact of skills and experience forthcoming financial reporting standards.
Details of membership and attendance I am confident that the Committee is well at Committee meetings are shown briefed and continues to fulfil its duties on page 53. to shareholders and other stakeholders, Breakdown of topics discussed at through an enquiring approach and Committee meetings held during 2017 The Committee comprises four high quality management challenge independent Non-Executive Directors throughout the year, covering issues and the Board is satisfied that the as diverse as: Committee has recent and relevant k a j The duration for risk remediation, financial experience as required by the b i associated resourcing requirements UK Corporate Governance Code.
The c and subsequent assurance assessments, members possess diverse experience, h particularly where IT and information knowledge and skills, which enables d g security are concerned them collectively to act as an effective e f Committee.
Members biographies are Ensuring satisfactory risk management available on pages 44 to 47. where continued Group finance transformation is concerned In addition, Martin Strobel is Chair and a.
Accounting policies, methodologies and practices 5% Actuarial estimates in reserving Kath Cates and Alastair Barbour are b.
Reserves 15% for large loss events members of the Board Risk Committee, c. Other balance sheet valautions 5% ensuring that risk is taken into account d. Pension assumptions 10% Solvency II technical provisions and e. Financial results 10% in the Committees decisions and that disclosures to ensure compliance with f. Internal Controls 15% information flows appropriately between regulatory requirements g. Governance and compliance 10% the two committees.
h. IT Matters 10% The robustness of evidence to support i. Solvency II 10% internal audit control environment j.
Internal Audit 5% k. External Audit 5% assessments 62 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report The Committee held six scheduled Key activities during the year Financial reporting and meetings during the year and has held In addition to the significant issues significant financial issues private meetings with the Group Chief in relation to the Annual Report and Management reports key accounting Auditor, the Group and UK Regulatory Accounts set out below, the Committee matters, financial controls assurance Compliance Director, the Group Chief considered the following issues during and financial results to the Committee Financial Officer, the external auditor the year: at least quarterly.
and the Group Chief Actuary without Monitored compliance with the The Committee attaches considerable other members of management being Groups reserving policy by each importance to the work, opinions and present.
The Committee members business to ensure that the Groups findings of the external auditor, KPMG, regularly met privately to discuss issues reserve margin remained adequate who participates in all Committee on which to concentrate with and that the uncertainty considerations meetings and who met with the management and advisers in the were appropriate Committee in private on two occasions subsequent Committee meeting.
Reviewed the quarterly Solvency during the year.
The Group Chief Financial Officer, the II balance sheets and technical The principal interactions with KPMG Group Chief Auditor, the Group and UK provisions produced by management during the year in relation to financial Regulatory Compliance Director, the and monitored the Groups ongoing reporting were: Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Chief development of the Solvency and Consideration of the strategy and plan Legal Officer and Company Secretary and Financial Condition Report providing for the audit of the financial statements representatives of the external auditor, appropriate challenge to key judgement including discussion and challenge KPMG, are regular attendees at Committee areas and the adequacy of disclosures in relation to materiality levels set: meetings.
The Group Chairman and the Monitored the Groups compliance with the scope of the proposed coverage Senior Independent Director are invited anti-money laundering requirements by business unit: determination and to attend the meetings where the interim and anti-bribery and corruption laws.
approach to the audit of key areas of and final results are considered.
Other In May 2017, the Committee approved the risk: understanding the oversight by the members of management and external approach to the independent assurance group audit team of subsidiary business advisers may attend at the invitation of plan concerning the Groups Financial unit audit teams and visits by the group the Committee.
Crime Framework for 2017 2018 team to business units The Committee Chairman reports to the Monitored the integrity of the control At the half year and year end, detailed Board on the outcome of Committee environment during transformation discussion and consideration of their meetings and the Board also receives and considered the appropriateness of findings and opinions in relation to the the minutes of Committee meetings.
the design of key initiatives in relation key risk areas, judgements made, any to their impact on the Groups control The Committee has unrestricted access changes to the plan and to materiality environment to management, information and external and discussion of the underlying reasons Considered whether it was appropriate advisers as required in order to fulfil its Consideration of KPMGs wider to adopt the going concern basis duties, and is satisfied that it has received comments on governance, financial of accounting for the 2017 Annual sufficient, reliable and timely information reporting processes and efficiencies as Report and Accounts and the basis on during 2017 in order to discharge well as information systems and controls which the viability statement is made, those duties.
Consideration of their observations recommending to the Board that both on controls and processes as reported were appropriate.
to management and follow up with relevant management to be satisfied that the observations are being appropriately actioned: and RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Corporate Governance Board Committee Reports continued Reporting on the Solvency II balance The Committee received and considered Valuation of deferred tax assets sheet, annual Solvency and Financial detailed written and verbal reporting from The Committee reviewed the key Condition Report and reviewing key KPMG setting out their observations and assumptions and financial projections areas of judgement in relation to conclusions in respect of the recorded supporting the UK deferred tax asset.
insurance contract liabilities based on their The forecasts presented by management audit procedures as further described in were assessed and, in particular, the The main matters and primary areas their report on pages 99 to 105. longer term projections of profitability in of judgement addressed and concluded light of the changes to business plans as a on by the Committee were as follows: IT Systems and controls result of restructuring activities and other The Groups IT infrastructure, including Valuation of insurance liabilities completed management actions.
After retained legacy systems, is complex discussion and challenge, the Committee The Committee has ensured that and financial reporting is dependent on management exercised appropriate concluded that managements proposed the operational and financial IT systems assessment as to the recoverable deferred judgement and control in estimating operating correctly and the control insurance contract liabilities including tax asset was reasonable.
environment in which they operate.
This assessing the impact of claims trends is a key area of focus for both Audit and Review of 2017 Annual and other influencing factors consistent Risk Committees and during the year they Report and Accounts with previous years.
received updates from management on At the request of the Board, the progress to enhance IT general controls, Committee considered whether the During the year, the Committee received and reviewed actuarial reserving reports, the oversight of IT testing processes and 2017 Annual Report and Accounts were improvements in documentation and fair, balanced and understandable, and which described the basis for judgement in valuing insurance liabilities.
Particular standards, together with regular reporting whether the disclosures were appropriate.
from internal audit on the results of their areas of focus for the Committee were: To ensure that new accounting standards reviews and testing.
The impact of the changes to the Ogden were understood and appropriately discount rate announced during 2017 In light of the ongoing transformation reflected in the financial statements, the activity, the Committee closely monitored Committee received quarterly updates Trends emerging in the UK household business from escape of water claims IT and information security to ensure the of relevant accounting standards that control environment was maintained.
could impact the financial statements.
Reserve estimates for catastrophe losses The Group has not made any significant in 2017 where estimates are inherently With respect to financial reporting changes to its accounting policies during uncertain given the timing and nature controls, the Committee received 2017 and has complied with updates to of these losses detailed updates from KPMG on their IFRS as required during the year.
Trends in Canadian Accident Benefit assessment of general IT controls including information on areas where The Groups position with regard to Auto reserves additional controls or substantive testing adopting new accounting standards Favourable emergence in Swedish was required, the reasons therefore and due to come into force in the future is motor third party liability business.
the conclusions reached in support of disclosed.
This highlights no significant The Committee satisfied itself that the audit.
change to revenue recognition under management reflected available and IFRS 15 and the election to defer the After consideration and discussion with reliable information when setting the implementation of IFRS 9, Financial management and KPMG, the Committee reserves and that an appropriate margin Instruments, until the effective concluded that the financial results as for uncertainties was maintained.
date of implementation of IFRS 17, prepared from the IT systems were Insurance Contracts.
The results of independent internal appropriate and reliable.
reviews carried out in the year with regard In August 2017, the Group received Pension and post-retirement obligations to all short-tail lines in Ireland, Canadian comments from the Financial Reporting During the year, the Committee received long-tail lines and Scandinavian business Council FRC following their review of reports on the valuation of the pension excluding Danish Workers Compensation the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
As the pension schemes are were considered by the Committee.
Such reviews are intended to support sensitive to changes in key assumptions, continuous improvement in the quality The Committee also confirmed that the management completed an assessment as of corporate reporting and not to planned programme of future reviews to the appropriateness of the assumptions verify statements or provide assurance provided adequate coverage.
used, including benchmark data, where that they comply with the legal and appropriate, and reported their findings The Committee received quarterly reports accounting framework.
In response, to the Committee.
Any non-standard on the Solvency II Technical Provisions the Committee reviewed and approved changes in assumptions and judgements and reviewed the bridge from IFRS options for enhancing the quality and were also reviewed by the Committee, results as well as quarterly and annual clarity of disclosures, reflected in this which included a proposal to update the movements.
The Committee satisfied years Annual Report and Accounts, which discount rate and inflation assumption itself that the calculations had been includes expanded labelling of Alternative methodology to better reflect the full conducted according to the Groups Basis Performance Measures APMs and term structure of the pension scheme of Preparation.
additional reconciliation of the same liabilities.
The Committee concluded that to the reported financial statements.
the proposed changes were appropriate and supported the conclusion that the assumptions used overall were reasonable and within an acceptable range of other companies with schemes of a similar duration.
64 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Separately, the FRC issued three thematic Implementation and maintenance of All employees are required to complete reviews in 2017, including one concerning the Internal Control System is delegated online training every two years, to ensure APMs.
The FRCs Financial Reporting Lab to the Executive Directors and senior they are aware of how and when to also issued their project report on Risk management.
report concerns under the policy and the and viability reporting.
The Committee Committee has requested an analysis of The Committee receives regular reports reviewed this material and, where cultural differences across the Group that from the Group Chief Auditor, external considered appropriate, recommended may discourage some employees from auditor and Group Chief Risk Officer on changes to support high quality financial reporting concerns to identify how these the integrity of the control environment reporting disclosure.
and also received regular reports on the Taken as a whole, the Committee is Regulatory Compliance Framework, A summary of all whistleblowing satisfied that the 2017 Annual Report which is described in greater detail below.
incidents, underlying investigations and Accounts are fair, balanced and These reports enable the Committee to and actions undertaken is provided understandable and provide the continually assess the effectiveness of the to the Committee on an annual basis.
information necessary for shareholders Internal Control System.
The Committee Any material incident would be reported to assess the Companys position discussed findings and recommendations to the Committee immediately.
and performance, business model from these reports, together with any The policys effectiveness during the year and strategy.
has been assessed and the Committee Financial Control Framework In February 2018, the Committee reviewed is satisfied that it is appropriate, fit for The Financial Control Framework the the effectiveness of the Internal Control purpose and effective and is sufficiently Framework aims to deliver a consistent System during 2017 and concluded that it embedded across the Group.
approach to finance-related controls was appropriate and operated effectively Regulatory risk and compliance across the Group and embed a control during the year.
The purpose of the Regulatory Risk and culture that strengthens the Groups The Committee considers that an effective Compliance function is to ensure that finance environment by ensuring and appropriate ongoing process for the Group meets all relevant regulatory that financial processes are managed identifying, evaluating and managing the requirements in each jurisdiction in which effectively in order to mitigate the risk significant risks faced by the Group has it operates.
The function is an influencer in of financial misstatement.
The process been in place during 2017 and up to the ensuring a strong regulatory compliance involves documenting and testing the date of approval of the Annual Report and culture and ensure mechanisms are operation of key financial controls, Accounts.
For more information about the in place to monitor the regulatory thereby providing an acceptable degree Groups Risk Management Framework, environment, identify and analyse key of assurance around the financial see pages 33 to 37 and 54 to 55. changes impacting the business, identify, control environment.
report and resolve regulatory issues to Whistleblowing The primary focus of the Framework is avoid or minimise business impact and The Group takes whistleblowing the production of information for the surprises.
The function is part of the extremely seriously and the Committee Group Annual Report and Accounts.
Groups second line of defence which has taken responsibility for oversight In addition, the Framework mitigates monitors and validates first line activities.
of the Groups whistleblowing material risks at the local operational level.
The Group and UK Regulatory Compliance arrangements.
In addition, Alastair Local teams carry out control validation Director provides regular reports to Barbour has nominated responsibility for work and a Group Controllership Team the Committee.
oversight of whistleblowing arrangements provides assurance over this work and in compliance with the PRAs Senior The Group and UK Regulatory team leads reports on findings and actions to the Insurance Managers Regime.
A senior and develops the relationship between Committee quarterly.
manager in Group Human Resources the PRA, FCA, Group and businesses to During the year, the Committee received has also been appointed as the FCA achieve a mutually beneficial relationship.
quarterly updates on the assessment and Whistleblowing Champion.
During the year, the Committee has testing of controls including any control The aim of the policy is to encourage and monitored progress towards delivery deficiencies and the action taken as enable employees to raise any malpractice of regulatory requests, the outcome of a result.
or wrongdoing at RSA in a controlled on-site visits and received updates on Internal control environment, offering safeguards and regulatory developments and issues.
The Internal Control System forms part of support as may be necessary to protect The functions annual Compliance Plan the System of Governance, full details of employees personal integrity and, where sets out the work to be undertaken which can be found in the Accountability reasonably possible, identity.
Concerns in the upcoming year to ensure: section on pages 54 to 55. can be raised by contacting local or Compliance with regulatory Group senior management, including the The Board has overall responsibility for requirements Group Chief Auditor and Group Human the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Resources Director, or via an externally Maintenance of an open, constructive Control System, which is designed provided website and helpline, which and cooperative relationship with the to identify and mitigate, rather than allows employees to remain anonymous Groups regulators eliminate, the potential risk of failure to throughout the process.
That the Board and employees achieve business objectives and can only understand their regulatory provide reasonable and not absolute responsibilities: and assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
To provide assurance, advice and guidance to the Board and the business.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Corporate Governance Board Committee Reports continued The Committee reviewed and approved On a semi-annual basis, the Group that Daniel has the appropriate experience the 2018 Compliance Plan, including the Chief Auditor provides the Group Audit to lead the audit.
There are no contractual role of the Regulatory Risk and Compliance Committee with an assessment of the obligations restricting the Companys function, in December 2017. effectiveness of the governance, risk choice of external auditor and there is and control framework in each Region.
no limitation of liability in the terms of Group Internal Audit Quarterly, GIA reports on the outcome the appointments of KPMG as auditor Group Internal Audits GIA primary of its work and managements progress to the Company.
purpose is to keep RSA safe and in mitigating current issues as well as improving.
Specifically, GIA helps the The Committee has provided clear identifying any thematic issues arising Board and Executive Management guidance to KPMG on the Committees together with underlying causes.
to protect the assets, reputation and expectations of them as part of their sustainability of the Group.
GIA does this On an annual basis, the Group Chief role as auditor: that the Committee, not by assessing whether all significant risks Auditor provides the Group Audit management, is KPMGs client: that they are identified and appropriately reported Committee with an assessment of the are expected to challenge appropriately: by management and the second line skills and capabilities required to conduct that they are expected to raise issues and of defence to the Board and Executive the work needed, and whether budget is concerns with the Committee as soon as is Management: assessing whether they are sufficient to allow the function to recruit appropriate and on material matters they adequately controlled and by challenging and retain staff with the expertise and are expected to indicate their agreement Executive Management to improve experience necessary to provide effective to the position taken by management, the effectiveness of governance, risks challenge throughout the Group.
or to explain why they do not, and management and internal controls.
The results of the latest assessment were GIA is an independent and objective reviewed by the Committee in December The Committee met with KPMG twice function reporting to the Board.
The 2017 and the Committee was satisfied that during the year without management Group Chief Auditor is a member of the GIA was operating effectively, sufficiently present to ensure that they were given Executive Committee and has a primary resourced and that the risk to their the opportunity to raise any concerns reporting line to the Chairman of the independence and objectivity was low.
they may have and to ensure they remain Group Audit Committee, with a secondary independent and objective.
Compliance with professional standards reporting line to the Group Chief is monitored within GIA through a quality In October 2017, the Committee discussed Executive.
Regional Chief Auditors assurance process, outsourced to the findings of the FRCs Audit Quality report directly to the Group Chief Auditor, Deloitte and operated on a continuous Review team, which as part of its annual whilst recognising local regulation.
GIA is governed by an Internal Audit inspection of audit firms reviewed KPMGs GIAs scope of activities is unrestricted Charter which sets out the functions audit of the 2016 RSA Insurance Group and includes first line of defence control role, mandate and authority, and includes plc financial statements.
The FRC review validation and second line of defence independence and objectivity criteria.
found no significant areas requiring assurance activities, as well as the risk An updated Charter was approved by improvement and indeed noted that and control culture of the Group.
The charter the work of the pensions and actuarial is available upon request.
teams was of a high standard.
KPMGs GIAs planning process is risk based and UK Head of Audit was requested to meet takes into consideration the key strategic In October 2017, GIA was presented with with the Committee to discuss plans and and emerging risks facing the Group.
GIA two Audit & Risk Awards by the Chartered progress concerning improvements to operates a six-monthly rolling audit plan, Institute of Internal Auditors: Winner audit quality.
The limited improvements allowing for a frequent and dynamic risk Outstanding Team Financial Services that were suggested by the FRC have been assessment and the Committee may Sector and Winner Best Innovation implemented and the Committee remains request additional audits throughout in Learning and Development.
satisfied that there is no impact on the the year as required.
Rolling plans were appointment of KPMG.
External auditor approved by the Group Audit Committee Appointment, tenure, in May and December 2017.
The Company complies with the independence and objectivity requirements of The Statutory Audit In addition, the Group Chief Auditor KPMG was appointed as the Groups Services for Large Companies Market attended all the Committee meetings external auditor in 2013 following a formal Investigation Mandatory Use of during 2017.
On an annual basis, GIA hosts a competitive tender process and has been Competitive Tender Processes and half-day informal meeting briefing for the reappointed at each subsequent AGM.
Audit Committee Responsibilities Order Committee, providing further opportunity 2014, which relates to the frequency The current audit partner is Stuart for detailed discussion concerning GIA Crisp who has been the Groups audit and governance of tenders for the plans for the forthcoming year.
The Group appointment of the external auditor and engagement partner since KPMGs Chairman and members of the Committee appointment.
In line with FRC standards, the setting of a policy on the provision of together with the chairmen of the regional non-audit services.
Stuart will rotate off the audit engagement audit committees in Canada, Scandinavia following completion of the 31 December and Ireland attended the 2017 meeting 2017 audit and Daniel Cazeaux will assume in November.
The Committee is satisfied 66 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report It is the intention of the Committee that Effectiveness the Company will tender the external The Company undertakes a thorough auditor appointment at least every 10 review of the effectiveness of the external years and in accordance with the FRCs auditor on an annual basis, usually on best practice notes concerning the completion of the audit process.
The conduct of such tenders.
review is compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code, covering the mindFees and non-audit services set, culture, skills and knowledge, quality The audit fee for the 2017 Annual Report control and judgement of the external and Accounts was discussed between the auditor through an assessment of Committee and the external auditor and their perceived quality, effectiveness, approved by the Committee on behalf of objectivity and independence.
The review was conducted by both The Groups non-audit services policy has a questionnaire distributed to and been revised following review against completed by the Committee, senior the requirements of the FRCs Revised management and members of the Group Ethical Standard.
The policy continues to financial reporting team, seeking opinions assist in maintaining the independence against set criteria and the performance of of the external auditor.
All permitted the external auditor against those criteria activity must be authorised in advance and through Audit Committee meetings and approved by the Committee with with the external auditor whereby the the Committee Chairman, Group Chief Committee challenged the auditors Financial Officer or Group Financial planning, strategy, risk identification Controller able to sign off lower value process and conclusions.
On the basis of the review, the The total value of non-audit fees incurred Committee is satisfied with the work of by the external auditor is capped at KPMG and that they are objective and 70 percent of the average of the audit independent.
Accordingly the Committee fees paid over the last three consecutive has recommended to the Board that a financial years, calculated in line with resolution be put to the 2018 AGM for the FRC guidance.
reappointment of KPMG LLP as external In exceptional circumstances the auditor, and the Board has accepted this recommendation.
auditor will be considered for additional services where there is an overwhelming business rationale, but only with full Board approval.
A summary of the policy is available on the Companys website at www.
Alastair WS Barbour FCA Each quarter, the Committee receives and Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Group Audit Committee reviews a report on non-audit services, together with information on fees 21 February 2018 agreed and billed by the other major accounting firms.
Details of KPMGs remuneration during 2017, including that for provision of nonaudit services, are provided in the notes to the financial statements on page 136.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67
