Regional review OUR OPERA TIONS IN SCANDINAVIA Net written premiums Combined ratio 1.8bn 82.9% OUR BRANDS Scandinavia financial summary IN SCANDINAVIA 2017 net written premiums Underwriting result COR % 2017 2016 2017 1 m change m m % Personal 1,054 1 240 175 77.0 Commercial 779 1 75 64 90.6 Total 1,833 315 239 82.9 Notes to the table above: 1.
Our operations in Scandinavia The combined ratio of 82.9 percent was Type of business RSA is the only international insurer within our 85 percent best-in-class operating within the top 5 in Scandinavia.
ambition for the first time on record.
g In Sweden, we operate as Trygg-Hansa, Current and prior year profitability were a f and in Denmark and Norway as Codan.
e Our business is split approximately Regional net written premiums of 58 percent Personal and 42 percent b 1,833m were up 7 percent at reported d Commercial Lines.
Key strengths include FX and up 0.3 percent at constant our Swedish Personal Lines and our c FX 2016: 1,721m.
The current year Danish Commercial business, while attritional loss ratio of 62.6 percent our Norwegian business is developing.
Household 20% was 1.6 points better than 2016 reflecting We distribute mainly direct to consumer, b.
Motor 19% underwriting discipline, ongoing c. Personal other 18% leveraging strong agency relationships, capability improvements and lower d. Comm.
Property 18% with a growing bancassurance channel.
e. Liability 8% claims handling costs.
Motor 12% Scandinavian market context g. Marine & other 5% Sweden generated an underwriting profit The Scandinavian economy is strong 1 of 259m 2016: 184m and a combined overall albeit with mixed experience 1 ratio of 75.3 percent 2016: 82.2 percent.
There is good GDP While the current year combined ratio growth in Sweden, whereas Denmark and improved by 2.2 points, favourable prior Norway are set to pick up from relatively year development contributed 4.7 points low growth levels.
Against this backdrop, year-on-year, partly reflecting more insurance markets remain broadly benign Motor account development.
strong across the region with incumbents Denmark produced a combined ratio of maintaining a competitive position 90.3 percent: while this was 0.6 points against most market challengers.
higher than 2016, the current year Financial performance combined ratio improved by 1.7 points.
Scandinavia delivered operating profit of 389m, up 25 percent at reported FX.
Driving this was an excellent underwriting profit performance of 315m in 2017, up 24 percent at constant FX, alongside an investment result of 74m 2016: 72m.
26 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Keeping people safe at home, at work and at play.
In Denmark, research conducted by Codan We believe that part of our job is to prevent risks, found that parents are much more likely to as well as being there when things dont go as counsel their children on avoiding cyberbullying, planned.
Our Scandinavian operations go above than they are on the importance of measures and beyond to keep their customers safe, running to prevent their laptop or phone being hacked.
regular awareness campaigns to minimise In response, Codan developed a nationwide exposure to risks and developing innovative campaign to educate parents about the range new approaches to improving public safety.
of issues involved in keeping their families safe online, reaching 2 million people within the first As part of its Alcobuoy campaign in 2017, five weeks.
The campaign video was broadcast Trygg-Hansa equipped 12 life buoys with on Danish news stations and was used by breathalysers to enable people to assess corporations including Novo Nordisk and their blood alcohol levels before swimming.
Codan also designed a range of online security insurance products to further Around 50 percent of drowning victims in help tackle the issues raised by their research.
Sweden have alcohol in their blood.
But by identifying locations popular for parties and outdoor swimming and installing breathalysers, Trygg-Hansa aims to reduce the number of alcohol-related drowning incidents in the country.
Trygg-Hansa equipped life buoys with breathalysers to improve water safety in Sweden A customer focused business assistance removing illegally shared Across Scandinavia, we benefit from material, and help regaining control STRATEGY & OUTLOOK brands with high public awareness and over accounts that have been hacked.
Our task is to ensure that Our centre of excellence for wind Since 2015, Scandinavia has come our customer experience meets the energy in Denmark continues to thrive a long way in fixing the basics.
expectations that come alongside this.
and support our strength in the insurance Our current three-year plan focuses We continue to adapt to our customers of renewables, as we evaluate the risks on moving from average to great, changing preferences and needs, whilst of new technologies and prototypes and is built on becoming best-in-class ensuring we run our operations as to expand our expertise.
A new hub for in areas that will drive further value efficiently as possible and continue claims processing in Malmo is building improvement.
At this stage, the key to address our cost base.
areas for development are digitisation and customer journey: strengthening We made a number of steps forward Growing premium and customer claims and underwriting functions: in 2017 to meet this challenge.
Our new satisfaction scores demonstrate the increasing process efficiency: and Codan claims handling system has brought impact of these programmes, and others, securing technology uplifts.
These our Personal Lines customers closer to the on our appeal.
Region-wide, more are designed to future-proof claims process and put them in control.
customers are rating their experience with RSA Scandinavia and enable us to Through an online portal, customers can us as effortless.
Swedish Personal Lines pursue our best-in-class ambition.
now communicate with Codan employees policies-in-force grew steadily in 2017, and Outlook and suppliers to track the progress of their Commercial Lines new business in Q4 was We continue to expect our Scandinavian claim and even choose replacement items.
22 percent higher than the same quarter markets to grow in line with local This increases the speed of resolution for last year.
Whereas Denmark Personal Lines economies and our goal is to achieve our customers, and helps the business to policies-in-force had contracted between medium-term growth broadly in line manage indemnity spend more effectively.
2012 and 2016, this trend flattened in 2017. with the market, sustaining high quality in our underwriting and Similarly, in underwriting we are making Increasing productivity customer experience.
use of digital servicing and automation Alongside these initiatives, the to support customer improvements and Scandinavian performance improvement While our 2017 result is within the drive business benefit.
In our Trygg-Hansa programme has continued to deliver target combined ratio of 85 percent, business, we have been able to move well, with particular focus on operational we see scope for further progress smaller, simpler requests for quotations efficiency through process redesign, as we build the appeal of our brand, to an automated system so that specialist robotics and automation.
customer service levels and underwriter time can be diverted to underwriting skills.
We have also pursued further site cases of higher value and complexity.
consolidation and IT cost reduction, We have seen benefits in renewal rates and we launched an outsourcing and customer experience, and reduced programme for certain operational the manual workload associated with and support activities.
Total written controllable expenses We are also positioning the business 1 were down 3 percent year-on-year, to reflect the changing risks and trends with 5 percent cost reductions absorbing we see in the market.
Codan is offering a new Websikring WebSafe proposition, which gives Patrick Bergander customers guidance on how to prevent Note: CEO, Scandinavia abuse or harassment on social media, 1.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 Regional review continued OUR OPERA TIONS IN CANADA Net written premiums Combined ratio 1.6bn 93.9% OUR BRANDS Canada financial summary IN CANADA 2017 net written premiums Underwriting result COR % 2017 2016 2017 1 m change m m % Personal 1,120 5 75 91 93.2 Commercial 499 4 23 17 95.4 Total 1,619 5 98 74 93.9 Notes to the table above: 1.
Type of business Our operations in Canada disruptors looking to capitalise on In Canada we are the sixth largest developments in fintech also drive general insurer.
f e d a We operate across all provinces and Personal Household has continued to provide a broad offering of products and respond to an increasing volume of c channels to both Personal and Commercial severe weather events in recent years, customers.
Our portfolio is balanced at though 2017 weather experience was around 70 percent Personal and 30 percent slightly more favourable than 2016, b Commercial Lines.
We have leading market which had seen the particularly positions in affinity distribution, and via severe Fort McMurray wildfire losses.
Household 31% our Johnson brand, and are proud of b.
Motor 38% Financial performance c. Comm.
Property 13% our leading positions in both travel In 2017, our Canadian business worked d. Liability 7% and marine underwriting.
Motor 7% through these challenges and delivered f. Marine & other 4% Canada market context a strong year.
In addition to increasing The Canadian market has remained operating profit by 14 percent to 159m competitive through a period of slowing 2016: 140m, underwriting profit rose economic growth.
This has translated 32 percent to 98m, despite higher large into tougher conditions for the insurance losses and lower prior year releases than market and some consolidation trends 2016.
We were pleased to achieve our in the sector.
best-in-class ambition of a 94 percent combined ratio.
Broker distribution remains the dominant channel in both our Personal and Net written premiums of 1,619m were Commercial lines businesses.
Alongside up 12 percent at reported FX and 5 percent this, affinity partnerships and direct at constant FX 2016: 1,443m.
Growth channels are gradually gaining market was particularly strong in the broker share in Personal lines.
channel, with Personal broker up 10 percent policy count up 4 percent Regulation in Canada tends to differ and Commercial broker up 4 percent, by region, and in Ontario, one of our both at constant FX.
Johnson, our direct larger regions, auto pricing is regulated.
business, also returned to volume growth This drives a more challenging pricing in the year policy count up 2 percent.
Industry 28 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Partnering with our communities In July colleagues helped to build affordable Our Canadian business demonstrated homes in Edmonton, Alberta, a city which just its commitment to supporting local a year earlier played host to many evacuees communities in 2017 through a number of the Fort McMurray wildfires.
of initiatives to improve the local Earlier in the year 187 RSA employees took environment for their customers.
part in the Groups first-ever Great Canadian This year, RSA employees took part in Habitat Shoreline Clean-up campaign.
Events took for Humanity Canadas biggest ever building place in nine cities across the country project aiming to build 150 homes in where employees from RSA and Johnsons celebration of Canadas 150th anniversary of 11 main offices worked together to pick Confederation, and supporting those affected up rubbish from various locations where by last years wild fires in neighbouring water meets land.
Employees in Canada helped construct new homes in Edmonton, Alberta.
Focusing on customer needs weather, and reflects how seriously we We have continued to enhance our take our role in helping to educate about STRATEGY & OUTLOOK customer offer, improving our ways of risk, in addition to offering support when Our strategy working with partners and strengthening things do go wrong.
Our business in Canada is wellour direct channels.
Combined, these balanced by province, customer, A responsive business measures have helped to deliver an channel and product.
We offer a Alongside customer improvements, our improvement in customer retention broad and diversified offering to Canadian business is focused on ensuring to 85.8 percent from 84.3 percent customers from Personal through its underlying systems and processes a year ago, with particular successes to corporate and specialty risk.
are fit for the future whether by in Personal Lines.
strengthening underwriting and pricing Our Canadian transformation We have mapped customer journeys analysis, investing in new technology, programme has seen continued to identify areas for improvement in or adapting our ways of working.
progress in 2017, with performance their experience, and that work is improvements right across the Our key risks to business performance now influencing our investments.
business, but there is more that can continue to be weather volatility and large The implementation of our new Guidewire be done.
Our major focus areas for losses.
In 2017, large loss experience was system is reducing processing time, 2018 include enhancing our customer elevated at 7.7 percent, compared to and enabling faster claims settlement.
experience through improved 6.4 percent in 2016 and a five year average Our direct to consumer business, Johnson, processes and digital tools, investing of 5.1 percent.
We are working hard to has improved its digital platform to support in technology to decrease the cost return large loss ratios back towards long customers to manage their policies online.
of delivering to our customers and term averages, by recognising trends early Net promoter scores continue to improve continuing to invest in our core skills and taking any underwriting or pricing and outperform benchmarks as a result of underwriting, pricing and claims.
Outlook For example, we have taken steps to We have introduced a number of initiatives Our target is to maintain the improve our range of large loss volatility to support our excellent relationships with positive premium and underwriting and exposure by developing insight tools intermediaries, including implementing trends we saw in 2017.
As well that help front-line underwriters to RSA Pro, a new digital tool that enables as sustaining a combined ratio evaluate large losses, and make better brokers to service clients remotely of 94 percent we will continue informed risk acceptance and pricing and reduces our time to quote from to look for further performance decisions for future risks.
Improved on the spot improvement opportunities, for our customers, and for our business.
communication between brokers and We are also progressing our business underwriters around pricing decisions improvement programme, simplifying is driving better underwriting and processes, cutting back on waste and cost efficiencies, as well as a better consolidating our office space.
new claims system has reduced the environmental impact of our work We also aim to be a helping partner to by facilitating a paperless process.
As a particularly cold winter approached, we launched a In 2017, total written controllable expenses campaign to encourage Canadians to were down 7 percent year-on-year, review Whats in my bag?
This asked with 9 percent cost reductions offset people to check they have what they by 2 percent inflation.
need to survive being waylaid in extreme Martin Thompson President and CEO, RSA Canada RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 Regional review continued OUR OPERA TIONS IN UK & INTERNA TIONAL Net written premiums Combined ratio 1 3.2bn 100.5 % OUR BRANDS IN UK & International financial summary UK & INTERNATIONAL 2017 net written premiums Underwriting result COR % 2017 2016 2017 1 m change m m % Personal 1,144 7 10 48 99.2 Commercial 1,544 126 75 108.1 UK Total 2,688 3 116 123 104.3 Ireland 303 7 9 49 97.0 Middle East 208 6 25 14 87.7 UK & International 3,199 2 82 88 102.6 Notes to the table above: 1.
Type of business UK only Our operations in UK & International In the UK, we are the second largest commercial insurer with key positions in g a property, motor, liability, and marine, and f exposures across the SME, mid-market and global specialty customers.
These e b global customers account for 53 percent c of our UK Commercial Lines business, d and include risks written through the London market and our branches a.
Household 21% in France, Spain and Benelux.
Motor 11% c. Personal other 10% We also have strong positions in UK d. Comm.
Property 25% Personal Lines, particularly Household and e. Liability 11% Pet insurance, with a growing presence f. Comm.
Motor 8% g. Marine & other 13% in the Personal motor market which leverages a successful telematics offering aimed at young drivers.
As well as our innovative direct insurance brand MORE TH N, and a broker portfolio focused Stephen Lewis and former Nationwide CEO on profitable segments, we have affinity Graham Beale partnerships with some of the UKs major retailers, banks and building societies, underwriting insurance products for Nationwide Building Society, John Lewis and Marks & Spencer.
30 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report We are a leading player in Ireland with Underwriting losses partly reflected particular strengths in household and the impact of a number of natural STRATEGY & OUTLOOK motor insurance through our 123. ie directcatastrophes in the third quarter, including Our strategy to-consumer business.
In the Middle East, earthquakes in Mexico and hurricanes in Our strategy in the UK market has our operations cover the United Arab the US and Caribbean that cost 72m net been to invest in the business, develop Emirates UAE, Oman and Saudi Arabia, of Group Volatility Cover recovery.
We also our technical insurance capability, with headquarters in Bahrain.
RSA owns saw adverse large loss volatility against enhance our customer proposition 50 percent of its Middle East business.
long run trends, and high claims inflation in and improve cost efficiency to enable our Household book.
We have been frontRSA to compete in the top quartile Our portfolio is well balanced across footed in our pricing and underwriting of our competitor set.
all lines of business and distribution remediation for the challenges we saw channels, with brokers a strong channel Our improvement programme is on in 2017, and expect to see the benefits of track and delivering the required in all markets.
these actions from mid 2018 onwards.
capability to adapt and succeed in UK market context the evolving market.
2017 has been In spite of these adverse market The UK is a large, mature and stable another year of significant delivery in conditions, the underlying momentum market with high levels of competition.
terms of streamlining and automating of the UK business sustained through the Personal Lines is particularly competitive processes, replacing our legacy year.
Net written premiums increased with a strong focus on price as a result technology, introducing new pricing 3 percent at constant exchange, including of the role of aggregators, and increasing and underwriting tools and developing 7 percent growth in Personal Lines, pressure to improve digital capabilities a new operating model.
underpinned by strength in motor in line with customer expectations telematics.
Policy count rose 2 percent Outlook and needs.
Commercial Lines have in Personal and Commercial net written Our business is building the agility it experienced prolonged soft market premiums were flat at constant FX in a needs to meet the evolving needs of conditions, increasing the importance customers and a sustainable base competitive market.
We saw positive of brand reputation and broker from which to achieve best-in-class trends in net promoter scores.
For the UK & International We anticipate that these positive region as a whole, we retain the trends will be sustained.
The implications of the EU referendum performance ambition of a sustainable have brought a level of uncertainty for In achieving this, we continue to see 94 percent combined ratio.
the UK market that will take time to play the benefits of our emphasis on building out.
RSA is well placed, with no significant strong relationships with partners.
structural or passporting challenges In December, we successfully launched likely as a result of EU exit.
In 2017, the our new distribution partnership with UK market began to see inflationary Nationwide Building Society, making trends in claims costs which are creating us one of the largest writers of home upward pressure on prices, reflected insurance business in the UK.
secured renewals with other key partners Challenges in our UK business and signed new long term distribution relationships.
Our 2017 result in the UK was affected by a number of material market events, reflected in a higher combined ratio 1 of 102.0 percent 2016: 95.4 percent.
P roforma for share of aggregate reinsurance Stephen Lewis recoveries and excludes the impact of the Ogden rate change.
For more information CEO, UK and International see page 197.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 Regional review continued Leveraging our expertise to We also share our knowledge and expertise build a sustainable future in other forums to support wider research The unique insight we have built as a leading and development of approaches to protecting insurer in the renewable energies market against climate-related risks.
Our Group enables us to anticipate and evaluate new Chief Financial Officer, Scott Egan, represents technology and innovation in this area and, RSA on the ClimateWise Insurance Advisory through this knowledge, reduce the risks and Council, which this year has been leading costs associated with renewable energies.
research exploring how climate models We have developed sector specialisms around can identify geographical concentrations our renewable expertise, with a particular of climate risk within real estate lending focus on wind and solar.
This year we have and investment portfolios.
been appointed as lead London insurer for the delivery of the 800MW Muhammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Phase III Solar Farm project.
This project will support Dubais ambition to generate 75 percent of its energy through renewable sources by 2050.
For over 30 years, RSA has been a lead insurer of renewable energy We bolstered this position through We expect underlying positive premium investment in our customer and digital trends to continue into 2018, and weather capability, completing phase one of and large losses to return towards long our new Digital Platform, a substantial term trend levels.
IT infrastructure programme that will Ireland financial performance improve and simplify our customer Our Irish business has returned to profit, experience across all our Personal delivering an underwriting result of Lines products.
Internally, our digital 9.5m and a combined ratio of 97 percent.
improvement agenda has continued to Whilst there is more to do to ensure deliver benefits by simplifying processes this result is sustained, we are seeing to free up employee time for higher value the benefit of coupling discipline in our and specialist tasks, and enhancing our underwriting with empathetic and high data analytics capabilities to give them the quality customer service.
information they need to do the job well.
For example, the year saw RSA supporting Increasingly, we are building improved those hardest hit by Storm Ophelia the customer insight in our product design strongest eastern Atlantic hurricane on and development.
For example, our record by providing information and Nationwide partnership is built around support via text message ahead of the a flexible policy that allows customers worst of the damage.
Our claims surge to pick and mix their level of cover, after plan supported customers at speed, research indicated that only paying for servicing some 1,200 related claims the cover required was a primary factor in the weeks following the storm, in choosing a provider.
In the Commercial and maintaining the usual service space, our specialist knowledge of sectors levels in responding to calls.
such as property, marine and renewables gives us the capability to tailor our offer Middle East financial performance to meet business needs.
The Middle East delivered an underwriting result of 25m with an excellent combined We recognise too the importance of ratio of 87.7 percent, despite challenging contributing to the communities we are a economic conditions.
Our long standing partnership with brand refresh of Al Ahlia, our direct-tothe School for Social Entrepreneurs pairs consumer brand, and several regional its students with mentors from across insurance awards for the business.
RSA, helping them to gain the skills and knowledge to become successful social The medium term outlook is positive enterprise leaders.
In the Commercial and work is underway to further develop broker market, weve continued our capabilities, including underwriting support for these important partners and pricing sophistication.
through our Broker Leader Programme, which provides career development and training to up and coming talent.
32 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017
