Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Market review Financial performance m 2017 2016 UK 5,7 Adjusted operating profit 2,201 1,946 6 Cash remittances 1,800 1,187 6 Operating expenses 1,493 1,408 6 Solvency II Value of New Business VNB 527 429 6,8 Combined Operating Ratio COR 93.9% 93.9% Overview UK Insurance was created in 2017 by bringing our UK life, health and 1 Aviva is the UKs largest insurer with a 18% share of the UK life and general insurance businesses together under a common leadership 2 savings market, a 10% share of the UK General Insurance and team to unlock the potential of our unique position as a large scale Health market.
We offer a market leading range of propositions to composite.
The business delivered an increase of 13% in adjusted individual and corporate customers covering their savings, 5,7 operating profit to 2,201 million 2016: 1,946 million, including a retirement, insurance and health needs.
We also have one of the 6% increase from our legacy and core product segments.
largest legacy books in the UK life and pensions market.
demonstrating the value of our market leading franchise.
Dealing We look after over 260 billion of assets for our customers, with the main components of UK Insurance in turn: helping people save for their long-term goals, in particular their 5,7 UK life adjusted operating profit increased by 15% to 1,758 retirement.
A key focus is on helping our customers provide for a million 2016: 1,523 million driven by an improvement in new more comfortable retirement.
We support them with secure income business profit, continued growth of the long-term savings from annuities, paying out over 2.6 billion each year.
And we are a franchise, further optimisation of the annuity asset mix and an leading supplier of equity release lifetime mortgages, lending over additional 139 million year on year benefit arising from the 3 700 million in 2017. annual assumptions review, including longevity.
Profit before tax Market leading service is at the heart of our business and we 7 attributable to shareholders profits is broadly unchanged at insure 2.6 million motor customers and 2.8 million home 1,619 million 2016: 1,616 million, with the increase in adjusted customers.
Customers publicly review their claims experiences with 5,7 operating profit primarily offset by more favourable life Defaqto ratings of 5.0 for our Motor policies and 4.6 for Home 9 investment variances and economic assumption changes.
Over 4.5 million people rely on us to protect them and their 5,7 UK general insurance adjusted operating profit increased by 4% families financially against death or illness and we keep those to 408 million 2016: 392 million owing to an improvement in promises paying over 900 million in individual protection claims.
the underwriting result, reflecting broad-based organic premium We are also a leading supplier of services to the corporate growth of 4% and a continued focus on our core underwriting 4 marketplace, servicing 5 million customers, including 21% of the 5,7 competencies.
Adjusted operating profit in the prior year workplace pensions market.
We offer pensions, protection, and bulk excludes an exceptional charge of 475 million associated with annuity propositions to both large and small companies, as well as the change in the Odgen discount rate.
As the impact of Odgen on health and general insurance.
Our relationship management teams our current year results is not material, this has resulted in a profit work hard to ensure they understand our clients needs so we can 7 before tax attributable to shareholders profits of 336 million bring the best of what we have to offer so our corporate customers 7 2016: loss before tax attributable to shareholders profits of 246 can fulfil more of their requirements with Aviva.
We continue to support our corporate clients and the health of their employees with the launch of our low cost Health Essentials The Friends Life Part VII transfer was completed on 1 October 2017, products and the Aviva Wellbeing app.
Health Essentials enables delivering further capital benefits, with the final payment towards employers to offer simple top-up cancer and physiotherapy cover to 6 the 1 billion target to follow in 2018.
Special cash remittances of their employees, intended to complement care customers receive 500 million 2016: 250 million were made to Group during 2017 through NHS health services.
The Wellbeing app helps employees due to the Friends Life integration, taking the total paid to date to track and improve their overall wellbeing and better manage 750 million.
These remittances were a key driver behind an overall specific conditions and fitness priorities.
increase in the cash remitted to Group to 1,800 million 2016: We have access to customers across the UK through our 1,187 million.
UK general insurance cash remitted increased to unparalleled distribution network, with a growing Digital Direct 434 million 2016: 91 million, due to cash being used to fund an offering for sales and service, strong relationships with independent increase in the internal reinsurance arrangement in 2016. financial advisers, brokers, employee benefit consultants, banks 6 Operating expenses increased by 6% to 1,493 million 2016: and we have single-tie agreements with three of the largest estate 1,408 million as we invested in growth and simplification initiatives agencies.
in the second half of 2017, and incurred the cost of increased Among our many awards, we have won the Insurance Times general insurance levies.
Excluding these initiatives and levies, UK Insurer of the Year award four years running, Health insurer of the Insurance operating expenses were broadly flat, reflecting tight year at the Health Insurance Awards for the eighth year running in control of the direct expense base as we absorb growth.
2017, and Platform of the year in 2017 from the LangCat.
6 Solvency II VNB increased by 23% to 527 million 2016: 429 million with growth across all segments.
Annuities were impacted by a change in product and asset mix, offset by a 96 million benefit to VNB following a clarification to Solvency II transitional rules.
1 Association of British Insurers ABI 9 months to end Q3 2017.
3 Equity Release Council and ABI.
4 PRA returns and Aviva analysis.
5 Adjusted operating profit is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which is used by the Group to supplement the required disclosures under IFRS.
Please refer to note B in the Accounting Policies section, note 4 Segmental Information and Other Information within the Annual report and accounts for further information.
6 This is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which provides useful information to enhance the understanding of financial performance.
Further information on APMs, including a reconciliation to the financial statements where possible, can be found in the Other Information section of the Annual report and accounts.
7 The amounts shown above in respect of adjusted operating profit and profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits do not reconcile to the corresponding amounts in note 4 Segmental information within the Annual report and accounts due to i the inclusion of our Health business within UK general insurance and ii the reclassification of non-insurance business to Other Group activities.
8 The 2016 Combined Operating Ratio above excludes the impact of Ogden.
9 Further information in respect of life investment variances is included within the APM section in the Annual report and accounts.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 18 S S S St t t tra ra ra rate te te tegi gi gi gic repor c repor c repor c report t t t G G G Go o o overn vern vern vernan an an ance ce ce ce IF IF IF IFRS RS RS RS f f f fi i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c cia ia ia ial l l l st st st sta a a at t t temen emen emen ement t t ts s s s Oth O O Ot t ther in her in her in er inf f f for o o orma rma rma mati t t tio io io on n n n Market review Continued UK general insurance COR of 93.9% was stable year on year In general insurance, market conditions have remained excluding the one-off 2016 impact of the change in the Ogden competitive across our entire product range, and we expect that to discount rate, reflecting further improvement in the underlying continue.
In 2017, the UK Government changed the Ogden discount underwriting performance and premium growth, offset by lower rate, which is used by the courts to calculate awards for cases levels of prior year reserve releases, with weather experience involving bodily injury.
This increased the cost of bodily injury broadly flat.
However, the Government has agreed to review the way the rate is calculated.
We believe injured Operational highlights claimants should be fully compensated for the injuries they receive, Combining our life, general insurance and health operations in but it is also vital that individuals are not over-compensated to a the UK to form a single UK Insurance division.
This is helping us to level which increases the cost of insurance premiums for individuals build deeper relationships with our customers, clients and and businesses, large and small.
We have supported the need for motor insurance reform Transferring the Friends Life customers policies to the Aviva through our Road to Reform campaign.
We will continue to brand and welcoming them to the wide range of Aviva services champion Road to Reform until it becomes law and Aviva has and products.
promised to pass on 100% of the savings to its customers when it All UK customers who are registered on MyAviva are able to does.
manage their policies online, and we have 5.7 million active To keep things simple, were reviewing the number of variations registered customers by the end of 2017. of our products and intend to materially reduce them.
Were also To support business customers wishing to reduce defined benefit publishing guides to explain how an insurance premium is DB pension risk from their balance sheets, we have built up our calculated and offering specialist training programmes to help our DB fide-risking and bulk annuity capabilities from focussing on customer-facing teams recognise the needs of vulnerable smaller, sub-100 million schemes, to winning large schemes, for customers.
example the 600 million deal with Pearson covering around We strongly believe in harnessing Digital capabilities to benefit 2,400 members.
customers and will continue to be at the forefront of using We have secured a ten year distribution deal with HSBC to provide technology: we have made a strategic investment in start-up home and travel insurance to their customers through HSBCs Wealthify a robo-investment platform that allows customers to extensive digital channels, the branch network and over the save from as little as 1 with transparent fees.
This partnership is one of the UKs largest general customers in seconds or provide an insurance quote in minutes.
insurance bancassurance deals and presents us with significant Customers can make most claims online and we settle simple growth opportunities.
And we help people plan for the life they We continued to defend our customers against claims fraud, want in retirement with our Shape my Future tool.
cancelling over 9,000 fraudulent policies and detecting more than 89 million of suspect and fraudulent claims in 2017.
Priorities for 2018 Weve implemented our Ask It Never technology to some of our We will deliver growth by leveraging the power of Avivas breadth products.
Ask it Never uses advanced analytics, deep data and of offering within the UK to deliver compelling propositions to customer value to make smarter decisions.
We ask fewer meet our customer needs.
underwriting questions, making it as simple as possible for our Driving digitisation of the Insurance business through customer customers to find the best solution to suit their needs.
services, propositions and ensuring we are easy for customers to Aviva Plus is an initiative to reward loyal customers and tackle do business with us, however they choose.
Customers often get a low first year premium, Grow our business and deepen customer relationships by but see a much higher renewal quote in the second year.
We are expanding our propositions in targeted markets such as piloting a project with 50,000 customers to benefit from our corporate multinational, bulk purchase annuities, home, digital industry-first renewal price promise, which means that customers SME and wellbeing.
who sign up will pay less than new customers for their home or We will drive simplicity across our operating model for example motor insurance at renewal.
moving all savings products to a single platform to enable us to serve our customers simply through whichever channel they Market context and challenges choose, whether they are employees of a group pension scheme, Brexit continues to drive uncertainty, but we are well placed to advised clients or direct customers.
We will continue to lead the industry on the big customer issues We are continuing to prepare for regulatory change in our UK by implementing what theyve told us: simplifying our products markets, with the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID, and customer experience, increasing transparency and launching the Insurance Distribution Directive IDD and the General Data disruptive solutions to market.
We will meet our customers needs Protection Regulation GDPR coming into force in 2018. in ways that are easier and more convenient for them.
We continue to support our customers through the wide range of choices they have as they approach and move through their retirement with market leading propositions investment, drawdown, annuity, equity release, information through our Aviva Retirement Centre, online guides and tools and our in-house advice service, Aviva Financial Advice.
We look forward to further improvements in the market over the next two to three years.
We would like to see a fairer pension taxation system and a simpler regulatory environment which allows us to better serve the needs of our customers.
2018 will also see Auto-Enrolment minimum contributions start to increase from the current base of 1% employee contributions to 3% in April 2018, and then to 5% in April 2019.
This is a key period in establishing better retirement prospects for all UK workers.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 19 S S S St t t tra ra ra rate te te tegi gi gi gic repor c repor c repor c report t t t G G G Go o o overn vern vern vernan an an ance ce ce ce IF IF IF IFRS RS RS RS f f f fi i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c cia ia ia ial l l l st st st sta a a at t t temen emen emen ement t t ts s s s O O O Ot t t ther in her in her in her inf f f fo o o orma rma rma rmat t t tio io io ion n n n Market review Continued Market context and challenges During 2017 we experienced a number of challenges in the International Canadian market which have impacted on performance.
These included a second successive year of weather claims being adverse to the long-term average following numerous storms and the wildfires in British Columbia.
We experienced unfavourable changes in claims patterns, predominantly in our motor business, which affected prior year reserve development.
CANADA Overview Priorities for 2018 We are the second largest general insurance provider in the market Our primary focus is to return the business to target levels of place, providing a range of personal and commercial lines products 4 profitability.
We have a comprehensive plan to improve pricing, to over 2.8 million customers with an 10% market share.
Our business is primarily intermediated, sold through a network risk selection and indemnity management.
We diversified our We will continue to work with the regulator, leading the market distribution through the 2016 acquisition of RBC General Insurance changes motor product reform so that affordable insurance RBC GI and through affinity partnerships such as Maple Leaf Sports solutions can be provided to our customers.
We will invest in innovative digital experiences and propositions Our objective is to be the customer-centric leader in Canadian to disrupt the market and better serve our customers and our insurance by building on our strong service to customers and broker partners.
distributors, enhancing our digital capabilities and leading product innovation.
EUROPE Overview Financial performance Aviva has a focussed approach in Europe with insurance operations 3 in France, Italy, Poland, Ireland and Turkey.
m 2017 2016 1,5 Our European markets are a major contributor to the Group, Adjusted operating profit 46 269 2 Cash remittances 55 130 providing a valuable source of diversification.
2 Operating expenses 478 396 We have over nine million customers and operate a composite 2 Combined Operating Ratio COR 102.2% 93.0% model across all of our European businesses with the exception of Turkey where we offer life and savings products.
All percentage movements below are quoted in constant currency We are present in attractive markets where we have a unless otherwise stated.
competitive advantage and ability to source skills.
We believe this 1,5 In 2017, adjusted operating profit decreased by 84% to 46 offers us clear potential for future profitable growth whilst at the million 2016: 269 million.
The lower underwriting result was same time benefitting from positive economic outlook and resilient mainly driven by a change in the trend of prior year reserve economies.
development, which deteriorated from 130 million favourable to We remain cognisant of low interest rates and challenging 37 million unfavourable.
This change was the primary factor regulatory environments, and believe we are well positioned to behind a current year loss before tax attributable to shareholders succeed.
5 profits of 54 million 2016: profit before tax attributable to shareholders profit of 165 million.
Financial performance 2 Cash remittances have decreased to 55 million 2016: 130 1 m 2017 2016 million due to lower adjusted operating profit.
1,5 2 Adjusted operating profit 1,096 1,044 Operating expenses increased to 478 million 2016: 396 2 Cash remittances 485 449 million mainly due to a full twelve months of RBC GI.
2 2 Operating expenses 820 765 The combined operating ratio was 102.2% 2016: 93.0%.
2 Solvency II Value of New Business VNB 533 429 Excluding prior year development and adverse weather experience, 2 Combined Operating Ratio COR 93.3% 95.1% the COR was 3.0pp higher due to increased claims frequency and severity.
All percentage movements below are quoted in constant currency Operational highlights unless otherwise stated.
1,5 Integrated RBC GI with the implementation of Guidewire platform At an overall level, adjusted operating profit is down by 2% in 2017, an automated policy management and billing system.
However, our continuing businesses have 1,5 Launched an Accident & Health product for Commercial delivered an increase in adjusted operating profit of 7%, customers.
demonstrating the strength of our focussed approach.
Profit before 5 Released the Aviva Fraud report, the first of its kind in the industry, tax attributable to shareholders profits has increased to 1,044 raising public awareness on the impact of auto insurance fraud million 2016: 837 million, with the adverse impact of economic and the need for reforms.
assumption changes in France partly offset by the profit of 180 6 million arising as a result of the disposal of Antarius.
1 Adjusted operating profit is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which is used by the Group to supplement the required disclosures under IFRS.
2 This is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which provides useful information to enhance the understanding of financial performance.
3 Following the launch of UK insurance which brings UK Life, UK General Insurance and UK Health into a combined business, the Ireland Life and General Insurance businesses have been aligned to the new management structure and reported within Europe.
As a result, comparative balances have been restated.
This realignment was not implemented for cash remitted to Group, as this metric is managed at a legal entity level and Ireland constitutes a branch of the United Kingdom business.
4 Market Security & Analysis Inc. 2016 online database.
5 The amounts shown above in respect of adjusted operating profit and profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits do not reconcile to the corresponding amounts in note 4 Segmental information within the Annual report and accounts due to the reclassification of non-insurance business to Other Group activities.
6 Further information in respect of life investment variances is included within the APM section of the Annual report and accounts.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 20 S S S St t t tra ra ra rate te te tegi gi gi gic repor c repor c repor c report t t t G G G Go o o overn vern vern vernan an an ance ce ce ce IFR IF IF IFRS RS RS S f f f fi i i in n n nanci a a an n nc c cia ia ia al state l l l st st sta a at t temen emen emen ments t t ts s s O O O Ot t t ther in her in her in her inf f f fo o o orma rma rma rmat t t tio io io ion n n n Market review Continued 2 POLAND Cash remitted to the Group increased to 485 million 2016: We are a leading life insurer in Poland and also provides health 449 million mainly due to an increased dividend in France, and general insurance products through the largest direct sales partly offset by a reduction in cash remitted from Spain, networks, a financial adviser network and bancassurance following disposals.
The Solvency II Value of New Business SII VNB increased Our results in 2017 were driven by a rebound in general by 17%, and by 27% excluding disposed businesses, with strong insurance profitability.
The government has recently announced performance in Italy which was up 102% as a result of higher its intention to launch mandatory pension auto-enrolment unit-linked and hybrid product volumes and an improved providing further impetus to grow our life insurance business.
2 Operational and financial highlights in 2017 include: Operating expenses of 820 million 2016: 765 million were Introduced innovative products and launched MyAviva, an flat in constant currency, despite the significant increase in sales.
online customer self-service platform, leveraging group This includes a decrease due to the disposal of Ireland Health in capabilities.
2016, offset by the consolidation of the Polish joint ventures and 1,4 Delivered adjusted operating profit of 177 million 2016: investment in growth in our continuing businesses.
The European COR has improved by 1.8pp primarily due to 2 Frances COR reducing by 2.5pp due to lower large losses and In 2018, we will start developing a market leading composite improved claims experience.
Our claims ratio has decreased by insurance proposition via a mobile application while expanding 2.9pp to 63.1 % 2016: 66.0% with improvement across all functionalities of implemented digital solutions.
3 IRELAND FRANCE We are a market leading composite insurer with a multiWe offer a full range of life, general, protection, health insurance distribution network and strong brand presence.
With the and asset management products in France with significant announcement to acquire the life insurer, Friends First, we will strengths in distribution through large tied-agents, Financial become one of the largest composite insurers with market share Advisers, broker networks and direct to customers.
of 15% in Life and General Insurance.
France is a mature and stable market with an improved 1 The Irish economy shows signs of continued growth and we growth outlook and strengthened business confidence as a are well placed to benefit from government reform in general result of pro-business reforms led by the new government.
insurance compensation and pension auto-enrolment.
Operational and financial highlights in 2017 include: Operational and financial highlights in 2017 include: Improved the customer experience by making it easier for our Launched a new composite offering that rewards customer direct customers to do business with us and offering a loyalty.
composite set of products in our SME space.
1,4 Delivered adjusted operating profit of 86 million 2016: 80 Completed the sale of our shareholding in Antarius to Crdit million.
Excluding the Antarius disposal, delivered adjusted operating 1,4 In 2018, our plan is to integrate Friends First while continuing to profit of 507 million 2016: 422 million.
deliver differentiated digital products and services.
In 2018, we aim to digitise across all channels and implement differentiated customer propositions under a single Aviva brand to grow our customer base significantly.
ITALY We offer life, general and health insurance in Italy.
We distribute through two major bancassurance partnerships, multi-agents and Independent Financial Advisers.
Aviva Italy continues to grow in a stable market with good asset flows of 2.3 billion and a positive economic outlook.
Operational and financial highlights in 2017 include: Grew volumes of our capital-light hybrid product that combines unit-linked, with-profit and protection characteristics.
Announced the termination of our distribution agreement with Banco BPM S. p. A.
1,4 Delivered adjusted operating profit of 213 million 2016: 212 million.
In 2018, our priority is to implement a new strategy and increase digital capabilities to further enhance our customers experience.
4 The amounts shown above in respect of adjusted operating profit and profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits do not reconcile to the corresponding amounts in note 4 Segmental information within the Annual report and accounts due to the reclassification of non-insurance business to Other Group activities.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 21 S S S St t t tra ra ra rate te te tegi gi gi gic repor c repor c repor c report t t t G G G Go o o overn vern vern vernan an an ance ce ce ce IF IF IF IFRS RS RS RS f f f fi i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c cia ia ia ial l l l st st st sta a a at t t temen emen emen ement t t ts s s s O O O Ot t t ther in her in her in her inf f f fo o o orma rma rma rmat t t tio io io ion n n n Market review Continued have contributed to a loss before tax attributable to shareholders 3 profits of 146 million 2016: profit of 48 million.
Asia No dividends were remitted to Group during the year 2016: nil as we continue to reallocate capital to support growth initiatives.
2 Operating expenses increased by 13% to 207 million 2016: 177 million reflecting the additional half year of expenses from Vietnam, higher distribution costs to support volume growth in Overview and strategy Singapore and investment in digital and analytics capabilities.
2 We have presence in six markets across Asia, from large populous The SII VNB of our life businesses increased by 47% to 162 nations like China, India and Indonesia, to advanced regional million 2016: 106 million reflecting higher volumes from 2 wealth management centres such as Hong Kong and Singapore.
In China, SII VNB increased These markets provide an accessible population of around three to 45 million 2016: 19 million driven by sales growth in agency billion, and most of them have relatively low insurance penetrations and broker channels and higher interest rates.
2 compared to more developed Western markets.
This offers Net written premiums were 13 million 2016: 11 million.
deteriorated by 13.3pp to 123.2% 2016: 109.9% due to We currently provide life and health insurance solutions to unfavourable claims experience and the continued softening of around 4.2 million customers across our markets in Asia.
We market premium rates for motor insurance in Singapore.
operate a multi-distribution strategy which includes tied agency, financial advisers, bancassurance, digital, telemarketing, direct Operational highlights sales force and group.
We established Asia Digital located in the Singapore Digital Our strategy is to disrupt current market practices by placing a Garage to accelerate the delivery of our Digital First strategy greater emphasis on our customers.
We offer products individually using global assets such as MyAviva, websites, marketing and or in tailored combinations to meet their needs and create real analytics systems.
value in line with our multi-distribution strategy.
We continued to work with partners, Hillhouse Capital and Investment in distribution channels, digital and analytics Tencent, to create Hong Kongs first truly digital insurer capabilities continued throughout 2017.
We are starting to see the We acquired the remaining 50% shareholding from VietinBank to benefits of earlier investments in Singapore and China, and the form Aviva Vietnam in April and entered into a long-term overall repositioning of Asia is now starting to take shape.
distribution agreement with the bank to sell products through its network Financial performance We announced the disposal of FPI which will enable us to focus on allocating capital to areas where we can generate strong m 2017 2016 returns 1,3 228 Adjusted operating profit 227 2 Cash remittances 2 Market context and challenges Operating expenses 207 177 2 Solvency II Value of New Business SII VNB 162 106 We believe the long-term favourable trends of the emerging middle- 2 Combined Operating Ratio COR 123.2% 109.9% class, increasing awareness in retirement planning and a growing market share in healthcare will persist across the region.
We also believe Asia will continue to outperform other markets in insurance All percentage movements below are quoted in constant currency unless otherwise stated.
1,3 The increased use of digital applications in our daily lives and a Adjusted operating profit from our Life and General Insurance and health businesses remained broadly flat at 227 million 2016: heightened sense of fintech development play to our strengths in digital and innovation.
We are encouraged by multiple Asian 228 million.
Excluding Friends Provident International FPI, life 1,3 adjusted operating profit increased by 10% to 116 million 2016: governments support in this area and we are ever more enthused in seeing consumers rapid adoption.
101 million driven by higher profit generated from existing business in China, coupled with new business growth in Singapore Priorities for 2018 from its financial advisory channel which was partially offset by our We will continue to execute and accelerate the growth of our continued investments in digital and analytics capabilities.
1,3 financial adviser platforms in Singapore and look to maximise the Including FPI, life adjusted operating profit was broadly expertise to capture similar opportunities in other Asian markets unchanged at 235 million 2016: 241 million.
We will continue to invest in our digital business and distribution The general insurance and health business reported a 8 million channels so that we can improve customer experiences, innovate loss 2016: 13 million loss as a result of higher claims experience and respond quickly to the changing needs of our customers and from our health business in Singapore partly offset by an input tax broker partners refund from the local authority.
We will accelerate our operational efficiency through Our announcement to dispose of FPI and Taiwan resulted in a digitalisation and optimisation of structures and processes loss of 125 million as these businesses have been remeasured at fair value.
A further charge of 65 million has arisen as a result of an annual impairment review of our investment in India.
These charges 1 Adjusted operating profit is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which is used by the Group to supplement the required disclosures under IFRS.
Please refer to note B in the Accounting Policies section, note 4 Segmental Information and Other Information within the Annual report and accountsAnnual report and accounts for further information.
3 The amounts shown above in respect of adjusted operating profit and profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits do not reconcile to the corresponding amounts in note 4 Segmental information within the Annual report and accounts due to the reclassification of non-insurance business to Other Group activities.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 22 S S S St t t tra ra ra rate te te tegi gi gi gic repor c repor c repor c report t t t G G G Go o o overn vern vern vernan an an ance ce ce ce IF IF IF IFRS RS RS RS f f f fi i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c cia ia ia ial l l l st st st sta a a at t t temen emen emen ement t t ts s s s O O O Ot t t ther in her in her in her inf f f fo o o orma rma rma rmat t t tio io io ion n n n Market review Continued 2 Assets under management increased by 3% to 353.2 billion 2016: 344.5 billion due to a combination of net fund inflows of 1.6 Aviva Investors billion, favourable foreign exchange rate movements of 3.3 billion, favourable liquidity movements of 1.9 billion and the effect of market movements of 2.6 billion offset by the disposal of the Real Estate fund of 0.7 billion.
Overview and strategy Operational highlights We are Avivas global asset management business with expertise in We achieved significant growth in our AIMS range of funds, with 2 multi-asset, fixed income, equity, real estate and alternative the combined assets under management increasing from 9 investments.
We currently invest more than 353 billion on behalf of billion to 12.6 billion.
our customers across a number of major markets.
This gives us the We added to our range of outcome-oriented funds with the size and scale to successfully seek out opportunities that will deliver launch of our Alternative Investment Solutions aimed at specific investor outcomes.
Institutional investors looking for long-term income and can Our aim is to be a global leader in outcome-oriented investing, invest in multiple illiquid asset classes.
leveraging our international reach and expertise to solve our clients We secured significant mandate wins in global high yield, problems most notably with the Aviva Investors Multi-Strategy emerging market debt, long income real estate and illiquid AIMS range of funds and increase investments in real assets such alternatives.
as real estate and infrastructure debt and equity.
In a world of low interest rates and Solvency II, we provide the Market context and challenges The uncertainty of Brexit remains a challenge for the asset solutions for the Group to achieve the returns it needs.
Aviva Investors already has a significant winning solutions to the Group and external investors alike.
presence in France, Luxembourg and Warsaw and have been Avivas development of the digital platform provides us with looking at all outcomes.
significant opportunities with direct clients: if these clients select The asset management industry is under intense pressure to Aviva Investor funds on Avivas digital platforms, we are confident demonstrate value to customers and in June the Financial Conduct that they will benefit from a high quality solution and a seamless Authority FCA announced the findings of its asset management customer experience.
market study, highlighting that there is room for improvement.
We Financial performance believe outcome orientated investing aligns well with these findings and we support the push for greater transparency: it is imperative m 2017 2016 we can prove our value to society and demonstrate how we can 1 139 Fund management adjusted operating profit 168 support economic growth and development.
Revenue 577 506 2 Market conditions have been benign despite considerable Operating expenses 409 367 2 economic and geo-political uncertainty.
These conditions have Cash remittances 58 39 2 Assets under management 353bn 345bn rewarded high levels of exposure to market risk, making strategies with good downside protection strategies look less attractive in the We have made progress in externalising the business and short term.
We continue to invest in our Global Responsible Investing developing higher value outcome-oriented propositions for our clients.
credentials, winning the coveted Responsible Investor Innovation 1 and Industry Leadership award.
Environmental and social thinking Fund management adjusted operating profit increased by 21% to 168 million driven by growth in revenue, with operating and governance ESG is embedded within our investment decision making process across all asset classes.
Read more in the expenses increasing at a slower rate.
This led to a 2pp improvement 1 in the adjusted operating profit margin, calculated as fund Corporate responsibility section later in this report.
1 management adjusted operating profit expressed as a percentage Priorities for 2018 of revenue, to 29% 2016: 27%.
We will improve our already strong investment performance Revenue has increased by 14% to 577 million due to the full through better research, challenge and debate, higher conviction year impact of on-boarding 14 billion of Friends Life assets in 2016, and improved portfolio construction.
a 40% growth in the AIMS assets under management to 12.6 billion We will grow and protect our asset base by investing in 2016: 9.0 billion and a 24% increase in the origination of distribution and creating attractive savings solutions for the rest infrastructure assets to 4.1 billion 2016: 3.3 billion.
revenue from external clients increased to 34% 2016: 32%.
2 We will simplify our business by removing complexity, introducing Operating expenses increased to 409 million 2016: 367 robotics for routine tasks and leveraging big data to give us better million.
Cost increases have been controlled and reflect the insights.
investment required to support the growth of the business.
We will accelerate our Real Assets business, with a particular Integration and restructuring costs were 3 million 2016: 19 emphasis on the origination of illiquid assets to support Avivas million.
2 expected growth in bulk purchase annuities.
Cash remitted to Group increased by 49% to 58 million 2016: We will further embed our risk and control framework to look after 39 million due to growth in the profitability of the business.
customers and shareholders better and protect our reputation.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 23
