Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Our strategy How weve progressed Expanding our range Our strategy We are continuing to expand our range of customer propositions to be a True Customer Composite across our geographies, and making it easier and more rewarding for customers to manage multiple products with Aviva through digital.
We have made progress in the strategic partnership market, in particular with expanding the number of insurance products Our strategy focuses on the things that really matter, puts the we provide to existing clients, such as HSBC.
customer at the heart of everything we do and provides clear Rewarding our customers loyalty is central to our True direction across all our markets for how we run our business.
For example, we give multiplehave classified these in three key areas: product discounts to customers who purchase products through True Customer Composite MyAviva.
Digital First We are expanding our offerings to help our customers Not Everywhere reduce their risks, for example we have launched a weather app in France which led to lower flood claims in motor compared to True Customer Composite other insurers as it provided customers with foresight of weather We are a True Customer Composite, giving customers the warnings.
We also offer the Wellbeing app in the UK to support a confidence and control to be ready for lifes opportunities and healthier lifestyle beyond just exercise and nutrition advice.
We can protect whats important to customers through life, Enhancing My Aviva general and health insurance and help customers save for the With MyAviva, we give our customers access to all their products future through life and pension products underpinned by our in one place and let them easily make changes to their policies asset management capability.
We are the only composite insurer or get the latest deal.
We now have MyAviva in the UK, Canada.
Ireland, France, Poland, Singapore and Italy.
We recognise customers often have relationships with Aviva Why its important through the companies they work for, through a financial Customers have a wide range of insurance, protection and adviser, or directly with us.
MyAviva helps to bridge all three savings needs, and can find it challenging to manage them all.
This is particularly They find themselves with multiple products from different important when our customers change jobs or move house.
This is not what they tell us they want: what they want During 2017, we launched a pilot in the UK to work closely is a simple way to meet their insurance and savings needs.
True with some of our key corporate clients in order to develop a Customer Composite means meeting all these needs deeper, broader understanding of their business and objectives.
individually or in tailored combinations in a convenient, easy to This pilot successfully allowed us to align client objectives to understand and timely manner.
True Customer Composite also means valuing and rewarding customers for making the choice to have a deeper, Acquisitions more loyal relationship with us.
In 2017 we announced our acquisition of Friends First in Ireland, For Aviva, this means increased customer engagement and which will strengthen our life business in Ireland once the retention, and driving towards more cost effective operations.
This supports our True While our overall global Net Promotor Score NPS has shown Customer Composite model as it strengthens both capabilities an unwelcome decline, there have been positive improvements and distribution for the Life business in Ireland.
Customers with more than one Aviva product are far more likely to advocate the brand: multi-product customers Digital First have a NPS of 47pts versus customers with one product.
This is how we will capitalise on being a True In a digital world, being a True Customer Composite Customer Composite.
With their busy lives, customers and provides a tangible competitive advantage.
Digital allows us to businesses, large and small, are increasingly turning to digital to introduce our customers to our composite range of products make things more convenient and quicker.
and offerings in a more effective manner than traditional channels.
Why its important In the past, although the financial benefits of our composite We want to be a 320 year old disruptor in an industry model were clear such as lower capital requirements through dominated by complexity.
diversifying our risk, few customers held more than one Aviva Our purpose is to help customers Defy Uncertainty to face product because our business was distributed almost solely lifes uncertainties with confidence.
Digital tools allow Aviva to through intermediaries.
offer the convenience, simplicity and rewards to earn our customers trust, so that we can help more customers protect what matters to them and save for anything from a comfortable retirement, to a new house or family members.
Avivas digital investment delivers innovative propositions and a better experience for customers.
Stronger digital capability leads to more efficient operational processes so that we can serve customers faster and cheaper.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 09 S S St t tra ra rate te tegi gi gic repor c repor c report t t G G Go o overn vern vernan an ance ce ce IF IF IFRS RS RS f f fi i in n na a an n nc c cia ia ial l l st st sta a at t temen emen ement t ts s s O O Ot t ther in her in her inf f fo o orma rma rmat t tio io ion n n Our strategy Continued Technology offers us the opportunity to do far more to help Globally, our digital customers have NPS that is 24 points our customers Defy Uncertainty.
Aviva will focus increasingly on higher than non-digital customers delivering products and services to customers more in control In the UK, Avivas digital users are more positive about their and allow them to have a more active hand in steering what lies customer experience than digital users of our competitors 27 ahead.
NPS score for Aviva versus 19 NPS for competitors In 2018, Aviva will offer more proactive ways for people to Globally, among our digital customers 69% are likely to manage their health, wealth and safety giving them the consider Aviva for other products, compared to 52% of nonconfidence to be ready for lifes opportunities as well as its digital customers challenges.
In the UK, 69% of MyAviva registered customers are likely to consider Aviva for other products and services compared to How weve progressed just 53% of those not registered on MyAviva Space to innovate Weve created Digital Garages in London, Singapore and Reinventing insurance Canada, and digital spaces in our Paris, Warsaw, Bristol and We want to reinvent insurance for the digital age, to make it Norwich offices.
They are catalysts for digital innovation, where simple and accessible for our customers and to challenge creative minds collaborate to turn ideas into new products and traditional distribution and marketing methods.
Examples of this are: venture in Hong Kong aims to do just that.
Our partners, Our chatbots help customers in seconds or provide an Hillhouse and Tencent, have tremendous investment and digital insurance quote in minutes expertise.
Together we want to shake up the Hong Kong Customers can make most claims online and we settle simple insurance market, which currently relies on expensive claims within seconds intermediaries, by offering a superior digital solution so that We give people a discount for driving safely through our Aviva insurance meets our customers needs.
We are planning to Drive App launch a joint proposition in the first half of 2018, pending We help people plan for the life they want in retirement with regulatory approval.
our Shape my Future tool We explain insurance jargon in a simple way through Our Alexa Aviva Ventures builds portfolio Skill Aviva Ventures is our corporate venture capital fund.
It looks for and makes investments in start-ups that have an alignment to Quote me happy the future of the insurance market.
com was our first success in the Digital First expanded the portfolio as well as extending its appetite into story and it keeps on growing it now has over one million making fund investments.
We have made investments in six new customers.
It offers low-cost car and home insurance in the UK companies: Roost US, Casalova Canada, Neos UK, Owlstone and is only available online.
Our fully self-service insurance gives Medical UK, Savari and Biofourmis both Singapore bringing customers the flexibility to manage their policies online, such as the total direct investments to ten.
We have also deployed downloading documents and making changes to their policy.
capital into Anthemis Fintech fund and Aquilines Technology And because they deal with us digitally, we are able to offer our Growth fund.
By working with these innovative companies, Aviva customers lower prices.
is able to stay at the forefront of the fast paced world of digital innovation.
What we are doing differently now and for the future Working with others to benefit our customers Not Everywhere Were working with some of the brightest companies around the Not Everywhere means that we deploy our resources where we world to innovate so that our customers can benefit.
We are not interested in planting flags We invest in cutting edge tech start-ups that shape the or being in 100 countries.
We focus on a select number of future of insurance through Aviva Ventures, our corporate markets and business lines where we have scale and profitability venture capital fund.
An example being the investment in or a distinct competitive advantage where we can win.
Owlstone Medical who developed a device that can read chemicals in breath and detect early stages of cancer.
Why its important Were partnering with start-ups to trial innovative customer It is about focussing our resources where we can be most solutions, including through Founders Factory who help startcompetitive and doing a relatively small number of things well, ups build and scale.
rather than casting our net too widely.
In the UK weve agreed to make a strategic investment in Not Everywhere is also about capital allocation.
We allocate start-up Wealthify a robo-investment platform that allows capital to the markets, businesses and products that offer the customers to save from as little as 1 with transparent fees.
most attractive returns, looking at it through three lenses: strategic, financial and execution.
Ask it Never Ask it Never is our ambition to make insurance simpler and How are we progressing?
easier for customers using data and analytics to improve the In 2017 we largely completed the restructuring of our businesses customer journey.
In 2017 we launched a market leading Home to narrow our focus on what we can do best.
Insurance proposition which allows customers to get an instant In 2017, we announced the sale of Friends Provident price in MyAviva and buy in less than two minutes with minimal International, a major part of our Spanish business and our 49% questions.
In 2018 we plan to extend our ambition to create a stake in our joint venture in Taiwan.
suite of customer friendly experiences on MyAviva.
Major Markets and Strategic Investments How we measure success Our Major Markets and Strategic investments categorisation We see digital experiences as one of the best ways to drive shows how Avivas markets and business lines contribute to our customer preference for the Aviva brand.
While our overall overall portfolio, either now or in the future.
global NPS declined, digital scores were positive: Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 10 S S St t tra ra rate te tegi gi gic repor c repor c report t t G G Go o overn vern vernan an ance ce ce IF IF IFRS RS RS f f fi i in n na a an n nc c cia ia ial l l st st sta a at t temen emen ement t ts s s Oth O Ot ther in her in er inf f for o orma rma mati t tio io on n n Our strategy Continued Major markets: solid growth, sustainable cash We are focussed on eight attractive, growing markets where we are, or have the potential to the best in class.
It is these businesses that will underpin the cash flow plus growth strategy.
Our major markets are: UK number one composite insurer providing a core growth engine and high levels of sustainable cash flow France a cash generator underpinned by strong distribution Canada leading general insurance franchise with attractive cross-cycle returns Poland high ROE business with strong distribution and digital credentials Italy rebounding economic opportunity providing strong net flows Ireland a leading brand in a growth economy with accelerated development of the composite model Singapore an innovative strategy to accelerate development of the financial advisory channel in an attractive growth market Aviva Investors a growth engine underpinned by increasing third party assets and delivering rising income and falling costs Strategic investments: future, fast growth We have made a number of strategic investments that will accelerate growth and provide increased value over the long term.
These investments are: Digital leading intellectual property IP being rolled out across our markets China delivering strong growth in sales and adjusted operating profit in one of the worlds largest insurance markets Hong Kong joint venture with Tencent and Hillhouse focussed on digital disruption Turkey leading position in the life and pensions market and exposure to a large, young and growing population Indonesia bancassurance venture in an under-penetrated, high growth emerging market India we are reassessing our options given changes in market fundamentals Vietnam leading business in one of the fastest growing Asian economies Global Corporate Solutions GCS selective expansion provides a natural extension to our existing strength in retail and commercial lines Read about our businesses at www.
com investors ourstrategy Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 11
