156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 18 Governance Report Board of Directors PaulTrickett, Chairman Appointed: 30 January 2013 Shareholding in the Company: 6,860 Ordinary Shares Paul is a non executive director on a number of companies.
As well as chairing Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust, he also chairs Railpen Investments and sits on the Board of Aviva Life UK and Thomas Miller Holdings.
He also chairs the Advisory Board of Muse Advisory and is Trustee of the Mineworkers Pension Scheme.
He retired from a full time executive career in 2013 where he was latterly a Managing Director at Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
Julia Le Blan Appointed: 29 January 2014 and is a member of the Audit Committee Shareholding in the Company: 3,000 Ordinary Shares Julia is a chartered accountant and has worked in the financial services industry for over 30 years.
She was formerly a tax partner at Deloitte and expert on the taxation of investment trust companies.
She sat for two terms on the AICs technical committee and is also a director of The Biotech Growth Trust plc, F&CUKHigh Income Trust plc, Impax Environmental Markets plc and JPMorgan USSmaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Paula Hay-Plumb Appointed: 29 January 2014 Shareholding in the Company: 2,100 Ordinary Shares Paula is a chartered accountant and an experienced director with a wealth of finance and governance expertise in both the private and public sectors.
Her previous roles include Corporate Finance and Group Reporting Director at Marks and Spencer plc, Chairman of the National Australia Group Common Investment Fund and non-executive board member of Skipton Building Society and the National Audit Office.
Paula is currently a non-executive board member of The Crown Estate, Hyde Housing Association and Oxford University Hospitals NHSFoundation Trust and a Trustee of Calthorpe Estates.
David Jeffcoat Appointed: 22 July 2009 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee Shareholding in the Company: 7,926 Ordinary Shares David began his career as a production engineer at Jaguar Cars.
After qualifying as an accountant FCMA several years later, he held a number of senior positions including subsidiary-level Finance Director at GlaxoWellcome plc and Group Financial Controller at Smiths Industries plc.
More recently he was Group Finance Director and Company Secretary at Ultra Electronics Holdings plc from 2000 until 2009.
He is a Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of WYG plc.
He also works as a volunteer Citizens Adviser.
RichardRae Appointed: 26 January 2012 and is a member of the Audit Committee Shareholding in the Company: 4,000 Ordinary Shares Richard qualified as a chartered accountant with KPMG and joined Hoare Govett as an investment analyst in 1987.
He spent 22 years working in investment research and equities management, latterly as a Managing Director, responsible for smaller companies, in the Global Equities division of ABN AMRO.
Since 2009, he has established himself as an independent management consultant providing corporate advice to both listed and unlisted companies.
He is also a director of Maistro plc and Chaarat Gold Holdings Limited.
18 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
