Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Business model Business model Aviva exists to help our 33 million customers Defy Uncertainty.
We give our customers the confidence and control to be ready for lifes opportunities and challenges.
It defines and differentiates us.
It helps us meet our customers needs Values Strengths Skills Strategy Our values are at the heart of We have unique strengths as a We have a great range and blend Our strategic framework focuses how we do business.
They are business that gives us a significant of skills: on the things that really matter how we must operate: competitive advantage: Digital innovation and puts the customer at the Care More Brand strength Data science heart of what we do: Kill Complexity Financial strength Customer experience True Customer Composite Never Rest Customer understanding Underwriting Digital First Create Legacy Multi-distribution Risk management Not Everywhere Multi-product Claims management Asset & liability management Capital allocation through our products, services and markets Life insurance General insurance Health and protection Asset management Retirement income, savings and Home, motor, travel, commercial Private medical life, critical Investing for external clients and pensions and pet illness, income protection investing for Aviva where premiums and cash are reinvested Customers pay insurance Customers invest their savings with We also invest the insurance Making sure that customers stay premiums which we use to pay us.
We manage these investments premiums we receive to with us for the long term is claims.
Our scale enables us to to provide them with an income for generate income to meet our important to the future success pool the risks.
We maintain a more secure future.
obligations to customers and to of our business.
capital strength so we can be generate value for shareholders.
there for our customers in the future creating sustainable value for Customers benefit from a range We create value for shareholders Our aim is for our people to We play a significant role in our of products to meet their needs, by using our profits to reinvest and achieve their potential within a communities, including as a with easy access when and how grow the business and pay out diverse, collaborative and major employer and a long-term they want it.
34.6 billion 27.40 pence 75% 2,400 Paid out in benefits and claims to Total dividend up 18% Increased our employee Community projects supported our customers in 2017 engagement score by one in 2017. percentage point Read about our business at www.
com about-us our-businesses Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 08
