Market context RESPONDING TO CHANGING MARKET DYNAMICS AND INSURANCE THEMES As global markets respond to changing macro and insurance drivers, RSA is well placed to deliver against customer and industry needs now and in the future GLOBAL MACRO THEMES ECONOMIC POLITICAL Growth in global economies is evident, though with New phase of unsettled geopolitical activity fuelled underlying challenges.
The global economy has returned to good growth following the G20 economies are introducing new protectionist trade measures financial crisis, although there are some doubts about sustainability at a faster pace.
This introduces new political tensions, which is complicated Continuing concerns over the occurrence of asset bubbles, levels of by existing longer term tensions in Russia, Middle East and Asia.
debt and the interconnected nature of economies requires caution.
These rising tensions could impact on global economic growth, Globalisation and trade agreements have faced criticism, introduce sudden shocks and fuel social unrest.
amid some protectionist reactions in established economies.
RSA point of view RSA point of view Our regional footprint enables us to be resilient to macro-political Global insurance volumes are relatively insensitive to normal risks, and most of our business is local and locally incorporated fluctuations in GDP growth At an operational level, our Brexit preparation plans are progressing Our focused footprint in established markets and low risk and well, notwithstanding some uncertainty well-matched approach to investments provides some resilience Our international Commercial Lines are only modestly exposed against negative economic shocks to trade volumes.
While focused on a small number of core markets, our longstanding global network platform enables us to write global risks in a controlled fashion through locally established insurers.
SOCIAL TECHNOLOGICAL & DIGITAL As an insurer we must evolve our products and services Digitisation and new technologies are creating opportunities to reflect social trends.
As a business we must also be and threats for incumbents.
conscious of, and meet, societys expectations of us.
Digitisation is enabling significant shifts in customer expectations and demands.
Polarising social views, including some reaction against inequality.
Traditional products and business models are being challenged with a Aging population.
greater focus on ease and simplicity, and changing views on consumer Litigious culture, higher ongoing compensation awards wants and needs.
and more expensive vehicle parts have all contributed to Previous technological breakthroughs have disrupted the job pattern the rising cost of driving, particularly for young people.
although ultimately created growth and new jobs.
It is unclear whether RSA point of view the introduction of robotics and artificial intelligence will follow a similar trend.
For over 300 years, RSAs core values and social purpose has been to be there for our customers in a crisis RSA point of view Development of programmes to train staff in new skills We are continuing to invest for our customers, be that through Care taken in policies for vulnerable customers better customer journeys, new products or digital interfaces Business focused on mainstream customer needs We can be more competitive through harnessing big data and and product areas of value across the age spectrum advanced modelling capability to assess and price risk more efficiently Telematics proposition provides affordable insurance We are also evolving our technical capability strategy and for young drivers.
staff development programmes in the light of the changing mix of skills needed.
6 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report INSURANCE THEMES NEW TECHNOLOGY CLIMATE CHANGE & Technology is affecting the insurance value chain: EXTREME WEATHER Fintech investment has been high for a number of years and Climate change poses risks to people, property and the arguably UK Personal Lines have already been disrupted by natural environment: aggregators over the last 10 years.
High distribution costs Catastrophic event weather insured losses have increased may continue to be a target for disruption fourfold over the past 30 years Automation technologies have become common practice, RSAs reinsurance treaties ensure that our exposure is within our driving efficiency and supporting better customer experience risk appetite, but we also promote prevention, investment in civil RSA is continuously investing in the technological agenda, defences and risk pooling schemes to preserve access to insurance including Telematics, pricing sophistication, claims automation As well as responding to specific events for our customers, and digitisation of distribution and customer service.
RSA is committed to reducing carbon emissions and achieved a 4.3 percent reduction in carbon emissions per full time equivalent employee in 2017.
Our targets are achieved through a range of measures, including reducing business travel and improving operational efficiency We also partner with pioneers in the low-carbon agenda as the leading insurer of off-shore wind farms and insurer of the worlds largest single-site solar plant.
BREXIT INFLATION In relation to Brexit, we are in the process of setting up a Several of our markets are observing claims inflation trends: new operation in Luxembourg as the headquarters of our Our businesses are alert to inflationary pressures, existing European Union EU Commercial Lines branches in terms of both claims and operational costs in Belgium, France, Germany, Spain and the Netherlands: We seek to reflect emerging inflation quickly in pricing While Brexit is not a major issue for RSA, the move allows or management of claims supply chain the sensible configuration of the European branch network The disposal of long tail UK legacy liabilities early in the in light of the UKs exit from the EU year has reduced exposure to inflation risk.
The project is proceeding well and is scheduled to complete in 2018.
CYBER RISK ECONOMIC The cyber insurance market is rapidly expanding as the Markets have seen significant volatility with yields around frequency, severity and sophistication of attacks increases: historic lows, although expected to increase moderately, and Sterling materially weakened: RSA has developed a number of cyber specific products and continues to engage with customer demand The continuation of the low yield environment mandates a higher focus on underwriting discipline and cost management More broadly, the European General Data Protection Regulation for all insurers GDPR comes into effect in May 2018 and requires all companies to follow a clear framework on how personal data is handled.
Weaker Sterling benefits our income statement, while balance RSA has programmes in progress in each of our affected territories sheet and capital exposure to FX is well-matched.
to ensure that we comply from the effective date.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7
