Our strategy Growth ambition over the longer term We have shown ourselves to be a business that can deliver great things for our customers through our brands and at the same time deliver excellent returns for our shareholders.
As we embrace the future we will do so with our consistent strategy which targets sustainable growth.
As a forward-looking and proactive insurer we are well-positioned to keep pace with technological change and the opportunities it creates for us to grow the business and continue our history ofdisrupting the insurance market.
Our mission Make insurance much easier and better value for our customers Our strategic pillars Great Smart & Lead & retailer efficient disrupt manufacturer the Long-term market ambition: Sustainable growth and at least 15% RoTE Data & technology Culture & capability Our key enablers Capital & risk management 14 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Great retailer Frontline colleagues continue to have a high focus on Compelling brands, propositions and delivering great customer experience with 85% of customers customer experience to meet diverse surveyed 1 million responses in 2017 rating our peoples performance as 9 or 10 out of 10 and long-term customer needs Our customer satisfaction scores for the Direct Line brand have seen an 8% improvement from last year, with Churchill We aim to make it easy for our customers to access our seeing a 5% improvement over the same period products and services at every stage of their journey.
Thisincludes increasing online policy servicing options for our Find out how this responds to customers including claims, enhancing the customer experience market drivers on pages 12 and 13 from purchase through to claims and evolving telephone sales and servicing by investing in next-generation customer systems.
We focus on training our contact centre employees to understand and better respond to our customer needs.
Wealsoinvest in our brands, which are a key differentiator ina competitive environment.
Customer satisfaction is critical to the success of our business and our brand.
As such we link our customer satisfaction scores to our executive remuneration through the Annual Incentive Plan AIP.
Our response The investment in our brands and propositions continues to deliver benefits, with the Direct Line brand in-force policy count passing four million customers this year We launched two headline propositions in Direct Line with Putting customers first Onward Travel in Motor that promises to keep customers moving after an accident, by arranging and paying for a We have revitalised our Green taxi to continue their journey.
We are the only insurer who Flag brand.
We are the industry offers this end-to-end service and since launch, our customers challengers providing a smarter have travelled over 46,000 miles in taxis organised by breakdown service.
By leveraging Direct Line a nationwide network, instead of In Direct Line Home, we launched our Alternative maintaining an expensive branded Accommodation proposition, providing hotels for customers fleet, it is our customers who reap within one hour, following incidents which left their homes the rewards.
uninhabitable We are planning to continue to supercharge Churchill with new propositions, such as Drive On launched this year, assisting customers to replace cars if theirs is written off 47mins We continue to grow in Commercial through our business average response time brands NIG and Direct Line for Business.
Direct Line for Business continued to grow throughout the year in all product areas.
In particular, weve expanded our business to offer better value, personalised insurance products to different types of small businesses We are backing Green Flag to disrupt the rescue business through our smart, connected network and embracing our challenger status.
To support this ambition, this year we recruited a new Managing Director for Rescue and launched a fresh advertising campaign, with further investment in Green Flag planned in 2018 WWW.
COM 15 Our strategy continued Smart & efficient Lead & disrupt manufacturer the market Efficiency and flexibility to deliver We seek to maximise existing growth better claims and customer service at opportunities while creating and driving lower cost future areas of value We aim to improve efficiency and effectiveness across the We aim to remain a leading competitor in our chosen sectors organisation.
To do this we continue to deliver transformation by providing quality propositions and value for money.
Where initiatives, while also investing in capabilities to enhance the there are opportunities, we will look to launch new and exciting quality and effectiveness of our claims operations.
products and services with the aim of putting us at the forefront of disruptive changes.
Customer satisfaction with and the quality of our claims process are a crucial part of our brand and help differentiate us from Our response our competitors.
As such we link our senior executives When Direct Line was first launched, we disrupted a remuneration to customer satisfaction through the AIP.
broker-led personal lines market now we are looking to do the same for the Commercial small and micro business Our response segment.
This year, under the Direct Line for Business brand, This year we centralised procurement and supply chain we successfully launched the first two of our new, fully management into a single strategic function to enable us to personalised insurance products for the Hair & Beauty be more proactive in driving performance and value from our and the Bed & Breakfast trades.
Products can be tailored supply chain.
This helped us lower the total cost of hire car by the customer, allowing them to create a policy thats just provision, escape of water repairs and our IT infrastructure costs right for them and only paying for what they need.
Next year We have implemented robotics process automation as one we will continue our expansion with the launch of further of our initiatives aimed at reducing our expense ratio.
We personalised insurance products for different types of business now have 80 robots managing over 30 processes of varying Weve continued to make good progress on developing complexity, with over 600,000 transactions completed this alternative pricing approaches using machine learning year.
Next year we plan to expand our robotics programme capabilities.
These are intended to help us increase our which currently has the infrastructure to support an additional competitiveness at good loss ratios 170 robots We have also invested in our fraud analytics capabilities, moving some of our data and analytics to an agile, cloudbased infrastructure, enabling real time fraud identification and management, as well as the use of wider datasets We continued to expand our accident repair network, with the addition of a new garage, bringing the total to 19 across the country.
These have enabled us to control indemnity expenditure better while delivering an improved customer experience.
To demonstrate our confidence in the service our repair network delivers, weve rebranded our repair network as DLG Auto Services We continue to monitor and control our costs carefully as part of the day-to-day running of the business, to help enable our expense ratio to reduce as the business grows We have extended our distribution reach into the strategically important motor manufacturer space: our partnership with PSA Finance UK part of Groupe PSA, owners of the Peugeot and Citron brands and our introducer arrangement with Tesla, positions the Group as one of the leading motor partnership insurers in the UK 16 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Data & technology Harness the power of technology and the scale of our data We aim to harness the power of technology to make things easier for our customers and our people.
By implementing We continue to build on our industry-leading position integrated systems that are flexible and efficient, over time in understanding the impact of in-car technology on our we aim to reduce our expense ratio while improving customer industry.
In 2017, we joined the StreetWise project, with the interactions such as self-service.
We also enjoy a wealth of UK Government and Artificial Intelligence developers, which data from being a major insurer with a large number of aims to use artificial intelligence to put autonomous vehicles policies, which we can use to make our business better for on Britains roads by 2019.
Our Shotgun app was launched our customers.
with the aim of saving lives and making Britain safer.
The app, aimed at under-25s, uses telematics and gamification Our response to reward safer drivers We continued to invest in our data science capability with This year also saw the launch of our car maintenance the appointment of a new Chief Data Officer and are service proposition for Green Flag, giving our customers focussing on improving our data architecture and driving access to a network of garages at discounted rates through further value from the data we hold our partner Roadserve Weve developed a custom-built digital platform to securely In Home, we took an equity stake in Canopy, a rental interface with our partners, including RBS, NatWest and market disruptor offering an alternative to costly security otherthird parties, allowing us to provide a seamless deposits that are hindering Generation Rent customer journey We are planning to expand our digital platform to connect with more datasets, enabling us to improve our customer experience and improve the quote and buy journey We continue to deliver our ambitious IT transformation programme by improving our digital offering for our customers through self-service options and enhancing the customer experience In 2017 a new Direct Line brand initiative Fleetlights partnered with the Caister Volunteer Lifeboat Service, making them the first search and rescue team in the world to use our high-performance, pioneering semi-autonomous drone technology to save lives at sea.
We also launched Smarter Crossings the worlds first responsive road using lightemitting diodes that can react to the traffic, the people around it and the time of day, helping to keep road users safe Direct Line for Business In 2017 we launched a technology platform that enables small business customers to tailor Driverless cars policies to their requirements.
First launched We positively embrace technology and welcome through Hair and Beauty insurance, this pick developments in automated driving.
Driverless technology and mix approach delivers more personalised will impact all road users and bring new insurable risks insurance, and we are rolling it out across other to the market.
As the UKs largest motor insurer, we play commercial lines.
acrucial role in this innovation and are backing projects that aim to bring this technology safely to the market.
Byembracing these technologies early on, we will be able to deliver the motor insurance our customers truly need.
COM 17 Our strategy continued Culture & capability Build on our peoples potential We believe investing in strong development and employee engagement leads to better business performance and a better This course customer experience.
We continue to invest to ensure our was unlike people are highly engaged, through targeted interventions any leadership at all levels of the organisation.
As such we have diversity, engagement and succession targets in the AIP, an important course I have component of our senior executives remuneration.
ever been on, with a Our response fresh, different Our employee engagement has remained high, improving approach.
on last years already strong result in our engagement survey.
We look to retain the strong levels of employee Sheila Brudenell, engagement through a combination of local team action Counter-Fraud planning and top-down activity Operations, Bromley Were improving the quality of career conversations by implementing simplified performance and development processes and increasing our people managers ownership of performance conversations and outturns In support of this, over 600 of our people managers have attended our Engage programme, a three-day residential course, helping them develop deeper and more authentic relationships with their teams and colleagues Our focus on open and honest conversations led to us speaking to over 650 of our people managers about mental health at our November 2017 leadership conference, initiating a dialogue on this important subject and progressing our value of bring all of yourself to work We are also focussed on investing in our future at all levels of the organisation.
We made a series of appointments and promotions to the Strategic Leadership Team with the dual purpose of capability and succession planning Early talent continues to be a significant focus for us with the second year of our Graduate and Apprentice Schemes bringing the number of graduates in the business to over 100, and apprentices to over 200.
The graduate scheme gives a broad understanding of our business to our graduates in preparation for their advancement towards leadership roles We are also progressing a broad diversity and inclusion agenda through a range of activities, including signing the Women in Finance Charter and sponsoring the Dive-In Festival for Diversity & Inclusion in insurance We will continue to embed diversity and inclusion in our culture and talent processes, enabling our staff to bring all of themselves to work and continuing the good progress made on gender mix at senior levels 18 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Capital & risk management Strong foundation of capital and risk management Our approach to capital and risk management is to maintain an appropriate level of capital and solvency in line with the risk appetite agreed by the Board to support our business, while aiming to grow dividends in line with our overall business growth.
Our response We rebased our dividends upwards to reflect the Groups confidence in our future earnings potential and the progress made since our IPO five years ago.
We aim to grow the dividend in line with business growth We also announced refreshed medium-term targets in our half-year results, including targeting around the middle of our 140% to 180% solvency capital ratio range We proposed a major Solvency II model change, which was subsequently accepted by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA The highWe restructured our debt through the issue of Tier 1 notes energy, and the buy-back of older, more costly debt.
As a result we interactive have been able to reduce our interest payments, increase our flexibility and spread the maturity dates of the debt we hold delivery We continued to work on embedding risk management encouraged me across our organisation and this year we launched two to take some internal campaigns to support this valuable time to We also continue to monitor our external environment for look at my world risk and look to put mitigating actions in place as required.
This year we performed an ad hoc Own Risk & Solvency Assessment ORSA in response to the change in risk profile Elizabeth Fairburn, as a result of the decrease in the Ogden discount rate Claims Response, Leeds We recognise the strategic value and competitive advantage that strong risk management can provide and continue to work to drive ownership of risk management across the Group Engaging our people We purchase reinsurance to reduce volatility of earnings, We are committed to investing in our people.
facilitate effective capital management and transfer risk Our newly launched Engage programme is that is not within the Groups risk appetite.
This includes designed to energise our managers and build a purchasing reinsurance to protect against large claims for working environment to be proud of.
The aim is catastrophe, property risk and motor claims.
This year, we to equip managers with the tools and techniques placed a major proportion of our catastrophe programme to build high-performing teams, and together on a fixed price for three years.
640 people managers participated in Engage training in 2017 WWW.
