Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 56 Executive Committee Rakesh Kapoor Rupert Bondy Seth Cohen Amedeo Fasano Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President Chief Information Officer Chief Supply Officer General Counsel Company Secretary Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Indian British British American Italian Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure 30 years One year Less than one year 20 years Experience Experience Experience Experience Joined Reckitt & Colman in 1987.
Joined RB as SVP General Counsel Joined RB in September 2017 as Joined in 1997 as Supply Director, Rakesh has held a number of roles and Company Secretary in January Group CIO, and is responsible for Italy.
Following the merger of including: Regional Sales Manager, 2017, and is responsible for leading the next phase of RBs Reckitt & Colman and Benckiser, North India: General Manager, company secretarial and legal transformation, including the Amedeo was appointed Indian Southern Region: and compliance matters across RB.
integration of MJN systems with Manufacturing Director for Regional Marketing Director, South RBs, upgrading and deploying Central, South Western and Asia.
In 1999, he was appointed Rupert began his career as a finance systems and enhancing Southern Europe Regions.
In 2002 Global Category Director, Pest lawyer in private practice.
In 1989 theCompanys technological he became Regional Supply Control.
Following the merger of he joined US law firm Morrison & capabilities.
Director, North America and in Reckitt & Colman and Benckiser, Foerster, working in San Francisco 2003 SVP Supply, North America, he assumed the role of Senior Vice and London, and from 1994 he Seth joined RB from PepsiCo, Australia and New Zealand.
He was worked for Lovells in London.
where he spent three and a half appointed SVP, Regional Director, In1995 he joined SmithKline years as SVP and Chief Information In 2007 he took over the role of Northern Europe in 2001 and in Beecham as Senior Counsel for Officer, Europe and Sub-Saharan SVP Supply, Developing Markets July 2006 he was promoted to mergers and acquisitions and Africa.
Prior to this, Seth spent and in March 2009 Amedeo was EVP, Category Development.
12years in a number of senior IS appointed as EVP, Supply.
He Rakesh was appointed CEO in WhenSmithKline Beecham and roles at Pepsi, including leading previously worked for Pirelli Tyres 2011.
GlaxoWellcome merged to form Global Business Solutions and IT in various supply roles.
GlaxoSmithKline, Rupert was transformation programmes.
As part of RB's new strategy for appointed Senior Vice President sustainable outperformance, in and General Counsel.
In 2008, January 2018 Rakesh was also Rupert became Group General appointed President of RB's Health Counsel of BP plc, holding that business, headquartered in Slough.
position until he joined RB.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 57 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Rob fide Groot Adrian Hennah Gurveen Singh President, Hygiene Home Chief Financial Officer Chief Human Resources Officer Nationality Nationality Nationality Dutch British Indian Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure 29 years Four years 24 years Experience Experience Experience Joined RB in 1988.
After Joined RB in January 2013 as Joined RB in 1993 as HR Director, international roles in marketing ChiefFinancial Officer Designate, India and was promoted to the role and sales he became General and was appointed CFO in of Manpower Planning Director, Manager, The Netherlands, then February 2013.
He previously spent based in the UK.
Following the SVP, Regional Director, Eastern six years at Smith & Nephew plc as merger of Reckitt & Colman and Europe and was appointed Global CFO and four years at Invensys, the Benckiser, Gurveen returned to Category Officer, Surface, Dish international engineering company.
India as HR Director, South Asia.
andHome Care before being Adrian also spent 18 years at In2007, she moved to Regional appointed EVP, North America & GlaxoSmithKline plc, one of the HRD East Asia in Singapore and Australia.
From January 2012 to worlds largest pharmaceutical was promoted to Area HRD DvM December 2017, Rob became EVP companies, holding a number of in 2010, based in the UK.
In 2012 of the ENA area, responsible for senior management and financial shemoved back to Singapore to North America, Europe, Russia, CIS roles.
He previously worked at become Area HRD LAPAC before and ANZ.
PwC then Price Waterhouse moving to her role as Area HR forfour years in both audit Director DvM, based in Dubai, In January 2018, Rob was andconsultancy and also for in2015.
appointed President of RBs Stadtsparkasse Koeln, the Germanregional bank.
He is Hygiene Home business, In January 2018, Gurveen was headquartered in Amsterdam.
aNon-Executive Director of appointed Chief Human Resources RELXGroup plc and RELX NV.
Before joining RBGurveen held various HR roles in the hotel and consumer goods industries.
