Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 34 RB 2.0 Hygiene Home REORGANISING FOR GROWTH The business Hygiene Home has an outstanding portfolio of leading brands.
Its seven top brands which account for more than 80% of its 2017 Net Revenue are number one or number two in their markets.
Hygiene Home has a substantial RB has particular strengths in These exceptional brands support presence in developed markets, e-commerce and we will build Hygiene Homes vision of creating with approximately threeon existing strong relationships quarters of its 2017 Net Revenue with major platforms such as a cleaner world.
The business is passionate in Europe and North America.
It Amazon, as well as continuing about eliminating dirt, germs, pests and also has a significant opportunity to develop sales across borders to accelerate its growth in and through e-distributors.
odours that affect health and happiness.
developing markets, which currently provide around oneFocusing on specific products, quarter of Net Revenue, including channels and media also confers a strong position in Brazil with an advantage and this targeted its Veja surface cleaning brand.
approach has allowed smaller players to outperform global The opportunity competitors in recent years.
Our Hygiene Homes markets are new organisational structure, rapidly changing, with powerful with its sharp focus on the trends creating opportunities frontline, will enable us to respond for growth.
Consumers are quickly and effectively to the increasingly using newer channels needs of local consumers and where we are well placed to prioritise investments in the to win, such as e-commerce areas of greatest opportunity, and discount retailers.
making us a more powerful competitor in our markets.
A leaner back office will free up funds to invest in the frontline.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 35 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Creating a cleaner world No.
2 position Powerbrands Powerbrands Finish, Lysol, Cillit Bang, Vanish, Air Wick, Woolite Calgon Harpic, Core strengths Mortein Strong presence in growing Other key brands Veja categories, with the ability to No.
1 in Brazil create and capture inflection points in the market Portfolio of exceptional brands, with untapped potential Leadership in growth channels such as digital and e-commerce Capabilities in consumer-led innovation and a focused and accountable team to deliver it Global presence, with scope for rapid growth in developing markets Hygiene Home has leading brands Demographic and societal trends in its categories but there remains are also favourable.
The global CASE STUDY significant untapped potential.
For population is increasing, urbanising example, dishwasher penetration and becoming wealthier, giving in Europe and North America is ever more people the disposable Expanding the typically only around 50%, giving income to spend on their home scope for substantial further and hygiene needs.
Infrastructure dishwashing category growth, while penetration in improvements in developing markets such as China is as low as markets, such as new sanitation 1-2%.
Our new dedicated business systems, will further spur demand.
in China units will enable us to prioritise and focus on opportunities to increase Conclusion penetration.
We will therefore use Hygiene Home has a great our consumer insights, our ability portfolio of brands and the For the last seven years, Finish has worked with dishwasher to innovate and our investment opportunity to unleash their manufacturers in China to grow the category.
We believe the in brand equity to create and full potential, by driving our market is nearing an inflection point, as consumer spending capture inflection points in our frontline culture.
Recognising that many Chinese consumers are buying categories and drive penetration.
model gives us the capacity to compact, table-top dishwashers, we have created a completely invest in existing and new growth new formulation of Finish to suit their specific needs.
At the same time, we will look areas, to drive outperformance This product is designed to dissolve faster, contains to create new growth platforms in the medium to long term.
the right balance of bleach and enzymes and has the in countries, channels and right ingredients to tackle China-specific food soil categories where we do not challenges.
We are now developing a unique currently have a presence.
For go-to-market proposition, to serve Chinese example, subscription and other consumers using digital and e-commerce.
e-commerce and mobile models provide an opportunity to leapfrog in developing markets.
