Business model Creating value for our stakeholders Our multi-brand, multi-product and multi-distribution channel business offers different propositions to distinct customers.
We believe this approach should enable us to provide good value for customers and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Our core strengths Our services Customer focus We put our customers at the heart of everything we do.
Ourbrands, products and distribution channels aim to make Motor insurance much easier to access and better value for our customers.
Our fast and efficient claims service gives our customers the help they need, when it is needed.
Talented people We invest in our people, encouraging everyone to aim higher.
We do this so that our talented people across all parts of our business strive to improve and innovate, so that we can continue to deliver the products and services which meet the Home needs ofcurrent and future customers.
Brand power 1 We are Britains leading motor and home insurer, offering ourcustomers decades of experience, knowledge and service delivery via our trusted household brands.
This scale provides aplatform for new product development.
Rescue and other personal lines Data and technology We are harnessing the power of technology to make life easier for both our customers and our people.
Continuing our history of disrupting the insurance market, we aim to use technology tobecome even more customer-centric, learning from the wealth of data we possess as a result of being a leading insurer.
Capital and financial strength Commercial We have a simple but highly cash-generative business model.
Our proven underwriting discipline, claims excellence and costcontrol helps us meet our customers needs whilst targetingsustainable returns for our shareholders.
Reinvest in the business See page 2 for our investment case See page 30 for operating review 1.
6 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Managing risk Generating returns Sustainable value We strive to make sure our business is Customers well-governed and controlled.
We manage 144.0pts We give customers our finances carefully and balance this with 2 Net Promoter Score products that best suit their targeting sustainable returns for our needs and exceptional service shareholders.
throughout their relationship with us.
Employees 78% We invest in initiatives Premiums 3 engagement to develop our people, creating ahigh-performance culture based on diversity, continuous training and customer focus.
Net claims Communities 33% We are committed to supporting Costs of staff fundraised our employees charitable work, or volunteered on reducing our environmental Company time impact, and inspiring a generation of safer young drivers.
Investment and other income Shareholders 35.4p We aim to give our Dividend per share shareholders value by generating sustainable business profits, part of which Profit wedistribute as dividends.
Dividends See page 34 for finance review See page 14 for our strategy 2.
See page 21 for explanation on NPS.
See page 28 for details on employee engagement.
