100 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Relations with Shareholders Investor engagement The Board is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with the Investor Relations programme 2017 Companys equity institutional and debt investors and individual shareholders, and recognises the importance of those relationships in Shareholder meetings re corporate governance and AGM Jan the governance process.
This engagement allows the Board to better understand their views and ensure they are provided with timely and Chairman meeting with Cosmen family appropriate information on the Groups strategy, performance, largest shareholder objectives, financing and other key developments.
Shareholder meetings re corporate governance and AGM Feb The Chairman, supported by the Executive Directors and the investor 2016 full year results announcement and presentation relations team, has overall responsibility for ensuring effective to analysts and investors London communication with shareholders.
Investor roadshow in respect of full year results The investor relations section of the Companys website, London and Edinburgh www.
com investors, includes all RNS announcements, share price information, annual and interim Investor meetings post full year results documents, AGM Notice and other similar corporate communication Mar and shareholder materials available for download.
Chairman meetings with investors re strategy, corporate governance and AGM Institutional investors Shareholder meetings re corporate governance The Company operates a comprehensive engagement programme, Apr and AGM aligned to its financial reporting calendar and other key events, for institutional investors and research analysts, providing the opportunity Q1 Trading Update and conference call with analysts for current and potential investors to meet with executive and May and investors operational management.
Annual General Meeting Birmingham The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director held a number of meetings with existing and prospective institutional Non-deal specific investor roadshows shareholders during the year and gave presentations to them London and Frankfurt following the full year and half year results.
These are designed to provide more information on the Groups strategy, financial and Investor meetings at investor conference London Jun operational performance, strengths and capabilities and future plans.
Investor meetings They have also met and given presentations to research analysts and investment banks sales teams.
2017 half year results announcement and presentation Jul to analysts and investors London The Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors have made themselves available for meetings should that be Investor meetings requested by shareholders.
Aug There were 13 analysts who published equity research notes covering Investor meetings at investor conferences London the Company during the year.
Details of the firms who currently follow Sep the Company appear on the investor section of our website.
It is anticipated that with the introduction of MiFID II, analyst coverage will reduce going forward.
Investor meetings at investor conference London Oct Investor meetings The Companys brokers and investor relations advisers provide regular confidential feedback on investor views, perceptions and Q3 Trading Update and conference call with analysts opinions and these are shared with the Board.
During the year, the and investors Board also received external analysis and positive feedback from advisers on shareholder and market perception of the Groups Non-deal specific investor roadshows performance and strategy.
Nov London and Madrid Details of the Companys substantial shareholders are set in the 250 million 30-month Floating Rate Note placing Directors Report on page 103. with roadshow for bondholders Investor meetings Dec Consultation with major shareholders on proposed changes to the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 101 Debt investors Share register analysis The Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer have met debt by size of holding investors in the UK during the year to discuss various topics such as the full and half year results, future funding requirements, subsidiary 0.14% 1-500 security and guarantees and credit rating movements.
They also met with debt investors in the UK and Europe as part of the marketing of 0.20% 501-1,000 the 250m 30-month Floating Rate Note which was successfully issued in November.
1.38% 1,001-5,000 2.97% 5,001-50,000 The treasury team maintains regular dialogue with the Groups key relationship banks and other potential lenders.
10.83% 50,001-1,000,000 Further information on our debt investors can be found in the investor 84.48% Over 1,000,000 section of the Companys website.
100% Total Individual shareholders Private shareholders, who represent more than 93% of the total number of shareholders on our register, are encouraged to give feedback to and communicate through the Company Secretary.
Share register analysis The Companys website provides a direct link to Shareview by geography www.
co. uk which enables shareholders to view and manage their shareholder account online.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM provides all shareholders with an opportunity to meet with and ask questions of Directors regarding the business, the latest Annual Report and the matters before the meeting.
Attending shareholders also receive a strategic progress update from the Chairman and a business performance review from the Group Chief Executive.
The results of the AGM are published on the Companys website.
Details of the Companys 2018 AGM can be found on page 104.
Other disclosures 63.7% UK Other disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Companies Act 2006 are set out in the 22.8% Europe Directors Report on pages 102 to 104.
9.5% North America The Corporate Governance Report was approved by the Board on 4.0% Rest of World 1 March 2018.
Share register analysis by shareholder type Michael Arnaouti 4.07% Private shareholders Group Company Secretary 1 March 2018 95.93% Nominee and institutional investors 100% Total
