Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 30 Megatrends Powerful trends are shaping our strategy, as consumers, society and other stakeholders demand different things from us.
The consumer landscape is Our incomes are rising Our lives are busier RBs response to the changing changing The global middle class currently The pace of modern life means consumer landscape We are living longer numbers around 3.2 billion people.
many people feel busier than ever.
We create innovative products, Life expectancy is rising around By 2022, this could surpass 4.2 This encourages consumers to use which help consumers to protect the world and the population billion more than half the worlds easily accessible over-the-counter and improve their health and aged 60 or over is growing faster population with the growth health products, rather than wait wellbeing, as they enjoy longer than all younger age groups, at coming from developing markets.
for a doctors appointment, to and more prosperous lives.
This means This means people will have seek out the most effective Powerbrands strategy gives the number of people aged over moremoney after meeting their hygiene product, and to look for consumers brands they can 60 is expected to increase from essential needs, spurring demand personal grooming and beauty trust to meet these needs.
900 million in 2015 to 1.4 billion for healthand hygiene products.
treatments they can use at home.
Infrastructure improvements, in 2030 and 2.1 billion by 2050.
Our Powermarkets strategy Ageing populations put eversuch as new sanitation systems, We are always connected addresses the countries with the will further increase demand.
greater demands on healthcare Consumers are making everfastest-growing demand for our services and motivate people greater use of online resources and products, while our organisation We are more proactive about to find new ways to promote e-commerce to manage lifestyles strategy helps us to scale our wellbeing and wellness.
Sites such as innovations and get them quickly Living longer does not WebMD and Facebook allow us to to the consumers who need them.
automatically mean we will live learn about health and wellbeing, better.
Longer lives and rising interact with brands and exchange We continue to invest in our incomes are therefore encouraging information.
Consumers around e-business and data capabilities, more of us to look after ourselves the world are increasingly to respond to the shift to buying and prevent health issues buying online, giving companies online.
We are also developing before they occur, for example, data about their preferences more connected products, such through better hygiene and that drive tailored offerings as our new SiTi Shield pollution healthier home environments.
We believe that self-care is the new frontier of healthcare.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 31 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our environment is changing environmental stewardship, A key part of our organisation Companies such as RB can also help to tackle easily preventable Healthcare costs are rising patient safety and data protection.
strategy is working to comply with Access to healthcare is a basic Companies must innovate to meet all laws and regulations, through deaths and illness.
For example, each year around the world there human right.
Current systems are changing laws and regulations, our Safety, Quality, Regulatory and straining due to rising populations, adapting their products to exclude Compliance SQRC function.
are more than 1.2 million deaths caused by germs and pests, such longer lives and shortages of ingredients that may affect healthcare professionals.
Scientific safety or the environment and Stakeholder expectations are as the 0.5 million deaths resulting changing from malaria.
All these deaths can advances offer more solutions for reducing their environmental health needs but at a higher cost.
This favours forwardCompanies licence to operate be prevented.
nowencompasses stakeholder Society therefore needs more thinking companies that cost-effective ways to help strive for transparency and expectations that go beyond the letter of the law and regulations.
consumers protect and manage continuous improvement.
To be truly sustainable, companies must continuously improve their RBs response to the changing New health risks are emerging environment environmental and social performance.
As populations urbanise, pollution Our consumer health products is becoming an increasing risk to provide a cost-effective way for RBs response to changing peoples' health.
We are also seeing consumers to treat a range of diseases emerging, such as the ailments, relieving pressure on stakeholder expectations Our betterRB strategy ensures Zika virus, which is spread by health services.
We continue to mosquitoes and other pests.
develop innovative responses to wework in the way expected of usby our stakeholders and society new health threats, such as our Regulation is changing SiTi Shield air pollution range and as a whole.
Governments are demanding our pest control products.
responsibility and accountability from all stakeholders, as the evolving consumer landscape exposes gaps in regulations covering areas such as
