102 Directors Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited accounts for the year Directors ended 31 December 2017.
This Directors Report and the Strategic The names and biographical details of the current Directors all of Report, which includes the trends and factors likely to affect the whom held office throughout the year except for Chris Davies see future development, performance and position of the business and below, and the Board Committees of which they are members, are adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties of the Group set out on page 48. which can be found on page 38 and is incorporated by reference, collectively comprise the management report as required under Chris Davies was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director on the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
10 May and as Group Finance Director on 1 June 2017.
He replaced Matt Ashley who relinquished that position but not his executive Additional disclosures directorship on 30 May to take up a new role as President and CEO, North America, effective from 1 September 2017.
Other information that is relevant to this report, and which is incorporated by reference, including information required in The Service Agreements of the Executive Directors and the Letters accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 Act and Listing ofAppointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for Rule 9.8.
4R, can be located as follows: inspection at the Companys registered office.
Brief details of Information Page No these, including inspection rights, are included in the Directors Business model and likely future developments 6 Remuneration Report on page 68.
Viability Statement and going concern 41 Powers of the Directors Governance 42 to 105 The Board manages the business of the Company under the powers Financial instruments 124 set out in the Companies Articles of Association Articles.
These Related market transactions 125 powers include the Directors ability to issue or buy back shares.
Greenhouse gas emissions 35 Shareholders authority to empower the Directors to make certain market purchases of its own ordinary shares is sought at the AGM each year see below.
The Articles can only be amended, or new Company status Articles adopted, by a resolution passed by shareholders in general National Express Group PLC is a public limited liability company meeting by at least three quarters of the votes cast.
incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.
It has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange main market for listed Appointment and replacement of Directors securities LON:NEX and is a constituent member of the FTSE 250Index.
The Company has branches in Spain.
The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, the Act and related legislation.
The Board may appoint a Director either to Disclaimer fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the Board so long as the total The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the members of the Company and it has been prepared for, and only Articles.
An appointed Director must retire and seek election to office for, the members of the Company as a body, and no other persons.
at the next AGM of the Company.
In addition to any power of removal The Company, its Directors and employees, agents and advisers conferred by the Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom remove any Director before the expiry of their period of office and this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any may, subject to the Articles, by ordinary resolution appoint another such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
A cautionary person who is willing to act as a Director in their place.
statement in respect of forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report appears on the inside back cover.
In accordance with the Code and the Boards policy, all the Directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and have offered themselves for Results and dividends re-election, with the exception of Chris Davies who, having been appointed to office since the last AGM, will stand for election.
The results for the year are set out in the financial statements on The Board is satisfied that each of the Directors standing is qualified pages 114 to 197. by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
The Board has recommended a final dividend for the year of 9.25p per ordinary share 2016: 8.41p which, together with the interim Directors conflicts of interest dividend of 4.26p per ordinary share 2016: 3.87p paid on The Board operates a policy to identify and manage declared actual 22 September 2017, gives a total dividend for the year of 13.51p per and potential conflicts of interest which Directors or their connected share 2016: 12.28p.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final persons may have and are obliged to avoid under their statutory dividend will be paid on 21 May 2018 to ordinary shareholders on duties and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board the register of members at the close of business on 27 April 2018. considers each Directors situation and decides whether to approve any conflicts based on the overriding principle that a Director must at Events since the balance sheet date all times only be able to consider and exercise judgement to promote the success of the Company.
The policy has been in place and There have been no material post-balance sheet events since operated effectively throughout the year.
Board are reviewed on a regular basis.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Directors Report 103 Directors indemnities and insurance Political contributions The Company has granted indemnities to each Director in respect It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and none were of any liabilities incurred in relation to acts or omissions arising in the made in the year 2016: nil.
However, the Company did attend party ordinary course of their duties, but only to the extent permitted by political conferences during the year for which total expenditure was law.
The Company also maintains appropriate Directors and Officers 12,000 2016: 14,000. liability insurance in respect of potential legal action instigated against its Directors.
Substantial shareholders As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified under DTR Directors interests 5 of the following interests in its shares representing 3% or more of Save as disclosed: the voting rights in its issued share capital: in the Directors Remuneration Report, none of the Directors, nor Number of Percentage of any person connected with them, has any interest in the share or ordinary total 1 loan capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries: and shares voting rights in note 36 to the consolidated accounts on page 175, none of 2 European Express Enterprises Limited 66,481,891 12.99 the Directors had at any time during the year ended 31 December 3 Newton Investment Management Limited 51,493,101 10.06 2017 a material interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract of Prudential plc 45,956,649 8.98 significance with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking other than the Executive Directors in relation to their Service Agreements.
Standard Life Aberdeen PLC 26,616,766 7.63 J O Hambro Capital Management Limited 25,617,754 5.01 Equal opportunities 1 The total number of voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the National Express is an equal opportunities employer and has in Company on 31 December 2017 was 511,738,648. place an Equal Opportunities Policy.
Our range of employment 2 The holding of European Express Enterprises Ltd forms part of the holding of policies and guidelines reflect the legal and employment requirements Jorge Cosmen Deputy Chairman as shown in the Directors Remuneration of the territories in which we operate and safeguard the interests of Report on page 94.
3 employees, potential employees and other workers.
We do not On 8 February 2018, the Company was notified that the holding of Newton Investment Management Limited was 51,043,618 ordinary shares 9.97% of total condone unfair treatment of any kind and offer equal opportunities voting rights.
in all aspects of employment and advancement including recruitment, training, career development and promotion regardless of race, Other than as disclosed above, the Company received no further DTR nationality, gender, age, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, notifications, by way of change to the above information or otherwise, religious or political beliefs.
The Company recognises it has clear during the period from 1 January to 28 February 2017, being the obligations to give fair consideration and selection to disabled period from the year end through to the date on which this report has applicants and to satisfy their training and development needs during been signed.
Information relating to notifications received under the employment.
Where an employee becomes disabled, the objective is DTR is publicly available to view via the regulatory information service to retain their services wherever possible.
Employee engagement Share capital The Group encourages employee involvement in its affairs.
Subsidiary The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided companies produce a range of internal newsletters and circulars into ordinary shares of nominal value of 5 pence each all ranking pari which keep employees abreast of developments.
At 31 December 2017, there were 511,738,648 ordinary shares within the Group meet regularly to review strategic developments and in issue and fully paid.
The rights attached to the ordinary shares of management conferences are held at Group and business levels to the Company are defined in the Articles.
Further details relating to bring senior managers together to share ideas and develop policy.
share capital, including movements during the year, can be found Members of the Senior Management Group are also visible within the in note 32 to the consolidated accounts on page 165. businesses and undertake a range of visits where they meet face to face with employees to gather feedback on safety and other issues.
The Company was granted authority at the 2017 AGM to make Dialogue takes place regularly with trade unions and other employee market purchases of its own shares up to 10% of its issued share representatives on a wide range of issues.
capital and to allot shares within certain limits approved by shareholders.
These authorities have not been used during the year Employee views are also sought through regular employee and will expire at the 2018 AGM.
Renewal of these authorities will be satisfaction surveys, both within business units and across the sought at the 2018 AGM.
Following such surveys, results are shared with employees and action plans put in place to deal with issues arising.
The Group First Names Jersey Limited is a shareholder who acts as Trustee encourages innovation from all levels of employees and has a of the National Express Group Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
structured programme to encourage and reward suggestions and It is used to purchase and hold Company shares in the market from employees contributions.
time to time for the benefit of employees, including for satisfying outstanding awards under various share incentive plans.
The EBT Information regarding the Companys safeguarding of human rights purchased a total of 1,700,000 shares in the market during the year is set out on pages 30 and 32. for an aggregate consideration of 6.24m including dealing costs and released 2,316,546 shares to satisfy vested share plan awards.
104 Directors Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Report continued As at 31 December 2017, the EBT held 1,643,746 National Express contains an event of default on a change in control of Group PLC shares 0.32% of the issued share capital in trust.
the UK operating subsidiary which would be triggered on a change The Trustee may vote the shares it holds at its discretion.
A dividend in control of the Company if such change in control is not approved waiver is in place from the Trustee in respect of dividends payable by TfWM.
by the Company on the majority of the shares held in the EBT.
The Groups UK Coach business operates a number of coach and Further details regarding the EBT, and of shares issued during bus services from or at certain UK airports and the UK Coach the year pursuant to the Companys various share incentive plans operating subsidiary is also contracted to provide passenger whose rules, where relevant, reflect the current Investment transport services for certain other third parties.
A number of these Association guidelines for permitted dilution limits, are set out contracts contain rights for the counterparties to terminate them on in note 32 to the financial statements on page 165. a change of control of the relevant subsidiary company party to such contracts certain of which would be triggered by a change in control of the Company.
Shareholder voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares The Companys various share incentive plans contain provisions that take effect on a change in control of the Company but do not entitle Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at any general meeting, participants to a greater interest in the shares of the Company than where every member has one vote on a show of hands and one vote created by the initial grant or award under the relevant plan.
for each share held on a poll.
While no one of these contracts is considered significant in the There are no special control rights attaching to the Companys context of the Groups business as a whole, the impact on the Group ordinary shares save that the control rights over ordinary shares held if all such contracts were terminated could be significant.
in the EBT can be directed by the Company to satisfy the vesting of outstanding awards under its various share incentive plans.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or The Company is not aware of any agreements or control rights employment or otherwise that occurs specifically because of between existing shareholders that may result in restrictions on the a takeover.
transfer of securities or voting rights.
The rights, including full details relating to voting of shareholders and any restrictions on transfer relating to the Companys ordinary shares, are set out in the Articles Auditor and disclosure of information and in the explanatory notes to the Notice of 2018 AGM which to the auditor accompanies this document.
Resolutions will be proposed at the So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit 2018 AGM to authorise the Directors to exercise all powers to allot information that has not been brought to the attention of the shares, or grant rights for, or to convert any security into shares, Companys auditor.
Each Director has taken all reasonable steps and approve a limited disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights.
to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that such information was provided to the auditor.
Change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate As recommended by the Audit Committee and endorsed by the upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Board, a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
Under the terms of the Companys revolving credit facilities, upon a change of control, the Company would have five days to enter into 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM negotiations with the lenders to alter the terms.
Following ten days This years AGM will be held at 2.00pm on Wednesday, 16 May 2018 of negotiations, if no agreement has been reached, outstanding in The Horton Suite at the Macdonald Burlington Hotel, Burlington balances may become repayable.
A separate circular, Under the terms of the 1.5 billion Euro Medium Term Note comprising a letter from the Chairman, Notice of Meeting and Programme as updated on 3 October 2017 under which the explanatory notes on the resolutions proposed, accompanies this Company issued Medium Term Notes MTN to various institutions Annual Report.
Copies of this document can also be found on the on 15 June 2010, 11 November 2016 and 13 November 2017, there Companys website at www.
is a change of control put option such that, upon a change of control The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 1 March 2018. event, any holder of any MTN may require the Company to redeem or purchase that MTN.
By order of the Board The Company entered into a private placement Note Purchase Agreement on 30 July 2012 relating to the issue by the Company of Michael Arnaouti 78,500,000 4.55% Senior Notes due 16 August 2021.
Under the Group Company Secretary terms of the Agreement the Company is required to offer to Note National Express Group PLC holders to repay to them the entire unpaid principal amount and Company No.
2590560 interest thereon upon a change of control.
The Groups UK Bus business operates the Midland Metro tram service and the UK Bus operating subsidiary is party to a contract with Transport for West Midlands TfWM, formerly known as Centro, governing certain aspects of such operation.
