Strategy and objectives Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns through the provision of selected thermal processing services that are highly valued by our customers, giving full regard to a safe working environment for our employees and with minimal environmental impact.
The ADE The AGI Divisional customer focus Divisions Divisions Organising our technologies Serving the aerospace, Serving the automotive and and resources to align with the defence and energy customers, general industrial customers global and local requirements of with a focused network of through a regionally organised the market sectors in which our globally coordinated facilities, business, catering to these customers operate and providing attuned to these customers customers specific local or the highest levels of customer specific needs and requirements.
regional needs and proximity service in terms of quality, requirements.
delivery, reliability and technical problem solving.
Technology Classical Heat T reatments Providing thermal Serving industries needs for essential classical heat treatment processing services that are services, ensuring metals and alloys are fit for purpose.
a vital link in the manufacturing supply chain, and value-adding and proprietary specialist Specialist T echnologies technologies which offer unique solutions for a variety Capitalising on our specialist technologies to provide our customers of applications.
with the ability to create innovative, differentiated products.
HIP Services Low Pressure Carburising LPC HIP Product Fabrication Specialty Stainless Steel 3 Surface Technology Processes S P Corr-I-Dur CiD Emerging Operational Acquisitions Strategic elements markets improvement Our key strategies, focusing Adding small on customer alignment and Expanding with our Continuous bolt-on acquisitions leadership in our areas of customers to rapid improvement of to improve our plant technology and service, network in Classical growth countries business processes are underwritten by our with an emphasis and systems which Heat Treatment, and supporting strategies.
investing in larger on Eastern Europe, make us more efficient Mexico and China.
acquisitions and adjacent technologies to grow Specialist Technologies.
Safety & environment At the foundation of our business is the provision of a safe working environment for our employees, and to operate with minimal environmental impact.
Our progress measured KPIs for further details see pages 16 and 17 Return on capital employed Return on sales Accident frequency Headline earnings per share Headline operating cash flow Carbon footprint 11 Stock code: BOY www.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
