Business model Provider of essential services to engineering manufacturers Classical Heat Treatment Specialist Technologies Working to very exacting quality Virtually every type of metal component, Bodycotes Specialist Technologies refer specifications, heat treatment uses whatever its application, has received to a group of processes which require precisely controlled furnaces to process some form of processing before its very specialist expertise and technology.
a huge variety of metals and alloys, introduction to service to enable it to These technologies, some of which are improving their material properties.
perform to the required standard and last proprietary, offer unique solutions for a longer.
Bodycotes Classical Heat Treatments describe a group of mature heat treatment processes and includes metal joining technologies which are used to join and assemble parts.
The global leader Customer focus Global network Transferable know-how Bodycote is focused on continual Bodycotes global network of 187 The global Bodycote network provides improvement of our quality of service and market-focused facilities see pages 4 unique opportunities for the transfer of takes an active role in finding solutions and 5 in 23 countries brings economies knowledge and skills, and the transfer to technical issues and promoting of scale, particularly for logistics and of technology.
mutual business development with our equipment utilisation.
This makes With some of the best metallurgists, customers.
Bodycotes processing inherently more engineers and technicians in the industry, efficient than customers in-house Bodycote seeks to secure serviceBodycote is ideally placed to provide operations see page 34 and competitors, specific arrangements with our solutions for customers, whatever their thereby enhancing our competitive customers which provide protection market or wherever in the world they may position in the subcontract market.
from supply disruption by leveraging be.
The capital intensive nature of Bodycotes Bodycotes scale enables continuous yet business also provides significant focused investment, both in the latest barriers to entry.
The scope of Bodycotes processes and in the most efficient and network enables us to specialise more environmentally friendly equipment.
effectively than competitors at individual locations and provides comprehensive backup for our customers.
The supplier of choice Service Quality Expertise Bodycote has become the supplier of Bodycotes quality management systems, Bodycotes extensive facilities and choice for many of the worlds most validated by major engineering OEMs, expertise mean that projects can extend respected and innovative engineering have been developed to meet the beyond customers in-house capabilities, companies by providing highly efficient, requirements of international and national combining identification and provision cost-effective services to the highest accrediting bodies.
All Bodycote facilities of technical solutions which address quality standards through strategic hold industry and customer approvals in-service specification and deliver investment in people and the latest appropriate to the services they offer and value-adding material properties.
technology, equipment and quality the markets they serve.
Our own enhancements and systems.
improvement of standard processes have led to Bodycote offering a range of proprietary processes which far outperform their standard counterparts.
Creating value For customers For Bodycote For investors Value-adding services.
Mutually beneficial customer Financially stable and sustainable relationships.
Global supplier which can meet multiple processing needs.
Wide customer base means Bodycote is Good growth drivers.
not reliant on any one customer.
Access to entire Bodycote knowledge Superior return on investment.
Ideally positioned to promote growth Strong margins and cash flow.
in emerging markets and selected Cost and environmental benefits versus technologies.
10 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7
