4 The trends shaping our business Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Capitalising on opportunities The megatrends are shaping demand for travel and public transport and the opportunities ahead.
Deregulation, Economic liberalisation Urbanisation and Environment environment and outsourcing demographic changes Modal shift and congestion Technology The propensity to travel is generally affected Our markets are created when state provision Our services benefit from increasing Modal shift is the move by individuals from Environmental concerns continue to have an Technology and innovation are playing their part, by levels of economic activity, as represented of public transport is transferred to the private urbanisation around the world, in particular one form of transport to another.
For National influence on customer behaviour.
Bus, coach with travel apps providing real-time information by GDP growth.
Although levels of transportation sector.
There are different models for this, driving demand for bus operations.
Existing Express, the relevant move is from the private and rail services are significantly more as well as customised targeted offers helping and mobility remain relatively stable through with examples ranging from the deregulated towns and cities are expanding, in addition to car to bus, coach and rail travel.
The biggest environmentally friendly forms of transport than to generate incremental demand for journeys on the economic cycle, periods of GDP growth markets of our UK bus and coach operations, the creation of new centres of population.
In reason for this is an increase in the cost of the private car or air travel, reducing both the public transport.
Digital platforms are increasingly generate additional volume demand and through the concessions and franchises of 2014, 54% of the worlds population lived in motoring, such as higher fuel prices and cost level of carbon emissions per person travelling providing customers with end to end journey pricing benefit.
Spain, Morocco and German rail, to the school urban centres and this is projected to grow to of insurance, and the increasing use of mobile and travel congestion.
Society as a whole and planning, ticketing tools and additional services bus and transit contracts of North America.
66% by 2050, while 73% of the population in devices, such as tablets and smartphones, individuals are becoming increasingly concerned which are delivering greater convenience and Opportunity Europe and 82% of the population in North while travelling, although other factors such about the effect of emissions on the environment speedier boarding for passengers, with North America continues to grow, while the This is supported by a trend towards market America already live in urban centres.
These as environmental concerns and congestion and are explicitly choosing public transport as innovations such as contactless payment, Spanish economy has strengthened over the liberalisation, such as European Union directives trends are driving the requirement for additional can also be important.
mobile ticketing and seat reservations.
last couple of years, with levels of tourism also focused on opening up bus and rail networks.
transportation services, both within and between very strong demand for public transport is In addition, selective countries around the world Opportunity Opportunity Technology can also be used to provide more locations.
In addition, population growth in the likely to improve further as the economy grows are opening up their markets to foreign operators New low-price entrants into the market over the Improved access to city centre locations, such efficient planning and real-time scheduling for UK, Europe and North America will drive further and employment levels continue to rise.
in order to raise standards in their domestic last few years, such as Uber and BlaBlaCar, are as priority bus lanes for environmentally friendly transport services.
demand for public transport services.
Cost saving is resulting in fewer drivers licences and lower car transport and lower congestion.
Move to electric Our response Opportunity increasingly a factor too, through recognition Opportunity ownership amongst millennials, with demand for and hybrid buses to lower emissions.
We continue to look for opportunities to grow The proliferation of real-time travel information of the superior efficiency of privately The growth in the urban populations of the US, public transport and coaches likely to increase our businesses in North America and ALSA, Our response and mobile devices improves the customer operated services.
UK and Spain are forecast to increase by 10%, over time in both the UK and Spain.
both by organic means and through bolt-on We work hard with our Alliance partners, experience, making public transport increasingly 8% and 2% respectively over the next decade, acquisitions in complementary or adjacent Opportunity Our response Transport for West Midlands and the Metro more attractive compared with the car, while driving the need for further public transport markets.
In 2017, we made nine acquisitions: The current size of the European public transport We look to offer our customers easy to use, safe, Mayor, to deliver more environmentally friendly the proliferation of smartcards, m-ticketing and services, while the combination of an ageing three in North America, three in Spain and three market is estimated to be approximately 150 reliable and great value services where we will transport, easing congestion with faster journey contactless payment not only provides greater and increasingly social and ethnically diverse in Switzerland.
Liberalisation of the German and Spanish continue to look to launch new products and times from priority bus lanes and lowering convenience for customers but helps to build population will drive the need for new products rail and Nordic rail and bus markets present services to meet our customers needs and emissions with Euro six compliant buses.
We are stronger customer relationships.
and services to meet changing customer needs opportunities for growth.
also investing in hybrid and electric buses in the in all of our markets.
The World Bank DataBank Our response UK, Spain and US.
Our response We continue to develop new apps with additional We continue to look for opportunities around functionality and content, while introducing further Our response the world where we can add value through our innovative and convenient payment methods We are growing our presence in urban areas expertise and focus on operational excellence, such as contactless payment and m-ticketing in North America and Europe and in additional while achieving attractive returns.
in our UK bus operations and online seat services such as Charter services, transit and reservations in our coach operations.
We are also targeting further urban contracts in Spain and Morocco.
We are already deploying real-time dynamic scheduling and route planning in our North America transit business and are looking to extend this to other parts of our business.
Link to strategic priorities Growing our business through acquisitions Growing our business through acquisitions Growing our business through acquisitions Delivering operational excellence, p10 Delivering operational excellence, p10 Deployment of technology, p11 and market diversification, p11 and market diversification, p11 and market diversification, p11 Average GDP growth Global urban population growth is propelled by the growth of cities of all sizes Urban areas smaller than 500,000 Large cities of 5 to 10 million 2011 16 average 2017 19 average % Cities of 500,000 to 1 million Megacities of 10 million or more Medium-sized cities of 1 to 5 million 4.0 6,000 3.5 5,000 3.0 2.5 4,000 2.0 3,000 1.5 2,000 1.0 1,000 0.5 0 0.0 UK Spain US Germany Morocco 1990 2015 2030 Source: IMF Source: United Nations World Urbanisation Prospects 2014.
Population thousand Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 The trends shaping our business 5 The megatrends are shaping demand for travel and public transport and the opportunities ahead.
Link to strategic priorities Growing our business through acquisitions Growing our business through acquisitions Growing our business through acquisitions Delivering operational excellence, p10 Delivering operational excellence, p10 Deployment of technology, p11 and market diversification, p11 and market diversification, p11 and market diversification, p11 Average speed during peak travel times on Forecast trend in Smartphone usage in the UK urban roads in England in year to June 2017 Million 60 50 40 30 18.5 20 10 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Source: DfT Source: Statista 2017
