Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 95 Strategic Report Report of the Directors Governance Financial Statements The Directors present their Annual Report and audited Financial Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys Statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 to the members of the Company.
Directors There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate The Directors who held office during the year and those serving at the upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover, such as date of this report are: commercial contracts, bank agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Adrian Bellamy Ken Hydon Chris Sinclair Nicandro Durante Rakesh Kapoor Judy Sprieser There are no significant agreements between the Company and its Mary Harris Pamela Kirby Warren Tucker Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or Adrian Hennah Andr Lacroix employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except that provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted The biographical details of the current Directors are listed on pages 52 to under such plans to vest on a takeover.
In September 2017, we announced that Adrian Bellamy will retire as Chairman at the 2018 AGM on 3 May 2018 and Chris Sinclair will take on There is no information that the Company would be required to disclose the role of Non-Executive Chairman.
about persons with whom it has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company.
On 19 March 2018, we announced that Judy Sprieser and Ken Hydon will also retire as Non-Executive Directors at the 2018 AGM.
Dividend In July 2017, the Directors resolved to pay an interim dividend of 66.6 On 19 March 2018, we also announced that Andrew Bonfield has been pence per ordinary share 2016: 58.2 pence, which was paid to appointed to the Board with effect from 1 July 2018.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 97.7 pence per share 2016: 95.0 pence which, Directors interests together with the interim dividend, makes a total for the year of 164.3 A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company is pence per share 2017: 153.2 pence.
The final dividend, if approved by shown on page 94. the Shareholders, will be paid on 24 May 2018 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 April 2018.
Details of Executive Directors options to subscribe for shares in the Company are included on page 93 in the audited part of the Directors Share capital Remuneration Report.
As at 31 December 2017, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 736,535,179 ordinary shares of 10p each, of which 703,804,573 were During the year, none of the Directors had a material interest in any with voting rights and 32,730,606 ordinary shares were held in Treasury.
derivative or financial instrument relating to the Companys shares.
Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued and of options and Details of the Directors remuneration and service agreements are awards granted during the year are set out in Notes 23 and 24 to the disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 94.
No Director has a material interest in any contract of significance as that The Articles contain the rights and obligations attached to the Companys term is defined by the FCA to which the Company, or any of its ordinary shares.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys Takeover directive ordinary shares or the transfer of securities other than certain restrictions The Company is required to disclose certain additional information which may from time to time be imposed by laws, for example, insider required by s. 992 of the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 which trading law, in accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation, certain implemented the EU Takeover Directive.
The following sets out disclosures employees require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys not covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The Boards power to appoint Directors is contained in the Companys There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
The Articles stipulate an appointed ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company except, in the Director must submit themselves for election at the first AGM following case of transfers of securities: their appointment.
In addition, all Directors are required to offer that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws themselves for re-election every three years.
However, in accordance with and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority Directors submit themselves annually and will re-submit themselves at the whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of forthcoming AGM.
the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the No person holds securities in the Company which carry special voting Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware provisions of the Companys Articles and with regard to their statutory of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in duties as Directors under the CA 2006. restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Allotment of shares Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the alteration of In accordance with the CA 2006, Directors may only allot shares or grant share capital are also included in the Articles and Shareholders are asked rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares if authorised to to renew such authorities each year at the AGM.
A copy of the Articles is do so by Shareholders at a general meeting.
The authority granted to the available from the Companys website at www.
com or can be obtained Directors at the 2017 AGM under s. 551 CA 2006 will expire at the upon written request from the Company Secretary or from the UK conclusion of this years AGM.
At the 2018 AGM, a resolution will be Registrar of Companies.
proposed to the Shareholders to renew the Directors authority to allot Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 96 Report of the Directors continued equity shares representing approximately one-third of the Companys the Groups strategies, policies and procedures.
Open and regular communication with employees at all levels is an essential part of the issued share capital as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
In accordance with the Investment management process.
A continuing programme of training and Association Share Capital Management Guidelines, Directors will once development reinforces the Groups commitment to employee again seek authority to allot further ordinary shares, in connection with a development.
pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue, up to a further one-third of the Companys existing issued share capital on the same date.
The Regular departmental meetings are held where opinions of employees authorities sought would, if granted, expire at the earlier of six months are sought on a variety of issues.
The Group operates multi-dimensional after the Companys next accounting reference date, or at the conclusion internal communications programmes which include the provision of a of the AGM of the Company held in 2019, whichever is the sooner.
Group intranet and the publication of regular Group newsletters.
Under s. 561 CA 2006, Shareholders have a right of first refusal in relation Group incentive schemes reinforce financial and economic factors to certain issues of new shares.
A special resolution will also be proposed affecting the performance of the business.
Employees typically have three to renew the Directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash to five performance objectives which are directly linked to their job and up to a nominal amount representing less than 10% of the Companys their specific contribution to the overall performance of the Group.
In issued share capital as at the latest practicable date prior to the addition, presentations and videos are given to employees around the publication of the Notice of AGM.
The resolution would also permit Group on publication of the Groups financial results.
Directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash, shares that may be held by the Company in Treasury.
In accordance with the The Board encourages employees to become Shareholders and to Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles and the Investment participate in the Groups employee share ownership schemes, should Association and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Associations they so wish.
Savings-related share plans covering most of the world give supporting guidelines, the Directors confirm their intention that, other employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company by means of than in relation to a rights issue, no more than 5% of the issued ordinary regular savings.
share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, will be issued for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis and no more than 7.5% of the share Political donations capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, will be allotted for Authority is sought each year from Shareholders, on a precautionary cash under a non-pre-emptive basis over a rolling three-year period basis, to approve political donations and incur political expenditures in without prior consultation with Shareholders, in each case other than in accordance with the requirements of Part 14 CA 2006 as the definitions connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment which is in the Act are broad.
No political donations or expenditure of the type announced contemporaneously with the allotment or which has taken requiring disclosure under s. 366 and s. 367 of the CA 2006 were made in place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the the year ended 31 December 2017 nor are any contemplated.
At the 2017 AGM, the Company decided in line with best practice recommendations to split the section Independent Auditor 561 resolution into two separate resolutions.
At this years AGM the A resolution recommending to the Companys Shareholders that KPMG resolution will again be proposed as two separate resolutions.
The first LLP be appointed as External Auditor for the financial year ending resolution seeks authorisation for 5% of the issued ordinary share capital 31 December 2018 will be proposed at the AGM.
to be issued on an unrestricted basis, whilst the second resolution seeks authority for the additional 5% of the issued ordinary share capital to be Further disclosures used for an acquisition or a specified capital investment.
This authority Further information, including information fulfilling the further disclosure will maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, requirements contained in the CA 2006, Schedule 7 of the Large and including issues required to finance business opportunities, should Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports appropriate circumstances arise.
Regulations 2008 and the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules can be found in the following sections of the Authority to purchase own shares Annual Report for the period ended 31 December 2017 which are Authority was granted to Directors at the 2017 AGM to repurchase shares incorporated into the Report of the Directors by reference: in the market and this authority remains valid until the conclusion of this Page years AGM.
There were no share repurchases during 2017.
Acquisitions and disposals 152-153 At the 2018 AGM, the Directors will seek to renew the authority granted Awards under employee share schemes 147-151 to them.
Such authority, if approved, will be limited to a maximum of Corporate Governance Statement including internal control 69million ordinary shares, representing less than 10% of the Companys and risk management statements 61-68 issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares calculated as at Directors interests in the share capital of the Company 94 the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM, and Directors Statement of Responsibilities, including disclosure sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
The of information to the Auditor 98 Companys present intention is to hold shares acquired under such authority in Treasury to satisfy outstanding awards under employee share Disclosure of greenhouse gas GHG emissions 22 incentive plans.
Employment policy and employee involvement 96 Environmental, social and governance ESG matters 13-23 Employees Financial risk management and financial instruments 132-137 During 2017, the Group employed an average of 40,400 2016: 34,700 Future developments in the business 1-51 employees worldwide, of whom 3,431 2016: 3,384 were employed in Post Balance Sheet events 153 the UK.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in Research and development activities 13-23 employment: no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment Shareholder information 176-178 on the grounds of nationality, age, gender, religion, race, ethnicity or Sustainability and corporate responsibility 76-77 disability.
The Group recognises its responsibilities to disabled persons Viability Statement 43 and endeavours to assist them to make their full contribution at work.
Where employees become disabled, every practical effort is made to There is no additional information requiring disclosure under Listing Rule allow them to continue in their jobs or to provide retraining in suitable 9.8.
It is essential to the continued improvement in efficiency and productivity throughout the Group that each employee understands Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 97 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2017 and as at 19 March 2018, pursuant to DTR5 of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Company had received the following notices of substantial interests 3% or more in the total voting rights of the Company: Nature of % of voting Holder Date of last TR-1 notification interest rights JAB Holdings B. V. 7 November 2017 Direct 5.99 Massachusetts Financial Services Company and 1 or its subsidiaries 16 January 2013 Indirect 5.00 1 Under a s. 793 CA 2006 request Massachusetts Financial Services Company confirmed on 5 February 2018 that their aggregate holding had increased to 59,476,148 shares and 2,239,909 American Depositary Receipts ADRs, of which they had the ability to vote 7.36% and 0.28%, respectively.
Corporate Governance Statement In compliance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules 7.2.
1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
8A are set out in this Report of the Directors and in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 61 to 68 which together with the Directors Statement of Responsibilities are incorporated by reference into this Report of the Directors.
Annual General Meeting The forthcoming AGM of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc will be held on 3 May 2018 at 11.15am at the London Heathrow Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex UB3 5AN.
A separate Notice of Meeting, setting out the resolutions to be proposed to Shareholders, is available at www.
The Board considers that each of the resolutions is in the best interests of the Company and the Shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that Shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By Order of the Board Rupert Bondy Company Secretary Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 103-105 Bath Road Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH Company registration number: 6270876 Legal Entity Identifier: 5493003JFSMOJG48V108 19 March 2018
