Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 42 Our framework for risk management The following table provides a summary review of the principal strategic risks and uncertainties that are more likely to affect the Group, as identified by management and the Board.
The following table sets out The most senior leaders of our RB operates a major risk assessment process the principal strategic risks and business dedicate time each year, to periodically identify, assess and mitigate uncertainties facing the Group at in a facilitated discussion with those risks it considers to be most significant the date of this report.
They do the Group risk team, to consider not comprise all of the risks that the risk environment for their to the successful execution of our strategy.
Additional particular functional or geographic risks and uncertainties not area of responsibility and how their presently known to management, emerging or known risks could or deemed to be less material at impact on the achievement of the date of this report, may also the Groups strategic objectives.
have an effect on the Group.
Similar sessions are held with the The Board retains responsibility Groups external advisors and also for oversight of principal risks with each Board member.
The across RB and it considers the key content from these sessions appropriateness of the risk is synthesised into the Groups exposure to its appetite for principal risks, with an EC owner risk as laid out in the annual being accountable for overseeing strategic planning process.
The the execution of the current Board delegates the day-to-day control strategy and for preparing monitoring of risk to the Executive and executing a plan of mitigating Committee EC and each principal actions to properly manage the risk has an EC owner.
Principal Groups exposure to an acceptable risks are routinely reviewed not level for that risk.
Progress is only at EC meetings but also by reviewed periodically and the the appropriate Board committee summary output from the principal Audit or CRSEC or by the Board risk assessment process is formally itself.
The Audit Committee holds submitted annually by the EC to responsibility for oversight of the the Board for its consideration principal risk assessment process, and agreement.
Through the and considering whether it is course of each year, the EC, Board appropriate to the needs of the and Board Committees agendas business and works effectively: address each of the principal risks the Audit Committee performs through specific deep dives to an annual review of this process.
ensure proper focus, resourcing The principal risk assessment and progress with mitigation.
process is led and facilitated by the Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management under the direction of the Group CEO and CFO.
The principal risk assessment process consists of the following key elements.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 43 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The evaluation takes into account The sensitivity assigns each consumer confidence, and inability Viability the Groups cash flow, historical adverse assumption an estimated to retain and recruit quality people.
Group planning accuracy, available annual monetary value and Such an event could have an Statement banking facilities and interest cover estimates the impact on interest impact on the viability of the ratios in connection with financial cover ratios and headroom over business.
The Board conducted a Viability covenants.
The analysis concluded available borrowing facilities.
Review covering a five-year that if RB performs in line with The analysis concludes that As there are a number of period.
This period was selected forecast it would have sufficient even with the occurrence of key mitigating controls in place across as it is the period covered in the funds to trade, settle its liabilities unexpected scenarios, RB would the business, the occurrence of Groups long-term forecasting as they fall due, and remain still have sufficient funds to aBlack Swan event is considered process, which covers the compliant with financial covenants.
trade, settle its liabilities as they sufficiently unlikely that it has not introduction to market of the fall due, and remain compliant been factored into the sensitivity current new product pipeline.
The analysis goes on to consider with financial covenants.
the viability of the business should The five-year Viability Review adverse unexpected events arise.
The Board has further considered As a result of the Viability Review, first looks at the Groups ability To illustrate this, a sensitised the occurrence of a Black Swan the Board has a reasonable to continue in operation if it view of the Group forecast event: an event with sufficient expectation that the Group will be performs in line with the Group was produced.
The adverse potential impact to risk the future able to continue in operation and forecast.
This assumes that normal assumptions are based primarily of RB as a strong and independent meet its liabilities as they fall due market conditions continue upon the realisation of key Group business operating in its chosen over the five-year period covered and current trends remain.
principal risks, which have the markets.
The occurrence of a major in the Viability Review.
most relevant potential impact issue could result in significant on viability see risks marked reputational impact, a catastrophic on the following pages.
share price fall, significant loss of Overall, it is considered that Strong early progress on the effort and resources continue to Risk management recently implemented Safety, be applied to reduce these risks theGroup risk management framework has been further Quality, Regulatory and for both the short and longer framework Compliance SQRC governance terms: strengthened during 2017 through Compared with a year ago, the the combination of greater Board structure has driven a reduction Continuing below-par trading individual risks have evolved as in the exposure for our performance increases the risk leadership and oversight with follows: theembedding of the Corporate consumers to potential Product of Loss of Management: and Delivery of RB 2.0 will provide Safety issues, and of the RB Reputation as a risk has been Responsibility, Sustainability, greater risk balance for RB in Ethicsand Compliance Committee business to Product Regulatory removed from the list, as it is the medium term, although Non-Compliance risks: considered that this is most CRSEC Committee together there is shorter-term delivery withthe associated executive The South Korea risk has appropriately managed through risk associated.
New and stabilised although significant its constituent parts.
management committees: also, significant risks are also risk remains: theimpact of the Safety, Quality, associated with Mead Johnson Due to developments during As such, the Group risk profile has Regulatory and Compliance SQRC Nutrition MJN Integration.
2017 in the Department of function, reporting directly to the slightly increased in aggregate These two risks are being Justice case, this risk is now from a year ago, with three Group CEO, and the channelling of managed through an integrated actively managed separately additional resources to strengthen principal risks numbers 7, 10 and change management from the Legal Non- 12 carrying a higher likelihood compliance assurance across the programme: Compliance risk: Group.
than in the previous year and RB also suffered Supply and one number 2 carrying a lower Logistics shortfalls, which were Exchange rate risk likelihood, per the listing below.
exacerbated by a significant The potential impact assessed While the foreign exchange risk is cyber security breach just ahead not considered to be a principal risk hasrisen for three risks again, of the half-year close, with numbers 7, 10 and 12 and fallen to the Group, the means used to resultant customer service mitigate this risk are considered in for two 2 and 3 based on the impact.
Note 14 to the Financial Statements.
ERP IT Systems Failure principal risks 9.
Department of Justice Safety Incident Investigation BS Black Swan Event Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 44 Decreased Increased Risk management No change New framework Key Group principal risks Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions Detailed change programme execution plan Board sign-off of all material aspects.
RB 2.0 delivery Committee routinely updated on progress to andongoing governance model maintained andupdated by programme team, including: ensure proper risk and control maintained.
Customer go-live across the world to approach customers and manage Personal leadership of Group Chief Executive with direct Executive Committee EC oversight.
relationships as two separate business units.
Legal entity restructuring completion RB 2.0 overarching project management team in-year of most critical markets.
Description Regulatory compliance plan for products established and working effectively, with robust governance framework in place.
Programme inline with legal entity changes.
Risk that implementation of the new RB 2.0 category-based organisation and accompanying teams in place for each business unit and budgets allotted for end-to-end ownership.
ways of working causes short-term issues: Heavy change programme.
Programme Review Board meetings held Potential loss of key management.
monthly and chaired by Group CFO.
Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions A dedicated vigilance group monitors and Ongoing review of Product Safety Evaluation 2.
Product safety reports as required adverse events and manages Records PSERs to ensure current availability product safety risks.
Safety team has been further strengthened Systems review to ensure that all product during 2017. changes are satisfactorily tracked, controlled and updated.
Base training for all employees, and advanced training for relevant employees to fully Development and integration of a crossDescription understand their role in fulfilling safety, quality functional Product Lifecycle Management PLM and compliance standards for RB products.
system safety, regulatory, pharmacovigilance, Risk of not having a robust process for quality, supply, procurement, etc.
to improve assessment of product safety: this may result in: The Compliance Management Committee compliance at source and reduce manual Consumer safety issues.
CMC, established in 2016, continues to meet intervention.
Gaps in the completion of our safety monthly, chaired by the Group CEO the Group assessment.
The CMC routinely Strengthen processes to ensure product release Reputational damage with consumers, reviews product safety governance and issues from factories is contingent on availability of customers or regulators.
arising and escalates to the Executive aPSER.
Significant financial losses arising from Committee as necessary.
supply disruption, product recalls, delayed launches, penalties, etc.
Quarterly updates of product safety progress Possible criminal liability for Group from the CMC to the CRSEC Committee.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 45 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions REGEX programme reviewed compliance of Compliance programme for sexual wellbeing 3.
Non-compliance with RBs medicine marketing authorisations.
medical devices has commenced as part of product integrity reviews.
product regulations Ongoing Product Vulnerability programme review of ingredients, formulations, stability Improve artwork and label approval process.
PLM system development to replace ageing REACH compliance programme to enhance system and integrate RB and MJN to enable Description systems, processes and data to demonstrate compliance management throughout the compliance with REACH and other chemical product life cycle.
Risk that non-compliance with regulations of control legislation.
relevant product classifications e. g. medicinal products, medical devices, dietary supplements, Product Integrity review programme review food, cosmetics, general products, etc.
product compliance against registration and or resultsin: regulatory requirements.
Reputational damage with consumers, Change management process optimisation to customers or regulators.
Significant financial losses arising from supply disruption, product recalls, delayed A Compliance Management Committee CMC launches, penalties, etc.
meets monthly, chaired by the Group CEO the Possible criminal liability for Group Group CFO since 1 January 2018.
This companies and RB management.
committee routinely reviews product regulatory governance and updates the Board CRSEC Committee quarterly.
Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions The CMC see principal risk number 2 is now Verify compliance with QMS through corporate 4.
Non-compliance with Good inplace to ensure KPIs are reported from the quality audits in base businesses and all top through all levels in the organisation.
Manufacturing Practices Quarterly updates of quality compliance Implement initial phases of integrated Global GXP regulations progress from the CMC to the CRSEC Consumer Relations function and process Committee.
system to ensure appropriate signal detection by business unit.
Independent audit team established and Description externally certified: first full-year programme Integrate MJN and RB Quality Management executed.
team, to establish consistent standards globally.
Risk of non-compliance with applicable regulations, guidelines, internal standards and Minimum standards programme in place to Establish and report new KPI metrics assessing or registrations across the supply chain and monitor and measure performance.
compliance risk of QMS elements.
throughout the product life cycle governing how we produce and supply products.
Health business unit compliance regularly PLM system development to upgrade system audited by external parties and clear actions and integrate RB and MJN to enable compliance Non-compliance results in risk to: inplace.
management throughout the product life cycle.
Business disruption including site or business Change management system deployed globally closures.
during 2017 to extend application to Hygiene Possible criminal liability for Group Home business unit.
External assessment of Quality Management System QMS and consumer safety completed, with remediation plans in place.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 46 Risk management framework continued Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions RB Korea continues to work closely with Full public apology formally and repeatedly 5.
South Korea made by RB Korea to affected parties.
government and other stakeholders to progress settlement with claimants and Regular review meetings by RB Group, as owner to establish a viable ongoing model for the local operations.
See Notes 17 of RB Korea, to review settlement progress and other issues as they arise.
and 19 to the Financial Statements.
Description Financial modelling performed and updated to quantify risk and provide for financial exposure.
The Humidifier Sanitizer HS issue in South Korea is a tragic event.
We continue to make both public and personal apologies to victims.
While an appropriate provision was made at half year 2016 to cover the one-off costs of litigation, a compensation programme for certain victims, as well as some impairment, the risk of additional exposure remains.
See Notes 17 and 19 to the Financial Statements.
Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions Global Safety, Quality, Regulatory and Continue to embed heightened EH&S culture 6.
Fatality or major Compliance SQRC structure and regional through rigorous auditing, ongoing cultural leadership.
employee safety Policy and enhanced Employee, Health & Safety incident EH&S standards in place.
EH&S intensive audit compliance programme inplace, including self-assessment, site visits, assurance of improvement actions and culture Description surveys.
Risk of work accidents leading to death, injury Routine progress reporting to CMC, with or illness on RB premises or premises under quarterly updates of progress with safety RBsupervision, in the case of outsourced governance and issues to the CRSEC operations, resulting in risks to: Committee.
Company reputation brand and Company Ongoing EH&S training and deployment of image damage.
driver safety standard programme in 2017.
Operational efficiency factory closures, significant supply disruption as issues are identified and rectified.
Financial performance loss of sales, finesand cost of remediation activities.
Possible criminal liability for Group Companies and RB senior management.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 47 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions Continued progress in ensuring principal key Extend HPR certification to all ex-MJN 7.
Supply and logistics single-sourced manufacturing sites Tier One manufacturing locations acquired in 2017. achieve and maintain FM Global certification as Highly Protected Risk HPR sites or otherwise Revisit all BCPs to ensure robust and functional have fully tested risk mitigation plan.
documentation and mapping for each significant factory e. g. by revenue stream to BCPs in place at other key sites setting out confirm that business continuity arrangements Description alternative manufacturing locations, recovery remain sufficient.
Risk of product supply interruption resulting from unplanned disruptions in raw material Continuous review of business interruption supply or forced shutdown.
insurance policies to ensure adequate cover isinplace with tested and proven product Loss of competitiveness and profitability from recallprocess.
service level deterioration arising from factory capacity constraints, warehouse or transport Raw material mono-sourcing risks and actions set-up charges or insufficient change capability monitored on a bi-monthly basis.
in factory and or supply services.
Tested and proven product recall process.
Risk that our business continuity plans BCPs, including mono-sourcing materials and products do not adequately address all risks facing the Group, resulting in unforeseen business disruption.
Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions Executive Committee strategically committing Execution of RB 2.0, including accelerated roll 8.
ERP IT systems failure to Group-wide SAP roll out.
out of SAP commercial and factory templates and upgrading of the commercial functionality SAP commercial and factory templates continue of the newly acquired MJN SAP template.
to be rolled out and are now live in five countries, 11 factories and two hubs, including Perform disaster recovery test for all Global recent deployments in Mexico and India, as well critical SAP systems and associated dependent as across the newly acquired MJN estate: systems.
multiple deployment teams remain fully active in rapid rollout phase.
Description Disaster recovery plans for key IT systems Risk of IT disruption or accounting error, due defined, regularly reviewed and tested under tolegacy Enterprise Resource Planning ERP new outsource provider platform, providing and IT systems, impacts business operations in improved systems integrity.
a number of areas, e. g. through unavailability of key management information or disruption to transactional processing.
There is an associated, additional risk that SAP deployment, to replace the existing legacy ERP, is delayed due to RB 2.0 project time frames and integration of MJN intoRB.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 48 Decreased Increased Risk management No change New framework continued Key Group principal risks Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions Implementation of cyber security Transformation of IS hardware environment 9.
Cyber security completed with security monitoring of key transformation plan and strategy in light of the learnings from the June 2017 cyber attacks systems in place.
Ongoing investment in system patching against cyber threats.
Increased IT security team headcount.
Description Continuous cyber testing platform vulnerability New cyber response playbooks and processes.
management to identify cyber weaknesses as Risk that RB is subject to increasingly new threats emerge.
sophisticated cyber attacks aimed at causing Continued improvements to system recovery business disruption, capture of data for financial Regular cyber security exercises.
Cyber security awareness training for all staff.
Note: RB was the collateral victim of the June 2017 virus attack via Ukraine, which disabled Solution in place for privileged access virtually all MS-based systems across RB over a management.
number of days and including over the half-year end.
Whilst a full recovery was made, an Global backup platform in place for data and expert-led review of the incident has extracted systems recovery.
extensive learning points to appropriately minimise impact from future attacks and mitigate both the immediate as well as the longer-term risk.
Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions Group Compliance programme.
Ongoing proactive management of current and 10.
Global Compliance Passport online training completed by all employees.
Delivery of GDPR readiness project ahead of effective date of new regulation in May 2018.
Group Whistleblower Hotline operational, widely communicated and embedded.
Develop tool for ongoing monitoring to prevent Description potential abuse of significant market positions.
Dedicated compliance personnel in each Risk that we are not fully compliant with business unit: supported by internal compliance Develop and rollout updated online training.
relevant laws and regulation, including liaisons and external local legal experts as and anti-corruption laws and global competition when required.
laws, resulting in damage to RBs reputation, significant potential fines and possible criminal SVP General Counsel and Company Secretary liability for RB senior management see Notes routine attendance at Board meetings.
17 and 19 to the Financial Statements for further detail.
IFCN division with new policies for interaction with Health Care Professionals HCPs and Increased risk has arisen from: process underway to integrate with Health The acquisition and integration of MJN business unit.
increasing our exposure with regard to anti-corruption laws, specifically health Global Gift Register and enhanced due careprofessional interaction.
Data privacy exposure is increasing due tothe need to hold Personally Identifiable GDPR readiness project underway.
Information PII and continuing changes inlegislation e. g. General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions Governance Review Board monitors and drives Ongoing proactive management to progress 11.
Major tax disputes compliance against operating model.
formal Advanced Pricing Agreements APAs and proactive management of ongoing Ongoing review and appropriate provisioning taxaudits.
Ongoing monitoring of progress of European Description Union State Aid investigations and their possible impact on RB.
Also for Base Erosion and Profit Risk of significant un-provisioned cash outflows Shifting BEPS initiatives.
as a result of tax authority challenge to filed tax positions see Note 7 to the Financial Statements for further detail.
Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions People discussion is a standard agenda item at The Group structures its reward programme to 12.
Loss of management all Executive Committee meetings.
attract and retain the best people.
The formal succession planning process continues to Succession plans for key management positions evolvewith plans being reviewed and updated are in place.
regularly for all key positions and individuals.
Retention risk analysis undertaken regularly, Description including review of turnover rates.
Risk that RB cannot implement its strategies Continuous review of competitiveness of the and meet objectives as a result of management total compensation programmes at RB.
leaving the business who cannot be readily replaced by equally high-calibre experienced DARE Develop, Attract, Retain, Engage qualified candidates.
talented women programme continues to be driven hard: its objective includes the reduction Ahead of RB 2.0 there was a concern that in drop-off rate of females from manager to management turnover could rise.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 50 Decreased Increased Risk management No change New framework continued Key Group principal risks Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions Detailed plan of full integration in place and IFCN operated as a separate division through 13.
Mead Johnson Nutrition 2017 with a dedicated Executive Leadership aligned within RB 2.0 organisation change.
team 80% of which are previous MJN MJN integration employees.
Commercial performance and integration status progress reviewed monthly by the EC.
Description Key MJN talent identified and retention Risk that integration takes longer than expected programme in place.
and does not deliver the projected benefits within expected time frames: RB has strengthened IFCN commercial rigour The integration of MJN into RB continues through enhancements to the operating model, todivert management attention from whilst retaining unique strengths of MJN R&D, operating and delivering the expected Regulatory and Quality functions.
results from its core business.
Existing RB management have limited experience in running and managing the risks associated with an Infant and Child Nutrition IFCN business.
Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions Ongoing close oversight by top management Continuing effort to engage to reach 14.
Department of Justice and Board, with independent advice from reasonable resolution of the investigation.
DoJ investigation Ongoing preparation of defences to any criminal indictment or civil action.
Description Risks deriving from ongoing US DoJ investigation and related antitrust litigation relating to legacy pharmaceutical business include: Potential criminal indictment of RB Group orRB individuals, with reputational impact, distraction and potential debarment which could theoretically have wider implications within the RB business.
Significant financial liability for RB from settlement or adverse court decisions in criminal or civil matters.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 51 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions A full and robust risk and control framework is The adequacy of the risk and control BS.
Black Swan event in place and operating effectively across RB.
framework, together with Group policies, isreviewed annually by the Audit and This framework is overseen by the Audit and CRSECCommittees.
CRSEC Committees on behalf of the Board and is routinely reviewed by an independent Internal Incremental improvements are made each year Audit function, which reports directly to the to further strengthen RBs systems of internal Description Audit Committee.
Risk of significant reputational impact as a Crisis management training programme and result of a major product safety issue resulting support tools in place.
in very serious adverse impacts to third parties or the viability of the business, possibly compounded by apparently negligent management behaviour.
Extreme adverse press coverage and viral socialmedia linking the RB name to consumer brands, leading to catastrophic share price fall, accompanied by collapse of consumer confidence and inability to retain and recruit highly capable employees.
Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2018 actions In order to manage the more numerous and The adequacy of the risk and control Routine risks routine risks, the Group maintains a complete framework, together with Group policies, is and robust governance framework.
This consists reviewed annually by the Audit and CRSEC of a full set of policies, processes and systems Committees.
covering all aspects of compliance, with international and local laws as well as with the A fundamental element of the MJN acquisition Groups stated minimum control standards.
integration process has been to select the Description bestcombination of risk and control policies, Management provides primary assurance by processes and systems to further improve We are subject to a range of compliance and driving risk compliance through their respective robustness for the enlarged RB 2.0 business.
routine risks as part of everyday business.
business unit, area, regional or functional responsibility.
This is done through regular and detailed business and governance reviews.
Secondary assurance is provided independently through a combination of Internal and External Audit covering all aspects of the Groups operations.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 1 to 51, has been approved by the Board.
On behalf of the Board Rupert Bondy Company Secretary 19 March 2018
