Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 14 betterbusiness in action 01 02 We said... We delivered... Organisation and culture In 2017, we said we would: In 2017, we: Focus on diversity, talent, succession and Announced our new organisational Achieved a further reduction in the Lost performance structure, effective Q1 2018 Work Day Accident Rate LWDAR on a like-for-like basis but recorded a 13% Advance our safety, quality and compliance Continued our DARE programme, to increase following reclassification and processes and practices, with the aim of Develop, Attract, Retain and Engage began to focus on reducing accidents movingfrom good to great performance talented women, and our mentoring when employees are travelling to work programme for female talent Launch global standards for health and safety Created a new quality compliance toset minimum expectations for the highest Provided leadership development team, which completed 80 quality riskareas across all our sites programmes to more than 1,500 auditsin 2017 managers, including unconscious biasand inclusive leadership training Introduced six new global policies under our Quality Management System QMS Continued to focus on making and completed an external audit of performance reviews meaningful and theQMS relevant, and rolled out the process toMJN Published our tax strategy setting outour tax principles and approach to Refreshed our core values and tax risk management, tax transparency, strengthened our committment to our tax planning and working with tax people and our consumers with the new authorities.
Our tax strategy can be value of Responsibility found on our website www.
com Invested significantly in Safety, Quality Substantially strengthened our cyber and Compliance functions, adding security, as described in the Chief high-calibre people as we continue to Executives Statement see page 6 move from good to great Created a team to provide health and safety audits, training and advice see case study Introduced 11 new health and safety standards, coupled with training andadvice Implemented a single health and safety function across RB and MJN, adopting best practice from both organisations Our goals Like-for-like Net Revenue growth Gender diversity Lost Work Day Accident Rate LWDAR Definition: Growth in Net Revenue, excluding the Definition: The percentage of women in Definition: The number of workplace impact of changes in exchange rates, acquisitions our global workforce accidents at manufacturing, warehouse, anddisposals R&D and commercial locations resulting in at Target: Expand our focus on diversity and least one day of lost time per 100,000 hours talent by improving the retention rates of worked.
Health Hygiene Home women from managers to senior managers.
This is in line with our goal of doubling the Category growth rate 3-5% 2-3% number of women in senior management Target to 2020: Continued reduction in the injury rate.
In line to Ambition Upper end upper end Increase in our LWDAR since 2012: At the year end, RBs gender diversity was as follows: Adjusted Operating Margin expansion 13% Board Senior Other Medium-term target: We have revised the classification of our Lost Work Directors: managers: employees Moderate Adjusted Operating Margin Day Accident Rate LWDAR from 2017 to include 8 male 392 male 19,910 male expansion accidents associated with organised travel and 3 female 127 female 15,427 female commercial offices.
Excluding accidents from organised travel and commercial offices, there has been a 36% reduction in LWDARsince 2012.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 15 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 02 03 Powering performance in China Greater China is MJNs largest market but We will... significant shifts in channels and the products consumers demand had hit revenues in recent years.
Since the acquisition, we have reinvigorated the business in China, focusing on new channels such as momOur priorities for 2018 are to: and-baby stores, applying RBs e-commerce expertise, improving marketing for MJNs Complete the reorganisation into two new exciting innovations and empowering the business units, including the full integration of team to take fast decisions.
The result was MJNinto Health, ensuring we deliver the revenue a return to strong revenue growth by Q4.
growth, margins and cost synergies weexpect from the acquisition Advancing health and safety Continue to strengthen our cyber security In 2017, we put a new team in place to assure andoursafety and compliance capabilities ourselves that we have the right health and safety practices across the business.
The Continue to drive improvements in health and team acts as auditors, trainers and advisors safety, including rolling out a health and safety to all our operations.
By the end of the culture survey to all sites year, it had completed 163 audits, covering Pilot a new system to give us a best-practice every location in RB.
These audits produced process for managing the product life cycle clear recommendations and documented Continue to focus on embedding DARE actions to drive further health and safety anddriving initiatives to improve gender improvements in the coming year.
balance, including running our Accelerate leadership programme every quarter for highlytalented women Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 16 betterbusiness in action Living our values RB has a distinct culture, which comes to life through our values.
These values are interlinked and together define how we make decisions, how our people behave, how we reward people and how our people grow.
Underpinning our culture is our desire to always act responsibly.
Entrepreneurship Courage to disrupt the status quo Acting like entrepreneurs means having the courage to disrupt the status quo, by pursuing big ideas using less money.
We champion new ideas, no matter where they come from, and are passionate about turning them into effective business solutions.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 17 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Achievement Hungry for outperformance RB is hungry for outperformance.
We never rest on our laurels, so when we climb a mountain we look for the next peak.
We have a bias for action at speed and reward our people for outperformance.
Ownership Responsibility Its my business, I own it, I drive it Taking ownership means that we treat the business like it is our own.
Our people take the initiative, without waiting to be asked or Doing the right thing told, and have the freedom to make a difference.
Being responsible means always doing the right thing, even when it is hard.
We always put the safety of our people and consumers first and lead and act with integrity.
Partnership Building trusted relationships to create value We build trusted relationships to create value.
We say what we mean and do what we say, both in the room and outside it.
We value constructive conflict, as it enables us to reach the best answer.
No one has all the solutions, so we partner with others tofindthem.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 betterbusiness in action 01 02 We said... We delivered... Powermarkets In 2017, we said we would: In 2017, we: Continue to invest heavily behind our Continued to invest in penetration Substantially increased our footprint Powermarkets, to increase penetration programmes, for example by visiting indeveloping markets to 40% on a anddistribution 2.8million new mothers in 13 emerging pro-forma basis through the acquisition markets, to help them understand and of MJN Stay at the forefront of e-commerce, as China adopt good hygienic practices for when andother developing countries go through a Grew e-commerce to more than 50% they bring their babies home transformation in this channel ofNet Revenue in China, up from more than 30% in 2016 Established multi-channel capabilities, including Offline to Online O2O and Direct to Consumer D2C in China and other markets Powerbrands In 2017, we said we would: In 2017, we: Continue to invest heavily behind our Invested 13.4% base business of For example, we developed a protective Powerbrands, particularly in Health and Hygiene, NetRevenue in brand equity-building ecosystem against air pollution, to increase penetration and distribution initiatives including masks, under the new brand name, SiTi Shield Continue to develop innovative solutions, Continued to work on penetration whichtarget under-served consumer needs improvement programmes.
For example, Achieved a flat like-for-like LFL Net we worked with seven dishwasher Revenue performance with broadmanufacturers globally to drive further based, mid-single digit growth rates dishwasher penetration in this inhealth, offset by the impact of a underdeveloped category cyberattack and continued impact fromScholl Amop.
The underlying Launched many consumer-centric performance of our consumer health innovations aimed at making our business remains strong consumers lives healthier and happier Virtuous earnings model In 2017, we said we would: In 2017, we: Target LFL Net Revenue growth of 3% and Delivered flat LFL Net Revenue growth, Maintained tight control over fixed costs moderate Operating Margin expansion in the as a result of challenging market in our base business, which reduced by medium term conditions, the effect of the Korea 30bps to 19.5% of Net Revenue.
This Humidifier Sanitizer HS issue, the was in part helped by reduced annual Maintain a high Gross Margin by focusing on Scholl Amop innovation and the cyber bonus incentives following a tough year higher-margin brands and optimising our cost attack ofgoods sold, an ongoing process we call Grew Adjusted Operating Margin by ProjectFuel Achieved a stable Adjusted Gross 30bps on the base business to 28.1%.
Margin of 61.1% -10bps in a difficult The consolidation of the lower-margin Focus our Brand Equity Investment BEI on pricing environment, and with MJN business for six and a half months consumer education and penetration commodity cost headwinds in 2017 caused the Adjusted Group programmes, to build long-term brand equity Operating Margin to decline by -70bps Invested 13.4% base business of Net Invest appropriately in fixed costs our people to 27.1% Revenue in BEI capabilities and infrastructure while keeping our organisation lean Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 19 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 02 03 Accelerating our online growth RBs dedicated e-business unit aims to drive We will... incremental growth for the Group.
It had an excellent year with strong growth.
In addition, theunit successfully developed its cross-border business into China, supported by an e-distributor network.
Our priorities for 2018 are to: Prioritise management and financial resource towards our Powermarkets, with a particular focus on China and the US, as these are key IFCN markets Expect channel fragmentation to continue, as technology enables more consumers to access our products in new ways, and aim to deliver innovative solutions to our consumers, in whichever channel they choose to shop Increasing penetration for Mucinex in the US In 2017, our consumer education programme supporting Mucinex was highly successful, Our priorities for 2018 are to: driving strong demand.
Mucinex offers relief Continue to develop innovative solutions, for 12 hours, giving it a real advantage over whichtarget under-served consumer needs competing four-hour products.
With only one dose to take rather than three over 12 hours, Prioritise investment towards the respective Mucinex is better value for consumers and they Powerbrands of our new, focused and are less likely to forget to take a dose.
accountable business units of Health and HygieneHome Virtuous earnings model The virtuous earnings model starts at Gross Margin, which gives us the room to fund investment in Fixed Costs and BEI, so we Our priorities for 2018 are to: drive Net Revenue and Operating Margin.
Target total Net Revenue growth at constant Our unique performance-led culture pushes rates of 13-14%, implying LFL growth of 2-3% us to continually do better.
Focus on maintaining a high Gross Margin Gross Margin through accretive product mix, Project Fuel andGross Margin accretive innovation Continue to invest heavily behind the long-term strength of our brands, at an appropriate return on investment, whilst seeking to drive efficiencies Maintain tight fixed cost discipline, and invest behind our new platform for growth and outperformance RB 2.0 Net UNIQUE Fixed Cost Revenue Target moderate margin expansion in the medium CULTURE term, while recognising that specific in-year factors may enhance or dilute margins Operating Margin BEI
