Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 98 Directors Statement of Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 51.
The financial position of the Group Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, policies and processes for Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Parent Company managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, risk and liquidity risk, are described in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the 51 and in Note 14 to the Group Financial Statements.
UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law.
In preparing the Group Financial Statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with The Group has considerable financial resources together with a diverse IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
customer and supplier base across different geographical areas and Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial categories.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group and Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of Parent Company are well placed to manage their business risks the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of the profit or successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
loss of the Group and Parent Company for that period.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Parent select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and for at least 12 months.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed for the Group Financial basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial Statements in Statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising accordance with the FRCs Guidance on risk management, internal FRS 102, have been followed for the Parent Company Financial control and related financial business reporting.
This statement is also Statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and made to fulfil the requirements of Listing Rules 9.8.
10R 1 explained in the Financial Statements: and C. 1.3 of the Code.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and Disclosure of information to Auditor prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, state that: is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will 1 so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information continue in business.
of which the Auditor is unaware: and 2 each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Parent Companys information and to establish that the Group and Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Auditor is aware of that information.
financial position of the Parent Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration By Order of the Board Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Rupert Bondy Company Secretary responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Parent Company and the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 103-105 Bath Road detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company registration number: 6270876 Parent Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ 19 March 2018 from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Group and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 52 to 55, confirm that, to the best of his her knowledge: the Parent Company Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and IFRSs as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Parent Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
