Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports Audit Committee report Committee skills and experience In line with the Code, the Audit Committee as a whole is deemed to have competence relevant to the insurance and financial services sectors in which the Group operates.
All Committee members are members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
They also have recent and relevant financial experience across a number Andrew Palmer of different insurance businesses, enabling them to contribute Chair of the Audit diverse expertise to the Committees proceedings.
To keep their Committee skills current and relevant, and in addition to Board training, members of the Committee have received training during the period on matters including a deep dive of Group Audit, IFRS Membership, attendance and responsibilities of the Committee 17 and the Solvency II technical provisions.
Main activities during the year At each scheduled Committee meeting, the Committee receives Areas of focus in the reporting period reports on financial reporting, reserves, internal controls and The Committee reviews and monitors the reserving process.
Group Audit, except at the December 2017 meeting where The Committee challenged the key reserving assumptions the focus was on pre year-end financial matters.
You can find and judgements, emerging trends, movements and analysis out more about this in the following sections.
of uncertainties underlying the ABE and MBE of technical provisions.
Financial reporting On 27 February 2017 the MoJ announced a change in The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements the personal injury discount rate used in the assessment of of the Group and any other formal announcement relating to damages for large bodily injury claims.
The rate changed its financial performance.
The Groups financial reporting and from 2.50% to minus 0.75%.
The Committee reviewed control framework has been expanded to include Solvency and challenged managements assessment of the impact II-related information.
of the proposed new discount rate on both the cost of During the year, the Committee reviewed the preliminary settling reported claims and claims incurred but not announcement of the Groups 2016 financial results, the 2016 reported.
The associated second order impacts on claims Annual Report & Accounts, the 2017 Half Year Report, the cost, such as the additional cost for claims settling as PPOs Regular Supervisory Report and the Solvency and Financial and associated reinsurance recoveries were also reviewed.
The Committee then recommended them to The Committee agreed that the Group should recognise the Board for approval.
The Committee also reviewed the the best estimate net impact of the rate change immediately trading updates for the first and third quarters of 2017. and therefore the impact was reflected in the 2016 IFRS financial statements and Solvency II surplus capital reported The Committee followed a review process before position.
Further information can be found in the Annual recommending the reports to the Board which focused on Report & Accounts for 2016. significant accounting policies and practices, emphasising The Committee provides oversight of the accounting those requiring a major element of judgement.
The review estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the also considered the going concern assumptions and viability financial statements.
For further details please see the table statement in the case of the Annual Report & Accounts, of significant judgements and issues on page 62. valuation of assets and impairment reviews, reserving In relation to Group Audit, the Committee received a provisions, unusual transactions, clarity of disclosures and report on compliance with the updated Chartered Institute significant audit adjustments.
This included the Solvency II of Internal Auditors guidance on effective internal audit in balance sheet and the annual Quantitative Reporting Templates.
the financial services sector IA Code.
This provided an opportunity to challenge how the function sought to comply The Committee also advised the Board whether the Annual fully with the IA Code.
Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided sufficient information to enable the reader to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
When considering the Annual Report & Accounts for 2017, the Committee focused on the significant judgements and issues which could be material to the financial statements.
These included the matters set out in the table on the next page.
COM 61 Committee reports continued Audit Committee report continued Matter considered Description Action Personal injury When the Lord Chancellor announced the change to the personal injury It is expected that the Ogden discount rate discount rate the Ogden discount rate or ODR in February 2017, discount rate will change more reducing it from 2.50% to minus 0.75%, the Committee considered the frequently in future and the impact on the 2016 accounts and discussed and challenged the analysis.
Committee will monitor the Furthermore, at the time of the Half Year results in 2017, the Committee also processes for the implementation considered the proposed release of reserves of 49 million in connection of a change.
with reduced sensitivity to the Ogden discount rate from reserve releases in the first half of the year.
Insurance The Committee reviewed the ABE of the level of reserves.
This included a The Committee reviews and reserves report from independent external actuarial consultants on their assessment of challenges the ABE and MBE on valuation the appropriate level of reserves for certain risks.
Following the review of the a six-monthly basis.
In addition, ABE, the Committee also considered the MBE of reserves which can take into it monitors developing trends in account certain trends, risks and higher confidence levels than those which risks that could impact the are allowed for in the ABE due to its reliance on past experience.
Further reserves in a positive or negative information on reserves is provided in this report.
On an ongoing basis deep dives are carried out on different risks.
Valuation The Committee considered reports on the judgements applied to the carrying The Committee will monitor the of investments value of the Groups investments that are not held at fair value and the basis carrying value of investments not held at for the valuation.
These assets are principally comprised of infrastructure and the basis for that valuation.
fair value loans, commercial real estate loans and private placement bonds held within the investment portfolio and information was provided to the Committee on a regular basis to support the value recognised in the accounts.
During the year an impairment loss was recognised on the portfolio of 9.5 million and the Committee considered the explanation presented to support the impairment.
Estimates and The Committee considered the accounting estimates and judgements that The Committee continues to judgements had a material impact on the IFRS financial statements.
consider major accounting estimates and judgements As part of this process, the Committee considered the valuation of intangible made in preparing the assets.
These mainly related to investment in the Groups IT systems and financial statements.
capabilities in respect of projects which are aimed at improving the digital offering, customer experience and operational efficiency.
Reports were presented to the Committee covering the assumptions and judgements made in coming to a valuation of these assets.
As a result, the Committee recommended that an impairment charge of 56.9 million was made in theyear.
The Committee considered reports prepared by management Reserves on the significant estimates and judgements that were material Twice a year, the Committee reviews and challenges the key to the financial statements and challenged the judgements assumptions and judgements, emerging trends, movements being made, in particular in relation to the non-cash intangible and analysis of uncertainties underlying the ABE of technical asset impairment of 56.9 million.
This relates to capitalised provisions.
At the same time, the Committee considers and software development costs for ongoing IT projects primarily challenges the appropriateness of the CFOs proposals for relating to the development of new systems.
The Committee MBE of reserves.
These are informed by actuarial analysis, also discussed these matters with the External Auditor.
wider commercial and risk management insights, and principles of consistency from period to period.
After reviewing IFRS 17, which relates to recognition, measurement, the ABE and MBE of reserves, the Committee recommends presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts, applies them to the Board.
to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021.
It is expected to have a significant impact on The Committee approves the annual plan for reviews of accounting for insurance contracts and the Committee reserves, informed by emerging internal and external issues.
received a training session dedicated to the key aspects Atthe other two scheduled meetings, the Committee considers of IFRS 17 and the likely areas of impact on the Group.
developing trends in reserving and discusses and challenges the underlying assumptions that are used in setting the ABEreserves.
It also considers an appropriate balance between internal and external actuarial review.
Consultants appointed to provide actuarial reviews of reserves are subject to approval by the Committee.
An external actuarial review focusing on some of the reserves requiring most judgement was carried out by  LLP for the Directors of the Company.
62 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Internal control and Group Audit External audit During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy Deloitte LLP Deloitte has served as the Companys Auditor and effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
Before listing, the Group was audited as a division of RBS Group.
The Committee is responsible for The Groups Financial Reporting Control Framework FRCF is overseeing the External Auditor and agreeing the audit fee.
part of its wider internal controls system.
It addresses financial This also involves approving the scope of the External Auditors reporting risks.
The Board delegates supervision of the FRCF to annual plan.
the Audit Committee and the CFO is responsible for the FRCF on a day-to-day basis.
During the year, the Committee discussed the position on its external audit services contract and examined a number of During 2017, the Committee received regular reports on the options regarding the timing of tendering for the external audit, FRCF and the testing of it.
Part of those reports focused on including the mandatory rotation of the Groups audit firm, control deficiencies, compensating controls and the mitigating taking into account the reforms of the audit market by the actions taken by management.
Competition and Markets Authority and the EU.
This included whether it was appropriate to tender the external audit contract The Committee considered the Groups internal controls and for the year ending 31 December 2019. processes for identifying and responding to risks.
The Committee decided that it was not appropriate to tender The Committee provides oversight of Group Audits work and the external audit contract for the 2019 year end and, subject seeks to ensure it adopts industry best practice appropriately.
to continued effective performance by Deloitte, would review The Group Head of Audits primary reporting line is to the the position again in 2018 in relation to the 2020 year end.
The secondary reporting line, for At that point a decision will be made whether to tender the day-to-day administration, is to the CFO.
Group Audit provides external audit contract for the year ended 31 December 2020 the Committee with independent and objective reports on the or defer until a later date.
A number of factors were taken into adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups governance, risk account, including anticipated business changes, regulatory management and internal controls.
The Committee approves developments such as the new insurance accounting standard Group Audits annual plan and receives quarterly reports for implementation in 2021 and the appointment of a new detailing internal audit activity, key findings, management audit partner by Deloitte during 2016, following the normal responses, and proposed action plans.
Group Audit also audit partner rotation process.
The current audit partner is monitors that the most significant actions are completed.
Colin Rawlings who was first appointed for the 2016 audit.
The Committee also approves the Group Audit Charter.
The Committee has reviewed the latest public report on Deloitte, issued by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit During the year, the Chair of the Committee attended the Quality Review Team, and has discussed the findings Group Audit functions offsite day to aid the Committee in with Colin Rawlings and made enquiries as to how those assessing whether the function was effective.
This was in findings relevant to the audit of Direct Line Group have addition to regular interaction between the Chair of the been addressed.
Committee and the Group Head of Audit and the wider audit team.
Following feedback from the Chair, and having There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys reviewed a report from Company Secretariat, the Committee choice of external auditor and no auditor liability agreement concluded that the function was effective and that it had the has been entered into.
Equally, any recommendation to appropriate resources.
re-appoint Deloitte as auditor of the Company depends on continued satisfactory performance.
Additional information The Committee has unrestricted access to management and The Company has complied with the provisions of the Statutory external advisers to help discharge its duties.
It is satisfied that Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation in 2017 it received sufficient, reliable and timely information Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit to perform its responsibilities effectively.
The Actuarial Director, external actuarial advisers, External Auditor and Group Head of Audit meet privately with the Audit Committee, in the absence of management.
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee meeting to the subsequent Board meeting.
COM 63 Committee reports continued Audit Committee report continued Auditor independence and non-audit services policy Effectiveness of the external audit process and The Group has an Independence of External Auditors Minimum re-appointing Deloitte as External Auditor Standard.
This establishes parameters for preventing or In 2017, the Committee assessed the External Auditors mitigating anything that compromises the External Auditors effectiveness.
This was in addition to regularly questioning the independence or objectivity.
The Minimum Standard covers: External Auditor during its meetings.
The Committee assessed i the provision of audit and non-audit services: ii employment the External Auditor through: i a detailed questionnaire of audit employees by the Group and of Group employees by completed by key stakeholders: ii discussing matters with the external audit firm: and iii rotation of key audit employees.
the CFO: iii formally reviewing Deloittes independence: The Committee reviews and refreshes the standard annually to and iv assessing whether it fulfilled the agreed audit plan.
make sure it remains appropriate.
The standard is compliant with the FRCs implementation of the EU Audit Regulation and The Committee, after taking into account all of the information Directive in adopting the list of prohibited non-audit services available, concluded that Deloitte had performed its obligations which cannot be provided to the Group.
effectively and appropriately as External Auditor to the Group.
Before each financial year, the Committee formally approves The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board that a list of audit-related services that the External Auditor can the Group re-appoint Deloitte as External Auditor.
This is in accordance with the Minimum Standard.
will put a resolution regarding this to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
The Group has delegated authority to the Audit Committees Chair to approve any non-audit services provided by the The Board reviewed and approved this report on External Auditor costing up to 100,000.
Non-audit services 26 February 2018. costing over 100,000 require the Committees approval.
Each year, the Committee receives and reviews a report on expenditure on non-audit services.
During the year, the Committee approved fees of 0.2 million Andrew Palmer to Deloitte for services unrelated to audit work.
The following Chair of the Audit Committee is a breakdown of fees paid to Deloitte for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Fees m Proportion 1 Audit fees 1.9 90.5% Non-audit fees 0.2 9.5% Total fees for audit and other services 2.1 100% The non-audit fee of 0.2 million related to: i audit-related assurance services: ii services provided in reviewing the Groups executive crisis management advice and training: iii supporting the Group HR Director on remuneration matters: and iv assurance services in relation to the issuance of Restricted Tier 1 notes.
The Committee reviewed how the Group applied its Minimum Standard on audit and non-audit services in 2017.
It is satisfied that the Group has adequate procedures to ensure that the External Auditors are independent and objective.
You can find further information in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
64 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board Risk Committee report Areas of focus in the reporting period The Group is focused on making insurance much easier and better value for its customers.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the design and embedding of action plans developed to improve the management of customer complaints, including the plans to re-energise the training and coaching of staff to support improvements in complaint Jane Hanson handling.
The Committee probed management on the top Chair of the Board five complaint categories for each of Personal Lines, Claims Risk Committee and Commercial and the activities planned to improve customer journeys.
The Group is progressing multi-year transformation programmes to upgrade its operating systems for Personal Membership, attendance and responsibilities of the Committee Lines and Commercial customers aimed at improving can be found onpages 49 and 50. customer experience, covering pricing and other related data and digital systems across the business.
The Committee regularly scrutinised and challenged the plans, progress, governance and key risks relating to these Main activities during the year programmes including in relation to build, testing and Risk monitoring and oversight deployment.
In addition, the Committee monitored these At each scheduled meeting, the Committee received a programmes in the context of seeking to achieve the report from the CRO detailing the Groups current and planned benefits to customers.
The Committee also forward-looking solvency position, and providing outputs of considered the outputs of reviews undertaken by the Risk regular risk monitoring and details of specific risks and issues.
The report was enhanced during the year to set out more In October 2017, the Group received approval from the clearly the Groups current risk profile, the areas of PRA following a Major change to the IECM.
The Major management focus and the key activities being undertaken change was due to the accumulation of Minor model by the risk management function to drive forward the changes since the IECM had previously been approved embedding of risk management across the Group.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the application to the PRA, including the details of and rationale The Committee received regular reports regarding the three for all model changes, together with the impacts on the strategic risk appetite statements: maintain capital adequacy: SCR and the governance process for the model changes.
stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity: and The Committee also scrutinised reports from the Risk Function maintain stakeholder confidence.
and Group Audit on IECM validation and the control environment respectively.
The Committee monitored the Groups exposure against these risk appetite statements and the lower level risk appetite The European Union General Data Protection Regulation statements, reviewed key risk indicators and assessed the EUGDPR is an important area of focus for companies.
drivers that affect status against risk appetite.
The Committee The Committee monitored and challenged the plans, reviewed and questioned the justification of the assessment of progress and governance regarding preparedness for certain risks and the robustness of management action plans EUGDPR which comes into force on 25 May 2018. to address areas close to or outside tolerance.
The extent of The regulations include more stringent requirements on change being executed continued to be an area of focus for how personal data can be collected and processed and management and the Committee reviewed and challenged the for enhanced privacy rights for individuals.
The Committee actions taken by management in relation to change risk.
questioned management on activities and action plans including, in relation to: i e-Privacy: ii notices of consent: The Committee monitored the Groups risk management and iii the scope of the legislation: iv data retention: and v internal control systems, and reviewed their effectiveness.
Training on EUGDPR was delivered to the covered all material risks, including financial, operational and Board in 2017. compliance.
The Committee reviewed the residual risk position after the operation of controls and considered the effectiveness of any associated mitigating actions and compensating controls.
The monitoring and review by the Committee involved examining an assessment of the control environment and material controls at Group level, based on directorate-level risk and control self-assessments.
These assessments were subject to challenge by the Risk and Group Audit functions.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee also monitored the Groups risk management systems, and reviewed their effectiveness.
This included Horizon, the Groups risk management software, on which the Committee took part in a deep dive workshop to gain a more insightful understanding of the scope and application of the system.
COM 65 Committee reports continued Board Risk Committee report continued The Committee assessed the principal risks facing the Group, Compliance and regulatory risk which you can find listed on pages 24 and 25.
The During the year, the Committee considered the Groups Committee achieved this by reviewing and challenging the compliance with regulatory requirements including conduct Groups Material Risk Register in the context of the Groups and financial crime.
The Committee approved the annual risk appetite and through consideration of the risk assessment Compliance Plan which sets out the compliance activities contained in the CROs report that was discussed at each which will be undertaken in the upcoming year with the scheduled meeting.
objectives of: i ensuring compliance: ii maintaining an open and co-operative relationship with regulators: and The Committee reviewed the third annual Assessment of iii ensuring the Board and employees understand their Risk Behaviours and Attitudes undertaken jointly by the Risk regulatory responsibilities.
function and Group Audit, which covered areas including: tone from the top: decision-making: and risk management.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the outputs from The Committee challenged the outputs of the assessment, conduct and compliance assurance reviews, including in as well as areas for further improvement, and ensured the relation to Solvency II compliance.
appropriateness of the actions identified.
The Committee also considered the activities of the Risk function in driving a good The Committee reviewed the Groups Regulatory Governance risk culture across the Group through mechanisms such as Map and received updates on regulatory interactions, training and its internal communication strategy.
The Committee particularly with the FCA and PRA.
The Committee also commended the continued progress made in embedding risk received updates on relevant regulatory developments, management and demonstrating positive culture and including an update on the changes to the Senior Manager behaviours in risk management.
The regime now covers employees who are considered to be performing functions which are of The Committee undertook a deep dive on the Commercial specific importance to the sound and prudent management division, focusing on its governance processes, control of the firm.
Challenges from the Committee included assessing the enhancements of controls relating to The Committee received regular reports on the Groups pricing and budgeting as well as the improvements to actions to prevent financial crime, including reviewing the reinsurance data collection processes.
Additionally, the Committee considered other subjects in more Operational risk detail at each scheduled meeting.
These included: compliance The Committee continued to review and challenge IT controls, and regulatory risk including oversight of the Groups including risks relating to IT systems stability, cyber security, regulatory relationships: operational risk: financial risk, technology resilience and the internal control environment.
Solvency II and IECM: emerging risks: and risk governance.
The Committee assessed the level of prevention, protection and detection in relation to cyber risk and the residual risk for each Customer and Conduct of the IT control areas, taking into account any compensating The Group aims to make insurance much easier and better controls and or mitigating actions.
The Committee questioned value for its customers by endeavouring to deliver on its the impact of system stability issues in relation to customer and commitments and seeking to ensure that fairness is a natural conduct metrics, including call abandonment rates.
The outcome of what the Group does.
The Committee reviewed Committee also reviewed IT risk appetite statements to gain and challenged reports relating to the Groups conduct assurance that these were appropriate and in line with the towards its customers, to gain assurance that customer overarching Group risk appetite.
expectations and outcomes were reasonable and appropriate and to determine that the Group was operating within its As detailed in the areas of focus on page 65, the Committee defined conduct risk appetite, as set by the Board.
received regular updates on the Groups multi-year transformation programmes, including the development of At the Committees meeting in February 2017, and following the next generation of customer systems for Personal Lines and the transfer of responsibility for ownership of the Groups Commercial.
The Committee monitored and examined the Conduct Policy from the Risk function to management, the oversight and challenge of major change initiatives by the Committee reviewed and challenged reports from management Risk function and reviewed the outputs of the assurance work on conduct culture and customer complaints.
undertaken by the Risk function and Group Audit.
At the Committees meeting in November 2017, and as detailed in the areas of focus on page 65, the Committee undertook a deep dive on customer complaints and reviewed and challenged the action plans designed by management to reduce customer complaints and improve customer experience.
66 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial risk Whistleblowing At each meeting, the Committee monitored the Groups The Committee reviewed the arrangements by which performance against capital risk appetite through the CROs employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible report.
Committee members considered financial risks in the improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters strategic plan against risk appetite.
The Committee also reviewed reports reviewed and challenged the ORSA report and subsequently relating to whistleblowing to ensure arrangements are in place recommended the report for approval to the Board.
Challenges for the proportionate and independent investigation of such on the ORSA included those in relation to stress testing of the matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Committee strategic plan, distribution risk, internal model validation activity probed management and was satisfied that the whistleblowing and contingent management actions.
process met the necessary standards and that it was adequately designed, operated effectively and adhered to The Committee reviewed and challenged the stress and scenario regulatory requirements.
testing plan prioritising the importance of certain scenarios.
The Committee also examined the outputs of the budget stress Anti-Bribery and Corruption tests and the associated management actions, where necessary, Annually, the Committee considers an anti-bribery and required to keep the Group within risk appetite.
corruption ABC report, which includes an annual risk assessment of the level of ABC risk to the Group.
Following The Committee also reviewed the application to the PRA review and challenge, the Committee was satisfied that the regarding the Major model change, which included the Groups policies and procedures on ABC were fit for purpose impact it would have on the SCR.
For more information on the and ABC risks were managed appropriately.
Major model change please see the areas of focus section on page 65.
Additional information The Committee has unrestricted access to management and Throughout the year the Committee received reports on the external advisers to help discharge its duties.
It is satisfied that IECM, including independent validation results and the IECM in 2017 it received sufficient, reliable and timely information to Owners report.
This outlined the scope of the IECM, key perform its responsibilities effectively.
outputs, risk drivers, significant parameters, expert judgements and key assumptions.
The Committee challenged management In addition to monthly one-to-one meetings with the Chair, on the assumptions in relation to the reinsurance decisionthe CRO also met privately with the Committee without making process in the context of the Groups risk appetite management being present.
as a result of reviewing the IECM Owners report.
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee Emerging risks meeting to the subsequent Board meeting.
During the year, the Committee held a strategy day where it considered managements response to the emerging risks to The Board reviewed and approved this report on the business, and challenged the assumption that management 26 February 2018. had identified all possible emerging risks.
The Committee also challenged the Risk functions role in ensuring that these risks were being monitored and managed appropriately.
The Committee undertook a deep dive into risks arising from Jane Hanson autonomous car technology and from potential new market Chair of the Board Risk Committee entrants.
The Committee also challenged the possible opportunities in emerging risks, particularly regarding the use of data in pricing.
Risk governance Every year, the Committee reviews and approves the ERMF, which includes details of the Groups Policies and Minimum Standards.
The Committee reviewed and challenged each Group Policy and the Regulatory Governance Map as part of the Groups Solvency II requirements and recommended them for approval by the Board.
The Committee also considered the results of the annual Group assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control environment undertaken by each business directorate, as well as monitoring controls on an ongoing basis.
The Committee considered, challenged and approved the Annual Risk and Compliance operational plan and the adequacy and objectivity of the Risk functions resources.
COM 67 Committee reports continued Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee report Helping to make our society safer Shotgun : During the year, the Committee received progress updates at each meeting on Shotgun.
You can find further details on Shotgun and about the Groups priorities in the CSR report on pages 26 to 29.
Proud to be here Sebastian James The objective of this area of focus is to improve employee Chair of the CSR engagement as a key enabler of the Groups 2017 strategy.
Committee The KPIs for this element are linked to the People Strategy and focus on employee engagement, diversity and inclusion.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups policy on compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
This included reviewing Membership, attendance and responsibilities of the Committee internal compliance and how third-party suppliers complied can be found onpages 49 and 50. with the requirements under the Act.
Being recognised as part of our communities Areas of focus in the reporting period The Committee reviewed progress on strengthening the level The Committees principal focus during 2017 was on ofsupport provided by the Group to the network of Community Shotgun, the CSR initiative designed with the ambitious and Social Committees operating across the Group.
goal of seeking to reduce young driver deaths in their first TheCommittee challenged the main targets which related to 1,000 miles of driving to zero.
The Committee received volunteering, fund raising, matched payroll giving: and the reports at each meeting on the development of the app and Community Cashback scheme, a scheme which supports the the key milestones.
causes and community groups which employees felt most passionately about when they fundraise or volunteer in their The Committee reviewed the progress achieved in the year own time.
in relation to the community.
This included responding to the fire at the Grenfell Tower, London, in June 2017 and to The One Day volunteering initiative, which gives employees the terror attacks which took place in the UK in 2017.
The paid leave to volunteer in their local community, and Committee supported management in its decisions to fund Community Cashback scheme continued to be considered a project to help tower block tenants build resilience and in the two areas with the greatest potential for impact.
These providing support for the British Red Cross, respectively.
arrangements encourage colleagues to take part and raise The Committee challenged management on the future CSR funds for local causes.
strategy and in particular the need to create a clearer focus on one or two key themes.
Reduce, Reuse and Recycle During the year, the Committee reviewed the key statistics This strand of the strategy considers energy use, waste in relation to the gender pay gap, and the work being management and resource use within the Groups operations undertaken to increase the number of women in senior and environmental and social matters in the Groups supply roles.
The Committee was delighted to note the continued chain.
The Committee reviewed the key objectives related to strong performance in raising employee engagement scores reducing greenhouse gas GHG emissions, diverting waste across the Group, as measured by the annual employee from landfill, and challenged the targets, including the new survey, and continues to push for initiatives to further targets for waste recycling across the Groups accident and increase engagement.
CSR activities Main activities during the year The Committee was kept up to date with the Groups external The Committee monitors the implementation of the CSR strategy positioning, including the Groups stakeholders and its through regular updates on the different focus areas and approach to managing external relationships, which included challenges the robustness of, and progress against, targets the use of the corporate website and the AGM.
The Committee relating to each strand of the CSR strategy.
The Committee continues to challenge managements approach to ensure also ensures that best practice and thinking across the market that it is both authentic and strategic, and that it continues is considered as part of the Groups own CSR approach.
to focus on initiatives with real potential to improve lives.
The Committee monitored the Groups performance against CSR strategy the targets set in relation to CSR KPIs.
The Groups CSR strategy for the year focused on four areas.
The Committee reviewed the CSR-related feedback received They are: i Helping to make our society safer Shotgun : from proxy voting advisers and encouraged management to ii Proud to be here: iii Being recognised as part of our consider addressing the relevant feedback.
communities: and iv Reduce, Reuse and Recycle.
A member of the Executive Committee sponsored each area.
The Board reviewed and approved this report on 26 February 2018.
In December 2017, the Committee approved a new CSR strategy which has two overarching goals: Protecting Britains road users and Reflecting an ever-changing Britain.
The priority for each goal is Shotgun and Diversity and Inclusion respectively.
Sebastian James Chair of the CSR Committee 68 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Investment Committee report Areas of focus in the reporting period The Committee reviewed the Groups liquidity needs under stress scenarios in order to assess the adequacy of liquidity held within the investment portfolio.
The Committee looked to strike a balance between possible short-term liquidity requirements without the need to sell assets, potentially incurring capital losses and income foregone.
The overall Andrew Palmer requirement was reduced in response to outputs from Chair of the Investment catastrophe modelling, while overnight requirements were Committee increased in the light of collateral requirements observed following the depreciation of Sterling immediately after the EU referendum.
The Committee also received a separate report on planned changes under EU money market reform Membership, attendance and responsibilities of the Committee which will impact the future investment of cash assets.
At the meeting in January 2017, the Committee approved the proposal by the Investment & Treasury department to bring in-house the management of certain Sterling investment grade fixed income assets as part of the drive to deliver a Main activities during the year more cost-effective investment operating model.
Approval Market developments followed a long period of scrutiny by the Committee starting At each scheduled meeting the Committee received a market early in 2016, during which time an independent assessment update from the Director of Investment Management and was received on the adequacy of credit selection and Treasury.
The update covered economic conditions in the UK, monitoring processes to be employed and the results from the United States of America and the Eurozone: market levels a model portfolio examined on several occasions.
Later in for key asset classes notably credit : the outlook for interest 2017, the Committee received a positive internal audit report rates and inflation: and developing issues viewed as which had been requested at the time of authorising the appropriate to be brought to the attention of the Committee.
initiative to provide further assurance over the ongoing High asset prices, divergent monetary policies pursued by management of the internally managed portfolios.
The report central banks, the expected slowdown in UK annual growth confirmed that the key controls for the internally managed and growing consumer indebtedness shaped the Committees portfolios were operating effectively.
investment concerns across the course of 2017.
At the request of the Committee, a study was received examining the efficiency and effectiveness of the present Suitability of investment strategy hedging strategy employed to mitigate currency and An annual asset and liability management study is presented non-Sterling interest rate risk, as well as considering to the Committee each year which informs strategic benchmark alternative instruments to achieve the same hedging allocations and provides part of the context for the addition of objectives.
The Committee concluded that the present new asset classes or exiting a present holding.
The Committee hedging strategy remained appropriate in terms of was particularly interested this year to understand how the efficiency and effectiveness.
change in the Ogden discount rate, which was announced The Committee considered research undertaken to identify in February 2017, impacted asset benchmark holdings given the most appropriate metrics to employ with regard to sizing changes to the relevant underlying reserves.
the investment risk budget within the context of the Groups other risks primarily insurance risk, and capital.
A number Monitoring investment activity and performance of metrics, with proposed risk appetite limits, were agreed The Committee received a comprehensive report at each and recommended to the Board.
scheduled meeting covering: the financial results from The Committee invited the managers of the UK property investment activity: aggregate portfolio positioning versus and US dollar high-yield portfolios to present updates on strategic benchmarks: performance of each individual portfolio their respective portfolios, current investing strategy and against benchmark: adherence with operational controls: market outlooks.
In the case of the presentation given by performance of suppliers: and compliance with an agreed the manager of the property portfolio, the Committee framework of risk limits.
During 2017, the Committee was requested a report on cladding and fire risk matters.
particularly interested to understand that i the new operating The Committee was satisfied with the performance of model following the change of custodian and middle office both portfolios, current strategy and responses received supplier in 2016, and ii Solvency II reporting of assets and to questions raised at both presentations.
derivatives to the PRA, had been implemented and were The Committee wanted to understand the actions undertaken operating effectively.
to comply with the requirements of the Prudent Person The Board reviewed and approved this report on Principle PPP under the Solvency II Directive.
Following 26 February 2018. review, the Committee was satisfied that appropriate levels of delegation to management had been put in place: and that management were robustly reviewing investment actions and risks taken against the PPP guidelines.
Andrew Palmer Chair of the Investment Committee WWW.
COM 69 Committee reports continued Nomination Committee report Main activities during the year Board composition During the year, the Committee: considered the Boards skills and experience: reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board: reviewed the membership and chairmanship of the Boards Committees: and reviewed NEDs letters of appointment, terms of appointment and time commitment.
Mike Biggs The letters of appointment for the Chairman and NEDs set out Chair of the Nomination the time the Group anticipates that they will commit to their Committee roles.
This is at least three days a week for the Chairman and an average of three days a month for the other NEDs depending on business needs.
Membership, attendance and responsibilities of the Committee Succession planning can be found onpages 49 and 50.
The Committee places great importance on Board and Executive succession planning and monitors its progress as a standing Areas of focus in the reporting period agenda item at each of its scheduled meetings.
The Committee guides management in Executive succession planning.
During 2017, the majority of the Committees time was devoted to considering the composition of the Board.
Board changes It ensured that the recruitment process for Non-Executive There were a number of Board changes during the year.
Directors NEDs identified the skills and experience that The Company appointed: the Board needs to be able to challenge and support senior management in developing and executing the Groups Danuta Gray as a NED with effect from 1 February 2017: strategy.
It also reviewed Executive succession planning Mike Holliday-Williams as an Executive Director with effect with a view to ensuring that the Groups future leadership from 1 February 2017: and will have the qualities needed for the strategic and cultural Penny James as an Executive Director and CFO-designate development of the business.
As part of its focus on Executive succession planning, and to improve gender and other diversity in the Groups senior The Company also announced that John Reizenstein and management, the Committee continued to encourage Andrew Palmer would not seek re-election at the Companys management to grow its talent pipeline, both by developing AGM on 10 May 2018.
The Committee also recommended existing employees and by hiring new talent.
This is being the appointment of Danuta Gray as a member of the achieved by: i the systematic assessment of potential: Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee, and ii bespoke personal coaching: and iii development John Reizenstein as a member of the Investment Committee, plans for high-potential employees.
The Committee also all of which the Board subsequently approved.
The Committee continued to encourage the targeted recruitment of new continues to monitor the membership of the Boards Committees senior executives to strengthen general management, to ensure that each Committee has a suitable balance of skills leadership and capability in disciplines including as well as taking into consideration the length of service of strategic development, change management, IT, claims the members.
management, data, finance and procurement.
In 2017, the Group made 16 external appointments to senior management, 50% of whom were female.
The Committee chose to use two external search consultants during the year: Egon Zehnder for the Non-Executive position and Heidrick & Struggles for the CFO position.
For both consultants, the Committee set the profile and criteria to be used in the search.
Mike Holliday-Williams was appointed as Executive Director through the internal talent pipeline.
The Committee ensured that John Reizenstein and Penny James would work alongside one another to support an orderly transition until John steps down as an Executive Director at the conclusion of the AGM on 10 May 2018.
Penny will take over as CFO on 1 March 2018.
Her appointment reflects the commitment to seek to attract diverse and effective leadership to drive and deliver the Groups strategy.
70 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board appointment and reappointment process The Board is satisfied that Jane and Clare remain independent and that all three continue to make a significant contribution to The Committee oversaw the process to appoint Danuta Gray the Board and its Committees, and provide valuable continuity as a Non-Executive Director and Penny James as an Executive to the Board.
Mike Biggs was independent when appointed Director and CFO-designate.
The process to appoint Danuta as Chairman.
The Committee recommended to the Board and was disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report & Accounts.
For the shareholders to elect or re-elect all serving Directors at the appointment of Penny James, the Committee produced a Companys 2017 AGM.
detailed brief and engaged external search consultants, Heidrick & Struggles, to find suitable candidates.
Diversity Heidrick & Struggles prepared a long list of candidates of The Group celebrates the diversity of its workforce.
The Group appropriate merit from diverse backgrounds for the position.
seeks to recruit the best candidates for all positions throughout The Committee agreed a shortlist for the role and interviewed the business.
At the date of this report, four of the Groups candidates.
It then approached the PRA and FCA for approval, 11 Directors are women, which equates to 36% of the Board.
and recommended appointing Penny James as an Executive This meets the target set in Lord Davies Women on Boards Director and CFO-designate to the Board.
Review Five-Year Summary published in October 2015, to be achieved by 2020.
The Group is also aiming to meet the Heidrick & Struggles is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of executive-level target set in the Hampton-Alexander Review to Conduct for executive search firms.
The firm is not connected be achieved by 2020.
The Board acknowledges the benefits in any way to the Company.
of diversity in all respects.
As Penny James was appointed since the last AGM, she will You can find out more about the Groups approach to diversity submit herself for election at the Companys 2018 AGM.
in the CSR report on page 28 and the Corporate Governance report on page 55.
Following regulatory approval, the Committee also recommended the appointment of Mike Holliday-Williams to The Board reviewed and approved this report on the Board in recognition of his leadership of the Personal Lines 26 February 2018. business and to leverage his expertise for the benefit of all of the Groups businesses.
Electing and re-electing Directors Michael N Biggs Before recommending the proposed election or re-election Chair of the Nomination Committee of Directors at the 2017 AGM, the Committee reviewed the independence of NEDs.
It concluded that Danuta Gray, Jane Hanson, Sebastian James, Andrew Palmer, Clare Thompson and Richard Ward were all independent within the Codes meaning.
Jane Hanson, Clare Thompson and Mike Biggs have served on the Board since December 2011, September 2012 and April 2012 respectively.
In accordance with the Code, the extension of their terms of appointment beyond six years has been the subject of a particularly rigorous review by the Committee.
Mike Biggs, as Chairman of the Board and Chair of the Committee, was not involved in his own review.
COM 71 Committee reports continued Remuneration Committee report Main activities during the year Annual incentive plan During the year, the Committee monitored the operation of the AIP.
For the 2016 financial year, this involved reviewing the Groups financial performance, in particular the effect of the change in the ODR, and assessing the Groups performance against the targets that the Committee set at the start of the Clare Thompson year.
It also received reports from the Chairs of the Audit and Chair of the Remuneration Board Risk Committees about whether the Group had achieved Committee the required performance within risk appetite.
The Committee also concluded that no malus or clawback of previous awards was required in 2017.
Membership, attendance and responsibilities of the For the 2017 financial year, the Committee approved Committee can be found onpages 49 and 50. the performance metrics which included new customer FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP, who act as independent measures and people measures.
The Committee also advisers to the Committee, also attend Committee meetings.
monitored performance against the 2017 targets and subsequently reviewed the full year performance.
The Committee also discussed the performance metrics for the Areas of focus in the reporting period 2018 AIP and approved them, being satisfied that they The Committee completed the review of the Remuneration were sufficiently challenging.
policy which it had begun in 2016 and which had previously been amended in 2014.
The revised Long-term incentives Remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the During 2017, the Committee reviewed and approved the level AGM in May 2017, with over 98% of the votes cast in of vesting of the 2014 awards made under the Companys favour of the policy.
The policy is expected to remain in LTIP against the performance criteria.
These awards had two place for the next three years.
performance metrics based on RoTE and total shareholder return TSR.
After assessing performance against these The Committee reviewed the effect of the change in the metrics, the awards vested in March at a level of 85.6% and ODR on the outcome of the 2016 AIP.
Whilst the ODR in August at a level of 79.2%.
When considering the RoTE change was not announced until the end of February performance for 2016, the Committee discussed the impact of 2017, it materially impacted the financial results for 2016 the ODR change which did not become effective until February and AIP payout.
As the return on tangible equity RoTE 2017, but impacted the results of the 2016 financial year.
for 2016 was impacted, the vesting level of the long term This was important to the Committee because the timing of the incentive plan LTIP awards granted in 2014 and which announcement two months after the year end meant that vested during 2017 was also reduced.
The Committee executive management did not have the ability to make agreed to keep their assessment of the 2016 AIP outcome adjustments to prices or costs to allow for the amended ODR under review if the ODR was raised during the year as and the related fall in profit.
Following consideration, the a result of a further government review.
Given the Committee decided not to make any adjustment to the RoTE announcements in 2017 from the Ministry of Justice and outturn even though the ODR change reduced RoTE by the Treasury with regards to the process for setting the approximately 30% and consequently materially impacted the ODR, the Committee agreed to keep their assessment LTIP outturn.
Before vesting, the Committee considered the LTIPs of the 2016 AIP under review for 2018. financial and risk underpins.
The Committee also determined In anticipation of appointing Penny James as an Executive the quantum of awards made in 2017 under the LTIP in view Director and CFO-designate, the Committee reviewed the of business and individual performance.
Having regard to the long-term success of the Company, as well as the new The Committee considered the RoTE and TSR targets to ensure remuneration policy and the calibre of candidate being they remain challenging in the context of the Groups planned sought, the Committee agreed on the remuneration performance, in particular noting the impact of the capital package to be offered to Ms James.
This included agreeing management exercises on RoTE and ensured this was taken those elements of Ms James remuneration to be bought out into account for awards to be granted in 2018. from her previous employer and the terms of the buy-out.
Impact of capital management exercises on Towards the end of the year the Committee reviewed the incentive schemes impact of the tender offer to purchase half the Groups subordinated notes and the issue of new Tier 1 notes the When considering the impact of the capital management capital management exercises.
Whilst these transactions exercises on the incentive schemes, the Committee concluded, had a neutral effect overall on the capital position of the taking into consideration the Boards view that these Group, the IFRS profit for 2017 was reduced by a one-off transactions were in the best interests of the Group and its charge which related to the premium paid to redeem the shareholders, that it was not appropriate that management notes in issue.
The Committee exercised its discretion to be penalised for them in the incentive scheme outcomes.
adjust the financial outcome so that the impact on the IFRS The Committee therefore determined that the AIP outturn for profit was excluded from the 2017 AIP outturn.
2017 should be adjusted for the one-off cost to IFRS profit.
72 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In addition, the Committee concluded that the favourable Interaction with other Board Committees impact on RoTE should be excluded from the RoTE performance The Committee believes that it is important to have clear lines for the in-flight LTIP awards.
Therefore, the 2017 RoTE outcome of communication with other key Board committees.
To this for the awards granted in 2015 was adjusted downwards.
end the Chair of the Audit Committee is currently a member Similarly, the reported RoTE in 2018 and 2019 will be of the Committee and the Chair of the Board Risk Committee adjusted downwards for the remaining in-flight LTIP awards.
attends Committee meetings at relevant times during the year.
The ongoing enhancement to earnings expected in future years Generally, this is: when the Committee is discussing the has been recognised by the Committee in setting higher RoTE performance of senior executives or regulated employees: targets than would otherwise be the case for the LTIP for during the discussions on the outcomes of the incentive awards to be granted in 2018. arrangements: or when there are new legislative or regulatory requirements.
At these times the Committee considers it Directors and other senior executives important to take into account factors that the Chairs of the Mike Holliday-Williams, Managing Director, Personal Lines, Audit and Board Risk Committees consider appropriate in joined the Board on 1 February 2017.
He did not receive a relation to risk management and the control environment.
salary increase as a result of the promotion and his AIP and LTIP opportunity were set at the same level as John Reizenstein, In addition to attending Committee meetings, the Chair of the the CFO.
During the year the Committee approved the vesting Board Risk Committee, with input from the Chair of the Audit of the final tranche of his buy-out shares awarded when he Committee, provides a certificate to the Committee on her initially joined the Group in 2014. assessment of whether the AIP outcome has been achieved within risk appetite and on the quality of earnings.
Also, before The Committee considered the impact of John Reizensteins any long-term incentives can vest, the Board Risk Committee planned retirement as CFO on his variable remuneration Chair is consulted and the Committee takes a formal decision arrangements and confirmed his good leaver status without on whether the incentives are allowed to vest and or whether the exercise of any discretion.
to operate the malus and or clawback clauses in the incentive schemes rules.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the level and structure of the pay and incentives of the Executive Directors If it is felt necessary, the Remuneration Committee and the and other senior executives.
Additionally, it reviewed remuneration Board Risk Committee can hold joint sessions to discuss for the strategic leadership team.
As part of this review, the relevant regulatory developments that are best dealt with by Committee considered the Share Ownership Guidelines for the the Committees operating and discussing the issues together.
Executive Directors and Executive Committee members.
The Board reviewed and approved this report on Solvency II-identified staff 26 February 2018.
The Committee reviewed and approved the Groups remuneration policy statement and register of identified staff before submission to the PRA in January 2018.
The Committees remit includes oversight of the remuneration of Solvency II-identified staff.
Clare Thompson Remuneration for control functions, which are Corporate Chair of the Remuneration Committee Actuarial, Compliance, Group Audit and Risk, was considered against specific arrangements appropriate to those roles.
Regulatory landscape Throughout the year the Committee received regular briefings on external developments in relation to remuneration in order to consider and plan for potential changes.
Remuneration strategy As part of the remuneration policy review, the Committee reaffirmed the remuneration strategy to provide a clear and simple framework for remunerating the Companys Executive Directors, and aligning their variable pay opportunity to the business strategy and the Companys demonstrable success.
