Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 52 Board of Directors Rakesh Kapoor Adrian Bellamy Adrian Hennah Chief Executive Officer Chairman Chief Financial Officer Nationality Nationality Nationality Indian British British American British Board tenure Board tenure Board tenure Six years and three months 18 years and one month Four years and 11 months Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Nomination Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics None and Compliance: Remuneration Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Rakesh joined RB in 1987 and held a number of Adrian joined RB as a Non-Executive Director in Adrian joined RB in January 2013 as Chief regional and central marketing roles with the 1999 and was appointed as Chairman of the Financial Officer Designate, before being Company.
In 2006 he was appointed EVP Board in May 2003.
He brings extensive appointed CFO in February 2013.
Adrian has Category with responsibility for global category executive experience andwas formerly valuable financial experience, having spent six management, R&D, media, market research and Chairman of theBody Shop International plc.
years at Smith & Nephew plc as CFO and four strategic alliances.
Rakesh was appointed CEO Hisother previous directorships include River years as CFO at Invensys plc.
He also spent 18 in 2011 and brings to the Board a wealth of Island, The Gap Inc, Gucci Group NV and The years at GlaxoSmithKline plc where he held a business experience and knowledge developed Robert Mondavi Corporation.
Adrian will retire number of senior management and financial through his experience with the Company.
from the Board at the 2018 AGM and will not roles.
He started his career with PwC then Price stand for re-election.
Waterhouse working in audit and consultancy Rakesh holds an MBA from XLRI, Jamshedpur and worked with Stadtsparkasse Koeln, the and a Chemical Engineering degree from the Adrian earned his Bachelor of Commerce and German regional bank.
Master of Business Leadership degrees from the University of South Africa.
Adrian has a degree in Law from Cambridge University and is a Sloan Fellow of the London Business School.
Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments None Chairman of Williams-Sonoma Inc, and Non-Executive Director of RELX Group plc and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Action RELX NV.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 53 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Nicandro Durante Mary Harris Ken Hydon Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality Nationality Nationality Brazilian Italian British British Board tenure Board tenure Board tenure Four years and one month Two years and 11 months 14 years and one month Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics Chair of Remuneration: Nomination Audit and Compliance: Remuneration Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Nicandro was appointed as aNon-Executive Mary was appointed as a Non-Executive Ken joined RB as a Non-Executive Director in Director in December 2013 and brings strong Director in February 2015.
She became the December 2003 and was Chairman of the Audit leadership skills and international business Chair of theRemuneration Committee in Committee from November 2006 until May experience to the Board.
He holds degrees in November 2017.
He also served as Senior Independent Finance, Economics and Business & Company, Mary brings to the Board Director between February 2005 and November Administration.
He started his career working in substantial experience in consumer and retail 2006.
Ken has extensive financial and business finance in Brazil and joined British American business in China, South East Asia and Europe.
experience developed through working in Tobacco BAT in 1981.
Whilst at BAT he has theelectronics, retail, consumer products and worked in the UK, Hong Kong and Brazil and Mary is a graduate of the University of Oxford healthcare sectors.
He was formerly CFO of has held a number of senior positions, including MA Politics, Philosophy and Economics and Vodafone Group plc and a former NonRegional Director for Africa and the Middle Harvard Business School.
Executive Director of Tesco plc and Pearson plc.
He wasappointed as Chief Operating Ken will retire from the Board following the Officer prior to being appointed as Chief 2018 AGM and will not stand for re-election.
Executive Officer of BAT in March 2011.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Chief Executive Officer of British American Non-Executive Director of ITV plc and a Non-Executive Director of Merlin Tobacco p. l. c. member of the Supervisory Board of  plc.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 54 Board of Directors continued Dr Pamela Kirby Andr Lacroix Chris Sinclair Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman-elect Nationality Nationality Nationality British French American Board tenure Board tenure Board tenure Two years and 11 months Nine years and three months Two years and 11 months Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Chair of Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Chair of the Audit Committee: Nomination Chair of the Nomination Committee: Ethics and Compliance: Audit: Nomination.
Remuneration Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Pam joined RB as a Non-Executive Director in Andr was appointed as a Non-Executive Chris was appointed as a Non-Executive February 2015.
She was appointed as Chair of Director in October2008.
He became Senior Director in February 2015.
He will be appointed the CRSEC Committee in July 2016.
Pam brings Independent Director in June 2013 and Chair of as Chairman of the RB Board at the May 2018 to the Board valuable knowledge of the the Audit Committee from May 2017.
Throughout his career he has held a healthcare sector.
She served as Chairman of wide-ranging experience in executive roles, as number of executive positions and brings a Scynexis Inc until June 2015.
She was formerly Chief Executive Officer ofInchcape plc from wealth of experience to the role.
He was CEO of Quintiles Transnational Corporation and 2006 until March 2015: Chairman and Chief previously Executive Chairman of Scandent held senior positions at AstraZeneca PLC and Executive Officer of Euro Disney S. C. A: and Holdings, Executive Chairman of Cambridge Hoffman-La Roche.
President of Burger King International Solutions Ltd, Chairman and CEO of Caribiner previously part of Diageo.
He has also held International, and President and CEO at Quality positions at Colgate, PepsiCo andErnst & Foods Centers, Inc.
Earlier in his career, he held Young LLP.
various senior management positions with PepsiCo, including Chairman andCEO of Pepsi Andr is a graduate of ESCP Europe.
Cola Co. and Chairman of PepsiCo International Foods and Beverages, which gave him the platform to showcase his strong global branding skills.
Chris is a graduate of the University of Kansas Business Administration and the Tuck School at Dartmouth College.
Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Non-Executive Director of DCC plc, Victrex plc, Chief Executive Officer of Intertek Group plc.
Chairman of Mattel, Inc. Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC and a member of the Supervisory Board of AkzoNobel N. V. Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 55 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Judy Sprieser Warren Tucker Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality Nationality American British Board tenure Board tenure 14 years and four months Seven years and 10 months Committee membership Committee membership Remuneration Audit Skills and experience Skills and experience Judy joined the RB Board as a Non-Executive Warren was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in August 2003.
She was Chair of the Director in February 2010.
He has extensive Remuneration Committee from June 2004 until Board experience and financial expertise.
She was previously Director Hewas Executive Director and Chief Finance and Vice Chairman at Royal Ahold NV, CEO of Officer of Cobham plc from 2003 to 2013 and Transora Inc, Executive Vice President of Sara previously Non-Executive Chairman of Paypoint Lee Corporation and CFO of Sara Lees Food plc.
He has also held various senior finance Group.
Judy will retire from the Board following positions at Cable & Wireless plc and British the 2018 AGM and will not stand for reAirways plc.
Warren is a Chartered Accountant and has an Judy has a Bachelors and Masters degree from MBA from INSEAD.
Other current appointments Other current appointments Director of Allstate Corporation, and Non-Executive Director of ThomasCook Group InterContinental Exchange Inc. PLC, SurvitecLimited and the UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office.
