Our investment case Creating shareholder value Five years after the Groups initial public offering we have consistently achieved profitable growth and returned 2.4 billion to shareholders including the ordinary and special dividends for 2017 of 486 million.
Our successful strategy, built around our rocket see page 14, has enabled us to launch new medium-term financial targets: 1 Combined RoTE at least Grow our Maintain solvency operating ratio dividend in line capital around the with business middle of the 15% growth 140% to 180% 93%-95% Solvency II target range Our three strategic pillars Great retailer have already helped us deliver sustainable growth and Our multiple leading brands offer differentiated 1 propositions through a range of distribution at least 15% RoTE.
channels, answering the needs of different customers.
2017 has continued a trend of growth in own brand in-force policy count.
As a result of listening to our customers we challenged the trend Smart and efficient of commoditisation, and invested in our Direct Line brand.
We did this because we are convinced manufacturer that great brands and propositions attract customers and build great relationships which deliver real We have the scale and data to provide our shareholder value.
Since its relaunch in 2014, customers with an excellent service at a competitive Direct Line has grown consistently year on year.
price however they choose to access our insurance via partners, price comparison websites PCWs or direct.
As an example, a strategic decision was taken with the aim of becoming the largest insurance owner of accident repair centres in the UK.
This helped us continue the brand experience throughout Lead and disrupt the customer journey, targeting excellent workmanship and service at highly competitive prices.
We are well placed to work with our The way customers buy, the risks they face and the partners to deliver more than just insurance.
assets they use are changing at a rapid pace our Wewant to build sustainable relationships, philosophy isto embrace those changes and help shape combining our strengths to meet our customers the future.
Our digital capabilities mean we can open needs, such as working on digital innovations with up new markets: Direct Line for Business has done this 2 our partner RBS, helping their customers receive with small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
It also fast, pre-populated insurance quotes.
enables us towork with leading car manufacturers, such as Tesla, Peugeot and Citron and Volkswagen Insurance Service Great Britain Limited so together Notes: we can learn from technology and develop the right 1.
See glossary on pages 174 to 176 for definition.
solutions to support their customers.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, including National Westminster Bank plc.
2 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements A proven track record Our performance in the five years since our initial public offering demonstrates the strength of our strategy and processes.
