Directors report The Directors present their report for the financial year ended Where the Board believes that the Group has capital which 31 December 2017. is expected to be surplus to the Groups requirements for a prolonged period, it would intend to return any surplus to You can find the forward-looking statements disclaimer on shareholders.
In normal circumstances, the Board expects that page 180. a capital coverage ratio around the middle of its risk appetite range of 140% to 180% of the Groups solvency capital Strategic report requirement SCR would be appropriate and it will therefore take this into account when considering the potential for special The Companys Strategic report is on pages 1 to 43. distributions.
It includes the following information that would otherwise need to be disclosed in this Directors report: In the normal course of events the Board will consider whether Subject Pages or not it is appropriate to distribute any surplus capital to shareholders once a year, alongside the full year results.
Use of financial instruments 40 and 41 Important events since 8 to 11 The Group expects that one-third of the annual dividend will the financial year end generally be paid in the third quarter as an interim dividend, Likely future developments in the business 11 and 43 and two-thirds will be paid as a final dividend in the second Employee involvement 28 and 29 quarter of the following year.
The Board may revise the dividend policy from time to time.
The Company may consider a special dividend and or a repurchase of its own shares to Corporate governance statement distribute surplus capital to shareholders.
The FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules require a corporate governance statement in the Directors report to The Board recommends a final dividend of 13.6 pence per include certain information.
You can find information that fulfils share to shareholders.
Subject to shareholder approval at the the corporate governance statements requirements in this Companys 2018 AGM, this will become payable on Directors report: the Corporate Governance report: the 17 May 2018 to all holders of Ordinary Shares on the Committee reports: and the Directors remuneration report, Register of members at close of business on 6 April 2018. on pages 44 to 99.
This information is incorporated in the A special interim dividend has been declared of 15.0 pence Directors report by reference.
per share and will have the same record and payment dates as the final dividend for 2017.
Disclosure of information under Listing Rule The final dividend resolution provides that the Board may 9.8.
4C cancel the dividend and, therefore, payment of the dividend In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C, the table below sets at any time before payment, if it considers it necessary to do out the location of the information required to be disclosed, so for regulatory capital purposes.
You can find detailed where applicable.
explanations about this in the Notice of AGM.
The special interim dividend can also be cancelled if necessary.
Subject Page Interest capitalised by the Group None You can find further details regarding dividends paid during Unaudited financial information None 2016 and 2017 in the Finance review on page 39 and in Long-term incentive plan involving one 90 note 14 to the consolidated financial statements on page 146.
Directoronly You can also find information on dividend capital management in the Finance review on page 42.
Directors waivers of emoluments None Directors waivers of future emoluments Not applicable Directors Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer Not applicable You can find the current Directors biographies on pages 46 Non pro-rata allotments for cash None to 47.
All Directors will retire and, excepting Messrs Palmer majorsubsidiaries and Reizenstein, be submitted for election or re-election at the Listed company is a subsidiary of Not applicable 2018 AGM.
This is in accordance with the UK Corporate anothercompany Governance Code and the Articles of Association of the Contracts of significance involving a director Not applicable Company, which govern appointing and replacing Directors.
The Directors listed on pages 46 and 47 were the Directors of Contracts of significance involving a Not applicable controlling shareholder the Company throughout the year apart from Danuta Gray and Mike Holliday-Williams, who were each appointed as a Details of shareholder dividend waivers 101 Director on 1 February 2017, and Penny James, who was Controlling shareholder agreements Not applicable appointed as a Director on 1 November 2017.
Dividends The Companys Articles of Association set out the Directors powers.
You can view these on the Companys website at The Group aims to manage its capital efficiently and www.
The Directors powers are also generate long-term sustainable value for shareholders, subject to relevant legislation and, in certain circumstances, while balancing operational, regulatory, rating agency authority from the Companys shareholders.
You can find details and policyholder requirements.
of the Directors remuneration, service contracts, employment The Group aims to grow its regular dividend in line with contracts and interests in the shares of the Company in the business growth.
Directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 99.
100 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to The Trustee of this Trust has waived its right to dividends on all indemnify the Companys officers, and officers of any shares within the Trust.
You can find out more about the number associated company, against liabilities arising from conducting of shares held by the employee share plan trusts in note 29 on Company business, to the extent permitted by law.
The Company is only aware of the dividend Company has executed deeds of indemnity for each Directors waivers and voting restrictions mentioned above.
benefit, regarding liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company or associated Shareholder voting rights and restrictions on companies.
These indemnities are qualifying third-party transfer of shares indemnities as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act All the Companys issued Ordinary Shares rank equally 2006.
No amount was paid under any of these indemnities in all respects.
The Companys Articles of Association set during the year.
The Company maintains directors and officers out the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys liability insurance.
This provides appropriate cover for legal Ordinary Shares.
actions brought against its Directors.
The Company has also provided the directors of DLG Pension Trustee Limited with Employees in the Company and Directors must conform with qualifying pension scheme indemnities.
This is in accordance the EU Market Abuse Regulation and the Companys share with section 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
These rules restrict particular employees and Trustee Limited acts as trustee for two of the Companys Directors ability to deal in the Companys shares at certain occupational pension schemes.
times, and require the employee or Director to obtain permission to deal before doing so.
Some of the Companys Secretary employee share plans also include restrictions on transferring Roger Clifton is the Company Secretary of Direct Line Insurance shares while the shares are held within the plans.
He can be contacted at the Companys Registered Each general meeting notice will specify the time for Office, details of which are on page 181. determining a shareholders entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting.
This will not be more than 48 hours before the Share capital time fixed for the meeting.
To be valid, all proxy appointments The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock must be filed at least 48 hours before the time of the general Exchange.
As at 31 December 2017, the Companys share meeting.
In calculating this time period, no account shall be capital comprised 1,375,000,000 fully paid Ordinary Shares taken of any part of a day that is not a working day.
Where the Company has issued a notice under section 793 At the Companys 2017 AGM, the Directors were authorised to: of the Companies Act 2006, which is in default for at least 14 days, the person s interested in those shares shall not be allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting until the or convert, any security into shares up to an aggregate default has been corrected or the shares sold.
nominal amount of 50,000,000: allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of There is no arrangement or understanding with any 100,000,000, for the purpose of a rights issue: shareholder, customer or supplier, or any other external party, allot shares having a normal amount not exceeding in which provides the right to appoint a Director or a member of aggregate 15,000,000 for cash without offering the the Executive Committee, or any other special rights regarding shares first to existing shareholders in proportion to their control of the Company.
holdings: and make market purchases of up to 137,500,000 shares Articles of Association in the Company, representing 10% of the Companys issued Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of share capital at the time.
Association, they may only be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
To date, the Directors have not used these authorities.
At the 2018 AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew these Significant agreements affected by a change authorities and vote on some additional resolutions in relation to the disapplication of pre-emption rights in line with the most of control recent institutional investors guidelines.
The Company has not A number of agreements may take effect, alter or terminate held any shares in treasury during the period under review.
upon a change of control of the Company.
None of these You can find out more about the Companys share capital and agreements are considered significant in terms of their impact shares under option at 31 December 2017 in notes 29 and on the Groups business as a whole.
All the Companys 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
employee share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards would typically Under the Companys Share Incentive Plan, Trustees hold vest and become exercisable.
This is subject to satisfying any shares on behalf of employee participants.
The Trustees will performance conditions, and normally with an additional only vote on those shares and receive dividends that a time-based pro-rata reduction where performance conditions participant beneficially owns, in accordance with the apply, and approval from the Remuneration Committee.
An Employee Benefit Trust also operates.
The Trustee of this has discretion to vote on any shares it holds as it sees fit, except any shares participants own beneficially: in which case, the Trustee will only vote on such shares as per a participants instructions.
COM 101 Directors report continued Total GHG emissions Scope 1 and Scope 2 for continuing Substantial shareholdings operations for 2017 were 17,399 tonnes 2016: 19,315 In accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of the FCAs tonnes, as set out in the table below.
This primarily comprised Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Company emissions from purchased electricity and natural gas, diesel has been notified of the following indirect interests in the fuel, and refrigerant gas used.
In addition to total emissions, Companys voting rights.
The Company has not been notified the Group also monitors emissions per million of net earned of any direct interests.
Information provided by the Company premium.
In 2017, this was 5.5 tonnes CO e per million 2 pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency of net earned premium for continuing operations 2016: 6.4 Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information tonnes.
This is a measure of how efficiently insurance products services and on the Companys website.
It allows us to compare our year-on-year performance and performance against other insurance 31 December 26 February 2017 2018 companies.
You can find verification statements on the Groups website at www.
You can find further Artemis Investment Management LLP 5.60% 5.32% information on the Groups approach to energy and the BlackRock, Inc. 8.39% 9.30% environment in the CSR section on page 29.
Standard Life Aberdeen plc 8.54% 8.49% Global GHG emissions data for Reporting Year 1 January 2017 31 December 2017 Political donations Scope 2 Scope 2 The Group made no political donations during the year 2016: nil.
Location-based Market-based Tonnes Tonnes Emissions from: of CO e of CO e 2 2 Employees with disabilities Combustion of fuel & operation The Group is committed to promoting diversity and inclusion of facilities Scope 1 8,027 8027 across every area of the business through initiatives such as the Electricity, heat, steam and cooling Diversity Network Alliance.
At recruitment, we adjust and purchased for own use Scope 2 9,371 10,476 enhance our application and selection process, and guide and provide additional training for interviewers, where necessary.
Total Scope 1 & 2 17,399 18,503 Intensity metric: tonnes CO e Million 2 Our Diversity Network Alliance focuses on a number of strands GBP net earned premium m 5.5 5.9 including employees with disabilities.
It identifies areas where Transmission and Distribution T&D we can improve and help people to continue working for us.
losses from electricity Scope 3 876 876 We reasonably adjust employees working environments and equipment, and roles and role requirements.
We also ensure Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 T&D Losses 18,275 19,379 that everyone can access the same opportunities.
Intensity metric: tonnes CO e Million 2 GBP net earned premium m 5.8 6.2 Greenhouse gas emissions T&D losses from electricity, commuting, In order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and paper and business travel Scope 3 18,072 18,072 Directors Report Regulations 2013, the Group has followed the Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 35,471 36,575 2013 UK Government environmental reporting guidance for GHG emissions: used the UK Governments greenhouse gas Intensity metric: tonnes CO e Million 2 conversion factors: and adopted the financial control approach GBP net earned premium m 11.3 11.6 to setting the organisational boundaries of responsibilities for GHG emissions.
In applying the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition we have Year on Year Comparison Scope 2 Location-based methodology Tonnes of CO e 2 calculated emissions associated with electricity consumption Percentage using both the location-based Scope 2 and market-based change Scope 2 calculation methodologies.
GHG emissions are 2013 to Emissions from: 2013 2016 2017 2017 classified as direct or indirect, and divided into Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Direct GHG emissions are Scope 1 8,429 7,383 8,027 5% those from sources that the Group owns or controls.
Indirect Scope 2 21,480 11,932 9,371 56% GHG emissions are those that are a consequence of the Total Scope 1 & 2 29,909 19,315 17,399 42% Groups activities, but occur at sources owned or controlled by another organisation.
The Group has considered the seven Intensity metric: tonnes main GHGs, reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e million GBP net 2 CO e, and set 2013 as the base year.
earned premium m 8.5 6.4 5.5 35% 2 Scope 3 Only T&D Scope 1 direct emissions including fuels used in office losses from electricity 1,774 1,079 876 51% buildings, accident repair centres and owned vehicles.
Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 Scope 2 indirect emissions resulting from generating electricity T&D Losses 31,683 20,394 18,275 42% purchased for office buildings and accident repair centres.
Intensity metric: tonnes CO e Million GBP net 2 Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions such as waste earned premium m 9.0 6.8 5.8 36% disposal, business travel and staff commuting.
102 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In preparing these financial statements, IAS 1 requires that Going concern Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: The Group has sufficient financial resources to meet its present information, including accounting policies, in a financial needs, including managing a mature portfolio manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and of insurance risk.
The Directors believe the Group is wellunderstandable information: provide additional disclosures positioned to manage its business risks successfully in the when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is current economic environment.
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the The Finance review on pages 42 and 43 describes the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Groups capital management strategy, which covers how it assess the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
measures its regulatory and economic capital needs, and deploys capital.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The Groups financial position is also covered in that section, transactions and disclose, with reasonable accuracy, the including a commentary on cash and investment levels, reserves, Companys financial position at any time: and enable them currency management, insurance liability management, liquidity, to ensure the financial statements comply with the Companies and borrowings.
Additionally, note 3 to the consolidated Act 2006.
Additionally, the Directors are responsible for financial statements describes capital management needs and safeguarding the Companys assets and, hence, taking policies.
The note also covers insurance, market, liquidity and reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other credit risks which may affect the Groups financial position.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining and Having made due enquiries, the Directors reasonably expect ensuring the integrity of the corporate and financial information that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to included on the Companys website at www.
continue in operational existence for at least 12 months from com.
Legislation in the UK governing preparing and 26 February 2018 the date of approval of the financial disseminating financial statements may differ from legislation statements.
Accordingly, the Directors have adopted the going in other jurisdictions.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 46 to 47, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Disclosing information to the Auditor Each Director at the date of approving these Annual Report & the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, Accounts confirms that: as far as they are aware, there is no give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial relevant audit information of which Deloitte LLP, the Companys position, and profit or loss of the Company and the External Auditor, is unaware: and they have taken all the steps undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves the Strategic report on pages 1 to 43 and Directors aware of any relevant audit information, and establish that report on pages 100 to 103 include a fair review of: Deloitte LLP is aware of that information.
i the businesss development and performance: and ii the position of the Company and the undertakings This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Companies Act 2006. they face: and the annual report and the financial statements, taken as Auditor a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess as the External Auditor.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP the companys position and performance, business model will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
You can find and strategy.
an assessment of the effectiveness and recommendation for reappointing Deloitte LLP in the Audit Committee report The Board reviewed and approved this report on on page 64.
Directors responsibility statement By order of the Board The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Roger C. Clifton Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial Company Secretary statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors must prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS regulation.
The Directors have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements under IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the Companys state of affairs and profit or loss for that period.
COM 103 Contents Financial statements Independent Auditors report 105 32.
Insurance liabilities 156 Consolidated financial statements 34.
Unearned premium reserve 157 Consolidated income statement 112 35.
Share-based payments 158 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 113 36.
Trade and other payables including 159 Consolidated balance sheet 114 insurance payables 37.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 160 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 115 38.
Contingent liabilities 161 Consolidated cash flow statement 116 39.
Commitments 161 Notes to the consolidated 40.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 125 Parent Company financial statements 3.
Risk management 127 Parent Company balance sheet 164 4.
Segmental analysis 138 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 165 5.
Net earned premium 141 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 165 6.
Investment return 141 Parent Company cash flow statement 166 7.
Other operating income 142 Notes to the Parent Company 8.
Net insurance claims 142 financial statements 9.
Net assets per share and return on equity 147 8.
Share capital and capital reserves 169 17.
Goodwill and other intangible assets 147 9.
Directors and key management remuneration 171 27.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 154 28.
Tier 1 notes 155 104 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017
