Component journeys HIGH ROLLER A COMPONENT JOURNEY AEROSPACE BEARINGS Ball and roller bearings are essential to high-precision rotary components in aircraft, and need to deliver exceptional durability and consistent performance despite changes in temperature and air pressure.
Materials used are customised based on the end application, including high temperature, stainless steels Bearings are shaped and more exotic alloys, such as Inconel.
and machined from rods of metal plates and wires.
After heat treatment, the masking is removed and the surface cleaned before inspection to ensure the part meets strict aerospace quality specifications.
The surface area to be heat treated is prepared areas which are not to be heat treated are selectively masked with copper plating.
The surface is hardened via a specialised nitriding process during which nitrogen is diffused into the surface to increase resistance to in-service stress and fatigue.
For the perfect shape and smooth finish, bearings are put through final lapping and polishing processes.
BODYCOTE COMPONENT JOURNEYS This is just one example of how Bodycote brings together the huge wealth of knowledge and expertise from across the Group to provide the vital engineering services our customers need.
End applications include landing gear, For more component journeys visit www.
com engine, control surfaces, and other parts or components.
Denotes the parts of the component journey undertaken by Bodycote.
12 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 INNER STRENGTH A COMPONENT JOURNEY MEDICAL IMPLANTS The stress on a hip or knee joint when a person jumps off a chair is equal to around 100 tonnes per square inch.
Our bones, effectively composites, absorb such stresses regularly and effectively for much of our lifetime.
When joints fail, they are often replaced with metal alloy implants.
These implants must be incredibly strong, biocompatible, and able to last the lifetime of the patient.
Cobalt chromium alloy A combination of heat treatment, hot isostatic pressing billets are investment cast and coating makes this possible.
The castings are thermally sprayed with a biomedical coating to allow a bond to form between the implant and body tissue, promoting bone growth.
The implants are then HIPed to eliminate porosity, improve fatigue life and enhance the bonding of the biocompatible coating.
Solution and ageing heat treatment is used to strengthen the implant.
For more component journeys visit www.
com Denotes the parts of the component journey undertaken by Bodycote.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report IN GEAR A COMPONENT JOURNEY IN GEAR - A COMPONENT JOURNEY PINION GEAR A pinion gear is a critical automotive component used in virtually all transmission units.
During use, a vehicle places heavy demand on its transmission, requiring a fast and reliable response to the drive controls.
The gears begin life The gears are machined as low alloy steel.
The gears require high strength and wear resistance to shape using a shaving in order to withstand the stresses applied to each gear or hobbing method.
Bodycotes heat treatment processes, in particular Low Pressure Carburising LPC, enable modern transmissions to deliver high performance and seamless response, even reducing noise during gear changes.
The gears are quenched using nitrogen gas to minimise part distortion, then tempered to The parts are inspected and relieve internal stresses.
tested for surface hardness, core hardness and effective case depth.
The gears are dimensionally measured before heat treatment to monitor and maintain repeatability of distortion.
The gears are then heat treated using LPC to enhance functionality by adding a case depth The gears are shot peened to add to provide strength and residual stress this allows the parts resistance to wear and tear.
to withstand more wear and tear.
The gears are measured again after heat treatment to check any distortion is within limits.
The gears are assembled into the transmission unit.
BODYCOTE COMPONENT JOURNEYS This is just one example of how Bodycote brings together the huge wealth of knowledge and expertise from across the Group to provide the vital engineering services our customers need... For more component journeys visit www.
Denotes the parts of the component journey undertaken by Bodycote 14 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 ID183789 pinion gear.
