Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 32 RB 2.0 Health REORGANISING FOR GROWTH The business Health has a unique and compelling portfolio, spanning nutrition, health hygiene, health wellness and health relief.
It also has scale and local expertise Unlike some of our competitors, With this portfolio, Health can improve in rapidly growing developing our innovation process begins peoples health throughout lifes journey, from markets across Asia, Africa and with consumer insights rather Latin America, and in particular than in the laboratory.
a childs crucial first 1,000 days, through to China.
Together, developing advanced old age.
The portfolio underpins the markets provided around half of Demographic trends are also Healths 2017 Net Revenue.
In developed markets, business units mission: to nourish the best start ageing populations need solutions in life and to empower people to take health The opportunity for common problems such as Growth for Health will be shaped mobility, pain and nutrition.
First, In Asia and Africa, growing On a pro-forma basis, Health had consumers are becoming more numbers of young families 2017 Net Revenue of 6.4 billion, proactive about their health.
want the best nutrition, family equating to 60% of Group Net They are more health literate and planning and personal hygiene.
This makes Health a wanting to self-medicate, with a Coupled with rising incomes in global leader in consumer health.
focus on prevention rather than developing markets, this drives cure.
The rising cost of healthcare demand for Healths solutions.
The business unit has a strong is also putting health systems position in developed markets, under strain, pushing governments Rising connectivity is also an which provided around half of to encourage consumers to important driver of demand for its2017 Net Revenue.
protect and manage their health health products.
Healths consumercan instantly communicate centricity and speed to market with healthcare professionals are key advantages in this world.
and personal health coaches, and learn more about health through platforms such as Facebook, Google and WebMD.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 33 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Core strengths Nutrition Health hygiene Health wellness Health relief Global leader in consumer health Supporting Nourishing the Promoting Supporting Providing Unique portfolio of market-leading and trusted health by best start in life disease family solutions across brands, which support health throughout prevention and planning, analgesics, sore good hygiene immune throats and peoples lives systems and gastrointestinal Excellent geographic spread, with particular mobility strength in fast-growing emerging markets Powerbrands Enfamil, Dettol, Durex, Scholl Gaviscon, Nutramigen Clearasil, Veet Mucinex, Consumer centric, focused on mums, not Nurofen, molecules Strepsils Speed to market FMCG background makes Other key Enfagrow MegaRed, brands Airborne, Move Health more agile than a traditional Free, Digestive pharmaceutical company Advantage Best of both, combining RBs consumer focus and performance culture with MJNs scientific strength and understanding of new mothers Online activity is creating large In addition to these growth and valuable datasets, allowing drivers, Health is a highly regulated CASE STUDY companies to identify, track sector.
This puts the onus on and respond to emerging companies to be responsible consumer needs.
Technology also and accountable, and requires Creating a new Health increasingly enables consumers them to have the appropriate to track data about their bodies regulatory and pharmacovigilance category for RB and other factors relevant to their frameworks, making it more health, such as air pollution.
Health difficult for new entrants to will benefit from its capabilities in come into the market.
MJN's connected innovation and data.
expertise bolsters our already In 2017, we introduced SiTi Shield a new brand endorsed by strong regulatory capabilities.
Ease of access is another key trend Dettol.
Air pollution is a pressing health issue worldwide, with in Healths market.
The pace of Conclusion existing solutions generally limited to masks.
SiTi Shield is modern life means many people The creation of Health comes designed to protect consumers against out-of-home pollution.
feel busier than ever, encouraging at an exciting inflection point As pollution is generally invisible, SiTi Shields smartphonethem to use over-the-counter in the history of our consumer connected monitor measures local pollution and warns users OTC health products rather than health business.
Its unique and to take action.
To protect health, the range also includes wait for a doctors appointment.
compelling portfolio enables the most sophisticated mask on the market, containing The ability to buy online, with healthier lives from the very a micro-vent for improved breathability, as well as same-day delivery, further beginning.
As a global leader discreet and effective nasal filters.
We launched SiTi encourages this trend.
Healths in consumer health, Health has Shield in India and China in a very different way, products are ideally suited to a stronger platform, capability using our capabilities in digital and e-commerce.
and footprint than ever before, positioning it to take advantage of the robust long-term growth we expect in this market.
