STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy Focused on growth Marshalls continues to place emphasis on customer service and our enduring objective ofproviding qualityproducts and integrated solutions.
Delivering growth through technology, digitalisation and productinnovation is a key element of the Groupsstrategy.
Shareholder value Sustainable profitability Relationship building To deliver sustainable shareholder To maintain a strong market position To develop relationships with value by improving the long-term and grow the business profitability keystakeholders, customers operating performance of in all of the Groups endmarkets.
ROCE of New products growth over last 3 years Registered installer teams now 24.8% 14% approx.
1,900 WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED ROCE of 24.8 per cent on a like-for-like 12 per cent growth in operating Strengthened customer relationships.
basis, excluding the impact of CPM.
profitdriven by sustainable 98 per cent customer service KPI.
Increase in operatingprofit percentage Supplementary dividend.
Design Space office inCentral London.
2020 STRATEGY 4 per cent growth insales of new 1,900 registered installer teams.
To strengthen the Marshalls brand by products in the core business.
2020 STRATEGY 2020 STRATEGY To promote integrated productsolutions.
To make strategic investments for organic To deliver new and innovative growth and acquisitions.
To focus on installer training, marketing productsolutions.
To have a progressive dividendpolicy To improve operational efficiency supported by supplementary dividends, To develop the supply chain ofmanufacturing asappropriate.
OUR FUTURE TARGETS To drive through sustainable To be a provider of integrated To grow EBITDA and ROCE.
To continue to invest in the OUR FUTURE TARGETS digitalstrategy.
To increase market share in our emerging OUR FUTURE TARGETS UK businesses and to be an employer To deliver sustainable EPS and ofchoice.
MARSHALLS PLC 14 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Key performance indicators pages 18-19 Risks pages 20-24 Sustainability pages 30-33 Remuneration pages 50-63 Organic expansion Brand development Effective capital structure To invest in organic expansion in To strengthen and extend the andcontrolframework existing and related markets and Marshalls brand by focusing To maintain efficient and effective product categories to expand oninnovation, service and business controls and to ensure that thebusiness.
the capital structure remains aligned with the Groups corporate growthobjectives.
Revenue R&D investment of Net debt: EBITDA 430.2m 3.9m 0.35 ratio WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED Revenue growth of 8 per cent Superbrand status.
On a like-for-like basis, Continued development Low gearing of 10 per cent excluding the impact of CPM, Group ofMarshallsbrand.
at31December 2017. revenue was up 6 per cent.
Efficient portfolio of bank facilities with Significant growth in key focus areas extended maturities and realignedheadroom.
Continued focus on working capital 19 per cent growth in 2020 STRATEGY management and efficient Internationalrevenue.
To focus on innovation, customer service inventorycontrol.
2020 STRATEGY 2020 STRATEGY To focus on increasing the profitability To increase technical R&D.
To maintain a flexible capital structure ofthe Emerging UK Businesses.
To maintain the highest health that recognises cyclical risk, focusing To target growth areas such asNew andsafetystandards.
BuildHousing, WaterManagement To deliver a capital allocation strategythat OUR FUTURE TARGETS andRail.
is fully aligned with this capital structure.
To maintain the Groups To increase capital expenditure .
OUR FUTURE TARGETS investment for organic growth.
To operate tight control over business, OUR FUTURE TARGETS operational and financialprocedures.
To optimise our national network of To target a net debt to EBITDA ratio manufacturing and distribution sites.
ofbetween 0 and 1 times over the To develop our global supply chains business cycle.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 15 STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy continued Growth opportunities The Group is constantly tracking the global mega trends, the shorter term trends in lifestyles andaesthetics and the developing requirements of our consumers and stakeholders.
Future Spaces International Security WHAT THIS MEANS?
Future Spaces is the result of intensive research with the aim In our lifetimes, the nature of terrorism has undergone significant ofunderstanding how the format, planning, specification change.
The concept of terrorism describes the use of intentionally andmaterials used in the construction of public, private and indiscriminate violence as a means to create terror and fear to commercial spaces, both indoors and outdoors, might look achieve political, religious or ideological aim.
The market for andfunction in10 years time.
security barriers and bollards is developing as a response and istruly international.
Things that will change our landscape 4 Global Mega-Trends 1.
The blurring of public private spaces LINK TO STRATEGY 2.
More people in smaller spaces 1 SUSTAINABILITY Only 15 per cent of people say that traditional concrete anti-terror 3.
Demarcating multi-use spaces Resources and the changing environment 4.
The new wave of water management barriers make them feel safer.
Our strategy has been to use new 5.
Future concrete technology to design solutions that Deter, Deflect and Defend, 2 CHANGING DEMOGRAPHIC 6.
The blossoming of biophilic design Shifting social and cultural expectations athree-tier strategy designed to reduce the threat long before 7.
Urban Greening vehicles are used to target assets.
The rise of the super-landlord The decade of the city 9.
Placemaking for the People 4 GET SMART 11.
Building-in Resilience Smart is the new green 12.
The Circular Economy LINK TO STRATEGY We are using the 12 Future Spaces themes to give specific direction to our strategic objectives.
These themes are being usedto provide the strategic focus to: new product development: new services and propositions: and identify targeted acquisitions.
ACTION TAKEN TO DATE These themes are changing the nature of our built environment.
Marshalls Landscape Protection is based on increasingly resistant new security products that use new technology.
The increasing ACTION TAKEN TO DATE market demand for hostile vehicle mitigation is a specific We are constantly engaging with all our stakeholder groups to growthopportunity.
ensure a fully collaborative approach to planning and development.
We are focusing development expenditure and growth initiatives into the areas of New Build Housing, Water Management, Minerals and Rail.
The digital approach transcends all our development projects.
FUTURE DIRECTION Already we are seeing the emergence of the following themes and these are being built into our strategic planning: the blurring of public and private spaces: place-making for the people: building in resilience: and FUTURE DIRECTION the Circular Economy.
We believe that successful security should take a holistic approach and we are engaging with relevant stakeholder groups to drive effective new product development.
Find out more online Find out more online www.
co. uk landscapeprotection MARSHALLS PLC 16 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Digitising the Customer Journey Climate Change WHAT THIS MEANS?
Over the last few years technology and software advancements The Governments latest climate change risk assessment identifies have rapidly driven disruption and change to many industries.
flood risk, and particularly flooding from heavy downpours, as Allbusinesses are now faced with the challenge of how best to oneof the key climate threats for the UK.
This must be viewed utilise digital to transform their business.
Our digital principles alongside stresses on water resources, threats to biodiversity and aredesigned to create an engaging customer experience.
natural habitats, and the repercussions for the UK from climate change impacts abroad.
LINK TO STRATEGY In determining our strategic direction for digital development, we Damage and disruption costs have identified 6 core principles which are firmly aligned with our Low Medium High Very high strategic objectives: Coastal Flooding Design for the customer Promote agility River Flooding Collaboration Open and transparent Surface water Flooding Data driven Robust governance Storms and Gales Snow and Ice Cold mortality Heat mortality Drought LINK TO STRATEGY Water Management is a specific growth area and to ensure thatour development initiatives are in line with our strategic ACTION TAKEN TO DATE objectives, the Group has determined that all new products must: The digital initiatives that have been taken to date all put the interests of stakeholders and the requirements of customers as improve sustainability: improve aesthetics: and the key priority.
For example, web and mobile applications enable improve functionality: reduce whole life costs.
customers to model their requirements and allow full digital access.
improve installation: ACTION TAKEN TO DATE The strategic objective is to provide a full water management capability and the acquisition of CPM is an important step in that direction.
CPMs product range serves the below ground drainage market, whereas Marshalls had previously only been able to offer an above ground linear drainage proposition.
FUTURE DIRECTION The Groups water management strategy is designed to deliver FUTURE DIRECTION long-term sustainable value.
Future growth objectives will cover The Groups future direction is to embrace a digital first above and below ground systems and will include collect, approach.
The strategic direction is digital by default which seeks convey, clean and hold releasesystems.
to apply the digital principles referred to above to People, Process and Technology such that digital is part of the Groups culture.
co. uk MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 17
