Our technologies Specialist T echnologies Classical Heat T reatment A set of differentiated processes giving customers the ability to A group of mature processes which are essential for treating all produce unique high value-adding products.
These tightly controlled processes condition the material properties including both the core properties and the surface characteristics.
Hot Isostatic Pressing Services HIP Impact resistance and fatigue properties are extremely sensitive to small amounts of porosity.
Through the simultaneous application HIP of heat and pressure, the HIP process eliminates internal porosity, improving fatigue strength, tensile ductility and fracture toughness.
Below are a few examples of material properties obtained by heat treatment: Hot Isostatic Pressing Product Fabrication HIP PF What is it?
The ability of a material to resist deformation, This method combines the HIP process with design and production scratching and indentation under force.
expertise to create a component from metal powder.
The flexibility Why is it important?
Improving a materials hardness through HIP PF of the HIP PF process means that combinations of materials can be heat treatment allows it to resist various types of wear.
used to give desired properties, enabling metallic compositions that are difficult or impossible to forge or cast.
The ability of a material to absorb energy and Specialty Stainless Steel Processes S P plastically deform without fracture.
Steel is often chosen for its inherent corrosion resistance, but often requires Why is it important?
Heat treatment can be used to strengthen hardening.
Standard heat treatments will harden the steel, but can negatively 3 S P 3 the material and help improve its resistance to impact.
S P technology uniquely hardens stainless steel, nickel-based alloys and cobalt-chromium alloys improving mechanical and wear properties without adversely affecting corrosion resistance.
The stress level at which component failure occurs Low Pressure Carburising LPC when subjected to repeated stress cycles.
A case hardening process used to obtain a hardened surface and Why is it important?
Part failure due to fatigue can have tough core, giving increased wear resistance and fatigue life, with LPC catastrophic consequences, particularly if the part is safety minimal risk of treatment distortion.
LPC is a clean process, carried critical.
Through heat treatment, a materials fatigue strength is out under vacuum, and is an environmentally friendly treatment.
The measure of a materials ability to resist high Corr-I-Dur CiD temperature deformation.
A proprietary thermochemical treatment for the simultaneous Why is it important?
Some metals and alloys must operate improvement of corrosion and wear resistance through the CiD at temperatures close to their melting point.
Heat treatment generation of a nitride-oxide combination layer.
Corr-I-Dur is an enables them to perform at higher temperatures with little or no environmentally friendly alternative to the use of hard chromium, movement.
electroless nickel and other galvanic coatings.
The ability of a material to deform without breaking.
Surface T echnology ST Why is it important?
In order to form or shape a complex ST incorporates specialised plasma spray, High Velocity Oxygen component good ductility is required.
Heat treatment is used to Fuel HVOF and thermo-chemically formed coatings to improve ST soften the material which makes it easy to work as part of the wear resistance, hardness and durability, and is able to surface manufacturing process.
engineer components designed to operate in the most demanding of industrial applications.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Creep Fatigue Surface Core ductility Toughness strength resistance hardness Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
