Strategic report Chairs review JAMES HUGHES-HALLETT CHAIR Overview This year the shipping market has displayed some early signs of a recovery following a sustained period As the shipping markets begin of challenging trading conditions for the industry.
toshow signs of recovery, Despite ongoing headwinds in certain sectors, the strengthening of the broader global economy during thestrength and depth of our 2017 has boosted the shipping market, highlighted within dry cargo where the Baltic Dry Index ended global expertise has enabled theyear 42% higher than it started.
Whilst we remain ustoconsolidate our marketcautious about the near-term direction of the industry, we are pleased to report that Clarksons has once leadingposition.
again delivered a confident performance on the back of this wider macro-economic improvement and continues to deliver substantial value to our shareholders.
Improvements across a number of divisions over the past year have been particularly pleasing, notably in the dry cargo freight market and container sector, as well as the strong performance ininvestment banking and project finance.
Against this backdrop, we have consolidated our position as market leader, increasing our market activity through a mixture of innovation, investment and a continued commitment to providing a best in class offering.
We have made significant investments in technology over the past 12months, ensuring that Clarksons not only remains at the forefront of the shipping industry, but continues to innovate and develop new services for our clients.
Our position at the heart of the shipping industry has been built over 166 years, based on a fundamental dedication to our clients, and providing them with aunique, tailored service that offers an unrivalled understanding of the sector.
8 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information As market leaders, we have an opportunity to set People newbenchmarks for best practice in the sector and Our colleagues and their hard work and expertise are tocreate and shape the next generation of broking, at the centre of Clarksons continued success, and banking, market analysis and technology.
This has underpin our commitment to providing a best in been a key area of focus for Clarksons in 2017 and class global offering.
We have continued to invest in we are very pleased with the progress we have made and develop talent throughout 2017, as seen by the during the year.
Clarksons continues to pioneer new opening of new offices in Tokyo and Seoul, the hiring ways of doing business in the shipping industry and of a number of key individuals globally across many iswell positioned to capitalise on this investment in business lines and the extension of banking activities 2018 and beyond.
into convertible bonds and broking activities into wet FFAs.
We take our position as the leading sector Results employer very seriously, and are committed to Underlying profit before taxation was 50.2m 2016: continually setting new industry benchmarks of 44.8m.
Reported profit before taxation was 45.4m excellence.
I would like to thank all our colleagues 2016: 47.3m.
for their hard work and dedication in 2017.
Underlying earnings per share was 116.8p 2016: Board 105.2p.
Reported earnings per share was 104.4p 2016: 119.7p.
Peter Backhouse, Senior Independent Director, andIhave been interviewing prospective successors As explained in the financial review on page 41, free for Ed Warner on the Board and as Chair of the cash resources at 31 December 2017 were 54.1m remuneration committee, and expect to be able to 2016: 47.3m.
announce a new appointment to the Board this year.
When a suitable candidate is found, Ed will retire Dividend fromthe Board and as Chair of the remuneration Clarksons has maintained its impressive dividend committee, having served nine years as an record this year, having increased it every year since independent Non-Executive Director.
In line with this progressive dividend policy, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 50p 2016: Outlook 43p.
Coupled with the interim dividend of 23p 2016: The near-term future for the shipping markets remains 22p, the resulting full year dividend is up 12% to 73p mixed, but we have seen improvements in a number 2016: 65p, making it the 15th consecutive year of of our markets and are beginning to see the first signs dividend growth.
Clarksons remains The dividend will be payable on 1 June 2018 to well positioned for an industry upturn given our strong shareholders on the register at 18 May 2018, subject financial position, unrivalled sector expertise and the to shareholder approval.
continual development of innovative client offerings across the sector.
Clarksons remains a highly cash-generative business and, following the repayment of the outstanding loan notes during 2017, is now debt-free with a strong James Hughes-Hallett balance sheet.
The current state of our markets Chair means that there are a number of exciting opportunities for growth and the creation of 9 March 2018 shareholder value, which remains our primary goal.
The Board intends to capitalise on these opportunities as a priority, whilst continuing to hold firm to our progressive dividend policy.
com 9 Strategic report We are raising the bar and delivering simplified, transparent end-to-end IT solutions for the shipping market, adding value to every freight transaction, constantly optimising customer experience.
RICHARD WHITE HEAD OF TECHNOLOGY 10 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information PIONEERING OUR TECHNOLOGY We recognise the need to embrace and use technology to pioneer new ways of doing business in the shipping industry.
Through our significant investment intodigital solutions and the first class teams behind them, we are shaping the next generation of shipping technology to complement, rather than replace, existing business processes.
For more information on our business review see pages 22 to 39. www.
