OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 DIVIDEND Act and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 47.8p per of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the following section ordinary share 2016: 43.0p making a full year dividend of 71.3p describes the matters that are required for inclusion in the Directors per ordinary share 2016: 62.4p which will, if approved at the report and were approved by the Board.
Further details of matters AGM, be paid on 6 June 2018 to shareholders on the register at required to be included in the Directors report that are incorporated the close of business on 18 May 2018. by reference into this report are set out below.
SHARE CAPITAL The issued share capital of the Company and the details of the DIRECTORS movements in the Companys share capital during the year are The names of the members of the Board, as at the date of this shown in note 15 to the financial statements.
report, and their biographical details are set out on pages 68 to 69.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions when declared, to receive the Companys Annual Report and relatingto the retirement, election and re-election of Directors Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the but, in accordance with best practice, all Directors who wish to Company, to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
A waiver continue to serve will stand for election or re-election at the of dividend exists in respect of 541,211 shares held by the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Intertek Group Employee Share Ownership Trust Trust as at 31December 2017.
Details of the shares purchased by the The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the Trustduring the year are outlined within note 15 to the financial Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, statements.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary the appointment or removal of Directors and the conduct of the shares in the Company.
Copies are available upon request The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by from the Group Company Secretary and are available at the theArticles of Association, which may be amended or replaced Companys AGM.
Further powers are granted by members in bymeans of a special resolution of the Company in a general general meeting and those currently in place are set out in meeting.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK detailin the appropriate section of this report.
legislation and by the Companys Articles of Association.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights Directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with the share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid.
In accordance with the Articles of There are no arrangements known to the Company by which Association, the Company has executed deed polls of indemnity financial rights carried by any shares in the Company are held by a for the benefit of Directors of the Company.
person other than the holder of the shares, nor are there any arrangements between holders of securities that may result in These provisions which are deemed to be qualifying third-party restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act, were known to the Company.
All issued shares are fully paid.
in force during the financial year ended 31 December 2017, for Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange the benefit of the Directors and, at the date of this report, remain and may be traded through the CREST system.
in force in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers ALLOTMENT OF SHARES oroffice.
At the AGM held in 2017, the shareholders generally and DIRECTORS INTERESTS unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities Other than the Directors service agreements or letters of up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal amount of issued appointment, none of the Directors of the Company had a personal share capital.
interest in any business transactions of the Company or its It is the Directors intention to seek renewal of this authority subsidiaries.
The terms of the Directors service agreements or inline with guidance issued by the Investment Association.
letters of appointment and the Directors interests in shares and Theresolution will be set out in the Notice.
share awards of the Company, in respect of which transactions are notifiable to the Company under Rule 3 of the DTR of the At the AGM in 2017 the Directors were also empowered by FCA, are disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 81 to 96. theshareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of the Companysissued share capital, for cash under section 570 DIRECTORS POWERS oftheAct.
It is intended that this authority be renewed at The Directors are responsible for the strategic management of theforthcoming AGM.
the Company and their powers to do so are determined by the provisions of the Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 99 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION continued It is the Boards intention, in line with guidance issued by the AT THE DATE OF NOTIFICATION Pre-Emption Group, to also propose the renewal of the additional Number of % of voting special resolution to allow the Company to allot equity securities Shareholder voting rights rights up to a further 5% of the Companys issued share capital.
This is BlackRock Inc. 10,473,019 6.49 applicable when the Board determines a transaction to be an MFS Investment Management 9,547,182 5.92 acquisition or other capital investment, as defined by the Mawer Investment Management Ltd 8,110,417 5.03 Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles.
In the event that Marathon Asset Management LLP 8,037,714 4.98 this additional 5% disapplication of pre-emption right is used, the Fiera Capital Corporation 7,107,884 4.40 Company will outline the reason for its use and the consultation process undertaken within six months of the date that it is used.
EMPLOYMENT Information about the Groups employees, employment of PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES disabledpersons and employment practices is contained within Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company theSustainability and CSR report on pages 48 to 51.
Information on tobuyback up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market employee share schemes is in note 17 to the financial statements.
purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year.
TheDirectors will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% of GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS the Companys issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
This Information about the Groups Greenhouse Gas emissions is given power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied that any in the Sustainability and CSR report on page 54 to 57. purchase will increase the earnings per share of the ordinary POLITICAL DONATIONS share capital in issue after the purchase and accordingly, that the At the AGM in 2017 shareholders passed a resolution, on a purchase is in the interests of shareholders.
The Directors will precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make donations also give careful consideration to gearing levels of the Company to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure and its general financial position.
Any shares purchased in this as such items are defined in the Act not exceeding 90,000. way may be held in treasury which, the Directors believe, will During the year the Group did not make such political donations provide the Company with flexibility in the management of its 2016: nil.
It is the Companys policy not, directly orthrough any share capital.
Where treasury shares are used to satisfy Share subsidiary, to make what are commonly regarded as donations to Awards, they will be classed as new issue shares for the purpose any political party.
of the 10% limit on the number of shares that may be issued over a 10-year period under the relevant share plan rules.
At the forthcoming AGM of the Company, shareholders approval will again be sought to authorise the Group to make political SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL donations and or incur political expenditure as such terms are The Company is not a party to significant agreements which defined in section 362 to 379 of the Act.
Further information is takeeffect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following contained in the Notice.
a takeover bid apart from a number of credit facilities with banks together with certain senior notes issued by the Company.
The BRANCHES total amount owing under such credit facilities and senior note The Company, through various subsidiaries, has established agreements as at 31 December 2017 is shown in note 14 to the branches in a number of different countries in which the business financial statements.
These agreements contain clauses such operates.
The list of related undertakings is available on pages that, in the event of a change of control, the Company can offer 146 to 151. to or must repay all such borrowings together with accrued AUDITOR interest, fees and other sums owing as required by the The auditor,  LLP, have expressed their individualagreements.
willingness to continue in office.
Upon the recommendation of The rules of the Companys incentive plans contain clauses the Audit Committee, resolutions to re-appoint them as auditor relating to a change of control resulting from a takeover and in and to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the such an event awards would vest subject to the satisfaction of forthcoming AGM.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS MATERIAL INTERESTS IN SHARES Details about the Groups use of financial instruments are Up to 5 March 2018, being the latest practicable date before the outlined in note 14 to the financial statements.
publication of this report, the following disclosures of major ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING holdings of voting rights have been made and have not been The Notice of AGM, which is to be held on 24 May 2018, amended or withdrawn to the Company pursuant to the isavailable for download from the Companys website at requirements of Rule 5 of the DTR of the FCA.
The Notice details the business no changes since the year end.
tobe conducted at the meeting and includes information concerning the deadlines for submitting proxy forms and in relation to votingrights.
100 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TOPIC LOCATION TOAUDITORS 1.
Amount of interest capitalised Not applicable The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 2.
Any information required Not applicable Directors report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is byLR9.2.
18 R Publication of no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor unaudited financial information isunaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or 3.
Details of long-term Directors Remuneration she ought to have taken as a Director of the Company to make incentiveschemes report pages 81 to 96 themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 4.
Waiver of emoluments Not applicable establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Waiver of future emoluments Not applicable ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND COMPLIANCE bya Director WITHLISTING RULE LR 9.8.
Non pre-emptive issues Not applicable The Board has prepared a Strategic report pages 2 to 61 which ofequityfor cash provides an overview of the development and performance of the 7.
Information required by 6 above Not applicable Companys business during the year ended 31 December 2017 for any unlisted major subsidiary and its position at the end of that year, and which covers likely undertaking of the Company future developments in the business of the Company and Group.
Company participation in a Not applicable For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
5 R 2 and DTR placing by a listed subsidiary 4.1.
8 R, the required content of the Management Report can be 9.
Any contracts of significance Other statutory information found in the Strategic report and this Directors report, including page 100 the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated 10.
Any contracts for the Not applicable byreference.
provisionof services by acontrolling shareholder For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be 11.
Shareholder waivers Other statutory information disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: of dividends page 99 12.
Shareholder waivers Other statutory information offuturedividends page 99 13.
Agreements with Not applicable  INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 101
