52 Board of Directors Appointed: May 2008 John was Senior Independent Director at J Sainsbury Appointed: January 2018 He has significant experience of the US market N plc from 2005 to 2016 and a Non-Executive Director having led the generation and distribution businesses Skills and experience Skills and experience of Rolls-Royce plc from 2008 to 2017.
John received of National Grid in North America.
John holds a BSc John brings to the Group a deep and strategic John is Chief Executive of National Grid with a strong a BSc honours degree in Chemical Physics at in Economics, an MSc in International Economics, is a understanding of a wide range of industry sectors economic background and engineering leadership Manchester University and later gained a PhD before fellow of the Institute of Engineering and Technology gained from his career with Imperial Chemical experience.
John has a strong track record of becoming a research fellow.
and sits on the Presidents Committee of the CBI.
Industries plc ICI and Unilever over more than 30 developing and implementing global strategies Current external commitments Current external commitments years, and his other Board and advisor appointments.
for profitable growth at National Grid.
His skillset John joined ICI in 1997 and was appointed Group Chairman, United Utilities Group PLC includes service provision to a large customer Chief Executive, National Grid plc John McAdam John Pettigrew Chief Executive in 2013.
Prior to joining ICI, John spent NED and SID, Cobham plc base, delivering world-class levels of safety Chairman Non-Executive Director 24 years with Unilever where he held a number of NED and SID, Electra Private Equity PLC stepping performance and driving transformational change in senior management positions.
down effective 1 March 2018 highly regulated environments.
Appointed: May 2008 During his career with ICI he spent several years Appointed: March 2012 She has over 20 years of experience in retail financial working in its businesses in the US and Canada.
Angela holds an MSc in Marketing.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Andy joined Rentokil Initial in 2008 as the Executive Current external commitments Andy has broad commercial experience gained in Angela is a qualified marketing professional Director of the global Pest Control business and senior executive positions and legal roles.
Andy and a member of the Chartered Institute of Deputy Chairman and SID, Gocompare.
com became Chief Executive in October 2013.
Andy is joined Rentokil Initial from ICI where he held various Marketing.
She brings to the Board experience of Group plc a graduate of the University of Southampton and a management positions as a senior lawyer and head leading highly customer-focused businesses and NED, Janus Henderson Group plc qualified solicitor.
of the mergers and acquisitions team since 1987. improving processes and functions for a mobile NED, esure Group plc Current external commitments In 2005, he was appointed to the executive workforce gained in various executive and other NED, PageGroup plc Andy Ransom Angela Seymour-Jackson management team and had operational responsibility Director and Trustee of Street League senior roles at RAC Motoring Services, Aviva UK Life, Chief Executive Non-Executive Director for ICIs Regional and Industrial Division.
Patron of Malaria No More UK Aegon UK plc and Norwich Union Insurance.
Appointed: August 2010 Current external commitments Appointed: July 2014 Julie is a Chartered Accountant, having trained with Price Waterhouse, and has a BSc in Economics from NED, parkrun Trading Limited and parkrun Skills and experience Skills and experience Cambridge University.
Global Limited Jeremy has extensive experience in audit and Julie has extensive financial experience having had a NED, Galliford Try plc Current external commitments corporate finance gained in various senior and long, successful career in a number of commercially executive roles at Ernst & Young, J Sainsbury plc oriented finance and related roles working for some NED, NXP Semi-Conductors N. V. Netherlands and Mitchells & Butlers plc.
Jeremy has a degree in of the worlds best known consumer brands.
Julie, NED, DFS Furniture plc Management Sciences from Manchester University through her role as Chief Commercial Officer at Virgin NED, Cineworld Group plc and is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Atlantic Ltd and her various non-executive roles, NED, Stagecoach Group plc Jeremy Townsend Julie Southern of England and Wales and a former member of the has gained significant exposure to commercial, legal, Chief Financial Officer and Non-Executive Director Accounting Council of the Financial Reporting Council.
HR and operational challenges and responsibilities.
Chief Information Officer Appointed: January 2008 from 2000 to 2005.
He has served as the Governor Appointed: November 2017 Current external commitments N R and became SID in September 2017 of the Bank of Ireland and has held several nonMember of the Policy Committee of the Centre for Skills and experience executive positions.
Richard is a graduate of Wesley Economic Performance at the London School of Skills and experience As an economist, corporate lawyer and financial College, Dublin, and is a Fellow of the Institute of Economics Richard has significant international business broadcaster Linda brings a diverse range of skills to the Chartered Accountants of Ireland.
Member of the Advisory Board of The Official experience ranging from leading successful branded Board, including strong commercial experience gained Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum Current external commitments manufacturing and service businesses in the drinks through her work in corporate law and previous nonTrustee of Malaria No More UK, Royal industry to banking and financial services roles.
His Chairman, British American Tobacco p. l. c. executive positions.
Linda has acted in various advisory Commonwealth Society and Coutts Foundation executive career has been with Irish Distillers, where NED, Carlsberg A S Denmark roles, including to the World Bank and the European Richard Burrows Linda Yueh Coutts Bank he was Chief Executive from 1978 to 2000, and at Chairman, Craven House Capital plc Commission.
Linda has obtained a BA at Yale: Masters Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Pernod Ricard, where he was joint Chief Executive at Harvard: Juris Doctorate at New York University: and an MA and doctorate at Oxford.
Appointed: July 2017 international experience having lived and worked in Appointed: Group General Counsel in September 2013 of Reuters Group plc.
Before joining Reuters, he A N the US and Germany for substantial periods during and became Company Secretary in July 2014 spent 10 years working in the oil and gas industry for Skills and experience his early career at Proctor & Gamble.
He has held the Italian multi-national Eni SpA.
Daragh has an MA Skills and experience Sir Crispin has had a distinguished and successful various non-executive positions and has a degree in in History from Cambridge University.
business career across the international media, fastDaragh is a qualified solicitor having trained at Modern History from Oxford University.
Current external commitments moving consumer goods, and publishing sectors.
Herbert Smith and has extensive in-house legal Current external commitments He was Chief Executive of Reed Elsevier plc from and company secretarial experience in major listed None NED, Vodafone Group Plc 1999 to 2009, and previously Chief Executive of Aegis multi-national corporations, including those with NED, Hasbro Inc USA Group plc and Group Managing Director of Guinness significant businesses in emerging markets.
Daragh Sir Crispin Davis Daragh Fagan Trustee and Member of the University Board for Group plc.
Sir Crispin has experience in leading and previously worked at Thomson Reuters as General Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Oxford University delivering business change and transformation, Counsel, Europe & Asia, and General Counsel, EMEA Advisor to CVC Capital Partners particularly in the digital arena, as well as strong Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 53 Board of Directors Appointed: May 2008 John was Senior Independent Director at J Sainsbury Appointed: January 2018 He has significant experience of the US market A N plc from 2005 to 2016 and a Non-Executive Director having led the generation and distribution businesses Skills and experience Skills and experience of Rolls-Royce plc from 2008 to 2017.
Appointed: May 2008 During his career with ICI he spent several years Appointed: March 2012 She has over 20 years of experience in retail financial N R working in its businesses in the US and Canada.
Appointed: August 2010 Current external commitments Appointed: July 2014 Julie is a Chartered Accountant, having trained with A N Price Waterhouse, and has a BSc in Economics from NED, parkrun Trading Limited and parkrun Skills and experience Skills and experience Cambridge University.
He has served as the Governor Appointed: November 2017 Current external commitments A N R and became SID in September 2017 of the Bank of Ireland and has held several nonMember of the Policy Committee of the Centre for Skills and experience executive positions.
Before joining Reuters, he the US and Germany for substantial periods during and became Company Secretary in July 2014 spent 10 years working in the oil and gas industry for Skills and experience his early career at Proctor & Gamble.
Sir Crispin has experience in leading and previously worked at Thomson Reuters as General Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Oxford University delivering business change and transformation, Counsel, Europe & Asia, and General Counsel, EMEA Advisor to CVC Capital Partners particularly in the digital arena, as well as strong Key Former Directors in 2017 Alan Giles A Audit Committee Member NED Non-Executive Director Retired as a Non-Executive Director following N Nomination Committee Member SID Senior Independent Director the AGM in May 2017.
R Remuneration Committee Member Committee Chair Chris Geoghegan Resigned as a Non-Executive Director in September 2017.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
