STRATEGIC REPORT EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM 1 2 3 4 6 7 8 5 9 10 11 12 13 20 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 6 10 Andr Lacroix Tony George Rajesh Saigal Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Human Resources South & South East Asia See full bio on page 68 Joined Intertek in 2015.
Tony is Joined Intertek in 2007.
Rajesh has 2 Edward Leigh responsible for Human Resources.
He has responsibility for South & South East Asia.
Chief Financial Officer over 28 years' experience in HR, general Prior to this he was Regional Managing See full bio on page 68 management and business development Director for Interteks South Asia having held senior leadership positions in operations.
He has over 27 years general 3 Ann-Michele Bowlin international FMCG, chemicals, management and operational experience Chief Information Officer telecommunications and retail companies with Fortune 500 companies covering Joined Intertek in 2009.
Ann-Michele including Vodafone plc, Starbucks, Diageo consumer durables, industrial products is Chief Information Officer and joined plc and ICI.
Prior to joining Intertek, he was and engineering.
Before joining Intertek, Intertek from Ernst & Young consulting Group HR & Business Development Rajesh was CEO South Asia for GEWISS where she led shared services Director at Inchcape plc.
and General Manager at Honeywell.
Prior 7 11 Ken Lee Julia Thomas to Ernst & Young, Ann-Michele held Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, leadership and operations roles in Marketing and Communications Corporate Development technology companies, including Hotels.
com, and in the manufacturing Joined Intertek in 2016.
Ken has Joined Intertek in 2013.
As SVP Corporate and services sectors.
responsibility for Interteks marketing as Development, Julia has responsibility for well as internal and external Intertek's acquisition and disposal activities.
He joined the company Before joining Intertek, Julia spent 12 years Executive Vice President, from Inchcape plc where he spent 13 in investment banking with J. P. Morgan GlobalResources years in various senior marketing roles, Cazenove and Rothschild, focusing primarily Joined Intertek in 2017.
Alex has most recently as Chief Marketing and on mergers and acquisitions.
responsibility for Global Resources, Communications Officer.
Prior to this he 12 Mark Thomas comprising our business lines of Industry held marketing leadership positions with Group General Counsel Services, Minerals, and Exploration & RAC Motoring Services and Hyundai Production.
Prior to joining Intertek, Alex Car UK Ltd.
Mark has was President and CEO of Energy responsibility for Interteks legal, risk and 8 Patrick Lee Maintenance Services EMS and before compliance functions.
He joined Intertek Executive Vice President, North this held senior executive management from Inchcape plc where he was Group East Asia and Australasia positions at Energy Recovery and General Counsel.
Prior to this, Mark was in Insituform Technologies, Inc. now Aegion Joined Intertek in 2018.
Patrick is private practice with Slaughter and May in Corporation in both the US and Europe.
responsible for leading the Group's North London, advising on a wide range of public Alex has a BS in Civil Engineering and an East Asia and Australasia region.
Prior to and private M&A transactions, equity and MBA in Finance.
joining Intertek, he was CEO of Inchcape debt financing, and general corporate plc Greater China and has over 30 years' lawissues.
5 Ian Galloway management experience with a proven 13 Executive Vice President, Gregg Tiemann track record of success with blue-chip Middle-East, Africa and Global Executive Vice President, companies including P&G, Coca-Cola and Trade Americas Agfa Gevaert.
Before joining Inchcape, Joined Intertek in 2011.
Ian is responsible Patrick served as the Group General Joined Intertek in 1993.
Gregg has for the Middle-East, Africa and Global Manager, Sales and Marketing of Kerry responsibility for the Americas.
Prior to Trade comprising our business lines of Beverages Ltd. Patrick holds a BBA and assuming his current role, Gregg was Government & Trade Services, Cargo & anMBA from The Chinese University of responsible for the Americas, North Asia Analytical Assessment and AgriWorld.
and Australasia as well as the former Prior to assuming his current role, Ian held Consumer Goods and Commercial & 9 Graham Ritchie senior finance and business roles within Electrical divisions, having started as Executive Vice President, Europe Intertek.
He has previously held General Manager of the Los Angeles international roles in finance Joined Intertek in 2014.
Before joining Intertek, managementwith BG Group in the UK, responsible for Interteks operations in Gregg worked in sales and marketing for Egypt and Tunisia.
Ian is a qualified Europe, including Russia, and Central Asia.
Prior to assuming his current role, Graham was Interteks Group Financial Controller.
Before joining the company he held senior financial positions at BT Group plc and other technology services organisations, having started his career with PwC.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 21
