18 Our business model Market-leading businesses Pest Control Hygiene Protect & Enhance Rentokil offers a complete range Initial Hygiene provides a Initial Workwear specialises of pest control services, from dedicated and expert hygiene in the supply and laundering of rodents to flying insects, to other service.
It offers the widest range workwear, uniforms, cleanroom forms of wildlife management.
of washroom hygiene services uniforms and personal protective including the provision and equipment.
Ambius offers interior maintenance of products.
landscaping services and our Property Care business provides property preservation and wood rot treatment services.
Our Dental Services business specialises in the disposal and recycling of dental waste.
Read more about our business on pages 22 to 31 How we operate In February 2014 we Our geographic regions Service coverage of global GDP Number of service teams announced our RIGHT WAY plan to deliver North America 90% c. 1,800 sustainable revenue and Europe profit growth.
Our plan is Presence in the worlds Percentage of revenues derived based on a clear business UK & Rest of World largest cities outside of UK model for the Company Asia which includes strong multi-local operations Pacific 90 100 90% across the world.
Read more about how we operate on pages 10 to 11 Consistent and efficient operational model RIGHT PEOPLE RIGHT THINGS RIGHT WAY Service efficiency Colleague expertise, Delivering customer engagement, safety service and customer and retention engagement CVC Customer retention Contract portfolio growth Sales excellence Becoming an Revenue Profit driving gross sales Price management Employer of Choice Growth and Cash contract and jobs Jobbing and product sales Digital expertise and leadership in innovation Productivity and effective cost management.
Sharing best practices, common IT and digital solutions.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 19 Our business model Why were different expertise of our people Rentokil Initial employs 36,036 2016: 32,150 experts and invests in training and development to ensure their know-how is unrivalled.
We choose people who live our values of Service, Relationships and Teamwork.
Experience is less important in some roles than attitude as we provide the best training in our industries.
In 2017 we saw strong improvements in colleague opinions on workplace review site Glassdoor, culminating in us being ranked 7th in the UKs Best Places to Work as at 31 December 2017.
Wewere also awarded the title of Britains Most Admired Companyfor Business Support Services in 2017 by Management Today magazine.
1 Glassdoor rating Glassdoor CEO approval 4.3 5 97% Recommend the Company to a friend UK businesses Trustpilot rating 87% Excellent How we create value Leadership in digital and innovation Our financial model to compound growth is a virtuous Rentokil Initial is leading the way in digital products circle predicated on delivering growth organically and and applications and innovating at pace.
through M&A, which leads to increased density and is We believe we have the best management information tools in our markets which enable us to build stronger relationships with our directly correlated to improved gross margins across customers.
Our high-quality web platform is driving increased levels our business categories.
of sales enquiries to our businesses around the world.
We have an The above, combined with our low-cost operating model, unparalleled innovation pipeline and this year opened The Power drives strong profitable growth and sustainable Free Cash Flow Centre which brings together our scientific experts and research which is deployed in two ways: first, into a financially disciplined in Pest Control with our training teams to ensure that we remain M&A programme and operational investment: and second, into the global leader in the commercial pest control industry.
maintaining our progressive dividend policy.
The Power Centre key statistics Compounding revenue, profit and cash flow growth The amount of floor space Training rooms that can compared to our previous centre accommodate up to 65 people Organic and M&A revenue growth 3X 3 Increased density Pest product test rooms, Simulated on-site locations enabling us to run twice as for training colleagues in 2 many trials simultaneously commercial areas Improved gross margins 5 7 Low-cost operating model Strong profit and Free Cash Flow Focused investment Financially disciplined M&A programme and operational investment Turbo-charging growth One of our scientists testing products.
Such as supermarkets, hotels, restaurants and kitchens.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
