Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 1 The journey continues 2017 represented a step change in the execution of our strategy, which we call our RIGHT WAY plan.
Following the transfer of our European Workwear 1 operations into a joint venture with Haniel in June 2017, we are a stronger business focused on our core Pest Control and Hygiene operations, which now represent just under 90% of Ongoing Operating profit.
We are proud of our operational and financial achievements and of the growth we have delivered over the last four years.
While we are confident and ambitious, there is still further to go and our journey continues.
Over the next pages we highlight ways in which we can grow the business and deliver further value creation.
Read on to nd out whats next for Rentokil Initial.
Fundamental understanding of route density This enables us to drive margin expansion across our business through postcode density Global leadership and product penetration.
Our ongoing and Rentokil and Initial are the worlds successful M&A programme is central to largest commercial pest control building density, with 150 acquisitions made company and hygiene services over the last five years.
provider respectively with multiple market leading positions across over 70 countries.
Leaders in technological and digital innovation We are successfully creating digital products, and deploying Brand strength apps and technical innovations Our Rentokil and Initial brands and articial intelligence to are seen as leaders in their combat increasing pest threats industries globally.
Rentokil is and maintain a competitive synonymous with pest control advantage in our industries.
around the world and is included in the Brand Finance Top 50 Most Valuable Commercial Services Brands in the world.
The term joint venture is used to describe the Companys joint venture with Haniel.
However our 17.8% interest in CWS-boco is equity accounted for as an associate as described in Note B6 to the Financial Statements.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 2 The journey continues Functional excellence Long-term growth in M&A prospects Accelerating growth Our local teams and our central M&A Worth c. $8bn, North America is the function are responsible for identifying worlds largest pest control market Creating leading acquisition targets and maintaining key and approximately 50% of the global market positions Value-enhancing M&A in Growth relationships, with our teams in contact with total.
Indias pest control industry up to 200 potential targets at any given time.
is growing rapidly, fuelled by high We are now the No.
3 player in and Emerging markets Our rules of the road are to assess the risks, GDP and population growth, rapid North America and the clear We continue with our successful M&A be confident in our synergy plans, pay urbanisation, expansion of the No.
1 in India and the Middle East.
sensibly and deliver from day one.
Deal middle classes, demand for strategy and use North America and India structures and strong post-completion increased hygiene standards and as illustrations of our progress to date and governance and integration processes increasing investment in the food ensure our M&A programme consistently and pharmaceutical sectors.
delivers against the business case.
Buyer of choice We believe our reputation as an experienced and sympathetic acquirer of assets frequently a ords us a competitive advantage in the bidding process.
Transformational M&A in North America and India Since 2014 we have grown revenues in North America from $570m to $1.1bn, including revenues generated from the 50 businesses we have 1 acquired.
Our joint venture with PCI has substantially increased our revenues in India from 3.9m in 2014 to 45.5m at December 2017.
125 Good pipeline of M&A acquisitions in Growth and opportunities Emerging markets since January 2014.
Creating density The pest control market in North America is to drive margins highly fragmented with around 20,000 small, With truly national coverage across 111 independently owned companies creating a both countries, we can now focus of which are in Pest Control.
However, on building city and local density asset prices are rising as a result of increased to drive margin expansion.
The term joint venture is used to describe the Companys 57% investment interest in Rentokil PCI.
However our interest in Rentokil PCI has been consolidated in our Financial Statements as described in Note B1.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 3 The journey continues Functional excellence Long-term growth in M&A prospects Our local teams and our central M&A Worth c. $8bn, North America is the function are responsible for identifying worlds largest pest control market Creating leading acquisition targets and maintaining key and approximately 50% of the global market positions Value-enhancing M&A in Growth relationships, with our teams in contact with total.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 4 The journey continues The Power Centre Proprietary and ground In September we opened The Leading the field breaking product Power Centre, our new Global development Innovation, Science and Training New product launches in 2017 included Centre based in the UK.
The centre Lumnia, the worlds first LED electronic brings together our scientific ininnovation y killer range, and RapidPro, the worlds experts and research in pest fastest acting and most e ective control with our training teams to rodenticide.
ensure that we remain the global leader in the commercial pest Harnessing the digital and innovation control industry.
opportunity across the customer lifecycle Innovation underlines our brand positioning as the experts in pest control and continues to di erentiate the business.
Service and productivity gains Digital apps provided through low-cost mobile devices are helping our Pest Control and Hygiene technicians improve the service they give our customers and enhance their productivity and safety.
Back-o ce e ciency We see many opportunities to further automate our back-o ce functions, deploying cloud platform services, robotics and utilising data from sensors, colleague apps and customer portals to facilitate management decision making and further reduce costs.
10,000 smartphones rolled out across the business.
Creating a sustainable Enhancing customer pipeline of innovations service and retention and 90% We have 15 scientists working on the driving new business Around 90% of Hygiene colleagues development of 70 active innovation projects, are now using our ServiceTrak Our digital products include remote a 20% increase on project volumes in 2016. smartphone app.
monitoring systems and connected devices In final stages of development are products such as PestConnect the worlds smartest for combatting bed bugs, connected products mouse trap and our myRentokil online for live animal capture, new Lumnia models, customer portal, used by almost 50% of our 1,000 uorescent tracking gel and multi-catch units commercial customers in 520,000 premises.
Over the last three years we have PesTrak roll-out well underway Visits to our Pest Control websites grew doubled our patent portfolio and have a further in 16 countries and with over 1,000 organically by 44% in 2017, over 3.7m more 16 patent applications pending.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 5 The journey continues The Power Centre Proprietary and ground In September we opened The breaking product Power Centre, our new Global development Innovation, Science and Training New product launches in 2017 included Centre based in the UK.
The centre Lumnia, the worlds first LED electronic brings together our scientific y killer range, and RapidPro, the worlds experts and research in pest fastest acting and most e ective control with our training teams to rodenticide.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 6 The journey continues Our cultural attributes Importance of EoC Customer focused, commercial, strategy An Employer of Choice diverse, down to earth and innovative.
We believe that a focus on colleague engagement, retention, technical expertise, training and line management Becoming an Employer of Choice EoC means quality delivers productivity and e ciency gains, enhances customer satisfaction and we can attract, recruit, engage, train and retention, improves workplace safety and retain high-calibre employees, which is at the reduces sta absenteeism.
heart of delivering our business strategy.
High performing colleague engagement Our 2017 Your Voice Counts YVC survey scores on colleague engagement and enablement have risen by four points since 2015 and are now in the world-class High Performing HP territory for the first time.
Other HP areas include colleague motivation, the Company is open to new ideas, training and development, my job Areas for improvement Highly rated makes good use of my skills and the 87% Our focus remains on improving front Focus on Employer Company is innovative which scores workplace culture line short-term turnover less than Recommend to a friend some 13% points above the HP norm.
of Choice Sustained improvements have led to 12 months which in 2017 was too the Company being rated 8th out of In 2017 we introduced Employer high.
Actions to improve this include 700,000 companies on Glassdoor of Choice as the No.
2 agenda item attracting and hiring people who 97% for Workplace Culture, with an for all management team meetings fully understand the job role and CEO approval overall score of 4.3 out of 5 as at after our No.
Increased internal We identied our strengths and by ensuring new joiners have the tools, levels of engagement are translating opportunities, EoC metrics against equipment, information and training 4.3 5 into a strong external reputation as which we can report monthly, and to do the job while at the same time Glassdoor overall rating a Great Place to Work.
developed action plans and targets recognising and rewarding them for for 2018. their contribution.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 7 The journey continues Our cultural attributes Importance of EoC Customer focused, commercial, strategy diverse, down to earth and innovative.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
