8 8 Chairmans introduction Reasons to invest We are a leader in our chosen markets 2017 has seen generating high returns with good growth opportunities.
1 Rentokil is the worlds leading commercial pest control business and our principal engine for growth.
We are further successful the brand leader in the industry and believe we possess unrivalled technical expertise.
Initial is the global leader execution of our in hygiene services with a focus on service quality to grow market share and drive management and back office synergies with other business lines.
RIGHT WAY plan We have a clear, differentiated andan acceleration management strategy 2 to drive performance and capital allocation.
strategies reflect our ability to develop and grow.
We have an increasing focus on Growth and Emerging markets.
It is very encouraging to see the performance of the Company Disciplined investment in capital expenditure and M&A accelerate, delivering in line with our strategy through a combination is focused on those areas offering the best returns and of organic and acquisitive growth over the last year.
our transaction in June to form a leading European workwear joint venture with Haniel, the composition of our profits is now increasingly We are highly cash generative weighted towards our core, higher growth businesses of Pest Control and this supports our balance sheet and enables us and Hygiene, which now account for just under 90% of Group Ongoing 3 to fund our M&A programme, implement a progressive Operating Profit.
dividend policy and pay down debt.
We remain fully committed to our purpose which is protecting people from the dangers of pest-borne disease and the risks of poor hygiene, Rentokil Initial is run by an experienced and enhancing lives with services that protect the health and wellbeing and proven management team of people and the reputation of our customers brands.
4 executing our strategy successfully and at pace.
Our ambition remains to be both a world-class service company We are a people and values-based organisation.
and a world-class Employer of Choice.
Our culture is therefore critical Our expert service teams are highly trained and to our success, and it is pleasing to see that, across our different equipped with the best tools to perform their roles, businesses, our people share our mission, values and now report supported by a strong innovation pipeline.
We have engagement and enablement scores across all businesses in the a clear governance framework and are committed global High Performing quartile.
I would like to thank our shareholders and, of course, our customers We have a clear plan to deliver 5% to 8% for giving their continued support to Rentokil Initial and for their ongoing trust and loyalty.
In 2017 we welcomed many new colleagues to the revenue growth in the medium term 5 Company through the acquisition of 41 new businesses in the year We understand our customers needs for enhanced and also by ongoing recruitment to improve our functional capabilities health and hygiene standards and deliver high service across the Group.
I would like to convey my appreciation to all our levels across our diverse customer base.
Our operational colleagues who have made such a sustained and focused effort to growth levers are focused on retention, upselling and deliver outstanding service to our customers.
This is key to our success organic sales.
We have a proven city and route density and enables us to continue to deliver our strategy at pace.
The theme of this years Annual Report is, The journey continues.
There is further scope for profit growth TheRIGHT WAY.
In the opening pages of this report we aim to illustrate through a series of infographics some of the ways in which we delivered and margin enhancement 6 recent growth and how we can maintain momentum throughout the We drive margins in part by focusing on increasing route next phase of our journey.
I hope you will enjoy reading it.
density through organic and inorganic revenue growth.
We operate a low-cost support structure through shared back offices and efficient administration.
We are leaders in utilising technology and innovation to deliver a competitive advantage in our customer sectors.
John McAdam Chairman 28 February 2018 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
