20 Our strategy by business category Our capital allocation model by market continues to work very well.
Since the first articulation of our RIGHT WAY plan in 2014 we have worked steadily to improve the quality of our revenues, 83% of which are generated by our core categories of Pest Control and Hygiene.
Category Strategic focus Market context Our plans for 2018 Progress in 2017 Pest Control is our core business and our primary engine Key factors which are driving consistent growth Growth markets Pest for growth.
Continued acceleration of our business can be include an increasing population, additional Build margins by leveraging our scale and building density in North America 1.3bn achieved by building on our unrivalled global leadership legislation in critical areas such as food safety and a Maximise national and international accounts propositions Ongoing Revenue, up 21.4% Control through further expansion in Growth and Emerging markets, growing pest burden of species such as mosquitoes.
Deploy innovation targeted at key pest sectors, for example, rodents and bed bugs both organically and through our value-creating acquisition The world population is expected to grow to 8bn Increase focus on mosquito control vector control programme.
Areas of key focus include developing our by 2025, impacting specifically on strategically Harness the digital opportunity across customer lifecycle 239.8m digital capability, exploiting national and international sales important markets to us, including India, China and Complete roll-out of customer extranet portals to give greater value insight and maximise retention opportunities and continued pest control products and Brazil where we are already experiencing doubleOngoing Operating Profit, up 18.1% Further execution of M&A programme services innovation.
In M&A we look for an IRR of 13% in digit revenue growth.
Emerging markets Growth markets and 15% in Emerging markets.
Build presence in higher-growth markets, notably India and China 33 Read more on pages 22 to 25 City-focused acquisitions to build scale and density acquisitions completed Harness the power of the Rentokil brand to target international customers Maximise use of digital tools from web to e-billing to support sales and productivity We have continued to make further progress in revenue As with Pest Control, our Hygiene businesses Target upselling of multiple services to customers using our full Hygiene range Hygiene growth in Hygiene in 2017.
Our focus is to build on the operate in an attractive industry offering good Gross margin-based sales commission and incentives 402.5m strength of our leading Hygiene brand and strong market growth opportunities as expectations around Innovation focused on highest growth sectors such as Air Care particularly in Asia Ongoing Revenue, up 7.6% positions, sell our range of award-winning hygiene standards of hygiene increase.
Margins are driven Target growth through national accounts and relationships with facilities management providers products with confidence, lead the way on product and by postcode density servicing as many customers Build route density through targeted selling, use of new tools such as ServicePlus and a targeted, service innovation, build city density and extend our as possible in a tight geographic zone and city-focused acquisition programme 71.4m footprint through organic growth and targeted M&A.
customer penetration selling multiple service lines Ongoing Operating Profit, up 9.7% In M&A we look for an IRR of between 15% and 20%.
What we seek therefore is more customers on our routes and more products within Read more on pages 26 to 29 customers premises.
7 acquisitions completed The businesses included in this category are Workwear Initial Workwear is the No.
2 player in the France Workwear return to profitable growth by end of 2018 through implementation Protect & France, Ambius global and Property Care UK.
It also French workwear market, where conditions have of our Quality agenda 1.7% includes a sub-scale Dental Services business Germany been challenging for a number of years due Ambius while performance is linked to economic conditions in North America and the UK, Ongoing Revenue growth in France Enhance and Sweden.
All are profitable, cash-generative businesses to economic pressures and an intense pricing we have expertise in high-end installations such as green walls and large-scale planting projects.
Workwear, however Ongoing Operating and, combined, represent c. 11% of Ongoing Operating environment.
Conditions have, however, shown signs Capitalise on key Holiday season in North America and on growth in global scenting market Profit has declined by 12.2% Profit.
Our strategic focus is on enhanced customer service, of improvement in 2017 with an improving economic UK Property Care performance linked to improving housing market in the UK customer retention and profit protection.
Acquisition outlook and some easing of pricing pressures.
172.8m 170.0m opportunities are likely to be more limited than in Pest Ambius also operates in competitive markets with Control and Hygiene and would require an IRR of 20%.
Our UK Property Care business is closely linked to the housing Read more on pages 30 to 31 market, which has weakened since the June 2016 referendum result and the General Election.
27.7m 24.3m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Ongoing Revenue Ongoing Operating Profit Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 21 Our strategy by business category Category Strategic focus Market context Our plans for 2018 Progress in 2017 Pest Control is our core business and our primary engine Key factors which are driving consistent growth Growth markets Pest for growth.
27.7m 24.3m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Ongoing Revenue Ongoing Operating Profit Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
