22 Strategy in action Pest Control Our Bird Pro team in Mumbai is professionally trained in abseiling, which is often the only way to reach areas which require protecting.
Accelerating growth in Pest Control by building on market-leading positions and consistent delivery.
We have strengthened our position as global In 2016 we signed our first major international Attractive and growing market leaders in pest control through increased pest control contract with a global food Pest control is an attractive and growing organic growth and by establishing stronger production and agricultural products market offering long-term growth prospects market positions particularly in Emerging and organisation.
At the end of that year we and is expected to deliver a CAGR of around Growth markets, and through innovation, secured a further pest control contract with 5% over the next five years.
Structural growth digital expertise and acquisitions.
Mondelez, the multi-national confectionery, drivers include: economic activity in growth food and beverage company.
This was markets offices, housing etc.
: population Our Pest Control strategy followed in 2017 with new global preferred expansion and urbanisation, particularly in Pest Control is our core business line and pest control contract wins with facilities Emerging markets: a growing middle class engine for growth.
Continued acceleration management business ISS, and Sodexo, demanding higher standards of hygiene: rising of our business can be achieved through: one of the worlds largest multi-national international standards in food safety and food services and facilities management building on our unrivalled global leadership hygiene regulation: increasing pressure from corporations.
The combination of our unique through continued expansion in Growth pest species through climate change: and global footprint and emphasis on expertise and Emerging markets, with a continued legislation and regulatory change.
and innovation has been a core theme in focus on North America: Driving Organic Revenue growth these wins, with several customers visiting maintaining a strong, value-creating in Pest Control The Power Centre in the final stages of their acquisition programme to build density: selection process, and crediting it with a critical harnessing the digital opportunity As the worlds leading pest control business role in the decision.
We have a strong pipeline completing the roll-out of our best-in-class we have the scale and expertise to drive of further new global customer opportunities customer portals and developing web Organic Revenue growth ahead of the market, within the food production, pharmaceutical, presence for a mobile digital-first world.
We provide an hotels, hospitality, transportation and We aim to lead in connected products, update on some of our Organic Revenue logistics sectors.
particularly for high dependency food growth levers below.
clients: The acquisition of Steritech in 2015 has also Global and national accounts exploiting the international sales opportunity significantly enhanced our capability in the US We continue to make good progress in using tight profiling and framework national accounts market.
Now with greater targeting global customers particularly agreements.
Our pipeline of international national scale and density, we are more in the food processing and hospitality sectors.
opportunities with food industry, hotel, competitive and a key component of our Our acquisition of Steritech in North America, retail and pharmaceutical customers is sales strategy is to grow our national accounts combined with our increasingly active worth over 55m: and portfolio rapidly through: participation in the Global Food Safety continuing to innovate at pace for future Initiative, has strengthened our global brand targeting specific national account prospects growth through deployment of new pest presence in these sectors.
within the most attractive industry segments control products and services from our such as food and pharmaceuticals: innovation pipeline.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 23 Strategy in action Pest Control taking a standardised and focused For many vector-borne diseases such as Zika approach to sales execution with common virus, West Nile virus, yellow fever, malaria and performance metrics and sales processes: dengue fever, vector control services are the 623.0m leveraging the combined national sales most effective way to protect public health.
expertise of both Rentokil and Steritech: and The growth engine of the Group, VDA provides a full range of vector control maximising cross-selling opportunities services, including weekly monitoring of our Pest Control business has across brands.
mosquito levels, species identification and delivered 623m of additional In 2017 we increased our national account disease testing using its in-house laboratory revenues in the past four years.
sales by 40% 2016: 55% and, as with our and control of both adult and larval mosquitoes global accounts, our pipeline of prospects from the ground and using aircraft.
this acquisition, the Company is establishing a new global centre of excellence for mosquito 5.8% Technical expertise shared across control, which will be based in North America.
Organic growth has more than markets doubled from 2.2% to 5.8% Growth markets Across the world we help combat the since 2013.
We are building strong positions in these key dangers to public health from mosquitoes markets, which include North America, the UK, and believe our depth of expertise and Australia, New Zealand and the Caribbean.
experience in global mosquito control is Through a combination of organic and nonunrivalled.
In Central and Latin America and North America is particularly important to organic growth actions, we aim to generate across the Caribbean, Rentokil undertakes us as it is the worlds largest pest control $1.5bn revenues and Net Operating Margins monitoring and control services to support market.
Worth c. $8bn, it represents 50% of of c. 18% by 2020. its customers against the potential threat of the global market and is expected to grow Zika virus, and in Asia we have over 30 years Since 2014 we have acquired 83 new at a CAGR of c. 5% through to 2023.
Our experience in helping customers to combat businesses in Growth markets, of which 42 were North America business has delivered a the threat of dengue fever.
We have also established four-year CAGR of 23.2% in Pest Control and an M&A pipeline in the Pacific, acquiring 15 is currently growing organically in excess of In recognition of our expertise in this area we pest control companies.
We have built upon the market rate.
This has been aided by a were awarded in 2015 a contract by the U. S. our UK growth story through the use of digital strong performance in national accounts Federal Governments Centers for Disease expertise, innovations and productivity and and our Pest Control Products business.
Control and Prevention CDC to help control service enhancements.
Around 10% of new the species of mosquito that could potentially Looking forward, demand for mosquito sales in the UK are being delivered through carry the Zika virus across the USA and its control is expected to outpace demand for our innovation pipeline.
As we have Emerging markets previously highlighted please see page 2, While the contract with the CDC expired in These markets include Asia, Latin America, North America is a key market for M&A and, 2017, the threat from mosquito-borne diseases MENAT, Kenya, Fiji and Central America.
as the buyer of choice, our pipeline remains is rising.
In response to this growing threat we Over the last four years we have expanded particularly strong.
However, asset prices announced in Q4 our acquisition of Vector our scale in these higher growth markets Disease Acquisition, LLC VDA, North Americas are rising as a result of increasing competition for high-quality targets, particularly in the US.
by acquiring 28 pest control companies.
largest provider of mosquito control services.
Pre central and regional overheads and restructuring costs.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 24 Strategy in action Pest Control Lumnia is a range of fly killers that use LED lighting rather than traditional bluelight fluorescent tubes allowing for power reductions of up to 60% versus comparable units.
This is the worlds first commercial range using LEDs and comes as a result of working in partnership with a leading manufacturer of LED lighting to develop a lamp specifically designed to target a broad range of flying insects.
In addition to the benefits of using LEDs, the unit has different lighting settings to suit the specific requirements of customer locations and it also has an active lighting mode that adapts its output according to the ambient lighting levels on customer premises.
We currently have 15,000 units being used in 31 markets around the world.
RapidPro is a new rodenticide that is the An Apprentice Entomology fastest acting rodenticide bait targeting mice.
Technician ensures that Not only does this lead to faster control of insects are kept in optimum condition in order to study mice populations, but as an alternative to their behaviour.
traditional Anti-Vitamin K AVK rodenticides, the product does not risk secondary poisoning of non-target species.
In India we have grown from a small lossConnected devices making unit to the countrys No.
1 pest control Our AutoGate rodent control unit uses sensors Connected devices open up opportunities operator through the formation of our recent to contain poisoned bait behind a gate, safe to revolutionise our business and provide joint venture with PCI Pest Control Private Ltd from non-target species, until activated.
During our customers with a complete pest detection see more under the section Growth through 2017 the product went live in five countries with solution and full traceability.
In China we are pursuing a further 10 planned for 2018.
AutoGate was our award-winning remote monitoring system a city-based strategy with a focus on specific created to address EU legislation prohibiting for rodents, is the worlds smartest mouse urban and industrial zones.
certain uses of permanent baiting using trap.
We have over 50,000 devices used chemical products in pest control.
in over 3,000 customer premises across Our performance in the more mature markets 10 countries giving real-time business of Indonesia and Malaysia has been steady, Our innovation pipeline remains healthy, intelligence at the sites and leading the with both countries delivering high-singlewith around 70 active innovation projects pest control industry.
The system has sent digit revenue growth.
We have identified Latin a 20% increase on project volumes in us over three million individual messages America as a significant opportunity and have 2016.
We also have 16 patent applications relating to the presence of rodent activity and moved quickly to secure a leadership position pending.
Innovations in their final stages of service productivity such as battery life and in Chile, Brazil and Colombia through organic development include Multi Radar, Entotherm the level of mobile connectivity.
The system growth and acquisitions, which we have now Compact, Agrilaser, BedBugConnect, also guides our technicians to the exact unit combined with our existing businesses in fluorescent tracking gel, CageConnect and that has signalled rodent activity particularly Mexico and Central America El Salvador, LiveCatchConnect.
useful on sites which use multiple units.
In addition, we have introduced productivity enhancements Harnessing the power of the web such as ServiceTrak and other innovations M&A execution In 2017 our web platform handled over 15.7m across our markets to encourage new sales.
visits over 12 months, with double-digit visitor growth in key markets.
During the year one Digital leadership new website was launched to a new country 111 Rentokil Initial is a digital leader, leveraging every three weeks.
In addition, the myRentokil technology to create value-added solutions Pest Control acquisitions online customer portal was rolled out to and ways to remove duplication and since 2014 32 countries with over 100,000 customers complexity for our customers and colleagues.
We aim to register the majority of As well as the connected devices described our commercial customers by the end of 2018. below, our field service smartphone app, ServiceTrak, has been deployed to around 486m Industry leading innovation 90% of our Hygiene front line colleagues Innovation underlines our brand positioning Revenue contribution from globally and is being rolled out to more than as the experts in Pest Control and continues PestControl acquisitions from 2014 6,000 Pest Control technicians globally in 2018. to differentiate the business.
It is also an We are transforming our back-office system to important driver of organic growth.
In the UK a cloud platform over the next two years and in 2017, 21.5% of new Pest Control job sales opening up new customer digital channels came from innovations launched in the last 33 as a result.
This will also allow us to realise two years, a further 5% point increase on further value from technology and to deploy Pest Control acquisitions in 2017 2016.
New product launches in 2017 included innovations faster across the global business three high-quality products: Lumnia, RapidPro as they become available.
We have started to and AutoGate.
use robotics and artificial intelligence in our 175m back office to automate manual administrative tasks in a cost effective way.
Revenue contribution from PestControl acquisitions in 2017 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 25 Strategy in action Pest Control The integration of acquisitions is progressing Growth through M&A well and the pipeline remains strong with no This year we acquired 33 pest control An unrivalled footprint shortage of opportunities to create value in companies in 24 countries: Australia, the 2018 and beyond.
in Emerging markets Bahamas, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Rentokil has a powerful market Market India, Ireland, Italy, Malawi, Malaysia, New Rentokil is the worlds largest commercial pest position in Emerging markets, and Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia, control business and has 15% of the global has the scale, brand and experience South Africa, Sweden, Turkey, the UK and commercial market and 8.2% of the total pest to ensure further growth.
We highlight a number of important control market worldwide.
We continue to from Pest Control in Emerging acquisitions below.
increase our international presence through a markets grew by over 50% in 2017 In February we acquired Atlanta-based pest combination of organic growth and targeted to 200m.
control company Allgood Pest Solutions.
For further information on the pest Ranked by Pest Control magazine as number control market, please see page 16.
29 in the list of the largest pest control Rentokil Asia Customers companies in the USA, the business generated In over 70 countries, businesses and annualised revenues for the 12 months prior to homeowners trust Rentokil to solve their acquisition of $26.6m.
pest problems and prevent them from 12 In March we completed the transaction reoccurring.
Commercial customers account countries to create a joint venture with PCI, Indias for approximately 80% of revenue and include largest pest control company, which offers a food processing, food service and food retail comprehensive range of pest control services sectors, largely as a result of their regulatory and products through its countrywide network.
requirements for pest control services, as 9,000 Rentokil, which has management control of the well as non-food sectors.
technicians JV, is integrating its Indian operations into the Residential pest control represents JV and the combined business has revenues approximately 20% of business revenue with of 4.5bn rupees c. 50m, will operate from over 75% of this coming from the US and 250 locations and will employ 6,900 people.
On a per capita basis both countries In April we acquired SAMES, the market leader have much larger residential markets for pest locations in the commercial pest control sector in the control than in Europe, primarily because of Kingdom of Saudi Arabia KSA with c. 2,500 the presence of termites and wooden housing.
customers covering most major cities, making Rentokil India Outlook for 2018 us the No.
1 pest control company in the KSA and the Middle East as a whole.
The business Pest control is a highly resilient industry and generated revenues of 9m in the last 12 offers sustainable, long-term growth prospects.
We are ideally placed to take advantage of major growth drivers in the pest control market market position In addition, as we have previously highlighted, which we have examined earlier on in this in November we acquired VDA, North Americas report on page 16. largest provider of mosquito control services.
Headquartered in Little Rock, Arkansas, VDA In 2018 we will continue to build our 4,631 operates from 52 offices in 32 U. S. states.
presence in high growth Emerging markets, technicians Annualised revenues for the 12 months prior notably India, China, Indonesia and Brazil by to acquisition were $47m 36m.
capitalising on our growing scale.
We will focus on targeted city-based acquisitions to build In addition to mosquito control, VDA also scale and density benefits.
Organic growth provides lake management services, a 280 will be achieved through direct sales to brandnew route-based service line for our North sensitive customers and by using the power locations America business.
Invasive aquatic plants of the Rentokil brand to target international destroy fish and wildlife, and clog pipes customers.
Further, we will maximise the use used for drinking water, hydroelectric and Rentokil Latin America of digital tools from web to e-billing to support irrigation supplies.
Services include chemical sales and productivity.
treatments, mechanical vegetation removal, aeration and fountain management.
The Lake In Growth markets we will continue to grow 31.4% Management division, which is predominantly margins by leveraging our scale and building a contract portfolio business, is also the largest Pest Control Ongoing density, particularly in North America, of its type in North America.
organically and through further bolt-on Revenuegrowth acquisitions.
We hope to make further progress M&A is a core component of our growth in securing more national and international strategy and we will continue to look for accounts.
We will deploy new innovations for attractive targets to further build density, 1,000 key pest control sectors, for example rodents particularly in North America and in Emerging and bedbugs, and will increase our focus on employees markets.
Although asset prices in North mosquito and vector control, supported by America have been increasing as a result of the VDA acquisition and establishment of our increased competition for high-quality targets, US-based mosquito centre of excellence.
the Company has remained both disciplined In addition, we will continue to harness the 14 in the application of its investment criteria and ongoing digital opportunity including the successful despite the competition as a result acquisitions between further roll-out of customer extranet portals of its reputation as a highly professional and 2012 and 2017 to aid added-value insight and maximise considered purchaser.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 26 Strategy in action Hygiene Pursuing an Execute Now growth strategy to leverage our key strengths in our 44 countries of operation.
In 2017 we achieved our strongest level of of growth.
We have strong market positions in disposal in public and retail areas, and Ongoing Revenue growth in Hygiene for higher-growth markets and are well placed to incontinence facilities and product disposal.
This was achieved through take advantage of major demographic changes.
Other demographic changes include growth building on the strength of our brand and in Emerging markets, rising middle classes Since 2013 we have delivered a significant market positions, selling our product ranges and greater levels of women at work requiring improvement in revenue growth, established with confidence, building city density, and more feminine hygiene facilities and services.
a strong product range, launched the myInitial extending our footprint through organic Tighter regulation across the world is also customer portal for enhanced customer growth and targeted acquisitions.
driving greater compliance with workplace insight and engagement, and have begun hygiene, food production and retail hygiene to acquire bolt-on businesses to build scale Our Hygiene strategy and environmental standards.
Hygiene has delivered a four-year Initial Hygiene is the world leader in hygiene CAGR of 4.9%.
The products and services which address services, with global scale and multiple market the above are called In Cubicle Hygiene leading positions.
Continued growth in this Attractive and growing market Services and account for around 40% of the business can be achieved through: Like Pest Control, our Hygiene businesses hygiene market.
Services include disposal of building on the strength of our leading operate in an attractive industry offering good sanitary waste and disposal of nappies and hygiene brand and strong market positions: growth opportunities as expectations around incontinence products.
We have developed selling with confidence our product standards of hygiene increase.
The business high-quality products to match these growth ranges such as Reflection, Signature, is highly profitable with margins being driven drivers and increase density, including Colour, No-Touch and Premium Scenting: by postcode density servicing as many Signature, Reflection and full colour bins in leading on innovation through Internet-ofcustomers as possible in any tight geographic different size options to suit customer needs, Things for Hygiene, for example sensing, zone and customer penetration selling and also premium No-Touch products.
hand hygiene compliance, particularly in multiple service lines to customers.
the food and health market sectors: and Rising customer expectations The global hygiene market is expected to building city density and extending our There is an increasing awareness of the link grow in line with GDP.
An explanation of footprint through organic growth and between good hand hygiene and wellbeing some of the key growth drivers in the global targeted M&A.
and a greater expectation for healthy hygiene market is provided below.
Social As a leading player in the hygiene industry, media is also driving companies to invest in Changing demographics and tighter Initial Hygiene has award-winning products brand protection while an increasing focus regulation including Signature, Reflection and Colour on sustainability is encouraging lower water and one of the worlds strongest brands, which These include population growth and an consumption and paper saving.
is particularly valuable in emerging markets.
ageing population which result in more health We have an in-depth understanding of the issues and hygiene product requirements, importance of density and operational drivers higher expectations for nappy changing Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 27 Strategy in action Hygiene Hand Care Services account for approximately 22% of the hygiene market.
Initial Hygiene offers a full range of hand hygiene solutions including soap and sanitiser dispensers, hand driers, roller towels, paper towel dispensers, consumables and premium No-Touch products.
Enhanced brand experience This is important within organisations seeking to enhance and differentiate customer experience through the use of design, colour and scent.
Air Care Hygiene Services account for c. 15% of the market.
Clean air is a major topic in Asia given air pollution concerns and accounts for over 30% of the market in Malaysia, for example.
Air Care Services include commercial air scenting, air fresheners and air purification services to combat airborne bacteria such as influenza, e. coli and salmonella.
Initial Hygienes Premium Scenting range provides both standard and bespoke scenting.
Customer segments include hotels offering scenting in lobby areas, car showrooms and clothing retailers seeking to match scent to brand.
Mitigating risk Floor Care Services include indoor and outdoor mats which help prevent trips and slips and account for around 15% of the hygiene market.
Initial Hygiene offers a range of high-quality products including textile and non-textile floor mats for use in reception areas, industrial and food preparation areas.
It also offers logo and branded mats to enhance brand experience.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 28 Strategy in action Hygiene Driving growth in Hygiene Product penetration and customer Growth through M&A upselling As the worlds leading hygiene services In M&A we are adopting the same route business, we have the scale and expertise density, city-focused strategy for our Hygiene Significant leverage is gained in Hygiene to drive Organic Revenue growth, which business as we have for our Pest Control through selling multiple services to rose by 2.1% in 2017.
We provide an update business, seeking high-quality acquisitions in each customer premises.
We have high-quality on some of our organic growth levers below.
Growth and Emerging markets to build density product ranges now in place and are offering and grow margins.
This year we bought seven our sales colleagues specialist training to Postcode density and service businesses in Australia, Colombia, France, help them sell multiple services to customers, productivity Germany, Italy and Sweden generating supported by promotional campaigns to Our Service route planner is a web-based combined annualised revenues of 44m in highlight our range proposition.
In addition, we planning tool which we also use in our Pest the year prior to purchase, all of which are are putting in place country-specific incentive Control business.
During the year we have performing well.
M&A this year includes the programmes with local rewards to focus further developed this tool for application acquisition of CWS-bocos Italian hygiene our sales force and front line colleagues across our Hygiene operations.
business which in the year prior to acquisition on achieving greater product density.
generated revenues of just under 40m.
The Service route planner has been In addition, we continue to strengthen our The increased number of acquisitions in formulated to optimise both territory and washroom range to maximise our selling Hygiene in 2017 is a reflection of our growing daily route planning.
Customer service capabilities through additional product confidence in the performance of the business visits, driving routes and working days are launches and the continued roll-out of and the beneficial impact of greater density automatically pre-planned and optimised, the range across our operations.
We will continue to seek then service visits requiring further planning developments in 2017 include the launch of attractive Hygiene targets in 2018. can be appointed, automatically confirmed our new GENIE air care product, a patented and the plans updated.
innovation and the worlds most advanced Acquisition of Cannon Hygiene commercial air fragrancing system.
The Services ServiceTrak is our smartphone field service product utilises unique dispersal technology In early 2018 we completed our acquisition app used by technicians to record service visits and odour neutralising fragrances ideally of Cannon Hygiene Services.
With operations for example, start time, services performed, suited for challenging washroom odours in nine countries, the business represents customer recommendations, customer and high-traffic washroom spaces.
a particularly good fit with our existing signatures and end time.
Proof of service is operations.
It will allow us to increase our then emailed to customers at the end of the Digital leadership and web expertise coverage in key markets and gain a good visit and the data uploaded to our customer Our digital sales and service tools are also level of synergy from enhanced density and data systems, allowing our customer care being utilised to build customer awareness of combining infrastructures.
The transaction team to view the information and respond Initials multiple product offerings.
For example, also marks our entry into the attractive Indian quickly and easily to customer queries.
We our new customer portal, myInitial, is being hygiene market where Cannon is the market aim to reach 100% deployment of this tool developed to highlight the full spectrum of leader.
The acquisition will add c. 77m of across our Hygiene technicians in 2018.
Hygiene solutions on its home page.
global Hygiene revenues and replaces a high The benefits of ServiceTrak include greater proportion of the European Hygiene revenues service productivity, delivery of a more contributed to the joint venture with Haniel.
professional service and cost savings.
In The business generated 5m of adjusted Indonesia, where all 300 of our technicians operating profits in the year to March 2017. have access to ServiceTrak, gross margins In the UK we are currently required to hold the grew by 1.2% points in 2017.
Increasing focus onM&A In line with our strategy for Pest Control, we have begun to target Hygiene bolt-ons to add scale and build density.
We have also reduced our exposure to some of the more challenging and competitive markets in Europe through the divestment of Hygiene assets to Haniel during the year.
13 Hygiene acquisitions since 2014 7 acquisitions in 2017 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 29 Strategy in action Hygiene Cannon business separate while we respond to queries from the Competition & Markets Authority, but we remain confident that the acquisition does not create any competition concerns and will be cleared in due course.
Customers We achieve high customer satisfaction levels and believe this is a key competitive advantage.
We have account management processes in place for contacting customers at least annually to confirm service requirements are being met.
We use feedback from our Customer Voice Counts surveys to improve service levels and every detractor score is followed up with a call from an account or branch manager within 24 hours.
The launch of myInitial gives complete transparency about customer service including proof of service and proof of delivery with e-invoicing now being used with around 40% of our UK customers.
Outlook for 2018 The next phase of our plan will involve further implementation of our Execute Now growth strategy to leverage our strengths, build on Add a splash of colour the power of our brand and sell our new Our new colour range of hygiene product ranges.
Building city density through M&A in Growth and Emerging markets remains products has been designed to a key focus.
match our customers washroom decoration or brand, as well While 2017 has seen a continuation of good as building high standards of revenue growth, our focus once again in 2018 will be on driving margin expansion.
see opportunities for improvement through increasing postcode density through targeted selling and acquisitions and using our full Hygiene product range to increase services 9 provided per premises and in particular where we provide only one service per colours premises through targeted sales.
In addition, productivity can be improved through the roll-out of Service.
Innovation will continue to be a key focus for the forthcoming year, and 3 we will concentrate our efforts on the highest growth sectors such as Air Care, which is finishes particularly important in Asia and one of our fastest growing product categories.
Finally, we will continue to link sales incentives more closely to margin delivery, thereby reducing price discounting and driving improved yield management.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 30 Strategy in action Protect & Enhance Focus on enhanced service, customer retention and profit protection.
The four businesses which are included in We have built a leading position in the France Workwear Quality agenda this category are Ambius, Property Care, industry over recent years, cemented by the As we have stated previously in this Workwear and a very small Dental Services acquisitions of Peter Cox and Wise.
We have report, we are committed to returning our operation.
All are profitable, cash-generative developed a strong operational capability with France Workwear business to profitable businesses which share overheads with certified teams primarily undertaking jobbing growth by the end of 2018.
We aim to achieve our Pest Control and Hygiene businesses.
work in commercial and social housing.
While this through the further implementation of However, all operate within more challenging the business has a defensive cash position our Quality agenda which we believe is markets and are failing to deliver year-on-year with advance payment required before the best approach to mitigate the ongoing profitable growth.
Combined, the businesses work is undertaken, the market is currently market challenges this business faces.
represent 11% of Ongoing Operating Profit and experiencing some weakness.
The strategic This plan involves: generate a Net Operating Margin of 10.3% on focus of Property Care is on sharing digital best-in-class processing delivering the an annualised basis.
In M&A we seek an IRR expertise with Pest Control, cost optimisation highest standards in washing and repair ofat least 20%.
A description of each business and efficiency, IT system integration and quality, use of new higher-quality detergents: is provided below.
greater responsiveness to customer needs delivering a shorter lead time between Ambius Workwear contract and deployment: Ambius operates in 17 countries with leading Our remaining Workwear operations in smarter selling selling a service rather than positions in the US, Canada, Australia and France specialise in the supply and laundering a product: New Zealand.
Its product offering is broadly of workwear, uniforms, cleanroom uniforms creation of a product and service innovation consistent across the world and includes and personal protective equipment.
The action group: and interior landscaping, Christmas decorations business has shown operational and financial operational efficiency improvements in and premium scenting.
Key customer improvements this year however market supply chain, R&D, processing, sales and segments are offices, facilities management, conditions continue to be challenging.
Its strategic focus is European workwear industry is currently on higher-margin green living walls and undergoing a period of consolidation with the Since implementation of the plan at the end premium scenting, expanding and exploiting Elis Berendsen merger, our own JV with Haniel of 2015 we have made encouraging progress international agreements and driving lead and our recent divestment of eight of our against operational KPIs.
Our France Workwear State of Service is at its highest level in over operations will continue to implement our Property Care three years, missing item complaints are down Quality agenda focused on service quality, Our Property Care business is based solely in in all markets and good progress has been together with profit improvement and margin the UK.
Its services include dry rot, woodworm achieved in complaint resolution.
We are committed to and damp proofing.
Highly fragmented, the UK returning the business to profitable growth property care market is valued at c. 150m.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 31 Strategy in action Protect & Enhance In addition, customer satisfaction scores have been steadily increasing, standards in washing quality are rising and new work flow tools have been introduced to reduce the timeframe from contract to deployment.
We have also been driving new innovations across the business including the launch of new product ranges, the implementation of CO washing processes, and introduction 2 of RFID chips into customer garments to aid traceability and minimise garment losses.
Outlook for 2018 Performance in our Ambius business is linked to economic conditions in North America and the UK.
However, the business has expertise in high-end installations and large-scale planting projects.
It also benefits from a strong Q4, reflecting strong Holiday sales in North America in the run up to Christmas.
The business is also well placed to capitalise on the rapidly growing global scenting market.
Performance in 2018 from our Property Care business, which has suffered in 2017 from a weak housing market since the June 2016 referendum result and the General Election, will be closely linked to an improving housing market and economic conditions in the UK.
While France remains challenging, we believe the improvements we have seen this year in the French economy and the workwear pricing environment will continue into 2018, which, when combined with our own operational and financial performance improvements, support our ambition to restore our France Workwear business to profitable growth in 2018.
We expect trading conditions in our Dental Services markets of Germany and Sweden to be broadly similar to 2017.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 32 Regional performance World overview North America Europe UK & Rest of World Asia Pacific We have a clear and simple geographic model 2017 Net Operating Margin 2017 Net Operating Margin 2017 Net Operating Margin 2017 Net Operating Margin 2017 Net Operating Margin in which our businesses are grouped into five strong regions: North America, Europe, UK 0.1% at 13.6% -1.3% at 19.1% -0.2% at 20.7% 0.2 at 10.5% 0.4 at 21.6% & Rest of World, Asia and Pacific.
Operating in over 70 countries, c. 90% of our revenues 2017 Ongoing Revenue 2017 Ongoing Revenue 2017 Ongoing Revenue 2017 Ongoing Revenue 2017 Ongoing Revenue are derived outside of the UK.
Our single country management teams lead integrated, multi-local and multi-service operations with 21.1% at 824.0m 7.3% at 556.6m 6.8% at 370.4m 37.3% at 179.1m 7.7% at 162.9m combined back office functions underpinned by shared systems and processes such as route optimisation and measurement of customer satisfaction.
Regions as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Businesses as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Businesses as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Businesses as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Businesses as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Businesses as % of Group Ongoing Revenue North America 39% Pest Control 90% Pest Control 38% Pest Control 47% Pest Control 68% Pest Control 46% Europe 26% Protect & Enhance 10% Hygiene 23% Hygiene 36% Hygiene 31% Hygiene 46% UK & Rest of World 18% Protect & Enhance 39% Protect & Enhance 17% Protect & Enhance 1% Protect & Enhance 8% Asia 9% Pacific 8% Regions as % of Ongoing Operating Profit Countries as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Countries as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Countries as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Countries as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Countries as % of Group Ongoing Revenue North America 34% USA 94% France 49% UK & Ireland 66% Other 18% Australia 75% Europe 30% Canada 4% Benelux 15% Nordics 15% Malaysia 17% New Zealand 23% UK & Rest of World 21% Central America 2% Germany 14% Sub-Saharan Africa 8% Singapore 15% Fiji 2% Asia 5% Southern Europe 16% Caribbean 6% Indonesia 12% Pacific 10% Latin America 6% MENAT 4% Hong Kong 8% Baltics 1% Thailand 5% India 25% 2017 Ongoing Operating Profit growth 2017 Ongoing Operating Profit growth 2017 Ongoing Operating Profit growth 2017 Ongoing Operating Profit growth 2017 Ongoing Operating Profit growth 111.7m 105.9m 106.1m 76.8m 18.7m 35.2m 72.4m 32.1m 91.8m 13.4m 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 33 Regional performance World overview North America Europe UK & Rest of World Asia Pacific We have a clear and simple geographic model 2017 Net Operating Margin 2017 Net Operating Margin 2017 Net Operating Margin 2017 Net Operating Margin 2017 Net Operating Margin in which our businesses are grouped into five strong regions: North America, Europe, UK 0.1% at 13.6% -1.3% at 19.1% -0.2% at 20.7% 0.2 at 10.5% 0.4 at 21.6% & Rest of World, Asia and Pacific.
Regions as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Businesses as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Businesses as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Businesses as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Businesses as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Businesses as % of Group Ongoing Revenue North America 39% Pest Control 90% Pest Control 38% Pest Control 47% Pest Control 68% Pest Control 46% Europe 26% Protect & Enhance 10% Hygiene 23% Hygiene 36% Hygiene 31% Hygiene 46% UK & Rest of World 18% Protect & Enhance 39% Protect & Enhance 17% Protect & Enhance 1% Protect & Enhance 8% Asia 9% Pacific 8% Regions as % of Ongoing Operating Profit Countries as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Countries as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Countries as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Countries as % of Group Ongoing Revenue Countries as % of Group Ongoing Revenue North America 34% USA 94% France 49% UK & Ireland 66% Other 18% Australia 75% Europe 30% Canada 4% Benelux 15% Nordics 15% Malaysia 17% New Zealand 23% UK & Rest of World 21% Central America 2% Germany 14% Sub-Saharan Africa 8% Singapore 15% Fiji 2% Asia 5% Southern Europe 16% Caribbean 6% Indonesia 12% Pacific 10% Latin America 6% MENAT 4% Hong Kong 8% Baltics 1% Thailand 5% India 25% 2017 Ongoing Operating Profit growth 2017 Ongoing Operating Profit growth 2017 Ongoing Operating Profit growth 2017 Ongoing Operating Profit growth 2017 Ongoing Operating Profit growth 111.7m 105.9m 106.1m 76.8m 18.7m 35.2m 72.4m 32.1m 91.8m 13.4m 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
