DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP continued 2 3 4 5 1 2 4 Andr Lacroix Graham Allan BOARD OF DIRECTORS Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent N R Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as Chief Committees as at 5 March 2018 ExecutiveOfficer in May 2015.
Andr Appointed to the Board as a Nonisanexperienced Chief Executive with a Executive Director in October 2017.
He A Audit strongtrack record of delivering long-term was the Group Chief Executive of Dairy growth strategies and shareholder value Farm International Holdings Limited, a N Nomination with global companies across diverse pan-Asian retailer and a subsidiary of R territories.
Andr was previously Group Jardine Matheson, until August 2017 after Remuneration Chief Executive of Inchcape plc from serving for five years with the Group.
Prior 2005 to 2015 and prior to this he was to joining Dairy Farm, he was President 1 Sir David Reid Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of and Chief Executive Officer at Yum!
N Chairman Euro Disney S. C. A.
From 1996 to 2003 Restaurant International and was hewas the President of Burger King responsible for global brands KFC, Pizza Appointed to the Board in December 2011 International, previously part of Diageo.
Hut and Taco Bell in all markets except and became Chairman in January 2012.
Andr is currently the Senior Independent theUS and China.
Since 1989, he has held SirDavid Reid retired as Chairman of Tesco Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
various senior positions in multinational PLC in November 2011 after serving in food and beverage companies with 3 that role since April 2004.
Prior to that he Edward Leigh operations across the globe and has lived was Deputy Chairman of Tesco PLC and Chief Financial Officer and worked in Australia, Asia, the US and had served on the Tesco Board since Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Europe.
Graham is also a Board member of 1985.
David is Chairman of the charity Officer in October 2014.
Joined Intertek in IKANO Pte Ltd, an Asian retail and Whizz-Kidz.
In February 2012 he was March 2013 as the Groups Financial property company.
He was previously appointed a member of the Global Senior Controller.
Prior to that, Edward spent nine aNon-Executive Director of Advisory Board of Jefferies International years at Dixons Retail Plc, where he held InterContinental Hotels Group plc, Yonghui Limited, a global securities and several senior financial management Superstores Co. in China and a investment banking group.
He was positions, including Divisional & Corporate Commissioner of Hero Group, an formerly the Senior Independent NonDevelopment Finance Director, UK & Indonesianretailer.
Executive Director of Reed Elsevier Group Ireland CFO and Group Financial Controller.
PLC, Chairman of Kwik-Fit Group Ltd, 5 Gurnek Bains From 1995 to 2004 Edward held N R Non-Executive Director at Greenalls Group Non-Executive Director commercial financial leadership roles at Plc now fide Vere Group, Legal & General Procter & Gamble Co. covering the UK Appointed to the Board as a NonGroup Plc and Westbury plc.
Gurnek Bains was the co-founder of YSC, a premier global business psychology consultancy.
He led the business as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman for 25 years to a position of global pre-eminence, and a client base comprising over 40% of the FTSE 100.
Gurnek has worked extensively with multinational organisations in the areas of culture change, vision and values, executive 68 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT 6 7 8 9 10 coaching and assessment, Board Oversight Committee: and a NonJean-Michel currently serves as an development and strategic talent Executive Director of Hays plc and a independent advisor in the US to select development.
Gurnek is also a Trustee member of their Audit, Nomination and branded consumer companies and has ofthe School of Social Entrepreneurs.
From 2012 to more than 30 years experience in Hehasadoctorate in psychology from 2015, Andrew was the Group Chief management, US public company OxfordUniversity.
Operating Officer for Europe and Japan for corporate governance, strategic planning Compass Group PLC and prior to that and finance.
He is currently the Chairman 6 Dame Louise Makin served as their Group Finance Director of Select Comfort Corporation and the A N Non-Executive Director from 2004 to 2012.
Before he joined the Lead Director and member of the Audit Appointed to the Board as a NonCompass Group, he was the Group Finance Committee of The Boston Beer Company, Executive Director in July 2012.
Dame Director at First Choice Holidays plc.
From 2004 to Louise Makin is currently Chief Executive Andrew also previously held senior 2012, Jean-Michel was Chairman of Peets Officer of BTG plc, a growing international financial positions with Forte plc and Coffee and Tea, Inc.
He has an MBA from specialist healthcare company, a position Granada Group plc and was a partner Harvard Business School.
10 Lena Wilson CBE BTG, Louise was at Baxter Healthcare A N 8 Gill Rider CB Non-Executive Director from 2000, holding the roles of Vice R Non-Executive Director President, Strategy & Business Appointed to the Board as a NonDevelopment Europe, and from 2001, Appointed to the Board as a NonExecutive Director in July 2012.
Until President of the Biopharmaceuticals Executive Director in July 2015.
She October 2017, she was the Chief division of Baxter Healthcare, where she currently holds Non-Executive Executive Officer of Scottish Enterprise, was responsible for Europe, Africa and the Directorships with Pennon Group Plc, Scotland's national economic Middle East.
Prior to her time at Baxter, where she chairs the Sustainability development agency and a member of she was Director of Global Ceramics at Committee and Charles Taylor Plc where Scotland's Financial Services Advisory English China Clay, and in her earlier career, she chairs their Remuneration Committee.
Prior to this, she was Chief held a variety of roles at ICI between She is the Senior Independent Director at Executive Officer of Scottish 1985 and 1998.
Gill is also the Chair of Council Development International Scotland's Executive Director of Woodford Patient Board of the University of Southampton international trade and investment arm Capital Trust plc, Chair of the 1851 Trust, and was the President of the Chartered and Chief Operating Officer, Scottish a Trustee of The Outward Bound Trust Institute of Personnel & Development for Enterprise.
Lena was also a Senior Advisor and an Honorary Fellow of StJohns five years.
Formerly Gill was head of the to The World Bank in Washington DC on College, Cambridge.
She was Civil Service Capability Group in the private sector development for developing  Director Cabinet Office reporting to the Cabinet countries.
Sheis an Ambassador for the ofPremier Foodsplc.
Secretary and prior to that held a number Prince and Princess of Wales Hospice and of senior positions with Accenture the Edinburgh Military Tattoo, a visiting 7 Andrew Martin culminating in the post of Chief professor and advisor to the University of A R Non-Executive Director Leadership Officer for the global firm.
She Strathclyde Business School and is a Appointed to the Board as a Nonwas previously a Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of the Royal Bank Executive Director in May 2016.
of Scotland Group plc and ScottishPower Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc Renewable Energy Limited.
9 Jean-Michel Valette where he is a member of the Audit, A Non-Executive Director Nomination and Remuneration Committees and Chairman of the Finance Appointed to the Board as a NonCommittee and IT Governance and Executive Director in July 2017.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 69 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Earlier in the year, Sir David Reid visited our facilities in Mexico There is a formal and extensive induction programme which City.
Intertek ABC Analitic has become the leading solution in the istailored to meet the needs of new Directors.
This is managed Mexican market for environmental and food testing.
Sir David was by the Chairman and the Group Company Secretary.
During given a tour of the laboratories where the Intertek ABC Analitic theprogramme, new Directors receive a wealth of background team conducts chemical testing for food, water, soil analysis, information on the Company and details of Board procedures, atmospheric smoke stack emissions and residues.
The Chairman Directors responsibilities and various governance related issues.
went on to visit the Environmental, Softlines, Electrical and The induction also includes a series of meetings with other Hardlines laboratories at the Intertek Mexico facilities.
members of the Board, senior members of management and All Directors are kept up to date with information about external advisors.
Interteksbusiness and there is an ongoing programme of Graham Allan, Gurnek Bains and Jean-Michel Valette all information dissemination.
It is important that the Directors undertooktheir induction programmes during the year.
This havean appreciation of the business both in the UK and included orientation from relevant senior executives from the overseas.
During the year there were presentations from operations and other functional areas to ensure the development seniormanagement to the Board and meetings have been of a deeper understanding and knowledge of Intertek.
They also heldon regional strategy to increase the understanding of received information about the business operations, internal operations, opportunities and risks.
audit activities, Group risks and management processes.
BOARD VISIT TO SINGAPORE Gurnek Bains visited various sites in the UK and travelled In October, the Board travelled to Singapore for its annual toGermany with Gill Rider and the Chairman where they were overseas visit.
During this trip, they met with the Singapore given a tour of the operations and laboratories and met local management team as well as the country managers from the management in Nuremberg.
During Q3, and shortly after South-East Asia region, who gave presentations providing an theBoard trip to Singapore, Graham Allan, Gurnek Bains and in-depth overview of the local operations and opportunities.
Jean-Michel Valette, accompanied by the Chairman, visited TheBoard visited the Singapore Technical Centre and were IntertekIndonesias headquarters in East Jakarta.
The Country takenthrough the Total Quality Assurance services Intertek Managing Director of Intertek Indonesia discussed Interteks provides as an independent ATIC partner to the oil & gas supply business in the region and gave the visiting Directors a guided chain.
The Board congratulated the Singapore team on their tour oftheMinerals, Petroleum, Food and Environmental technical competence, high operational standards, commitment laboratories at the Ciracas Facility.
to HSE, and enthusiasm and commitment to providing superior customer service with Total Quality Assurance.
The newly appointed Non-Executive Directors then went on to visitlaboratories in China to enable them to see as much of thebusiness as possible.
On their two-day visit the Directors met with representatives of the China management team, receiving presentations on the region and their strategic development plans.
The visit included tours at our Softlines, Hardlines, Food and Transportation Technologies facilities.
The Intertek Board of Directors on their visit to our Singapore Technical Centre.
Graham Allan, Gurnek Bains and Jean-Michel Valette on their visit to our Transportation Technologies facility in Shanghai.
70 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 2017 Internal Board and Committee evaluation The Board operates a policy to identify, authorise and manage The evaluation process was led by the Chairman, with the any conflicts of interest to assist Directors in complying with support of the Group Company Secretary and entailed: their duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts.
The Directors the completion of detailed questionnaires by each areadvised of the process upon appointment and whenever Boardmember: anyDirector considers that he or she is, or may be, interested inany contract or arrangement to which the Company is, or discussions on the outcomes and recommendations maybe, a party, the Director gives due notice to the Board in withtheChairman and each Board member: and accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles.
following discussion of the results of the evaluation Aformal process is also in place for managing such conflicts withtherelevant Committee and the Board as a whole, toensure no conflicted Director is involved in any decision identifying and agreeing areas for improvement the strategy relatedto their conflict.
and strategic agenda having already been agreed at the Board.
The Conflicts of Interest Register is maintained by the Group Last years Effective Board Review 2016 was about how the Company Secretary and the Board undertakes an annual review Board was actively progressing and implementing the agreed of each Directors interests, if any, including outside the Company.
strategy and putting in place the strategic initiatives and Any conflicts of interests are reviewed when a new Director is capability to deliver sustainable growth and strong returns for appointed, or if and when a new potential conflict arises.
the year, this process operated effectively.
This years Effective Board Review 2017 covers how the Board PERFORMANCE EVALUATION had continued to deliver sustainable growth and strong returns The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is reviewed for our shareholders through the Total Quality Assurance value annually and an independent externally facilitated review is proposition which forms the core of our 5x5 differentiated conducted every three years.
A full externally facilitated Board strategy for growth.
evaluation exercise was last conducted in 2015 and reported onin the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The next The key findings of this years report are very positive:  Board evaluation will be conducted in The Board refreshment programme was concluded successfully 2018andreported in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
during the year for our Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has been strengthened by the addition of three new BOARD, COMMITTEE AND DIRECTORS' PERFORMANCE members bringing new skills, experience and attributes to bear.
CYCLE They have received a good induction into the business.
The Board is performing at a high level demonstrating the right behaviours, culture and tone.
2017 The strong leadership of the CEO with the focus on Internal Review performance management is continuing to make a real difference.
In addition, the leadership have introduced a bold new brand covering the world of Intertek known as Total Quality Assurance thereby engaging all our staff on the quality of our service and commitment to our customers to deliver our promise for them, with precision, pace and passion.
2018 Despite the continuing challenges in the cyclical Oil & Gas Externally industry, the Group results have delivered a strong 2016 2019 facilitated evaluation performance in revenue, earnings and cash.
Internal Review conducted by an independent The implementation and delivery of the strategy is working consultant well and delivering further value for the business, and as ever there is more to do and to deliver with our forward plan.
The TSR for the year 2017 has increased by 51.4%, a strong absolute performance and also strong relative to Interteks peers.
Importantly, our return on invested capital has increased in the year to 26.7% from 23.9% at constant rates.
Governance is seen as strong.
There is good engagement with shareholders by senior management and the IR team.
The Chairman received good feedback in January 2018 from his discussions with shareholders, who accounted for some 22% of the portfolio.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 71
