14 Q&A with Andy Ransom, Chief Executive | Our big five challenges The business has grown both revenues and profits very significantly Q.
What do you think is the biggest misunderstanding in over the past few years and we see no reason why we wont continue the investment community today about Rentokil Initial?
to make further good progress going forward.
The entire mission of Rentokil Initial is to protect people and enhance lives.
Most people understand the expertise we have in Pest Control but are less Q.
Tell us about your joint venture in India.
familiar with the fact we are also the worlds largest Hygiene services A.
The combination in Rentokil PCI of the world leader and the clear business.
We view Hygiene as a very strong complementary business to No.
1 in India is a really strong one, we think.
We now have put together Pest Control many of the customers are the same, many of the country the largest and most established brand in pest control in India PCI operations are the same and we share common technology, infrastructure with ours and have created a really exciting nationwide platform for and management across both operations.
Both are route-based businesses growth.
India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world with and both benefit from a deep understanding of density building.
The great fundamental growth drivers for us.
Its got a vast population megatrends in the hygiene industry all give rise to an underlying demand over 1.3bn and has a burgeoning urban middle class, a key demand for our services.
The importance of being able to prevent the spread of driver for professional pest control services.
It is a country of extreme diseases, germs and bacteria is driven by factors like an increasingly aged weather patterns and high pest pressures and so it really is an excellent, population and adult incontinence, more women at work driving growth strategic opportunity to be the market leader in pest control here.
in feminine hygiene facilities, regulatory enforcement and reputational The joint venture has got off to a great start.
Culturally the two companies risk from poor hygiene standards.
So, for me, Hygiene is a great, fit superbly well and the leadership positions in the joint venture have complementary business to Pest Control and one that we will continue broadly been shared between colleagues from PCI and colleagues to grow alongside our Pest Control operations for many years to come.
from Rentokil and so I think its going to be a very successful, very strong part of the Groups business over the coming years.
Andy Ransom Chief Executive Officer 28 February 2018 Our big five challenges 1 2 3 Creating value through digital Building our Hygiene business Organic Revenue growth products and applications Progress so far in Pest Control In 2017 we achieved our strongest levels of Ongoing Progress so far Progress so far Revenue growth for many years.
This was achieved We are developing digital solutions for all aspects of our Our Organic Revenue growth has improved over the through building on the strength of our brand and business.
Customer developments are focused on our last three years but there is more potential for growth, market positions, selling our product ranges with core commercial B2B business, with particular focus on led by our core Pest Control category.
confidence and building city density and extending the food sector, while colleague developments are focused our footprint through organic growth and targeted Whats next on our agenda on reduced IT costs in infrastructure and deployment of acquisitions.
new software to increase sales and service productivity.
Building greater scale and density in North America through organic growth and acquisitions Whats next on our agenda Whats next on our agenda Improving customer retention through better Stronger execution of our service offering for Continued focus on digital products, customer portals account management, customer service quality example, sales of new product ranges and marketing through the web to help us better and consistency Greater postcode density through targeted selling serve and retain our customers Driving growth in international and global accounts and acquisitions Further deployment of digital applications through Deploying our digital marketing expertise to drive Targeted sales to encourage greater take up low-cost mobile devices to improve our technicians increased sales enquiries and rolling out new of multiple service lines per customer premises service and productivity innovations and in particular where we provide only one Identification of opportunities to digitalise back-office Maximising our reputation for the mitigation of service per premises functions to improve sales efficiency and effectiveness, emerging mosquito-borne diseases such as Zika Linking sales incentives more closely to margin management decision-making and save costs virus and dengue fever delivery to drive improved yield management Leveraging our increasing exposure to Emerging Improved productivity through the roll-out of markets, in particular India, China and Latin America Service, our in-house tool to deliver route optimisation for service colleagues 4 5 M&A execution Employer of Choice retention Progress so far Progress so far Following significant improvements in the Companys Over the last four years we have acquired 134 reviews on the independent customer review site companies, delivering combined annualised revenues Trustpilot, as well as on colleague opinions on the of 573m.
Continued strong M&A execution is a core workplace review site Glassdoor, we were awarded the element of our strategy, offering significant potential title of Britains Most Admired Company for Business value creation.
Whats next on our agenda Whats next on our agenda Successful integration of acquisitions to ensure Improving colleague engagement, enablement, delivery of expected business case and target talent and retention especially short-term retention internal rate of return through implementation of our Employer of Continued identification of appropriate high-quality Choice programme targets Focus on learning, development and career Further bolt-on acquisitions, particularly in Growth progression to build talent pipeline needed for and Emerging markets future success Assessing the merits of larger acquisitions, should Ongoing organisational commitment to diversity such opportunities arise and inclusion across the Company Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 15 2017 progress towards financial targets Target and key activities Performance Progress Target: Ongoing Revenue growth of 5% to 8% in 2017 Group Ongoing Revenue growth 14.5% Group Ongoing Revenue growth, considerably above target Acceleration in Organic Revenue growth 3.8% Group Ongoing Organic Revenue growth 2016: 3.6%, 3.0% Reported Revenue contribution from acquisitions 10.7% growth from acquisitions in 2017 Revenue growth led by Pest Control 21.4% Ongoing Revenue growth from Pest Control 5.8% organic Supported by further encouraging momentum in Hygiene 7.6% Ongoing Revenue growth in Hygiene 2016: 6.3%, 4.8% Reported Improved performance from Protect & Enhance 0.9% increase in Ongoing Revenue 2016: -1.5% decline, France Workwear up 1.7% 2016: -3.1% decline Further progress in customer retention 85.7% in 2017 2016: 84.9%, but ongoing focus required to reach target 90% Ongoing focus on delivering excellence in customer service Group customer satisfaction scores steady at 42 points with notable improvements in Asia and Hygiene Particularly strong M&A programme in 2017 41 acquisitions in 2017 with combined annualised revenues of 224.7m Significant progress in product innovation and capability Around 70 active innovation projects in 2017, an increase of 20% on 2016 Continued development of digital products and applications 30% increase in visits to our websites worldwide 100,000 users of our myRentokil customer portal in 32 markets Target: Ongoing Profit growth of c. 10% Further year-on-year improvement in Group Ongoing 14.8% Group Ongoing Operating Profit growth Operating Profit Improvement in Group Net Ongoing Operating Margin Net Ongoing Operating Margin of 13.2% 2016: 13.1% Improvement in Net Operating Margins in Pest Control 0.5% points decline in Pest Control at 18.1% reflecting dilutive and Hygiene impact of PCI joint venture.
0.3% points improvement in Hygiene at 17.7% Above the line restructuring costs maintained at below 10m Restructuring costs of 6.9m, 1.0m below 2016 at CER Target: Free Cash Flow conversion of 90% Free Cash Flow target of 150m for 2017, balance sheet 175.8m Free Cash Flow in 2017 2016: 156.4m, c. 90% remains robust cash conversion Reduction in gross capital expenditure Gross capital expenditure of 212.1m 2016: 221.8m Decrease in net debt 311.4m reduction in net debt helped by proceeds from JV with Haniel Fully funded pension scheme Funding surplus of 325.4m S&P credit rating Maintained at BBB Stable Outlook Very strong progress Strong progress Good progress Further work required Disappointing progress In addition to the financial targets described above, during 2017 we announced three new major commitments for our North America business and France Workwear business.
$1.5bn 18% Profitable growth Recent growth in our North America business Our North America operations generated Our remaining Workwear operations in has been aided by a strong performance a Net Operating Margin of 13.6% in 2017.
France have shown operational and financial in national accounts and the Pest products improvements in 2017.
Going forward, we aim to grow margins to 18% business and by a successful M&A programme.
in North America by 2020 by leveraging our We aim to return our France Workwear The region generated Ongoing Revenues of scale and building further density in the worlds business to profitable growth by the end $1.1bn during 2017. single largest pest control market.
of 2018, achieved through implementation Through a combination of organic initiatives of our Quality Workwear agenda focused and M&A, we aim to generate $1.5bn of on service quality, together with profit revenues in North America by 2020. improvement and margin protection initiatives.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 16 Our markets Rentokil is the worlds leadingcommercial pestcontrol business.
Pest control covers a vast array of pests, some unique to certain countries or climates, while others such as rodents are present inevery country around the world.
We have a principal focus on Growth and Emerging markets with No.
2 positions in 13 markets and No.
The pest control market offers sustainable, long-term growth prospects and is expected to deliver a compound annual growth rate CAGR 1 ofaround 5%.
The global commercial pest control market is worth c. $8bn p. a. and the total global pest control market is worth c. $16bn.
Six key structural growth drivers Climate change Growth in North America Emerging markets and urbanisation Climate change and rising temperatures North America represents 50% of are enabling pests to become endemic the global market and is worth c. $8bn.
The rise of middle classes in Asia and and are leading to an increased threat It is expected to reach $10bn by 2020, Latin America is driving increased spend from mosquitoes transmitting diseases growing at a CAGR of c. 5% through on pest control.
Rentokil is uniquely such as dengue fever, Zika virus, yellow to 2023.
Rentokil has a strong market placed in these markets with unrivalled fever, encephalitis, West Nile virus, position, growing organically faster than scale, brand and experience.
There are around 40,000 pest control companies worldwide, of % of the global middle class in Asia which approximately half are in North 2 by 2030 America.
Industry consolidation is an ongoing market dynamic.
Looking Science and innovation forward, demand for mosquito control is 66% Innovation is fuelling growth in pest expected to outpace demand for general control, particularly in established pest control services.
Our footprint in Asia markets where consumer expectations for improved products and techniques are rising.
Rentokil leads the industry 580 in providing innovative solutions to enhance core lines, meeting emerging locations in 12 countries threats and the requirements of new regulation.
Number of technicians in Asia Our strong pipeline of innovations includes next-generation 9,000 PestConnect digital products and Lumnia, our innovative LED electronic fly killer which was launched in 31 markets this year and generated revenues some 40% ahead of our expectations.
Compliance, risks and digital Global international hygiene reporting standards Drivers here include increasing Global international hygiene standards levels of regulation and enforcement, particularly in the food industry are demand for higher-quality converging and driving a consistency reporting and risk management in approach from multi-nationals.
With assurance, and the impact of social operations in over 70 countries, our media driving companies to invest international reach is a key differentiator in brand protection.
in our ability to service global accounts.
S ource: Various market reports forecasting over 5 years including Markets & Markets, Allied Market Research, Future Market Insight all 2017.
S ource: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 17 Our markets Initial Hygiene is the worldslargest hygiene services business.
Initial Hygiene is the leading hygiene services business in 23 of its 44markets around the world with a No.
2 position in 12 countries anda No.
The hygiene services market offers good growth opportunities as organisations demand increasing standards of hygiene hand hygiene, air hygiene and a professional feminine hygiene service.
As a leading player in the hygiene industry, Initial Hygiene has award-winning products and one of the worlds strongest brands, which is particularly valuable in Emerging markets.
We have an in-depth understanding of the importance of density of customers by location, what we call postcode density, and by the number of serviced products by customer, or product penetration, and key operational drivers of growth.
Four key structural growth drivers Rising customer expectations Changing demographics These include population growth, an ageing There is an increasing awareness of the link population creating more health issues and hygiene between good hand hygiene and healthy product requirements, growth in Emerging markets, workplaces and healthcare facilities.
Social rising middle classes and greater levels of women media is also driving companies to invest in at work requiring more feminine hygiene facilities.
brand protection while an increasing focus on sustainability is encouraging lower water Tighter regulation across the world is also driving consumption and paper saving.
greater compliance with workplace hygiene, food production and retail hygiene and environmental Initial Hygiene offers a full range of hand standards.
These services include disposal of hygiene solutions including soap and sanitary waste, nappies and incontinence products.
sanitiser dispensers, hand driers, roller towels Initial has developed high-quality products to and paper towel dispensers, consumables match these growth drivers and increase density.
In-Cubicle Hygiene Services as % of total Hand Care Services as % hygiene market of total hygiene market c. 40% c. 22% Enhanced brand experience Mitigating risk This is important within organisations seeking to Workplace risks involving trips and slips enhance and differentiate customer experience are driving greater demand for floor care through the use of design, colour and scent.
These include the provision and laundering of indoor and outdoor mats.
Services include commercial air scenting, air fresheners and air purification services to combat Initial Hygiene offers a range of high-quality airborne bacteria such as influenza, e. coli and products including textile and non-textile salmonella.
Initial Hygienes Premium Scenting range floor mats for use in reception areas, provides both standard and bespoke scenting.
industrial and food preparation areas.
Customer segments include hotels, car showrooms It also offers logo and branded mats to and clothing retailers seeking to match scent to brand.
Air Care Hygiene Services as % Floor Care Services as % of total hygiene of total hygiene market market c. 15% c. 15% Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
