y g o l o n h c e T Strategic report Our business model Resources and relationships Financial Market insight Technology People Clients We are listed on Our research and Our in-house Our people are our We work ethically and the London Stock analysis teams produce technology team most important asset build strong client Exchange.
We have and validate data, allows us to continually across all parts of the relationships where our a strong balance sheet, analysis, key insights develop and improve business and we aim knowledge builds trust.
no bank borrowings and valuations across our suite of platforms torecruit and retain and net cash available all sectors of shipping and software.
It allows thebest in the industry.
to fund the growth of and offshore and are for more informed the business.
acknowledged as commercial decisions market leaders.
to be made, insight to be easily shared and interaction between brokers and clients optimised.
In doing so, we improve our own operational efficiency and continue to deliver a best in class service.
Stakeholder value Shareholders Clients People Commodity service providers and their We continue to provide By ensuring that our clients Our skills and knowledge shareholders with increasing receive the best information ensure that world trade end users dividends whilst maintaining through a range of innovative continues to flow in the most As an essential part of the a good financial standing technological solutions, we effective manner, that global supply chain, we have and strong balance sheet.
provide them with the tools countries receive the raw the necessary skills and they need to make key materials to build and develop information at our fingertips business decisions.
and people have the food and toensure we know what goods they need.
commodities need moving to where and when, as well as the best solutions for this.
73p 50,000 1,546 145,000 dividend per share vessel positions updated employees vessels in the world fleet each day 12 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 e d y a g r t o l Governance Financial statements Other information l o a n b h c o l e G T Assets Freight h c R r a e s e Underpinned by our values, our integrated business model provides the platform for an unrivalled level of service and information that enables trade and creates long-term value.
What we do Broking Support shipping Broking Financial offshore For more information on our market context see pages 14 and 15.
Our values Integrity Excellence Fairness Transparency Clarksons is a business built Second best has no place Every person and business Like many of our clients, we on long-term relationships at Clarksons.
We aim to excel weencounter is treated are a publicly listed company and trust.
Our clients and in every way helping our equally.
We are fair to our and we share many of the other stakeholders have clients achieve their clients, in the terms we same drivers, challenges and always known that we will do objectives, no matter how propose and the level of concerns.
Our PLC status the right thing.
We say what challenging, by applying our service each party can expect, requires that we adhere to we mean and stand by those unrivalled breadth, reach, and fair to our own people.
high standards of governance words, taking responsibility experience and expertise Asa PLC, we consistently throughout the Company.
for our actions at all times.
We deliver reinvest profits in training and innovative solutions to development, even through complex problems and our the downturns, supporting challenge is to exceed our every member of Clarksons clients expectations at all tofulfil their potential.
times, on every aspect of every project.
