STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR During 2017 we established a set of five group sustainability Sustainability is at the heart of priorities, linked to our 5x5 differentiated strategy for growth: ourbusiness.
OurCore Purpose is 1 Having a positive impact on our people, our suppliers, Tobring quality and safety tolife.
and thecommunities in which we operate Our Vision is To be the worlds 2 Supporting our customers with our industry-leading mosttrusted partner for Quality Sustainability value proposition Assurance.
3 Improving our non-financial disclosures to strengthen our investment proposition We are focused on ensuring that our strategy and culture provide our people with the right platform to grow and develop their 4 Tracking our progress with the United Nations careers, but also allow them to be involved in activities that are Sustainable Development Goals socially responsible and enable them to engage with the communities in which they live and work.
5 Continuous progress in sustainability through appropriate organisational focus Across our business, our people provide Assurance, Testing, Inspection and Certification 'ATIC' services that assist our customers in mitigating the environmental impacts of their products, processes and operations, ensuring their goods are ethically and sustainably sourced, improving the health and safety of their employees, and advancing their contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals UN SDGs.
Our people are passionate about their work and are proud to be involved in activities that generate a positive impact for society and the environment.
Intertek operates a decentralised and customer-centric organisational model that enables our team to I am delighted that so much of what we innovate to improve our sustainability value proposition on a do for our customers is helping them with continuous basis, and direct resources locally towards the most value-enhancing activities, both for the financial performance of their own sustainability strategies, whilst the operating unit and for the communities and environment in internally we also continue to make which they operate.
"progress on our sustainability initiatives. """
Each of our countries and business lines define their own sustainability agenda tied to our Group priorities, but specific to their local operations.
During 2017, we established a network of Sustainability Champions across our major countries and business lines to develop global connectivity across our sustainability activities.
Two networks were created: Country network: focused on internal sustainability activities Business line network: focused on sustainability services for ourcustomers The Sustainability Champions meet monthly to discuss progress against our group priorities and share best practice.
A newly formed Sustainability Operating Committee reports to me on amonthly basis and provides the Executive Management Team with aquarterly update and the Board with an annual update.
Our objective is to make continuous progress in sustainability through appropriate organisational focus.
Andr Lacroix Chief Executive Officer 44 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT We recognise we have further to go in our non-financial disclosures and have made significant progress in 2017, IN THIS SECTION particularly in our environmental data collection and reporting.
As a Total Quality Assurance provider, we are in a strong position to align with each of the UN SDGs, both through the internal activities we carry out for our people, our communities and the environment, as well as through the sustainability services we provide to our customers.
In this report we are using the UN SDGs OUR SUSTAINABILITY as a third party, independent framework to track our country and VALUE PROPOSITION business line progress in sustainability, and from 2018 onwards, each of our major business lines and countries will provide Supporting our customers' sustainability needs quarterly updates on the progress they are making toward the with our industry-leading Sustainability value UN SDGs with which they have chosen to align.
proposition I am delighted that so much of what we do for our customers PAGE 46 ishelping them with their own sustainability strategies, whilst internally our passionate and dedicated colleagues are improving the lives of the communities around them and the environments OUR PEOPLE in which we operate.
Ensuring our people are engaged, inspired, Ultimately, sustainability is a broad and evolving topic for all our energised and working in a safe environment stakeholders I believe we have made great progress during PAGE 48 2017 and we will continue to make further strides in our sustainability journey during 2018.
OUR COMMUNITIES This report describes Interteks sustainability performance in 2017 and highlights some of the work we are doing to help our Engaging and partnering with the local customers: develop our people: partner with our local communities in which we operate communities: reduce our own ecological footprint and track PAGE 52 ourprogress with the UN SDGs.
OUR ENVIRONMENT Demonstrating our commitment to reducing the environmental impact of our operations PAGE 54 Andr Lacroix Chief Executive Officer TRACKING OUR PROGRESS WITH THE UN SDGs Demonstrating our alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals PAGE 58 OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Making continuous progress in sustainability through appropriate organisational focus PAGE 60 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 45 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR SUSTAINABILITY VALUE PROPOSITION Intertek's Green Leaf Mark is proof that a product has been In a world where companies are facing an independently tested and found to conform to multiple existing increasing number of challenges driven by growing environmental regulations, such as RoHS laws, REACH and Eco complexities in their operations, the demand is Design requirements through one mark rather than multiple marks.
The Green Leaf Mark is used on product packaging, in growing for Total Quality Assurance solutions that point of purchase displays, product advertising and literature extend beyond the quality and safety of physical toexplain a products environmental credentials.
components, to those that deliver sustainable Since 2011, Intertek has partnered with a leading Chinese Steel solutions in the development of products and manufacturer to measure the environmental footprint of its services for the future.
carbon steels used in the automotive and packaging industry, andcertify the products to the Green Leaf standard.
To date, As a Total Quality Assurance provider, we are in a strong position 30products from 10 categories have been verified and awarded given our global scale and expertise to support the sustainability with the Intertek Green Leaf Mark.
By receiving these objectives of our customers with our Sustainability value certifications, the company is able to effectively demonstrate proposition.
Our Assurance, Testing, Inspection and Certification itsefforts to reduce the adverse environmental impact of its ATIC services cover many industries, from textiles, toys and production processes and final products.
electronics, to building, heating, pharmaceuticals, petroleum Water Footprint Verification Services products, food, cargo inspection, exploration and production, and minerals.
We work globally with our customers to improve social, ethical, safety and environmental impacts of their services and products that are used by their customers every day.
Our proven supply chain expertise, global network and on the ground local knowledge help our customers with increased transparency to manage social, ethical and environmental risk in their processes and supply chains, whilst supporting their ability to operate effectively and act responsibly.
Our customers trust usto ensure the quality and safety of their products, assets andprocesses, to protect their brands and to help them gain competitive advantage, whilst ensuring they achieve this in an environmentally responsible manner.
Full details of our Sustainability value proposition are listed on our Group website at www.
In this section of the report we have provided some interesting Intertek provides Water Footprint Verification Services for its examples of the work we carry out for our customers.
customers covering the evaluation, calculation and SUSTAINABILITY ATIC SERVICES documentation associated with both water consumption and Green Leaf Mark quality at customer and supplier sites.
In 2017, we provided this Environmental product claims are coming service for an appliance manufacturing site in Turkey amongst under scrutiny by regulators and are a growing others.
Working with our local offices, Intertek was able to source of distrust by consumers.
Recent studies support a verification of the organisations water footprint, show that consumers continue to support whichincluded six manufacturing facilities, offices and companies and brands that demonstrate social ancillarybuildings.
and environmental responsibility and are As part of the Water Footprint assessment, companies commit to increasingly looking for certification marks or reduce consumption in measurable metrics to minimise stress on labels on products to validate environmental credentials.
What's fresh-water sources for industrial processes.
Water-stress more, manufacturers and retailbrands are under greater pressure impacts communities globally, where industrial uses of water can to ensure products meetstandards and have accurate test and divert resources and affect safe potable drinking water analysis data to back up their claims.
Interteks Water Footprint Verification Services ensure that companies are following acceptable standards for evaluating their water sustainability so that substantiated improvements can be made over time.
46 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Regulatory approvals for innovative biocides and During 2017, Intertek helped squid oil receive approval as a pesticides natural health product ingredient in Canada, offering Canadians a new sustainably-sourced alternative to fish oil.
Squid oil is emerging as an alternative sustainably-sourced healthy omega-3 fatty acid.
"Much of the squid harvested for human consumption does not make it to market, but is discarded as ""cut-offs"" during food preparation: these ""left-over"" trimmings are predominantly rich in the healthy omega-3 fatty acids."
Thus, squid oil is manufactured solely from by-products obtained during the food production of squid.
Additionally, the management and fishing methods for squid have minimal environmental impacts compared to methods typically used for other fish.
The main fishing method employed for catching squid is jigging, which involves equipping fishing boats with bright lights at night to attract large schools of squid to the surface and then deploying a vast number of un-baited hooks just below the surface.
As a result, there is virtually zero bycatch, as the fishing method is highly selective, specifically Intertek provides clients with regulatory approvals for innovative targeting same size specimens, with no impact on the ocean biocides and pesticides gaining access to global markets and flooror coral reefs.
Introduction of new biocide and pesticide products can replace older and deleterious alternatives, make Intertek assists clients in navigating complicated regulatory equipment more efficient and prevent the spread of harmful approvals for their new, innovative and sustainable alternative bacteria and contamination.
With the availability of these products, consumers can select brands that reduce their impact to life under water, and Intertek supports the approval of innovative biocide uses in minimise wasteful production processes.
healthcare and food processing industries to prevent outbreak of harmful bacteria, while replacing existing products that may have Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals harmful environmental impacts.
In 2017, Intertek joined the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals ZDHC Programme, a major body which is leading the In 2017, Intertek assisted transportation clients by developing textile, leather and footwear industries to advance towards zero approvals for the use of biocides in exterior paints on ships.
The discharge of hazardous chemicals.
As a contributor, Intertek is use of biocides in paint reduces barnacle attachment, whilst supporting the programmes vision of achieving the widespread effectively maintaining aqua-dynamics and reducing overall implementation of sustainable chemistry and best practices in emissions resulting from shipping activities.
the textile, leather and footwear industries to protect consumers, Additionally, we also supported the building & construction workers and the environment.
Intertek delivers comprehensive sector by assisting our clients with the development of biocides solutions to enable fashion retailers and brands to fulfil their for cooling towers, a major contributor to a buildings overall ZDHC Programme commitments.
The solutions include: energy consumption.
By using biocide products to reduce the Waste water and sludge testing and sampling services at buildup of organisms and algae, our clients could improve the various key textiles and footwear manufacturing sites: performance of their cooling towers.
Chemical Management System auditing services: Helping to develop an alternative to fish oil Training for ZDHC Academy: and Manufacturing Restricted Substances Lists management andtesting.
ZDHC has approved Intertek to provide waste water and sludge testing services for its members through the ZDHC Provisional Laboratory Acceptance Programme.
In other sections of this report, we have added further examples of our Sustainability value proposition, assisting our customers in their social, ethical and environmental goals.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 47 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR PEOPLE As part of The 10X Way!
events and in order to support a highly Our 43,906 passionate Intertek people work engaged and high performing workforce of expertise, we have globally for our customers on a daily basis, launched a brand new performance and growth conversation, My contributing to the success of our customers' 10X JOURNEY, which replaces our previous appraisal process and is truly transformational.
This new development plan enables products, services and operations and helping us quality conversations to clarify expectations, foster continual succeed in Our Vision of being The worlds most improvement and inspire people to perform beyond their best.
trusted partner for Quality Assurance.
we also provide a variety of in-house and external learning opportunities to provide our employees To achieve this, our 5x5 strategy energises our people to take with the requisite skills and expertise needed to deliver our TQA Intertek to new heights, deliver our customer promise and to live Customer Promise.
We operate across a wide range of sectors our own values.
We want to foster a company culture where our requiring different employee technical training this education people are recognised for being inspired to find innovative ways and support ranges from apprenticeships and internship to continually develop the services and solutions for our programmes through to college, degree and professional customers and be engaged in the activities they perform.
In this section we detail the ways in which we engage and inspire UK Living wage our people, ensure they have the frameworks in place for them to In the UK we are committed to becoming a Real Living Wage succeed in a safe working environment and ultimately make them employer in accordance with the recommendations of the Living proud to work for Intertek.
We will continue to align our directly-employed ENERGISING, INSPIRING AND ENGAGING OUR staff with the Real Living Wage UK, and are also working towards TALENTEDPEOPLE aligning third party contractor staff to the recommended To seize the exciting growth opportunities of our Total Quality guidelines.
Assurance value proposition we continually invest in the growth INCLUSION, DIVERSITY AND GENDER EQUALITY of our people.
We want to provide our people with skills to grow To live our values and be a global family that is inclusive and our business, to hire, inspire, engage and retain the best people to values diversity, we apply all employment policies and practices, power our 5x5 strategy.
We want our people to grow by learning including recruitment, promotion, reward, working conditions, and new skills to help them advance their careers and deliver our performance management related policies, in a way that is customer promise.
Our talent mapping process is critical to the informed, fair and objective.
future success of our organisation in delivering our strategy and fostering our passionate culture and values throughout Intertek.
Our inclusion and diversity policy acts to eliminate discrimination so that our employees are treated fairly, feel respected and Training included in our workplaces.
We are committed to maintaining the During 2017 we developed our own in-house employee training highest standards of fairness, respect and safety and adhere to programme The 10X Way!
This was a unique programme as it the principles of the UN Convention on Human Rights and the was designed and delivered internally to over 1,000 Intertek International Labour Organizations core conventions.
Two-day training workshops were held across three locations in the Americas, Asia Pacific and EMEA and were At Intertek we recognise the importance of gender diversity not delivered by our expert faculty from our global leadership team.
only in management, but across our business.
In line with the The content of the workshops was based on internal feedback Hampton-Alexander Review, in addition to supporting gender and developed into engaging and interactive sessions where key diversity on our Board, in June 2017 we contributed our data on tools and best practice was shared.
the gender balance across our senior executive team and their direct reports: We continue to roll-out the training across our entire organisation to ensure everyone has the tools, processes and principles to Male Female create sustainable growth for all.
To supplement the face-to-face Board 70.0% 30.0% event, embed learning and consistently deliver the messaging, Executive Management Team Exec 84.6% 15.4% we are also developing eLearning modules, available to all Direct reports DR 82.7% 17.3% 43,000 employees on our Learning Management System, Combined: Exec DR 82.9% 17.1% The10X Way!
We will continue to promote and endorse fair, consistent and thoughtful working practices that are in accordance with ourvalues.
48 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT At Intertek, we are proud to be an Equal Opportunities Employer INTERTEK TQA EXPERTS BY REGION and all qualified applicants are considered for employment 8,791 2,960 12,009 8,582 8,108 3,456 regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion, age, disabilities, and other Male protected characteristics.
We reach out to prospective employees Female in a variety of ways, depending on location and role, in compliance with local regulations for fair recruitment practices and equal opportunities.
We post vacancies via our website www.
com careers and employ different ways of sourcing talented people, such as recruitment agencies, social media, printed advertisements, employee referrals, professional bodies and associations, schools, colleges and universities.
To offer people career growth and progression within the Group, where possible, we fill vacancies from within the company first.
11,751 20,591 11,564 Americas Asia EMEA inc. Central SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN GENDER EQUALITY Our Sustainability value proposition also supports our clients in At 31December 2017 Intertek employed 43,906 people, achieving gender equality in their own operations: an increase of 3.4% over the previous year.
EDGE Certification Standard The EDGE Certified Standard was developed with the input of INTERTEK TQA EXPERTS BY GENDER experts in gender equality from leading academic institutions Male and top multinational companies.
The EDGE assessment Female 34% 66% methodology was developed by the EDGE Certified Foundation and launched at the World Economic Forum in 2011.
EDGE has been designed to help companies not only create an optimal workplace for women and men, but also to benefit from it.
The methodology uses a business, rather than theoretical, approach that incorporates benchmarking, metrics and accountability into the process.
The EDGE Certified Standard ensures that companies certified to the standard have a structured and systematic approach to Interteks gender diversity reflects the industries and measure, track and close the corporate gender gap by looking at qualification profiles typical of individuals working in the both quantitative and qualitative indicators, including: countries and business lines in which we operate.
Equal pay for equivalent work Recruitment & promotion REVENUE AND HEADCOUNT 2,184 2,093 2,166 2,567 2,769 Revenue m Leadership development 36,864 38,407 41,434 42,452 43,906 Headcount Flexible working Company culture Intertek was the first certification body fully approved to certify companies against the EDGE Standard.
During 2017 amongst others, our team in Mexico certified the Banco fide Mexico, the Central Bank of Mexico, to the EDGE 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Standard.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 49 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR PEOPLE continued DOING BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY Intertek employees or people acting on Intertek's behalf are At the heart of everything we do at Intertek isour vision to be responsible for applying the Code in their own job role, their part the world's most trusted partner for Quality Assurance.
We can of the business and location.
only deliver that vision if we maintain the trust andconfidence of To support their continuing understanding, they are required to all our stakeholders, including our shareholders, our customers, complete our comprehensive online Code of Ethics training ourpeople and the communities and environment in which we course annually.
When completing the training, all employees are operate.
"Integral to this is our internal risk, control, compliance required to sign a certificate confirming their understanding that and quality programme which we call ""Doing Business the any breaches of the Code will result in disciplinary action that RightWay""."
may include summary dismissal of the employee concerned.
At Intertek, Doing Business the Right Way means having the Whistle-blowing hotline highest standards of ethics and integrity in how we conduct To empower the people who work for Intertek to act, we have a ourselves every day, everywhere and in every situation.
Our well-publicised hotline for all employees, contractors and others Doing Business the Right Way programme includes processes, representing Intertek, enabling them to confidentially report tools and training to ensure that: suspected misconduct or breaches of the Code.
our people work in a safe and inclusive environment: Our whistle-blowing hotline is run by an independent, external the services we provide and the contracts we enter into are provider, is multi-language and is accessible to all employees 24 delivered with integrity and our commitment to Total Quality: hours a day either by phone or by email.
Those concerned are and encouraged to report any conduct, compliance, integrity or ethical concerns using the hotline.
Information posters are present in all we deliver growth that is sustainable by managing our risks of our sites.
and doing the right thing for the longer term.
If a report is made to the hotline, it is followed up by Intertek's Key elements of our Doing Business the Right Way programme Compliance officers.
All reports received are fully investigated by are described below.
our Group Compliance function, which is independent of our Ethics, integrity and professional conduct operational businesses and reports directly to our Group General Doing Business the Right Way is our commitment to upholding Counsel.
Provided there is no conflict of interest, all reports are the highest standards of integrity and professional ethics.
This also notified immediately to our Group Ethics & Compliance commitment is embedded in the Group's culture by the integrity Committee which consists of our Group CEO, Group CFO, Group principles set out in our Code of Ethics 'the Code' available at EVP for HR and Group General Counsel.
com investors governance code-of-ethics, resolution both of individual issues and any systemic or process whichalso covers health and safety, anti-bribery, labour and improvements that can be made to address them.
During 2017, 202 reports of non-compliance with our Code of We have a culture in which all issues relevant to our professional Ethics were made to our hotline.
Of those reports, 36 were conduct and our Code of Ethics can be raised and discussed substantiated and required remedial action.
Of those openly without recrimination.
We operate a strict zero tolerance substantiated claims: there were no substantiated grievances policy regarding any substantial breach of our Code of Ethics and relating to human rights, labour practices or societal impact any behaviour that fails to meet our expected standards of breaches: integrity.
there were no environmental incidents: To support this policy in action, all people working for or on there were no reported violations of the rights of indigenous behalfof Intertek are required to sign our Code of Ethics upon people: and joining the Company or before commencing work on our behalf, in order to confirm their acceptance of the high standards expected there were no cases of discrimination.. of them in all business dealings.
The Code sets clear expectations that people working for our business must act at all times with integrity and in an open, honest, ethical and socially responsible manner.
50 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT HEALTH & SAFETY SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN HEALTH AND SAFETY One of our five key corporate goals is to ensure that our Our Sustainability value proposition also supports our clients in colleagues are fully engaged in a safe working environment their health and safety management therefore, managing the health, safety and welfare of our people, Certifying to OHSAS 18001 clients and third parties connected with the business is a top We can provide our customers with the support they need to be priority for us.
Intertek is committed to the continuous review certified as an organisation with high quality health and safety and improvement of its health and safety performance and works management systems.
lntertek provides enterprises with towards achieving zero incidents.
occupational health and safety management system certification As a key element of our commitment to health and safety and services to UK domestic standard GB T28001 and international following its successful implementation during 2016, this year standard OHSAS 18001. we saw increased adoption of our Speak up for Safety campaign In 2018, ISO 45001 is due to be published this standard is set to across the whole of Intertek.
Additionally we implemented replace the popular OHSAS 18001 standard with the same further Health & Safety processes enabling all Intertek sites to overall purpose to improve the occupational health and safety report and track Health & Safety activities with our new Global performance of an organisation.
ISO 45001 will more easily H&S Platform.
integrate with other ISO Management Systems standards In 2017, we achieved a 14% reduction in lost time incidents, including ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015. a17% reduction in medical treatment incidents and a total As globalisation and global trade continue to escalate, recordable incident rate reduction of 13%.
organisations' stakeholders are expecting organisations to be Sadly, one fatality was recorded in Veracruz in Mexico.
This ethical in every aspect of their business, especially in the way occurred when a grain silo in the port collapsed and fell onto the they treat employees.
ISO 45001 will give organisations an harbour where our employee was working.
internationally recognised occupational health and safety standard to follow.
This standard provides the specification for 2017 2016 % change formal systematic analysis and management of risk: management Near Miss 9,960 6,548 52% of regulatory compliance: promotion of safer work practices and First Aid 857 760 13% evaluation of occupational health and safety performance.
This Lost time incidents 101 117 14 % systematic approach facilitates a decrease in the number of Medical treatment incidents 143 173 17 % incidents and ultimately less disruption to business.
Fatalities 1 0 In 2017, lntertek certified PepsiCo in China to the OHSAS 18001 Total recordable incident rate standard amongst other customers.
Going forward, lntertek will TRIR 0.55 0.63 13 % be working with its customers to ensure a smooth transition to ISO 45001 from OHSAS 18001, whilst also encouraging more Rates refer to the number of lost time incidents and medical treatment incidents occurring per 200,000 hours worked.
organisations to work towards this internationally recognised benchmark in health and safety management.
We go to great lengths to train all our employees on health and safety matters, including emergency response procedures, intervention and reporting of accidents, incidents and near misses, during on-boarding.
Where relevant, all employees and contractors are provided with personal protection equipment when performing work for the Company.
To ensure that each Intertek location is able to operate safely, there is a dedicated fire warden, first-aider and health and safety representative at each Intertek location.
These representatives are empowered to not only investigate incidents and implement preventative and corrective actions, but also to disseminate safety information through training and continual improvement programmes to target specific areas of concern that are identified.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 51 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR COMMUNITIES The intended audience for the newsletter includes Facility The role we play in the communities in which Managers, EH&S Environment, Health and Safety Managers, weoperate is vital to the success of our business.
CSR Managers and Internal Auditors that engage in supply chain Fostering good relationships provides benefits management in China, as well as vendors, buyers, or associations who are focused on supplier management in China or outside beyond reputation, but also in recruitment, local China, especially in the US and EU UK.
education, and ultimately engagement, as our The newsletter contributes to promoting sustainable passionate and dedicated colleagues are proud of employment and decent work, and raising awareness of the improving the lives of the people and communities issues regarding forced labour modern slavery human trafficking around them.
SCHOOL SUPPLY SANTA In this section we have selected some examples from across the world of Intertek of how we have engaged with our local communities during 2017, through community work, education and disaster relief efforts.
CARING COMPANY RECOGNITION Intertek Hong Kong has been continuously recognised as a Caring Company by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service HKCSS and this year is the 6th consecutive year that we received this acclaim.
Partnering with Hong Kong Red Cross, Intertek Hong Kong has cultivated good corporate social responsibility through cross-sectoral activities and exchanges, developing community projects that address the needs of the local community.
In 2017, Intertek Hong Kong organised and carried out a number of community activities including: Blood Donation Day which involved more than 80 Intertek colleagues donating blood to the Hong Kong Red Cross: School Supply Santa is a community programme in Michigan, US, Mid-Autumn Elderly Visit in October 2017 by our Intertek that provides students in need with a backpack filled with school Volunteer Team, during which festival food and supplies were related items such as notebooks, markers, pens, and folders to provided for elderly people: ensure they start the school year out on the right foot with Participated in charity fund-raising at the Hong Kong Red Cross everything they need to grow and learn.
Carnival: and Being aware of this programme, the Intertek Grand Rapids Health Participating in other environmental protection initiatives and & Wellness Committee and Events & Communications programmes locally.
Committees teamed up to lead the efforts to all employees across all divisions.
Intertek Grand Rapids became a corporate partner of School Supply Santa and received a list of supplies that were needed in their local districts.
The committee members created posters, sent emails, and leveraged operations managers to rally employees and communicate the efforts.
Following the CSR GAZETTE communications, employees donated supplies and filled collection In China, we issue a bi-monthly CSRGazette.
The CSR Gazette is boxes at Intertek Grand Rapids.
Together, they collected 15 acorporate social responsibility newsletter covering updates on backpacks and hundreds of other requested supplies.
laws, regulations and national standards of China relating to CSR The recipients of these supplies are part of the free lunch auditing on labour, health and safety, environmental protection programme from 20 different schools covering 8 districts in the and business practice.
greater Grand Rapids, Michigan area.
Thanks to the combined With our Sustainability value proposition and experience in CSR efforts of all donations, more than 100 students were helped auditing, Intertek is well placed to provide relevant and timely through the programme this year.
updates to its customers, as they look to implement improved practices in their own operations.
52 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT LITTLE SCIENTISTS PROGRAMME In addition, the Transportation Technologies business also Intertek Hong Kong held its first community educational donated parts to technical schools to support education.
programme, named The Little Scientists for young children and HURRICANE MARIA RELIEF EFFORTS their parents in September 2017.
Hurricane Maria was regarded as the worst natural disaster on The objective of the programme was to provide the children with record in Puerto Rico and Dominica.
The tenth most intense a fun and engaging scientific learning experience, including Atlantic hurricane on record and the most intense tropical cyclone experiments that they could carry out with their parents.
As the hurricane hit, our employees in our Houston offices, having just recently suffered from Hurricane Harvey themselves, wanted to assist their fellow colleagues in Puerto Rico.
The team rallied together and made arrangements to secure a container for supplies in the Houston area.
An email was sent out to Houston area employees to donate water and nonperishable foods and request for volunteers to help pack the donations.
The team were able to fill a large trailer and flatbed truck.
The supplies were packed into the container, where it left via truck to Miami.
One of our employees volunteered to work from our Florida location, to ensure secure passage of the container to Puerto Rico.
On arrival in Puerto Rico the supplies were distributed to our employees.
During 2017, Intertek USA donated $25,000 to the hurricane disaster relief efforts, in addition to employee contributions, as Offering this high-quality Science, Technology, Engineering, and well as providing the much-needed support and assistance to Mathematics STEM education helped stimulate the young employees and customers.
childrens interest in exploring new fields of knowledge and EXTENDING A HELPING HAND TO FLOOD VICTIMS IN experimental learning.
BANGLADESH A total of 30 participants took part, aged 7 to 10, and the Geographically, Bangladesh is in a delta of the three major rivers: feedback received was overwhelmingly positive.
We will look Ganges, Brahmaputra, and Meghna commonly known as the torun this programme again in 2018.
In the recent past, we have observed major floods in Bangladesh during the monsoon seasons of 1987, 1988, 1998, TRANSPORTATION DONATIONS 2004, 2007, and 2016.
However, in 2017, the peak water level crossed the highest recorded water levels in Brahmaputra, Teesta, Dharala, and Jamuneswari rivers.
The second spell of floods this year has affected nearly 7.5 million people, according to figures by the National Disaster Response Coordination Centre NDRCC.
Additionally, 10,583 hectares of land have been totally washed away, while another 600,587 hectares of farmland have been damaged.
To help people affected by the flooding, Intertek Bangladesh employees contributed to, and participated in, relief activities to help those affected by the devastating floods in Durgapur Union, Kalihati Upzila in Tangail District.
Volunteer teams from Dhaka travelled from almost 150 kilometers away to theflood affectedareas to distribute food, drinking water, cooking oil, During 2017, Interteks Transportation Technologies Business candlesand other essential items to support around 200 donated automobile parts to the National Auto Body Council to flood-affected families.
support their Recycled Rides programme.
Recycled Rides is a unique programme in the US, in which insurers, collision repairers, paint suppliers, parts vendors and others collaborate to repair and donate vehicles to deserving individuals and service organisations in local communities throughout the country.
Over1,000 vehicles have been donated through the National Auto Body Councils Recycled Rides programme since its inception in 2007.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 53 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR ENVIRONMENT In the Our Sustainability Governance section of this report we Our environmental mission is to provide a better introduce our newly-formed Sustainability Operating Committee, quality of life today and a more environmentally Country and Business Line Champions network and sustainability responsible world tomorrow, by continually reporting processes.
Using our newly-established network, we will focus on reducing our material impacts in our major countries improving our business performance to minimise and over time plan to extend our country network to cover more the impact our operations have on the sites and locations globally.
At present our country network environment.
accounts for 82% of our Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions.
From 2018 onwards, using our enhanced data tracking, GHG OUR APPROACH emissions will form part of our quarterly performance discussions, Interteks primary environmental goal is to work with each of our in order to ensure that our environmental footprint is receiving sites globally to reduce their impact on the environment, through the requisite level of attention at the global, country and site reducing energy consumption and improving their overall level, and we will be utilising our Country Sustainability sustainability credentials.
Intertek plays an important role in Champions network to drive material improvements in our raising awareness of Climate Change and National Resource majormarkets.
Constraints in its employees, suppliers and customers.
As such, our aim is to improve operational and natural resource efficiency In line with this improved practice, we are setting our first carbon in a consistent manner across all of our 1,000 sites, and to reduction target: To reduce our annual CO emissions per 2 establish a global community of sustainability champions who employee by 5% by 2020. share their site level knowledge and experience for the benefit We plan to achieve this through utilising renewable sources of ofothers.
energy: implementing green waste management practices: To support this effort, our environmental and climate change efficient water management: minimising business travel and policy is implemented through country management to ensure operating quality management systems.
compliance with local guidelines and regulations.
In addition, and to support our longer-term objectives, we have To support our environmental goals, and following a thorough defined a four-year plan: review of our 2015 and 2016 reporting of Group emissions, it 2017: Establish a robust financial grade reporting system and was recognised that a more flexible and robust reporting tool process, implement a 2020 target was required to more accurately carry out site level environmental data tracking.
In 2017, Intertek implemented a 2018 & 2019: Roll-out best practice guidelines to support and Global Sustainability Environmental Software platform, which is promote environmental efficiency and broaden the scope of optimised specifically to provide Intertek with the financial grade environmental reporting i. e. additional scope 3 reporting reporting, analytics, and auditability to support its site level based on the materiality of business activities which are sustainability initiatives and corporate reporting going forward.
relevant to our business, our peers and our key stakeholders Due to the wider scope and depth of reporting in 2017 and the 2020: Reach our 2020 carbon target and explore increased attention to detail and diligence across all Intertek sites implementation of a Science Based Target for future globally, our 2017 data is meaningfully different to our previously emissionsreductions reported 2015 and 2016 figures.
The data gathering has become Through tracking accurately and setting meaningful objective more accurate and granular, using less extrapolation, hence targets, we can ensure that we are minimising our environmental leading to differences versus the 2015 and 2016 data.
Going footprint whilst also providing our key stakeholders, including forward, data should be comparable to the 2017 base year.
shareholder and customers, with the data they need to As a result of this renewed approach, we have already witnessed understand our performance.
In line with this focus, we also a material uplift in the level of engagement across the business intend on externally verifying our data in the 2018 reporting year.
regarding Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions, with each site now Against the 2017 base year and excluding Process Emissions.
being able to access their own, bespoke GHG data dashboard.
54 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR DATA For 2017, Interteks electricity consumption was reported to be Our annual GHG reporting cycle runs from 1 October 2016 to 30 241,991 MWh 5.65 MWh per employee and gas consumption September 2017. was reported to be 66,432 MWh 1.55 MWh per employee.
As a Total Quality Assurance provider, we carry out testing on The platform used by Intertek complies with the methodologies behalf of our clients which involves the direct consumption of outlined by the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and fuel or the direct release of emissions through refrigerant testing Reporting Standard, the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain procedures Scope 1 Process Emissions.
The tests we perform Scope 3 Standard, ISO 14064-1, and the UK Governments are required by our clients to help them determine the safety, Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including Mandatory quality and environmental efficiency of their products and as greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance.
such, whilst this increases our overall Group reported emissions, it In compliance with the above standards, the platform uses the has a positive longer-term impact on the item being tested.
For most up-to-date GHG emission factors available for each country example, we perform tests for automotive manufacturers on and type of activity.
The emission factors are sourced from the their engines, to help them improve efficiency, performance and relevant government department in each country.
Where local reduce emissions, however in doing so we will burn fuel both in emission factors are not available, the platform uses default stationary and mobile environments.
Similarly, we are one of very emission factors provided by the International Energy Agency few companies globally which carry out safety testing on IEA, GHG Protocol, the UKs Department for Environment, Food refrigerants which are then used in commercial and domestic and Rural Affairs DEFRA and the US Environmental Protection everyday items.
In the table below, we have specifically split out the Scope 1 ENVIRONMENTAL ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 Process Emissions.
Where possible we look to reduce the impact As we operate a decentralised business model, our teams locally of these emissions, for example, in our engine testing lab in the look for ways to become more environmentally efficient and UK, our Transportation Technologies business has implemented reduce the impact of operations on the environment.
Below are several  dynamometers, which generate some examples of our achievements in 2017 and through power from the engines being tested, resulting in a reduction in actively performance managing our GHG emissions in 2018, we their site Scope 2 emissions and operating costs.
hope to make further improvements: 1 CO e emissions from activities for which Intertek is responsible 2 In Turkey, we have implemented a water recycling system by include: re-using the heated water from laboratory machinery.
By doing GHG so we have been able to recover 50% of the waste water, Emissions thereby reducing our consumption by 4 tonnes of water per day.
tonnes of 1 CO e 2 In India, our team implemented a number of initiatives following Scope 1 Fugitive Emissions 7,186 World Environment Day, including: Mobile Combustion - Owned Fleet 23,704 E levator usage restrictions during allotted time slots to reduce power and energy: Stationary Combustion 13,722 Process Emissions 15,523 C elebrating No Paper Day and overall reducing paper Purchased and Used usage: Scope 2 Electricity 126,574 E ncouraging usage of air purifying plants both indoors and Purchased Heat and Steam 1,621 outdoors: and Scope 3 Energy Related Activities 29,118 Outside of scope Biomass 157 T ree plantation to improve biodiversity.
Total emissions 217,605 In France, we are trialling a scheme with a recycling company whereby they collect waste paper from our sites and in CO per 2 Intensity ratio employee exchange we receive vouchers to buy green office supplies.
2017 5.08 In Australia, we have installed skylights in one laboratory which Average # of employees has reduced the need entirely for lighting during the day.
This during reported period 42,828 has delivered both cost savings and GHG emission reductions.
Globally, we have made a further progress to upgrade lightbulbs to more efficient LEDs, with particular improvements in conversion in Turkey, France, India, USA and Australia.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 55 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR ENVIRONMENT continued SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN ENVIRONMENTAL Zero Waste to Landfill Certification MANAGEMENT Intertek provides companies with the Zero Waste to Landfill With our Sustainability value proposition, there are multiple ways certification, which showcases an organisation's contribution in which we support our clients in their Environmental towards improving their sustainability initiatives through their Management goals: pledge to minimise the amount of waste that enters landfills from their operations.
Carbon Footprinting Services During 2017 Intertek HERS performed a carbon footprint for a Zero Waste to Landfill certification provides improved credibility North American transport and operations services provider.
As and visibility to an organisations sustainability efforts.
part of the assessment Intertek worked with the client to Implementing a Zero Waste to Landfill programme will not only determine year-on-year improvements and how they relate to improve the efficiency in manufacturing processes but can also specific changes and upgrades to their operations.
Results were save physical and financial resources through energy reported in CO equivalent emissions and encompassed conservation and reuse of raw materials.
2 improvements such as fuel and fleet changes, warehouse During 2017, Intertek awarded the Zero Waste to Landfill to logistics and implementing policies that require efficient Mahindra Group, a leader in the tractor and utility vehicles space, movement of materials within operations.
employing more than 200,000 people across the globe.
Mahindra Resource efficiency and adoption of cleaner technologies can was among the first to receive this certification in India which positively impact sustainable growth, demonstrated by truly demonstrates their commitment to improving the implementing strategies that increase efficiency in operations environmental effects their manufacturing process has on the and the responsible use of fuel and materials.
With the communities in which they operate.
transportation sector contributing over a quarter of the worlds Clean energy GHG emissions, movement of materials, whether in a factory or Across the world, our Sustainability value proposition positions us cross-country is an important part of sustainable consumption well to support our clients in their development of clean energy and economic growth.
solutions, including solar, wind, biofuel and water power.
In Mexico, during 2017, along with our Joint Venture partner, Intertek ABC Analitic have participated extensively in the sampling of the initial conditions of sites where wind farms are to be placed, in order to advise on the appropriateness of the location and impact on the ecosystem.
In addition, we have also been involved in monitoring and assessing the environmental impact of the noise generated by the wind turbines.
56 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Ecotoxicology Pollution Prevention Planning Services Intertek provides ecotoxicology services for clients, to assess the Intertek provides industrial and institutional clients with pollution toxicity of a variety of different samples that pose a risk to the prevention planning services.
Some jurisdictions require the marine environment, i. e. effluents, crude oils, bulk shipping cargo testing for wastewater discharge from industrial and institutional to name a few.
The outcomes of each toxicity assessment are facilities for a range of parameters.
The strategy behind pollution then used by our clients to ensure environmental protection.
prevention planning is to address hazardous chemicals that are found in freshwater resources and landfills.
Before wastewater is In addition to the testing of samples for toxicity, the treated, many solid and larger inorganic materials are removed ecotoxicology division also provides assurance services to assist and deposited, untreated, into landfills where previously absorbed clients with environmental risk assessments.
Specialising in pollutants can later leach into soil and groundwater.
To manage determining the bioavailability of contaminants, our unwanted chemicals from reaching freshwater resources and ecotoxicologists provide focused and insightful data analytics landfills, pollution prevention planning, includes testing toassist our clients in their environmental goals.
wastewater when it is discharged from the facility and relating During 2017, Interteks ecotoxicology team have worked with findings back to chemicals, products and infrastructure used.
Jacobs for many of the major Oil and Gas companies in the In Ontario, Canada Interteks pollution prevention planning Australasian region in relation to the produced water testing for services led to the removal of a subject pollutant from cleaning the offshore oil and gas platforms.
products commonly used in healthcare facilities, among major manufacturers.
Additionally, Intertek is also working with a global supplier of laboratory equipment, to identify pollution prevention planning requirements in various countries world-wide so their products can meet customer demand and reduce their contribution of pollutants discharged to the environment.
Pollution prevention effectively incorporates strategies for cleanand safe drinking water with controllable activities and wastewater discharge.
Intertek supports evaluation and planning for management of freshwater ecosystems that are essential to human health, environmental sustainability and economic prosperity.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 57 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TRACKING OUR PROGRESS WITH THE UN SDGs As a Total Quality Assurance provider, we are INTERNAL in a strong position to align with each of the B&C provide assurance services for United Nations Sustainable Development Goals TheRonald McDonald House on a 'UN SDGs', both through the internal activities volunteer basis helping food storage and distribution for the poor we carry out, for our people, our communities and the environment, as well as through the sustainability services we provide our customers.
We are therefore using the UN SDGs as a third party, independent B&C is actively involved in the ACE framework to track our country and business line progress in Mentoring Program which is the TOP sustainability.
From 2018 onwards, each of our major business Program in the USA to promote lines and countries will provide quarterly updates on the progress Quality of Education and exposure they are making toward the UN SDGs that they have chosen to into the B&C market sector align with, providing quantitative and qualitative examples of how they have helped to contribute to the goals.
By way of example, during 2017 we ran a case study with our B&C heavily promotes Women in Building & Construction B&C division, to evaluate B&Cs Engineering and actively supports performance in internal and external sustainability initiatives vs. specific projects of the Small Women the UN SDGs.
Owned Businesses initiative By taking this approach, we aim to increase engagement across our business by providing Our People with a framework upon which they can clearly demonstrate the wider positive sustainability contribution that they are making through their B&C provides extensive consulting daily activities.
for civil engineering design and We will continue to update vs. the UN SDGs going forward, by inspection services on US Army Corp providing annual examples of the progress we are making in of engineers dams, levees, different business lines.
"wastewater treatment plants and clean water supply reservoirs 58 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT ""I ntertek B&C has helped EXTERNAL to set Renewable B&C provides assurance on Energy Records in the reutilising concrete demolition debris USA to an all time high from demolished foundations, columns, floor slabs, and parking lots of 10% in 2017. """
for reuse as high quality aggregate materials for highways B&C provides extensive B&C provide inspection and services assurance andtesting to on building envelope evolutions to Wind, Solar, and ensure better insulation and energy Hydroelectric operators.
"efficiency Recent projects have been some of the largest and most Clean Energy advanced projects in B&C provides extensive assurance theWorld andtesting in the field of coastal 17.899 MM restoration, marine, and wildlife conservation with many prominent state wide projects B&C provides extensive assurance ""I ntertek B&C has been a key and testing in the field of Land provider of LEED ""Green"" building Management which includes halting certificates to a record high of land lost and its negative impact on the environment."
dedicated Wetlands consulting group B&C employs Leadership in Energy andEnvironmental Design LEED Inspectors to assess the certification of Buildings to LEED status.
PSI is amember of the US Green Building Council INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 59 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE The Sustainability Champions meet monthly to discuss progress During 2017 we established a set of five against our group priorities and share best practice.
A newly formed groupsustainability priorities, linked to our 5x5 Sustainability Operating Committee reports to the Group CEO differentiated strategy for growth.
One of our monthly, and provides the Group Executive Management Team with a quarterly update and the Board with an annual update.
fivepriorities is to make continuous progress in sustainability through appropriate Over time we will expand this network to include more countries and business lines.
Our objective is to enhance engagement organisationalfocus.
across our business in sustainability activities, whether this be internally, through the work we do for the environment or Our objective is to ensure that we provide the organisation with communities in which we operate, or externally through the the requisite levels of support and engagement, at the highest services we provide our customers.
levels of the organisation, both for our internal sustainability activities and for the sustainability services we provide our Our people are passionate about their work and are proud to be customers.
involved in activities which generate a positive impact for society and the environment.
As each of our countries and business lines SUSTAINABILITY OPERATING COMMITTEE define their own sustainability agenda, tied to our Group priorities To enhance engagement across our sustainability initiatives, in but specific to their local operations, the objective of our network 2017 we established a network of Sustainability Champions is to ensure the activities being performed locally are understood across our major countries and business lines to develop global and we benefit from best practice globally.
connectivity across our sustainability activities.
Two networks were created: RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Delivering sustainable returns is a key enabler of our 5x5 Country network: strategy for growth and incorporates Responsible Investment S eeking opportunities to act sustainably, through energy 'RI'.
At Intertek, RI includes the evaluation of Environmental, efficiency and cost reductions across energy, water and Social & Corporate Governance 'ESG' risks as part of the waste usage investment process.
ESG due diligence forms a key part of our acquisition review process as well as when assessing capital E ngaging with people locally to drive positive behaviours expenditure decisions on new and innovative ATIC services.
We throughout the organisation, but also through encouraging ensure that we have identified potential ESG risks, and have in sustainability engagement with local stakeholders place corresponding mitigation plans and remedies.
Our M aintaining best in class internal labour and human rights investment process, in line with our overall Group strategy, practices, activity monitoring, and liaising with HR ensures that we maintain the right balance between colleagues regarding social sustainability metrics performance and sustainability.
Going forward, acquired improvements businesses will be provided access to our Group Environmental Data Software and will be required to submit their environmental Business line network: data as part of the ongoing reporting cycle.
T aking the lead on engaging the sales organisation within STEWARDSHIP AND GOVERNANCE the business line to ensure they are aware of all the Sustainability and CSR are integrated into Intertek through sustainability services that can be offered to customers policydistribution and through our Code of Ethics framework W orking with colleagues globally to help develop our suite atwww.
Our of sustainability service offerings operations and support functions are responsible for identifying and evaluating risks applicable to their areas of the business and H elp generate new and innovative ways of offering the design and operation of suitable internal controls see sustainability services to our customers Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 32 to 37.
SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK Group CEO Updates Board Executive Management Team monthly Updates Updates annually quarterly Sustainability Operating Committee Sustainability Data Social & HR Sustainability Lead External Reporting Sustainability Services Updates monthly Country Champions: 15 countries Business Line Champions: 10 BLs 60 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT ETHICAL SUPPLY During 2017, we carried out our WCA programme for Siemens As a global provider of quality solutions, including supply chain suppliers globally in a number of countries including China, India, assurance and modern slavery audits, for its clients, Intertek is Germany, Mexico, United Arab Emirates, USA, Brazil and more.
committed to preventing slavery and human trafficking in its own Mill Qualification programme corporate activities and to ensuring that its own supply chain is In the competitive apparel sector, retailers and brands are free from modern slavery.
Our 2017 Modern Slavery Statement increasingly concerned about the quality of the textiles that can be found at www.
They know it is fundamental to overall garment The Group analyses its supply chain on an ongoing basis as part quality.
Today, however, they also appreciate the extent to which of its risk, compliance and ethics framework.
social and environmental performance figures into the value We have corporate policies and governance processes to support equation especially now that its apparent that the most socially our efforts to address the issues covered by the Modern Slavery and environmentally responsible mills deliver more consistently Act 2015, including: the Code of Ethics with regular refresher on quality excellence.
The key challenge becomes one of training for all employees : a confidential and external hotline on accessing reliable data on mill social and environmental which issues can be reported: a labour and human rights policy: performance, including measures related to improved efficiency and clear recruitment policies aimed at fair recruitment and and overall quality.
Furthermore, to demonstrate our The Mill Qualification Program MQP, developed by Intertek, commitment to continued improvements and achieving an provides leading suppliers and brands with a new operating industry-leading standard in this area, we will work to put in place environment that integrates sustainability considerations with enhanced policies, procedures and due diligence processes for continuous improvement in the quality performance of fabric suppliers which are aimed more specifically at evaluating the risk mills.
The program employs a unified and standardised approach of, and preventing, modern slavery issues.
for mill performance measurement in key areas, including social SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN SUPPLY CHAIN RISK considerations, quality assurance, lab certification and ASSESSMENTS environmental sustainability.
The MQP has emerged as an Our Sustainability value proposition also supports our clients in industry-leading tool for evaluating, benchmarking and their supply chain risk assessments: monitoring mills performance and ensuring continuous improvement.
Its focus on collaboration encourages a partnership Workplace Conditions Assessment between buyers and suppliers in order to create a better The Intertek developed Workplace Conditions Assessment WCA understanding of and alignment with sourcing strategies and program provides a powerful, cost-effective solution for expectations.
During 2017 we carried out Supplier In-house Lab companies and facilities seeking to improve workplace conditions Certification Programmes for a number of customers, including efficiently and in accordance with widely accepted industry Arcadia and C&A.
Anchored in Interteks extensive social compliance expertise, WCA has emerged as an industry-leading tool for evaluating, The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 5 March 2018. benchmarking and continuously improving supplier workplace By order of the Board.
The program is supported by a web-based platform that automates and streamlines the audit process, increasing efficiencies for all supply chain partners.
WCA addresses the following and more: Labour Child Forced Labour, Discrimination, Discipline, Harassment Abuse, Freedom of Association, Labour Contracts Andr Lacroix Chief Executive Officer Wages and Hours Wages and Benefits: Working Hours Health and Safety General Work Facility, Emergency Preparedness, Occupational Injury, Machine Safety, Safety Hazards, Chemical and Hazardous Material, Dormitory andCanteen Management Systems Documentation and Records, WorkerFeedback and Participation, Audits and Corrective Action Process Global Reporting Initiative GRI guidelines provide a recommended framework and indicators for reporting.
A table outlining the GRI standard disclosures is provided on Environment Legal Compliance, Environmental Management our corporate website at www.
Systems, Waste and Air Emissions All data used for performance indicators is representative of the GRI Guidelines.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 61
