Strategic report Our strategy Our purpose is to maintain and extend our industry leadership.
Our mission is to grow value for our shareholders, building on our strong financial performance and supporting our progressive dividend policy by maintaining and developing our position as the worlds leading shipping services Group.
Breadth Reach Understanding Expanding Extending our Stronger our breadth to reach to support understanding bettertailor our clients globally of clients needs integratedoffer With an industry-leading range of Our global presence enables us Our client base ranges from oil products and services that span the tomeet client needs wherever and majors, raw material producers, maritime and financial markets, we are whenever they arise.
With 48 offices othermultinationals and longuniquely positioned to deliver bespoke in22 countries, and growing, established shipowning families.
commercial solutions to all our clients.
weshare understanding, culture, Wehave worked with many of We are the best in class intermediary ITsystems and high standards ourclients for generations, building across every sector of maritime trade ofcorporate governance across adeep understanding of their and no single company is our lead ourbusiness.
businesses and providing the services competitor in more than one market.
that have helped them to prosper.
Our new office in Seoul, South Korea A new team specialising in convertible Continued investment in IT: bonds has been formulated and will officially opened in December 2017. developing and improving our Seoul is recognised as a major start trading in April 2018. portfolio of applications and tools shipping market within Asia.
toenhance our services to clients.
Our new office in Tokyo, Japan New applications are being officially opened in April 2017.
We developedand tested with a select have a long history, stretching back group of clients, gaining feedback more than 80 years, of working with andinforming future roadmaps.
A number of smaller office openings in Egypt to better serve the local market.
20 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our progress in 2017 Strategic pillars Governance Financial statements Other information People Trust Growth Empowering Maintaining Growing our people to fulfil trust in shipping business to improve their potential intelligence performance We want Clarksons to be recognised As the industrys leading provider Consistently profitable and cash as the place where the best people ofdata and market intelligence on generative, our financial performance are empowered to do their best work.
theshipping and offshore industries, bears comparison with any business, We hire the brightest talents and give our research team is the largest not only in the shipping sector them the tools to shine including commercially-led unit in the maritime butacross the FTSE.
Our total leading-edge IT systems, high quality world.
Our database tracks over shareholder return has been training and development and 140,000 ships and 7,000 offshore consistently strong and includes a financial reward.
Shipping Intelligence Network progressive dividend policy that has is viewed more than five million times been maintained for the last 15 years.
Our commitment to training increased Significant investment into our Free cash resources, as defined in 2017 with more skills-based training proprietary database continued in the financial review on page 41, complementing the regular seminars throughout 2017, further expanding were 14% higher than 2016 at delivered on topical industry issues our scope and depth.
54.1m, enabling an increased focus and the annual wet and dry on opportunities as they arise.
An expanded data analytics team has improved our ability to process and Our long-established, London-based generate data.
events are open to client representatives as well as junior Enhancements to all of our digital brokers, analysts and operators and products were rolled out, including will be run in different office locations improved customisation and data in 2018, starting in Dubai.
