Strategic Report Our business model With a direct sales presence in 62 countries We have 26 strategically located We combine our specialist and a further network of distributors, our manufacturing plants across Europe, North knowledge with our business has a global reach.
By having America, Latin America and Asia, in which the right products, in the right place, at we manufacture most of the products industry-leading products the right time and an extensive global we sell.
By manufacturing regionally we and services to deliver network of specialist engineers, we help optimise customer service and enhance the users of industrial and commercial steam efficiency of our supply chains.
We generally value-adding engineered systems, electrical heating and temperature employ demand flow processes at our management systems, and process fluid manufacturing sites: this lean manufacturing solutions to customers.
paths and pumping systems to increase system enables us to respond quickly to efficiency, reduce their environmental customer needs and provides maximum impacts, improve product quality and flexibility of daily manufacture.
To maintain operational efficiency, Through innovative R&D we develop production output and product quality, and enhance our already broad range of regular maintenance spending is required products, pre-fabricated packages and by our customers.
In the Group as a whole, site services.
Our technically-expert direct approximately 50% of our revenue is derived sales force allows us to leverage these new from our customers maintenance, repair products and develop new applications and overhaul activities.
To support this, we for existing products, which increases the offer a comprehensive range of site audits amount of plant spend that we can capture and maintenance services to keep our in the small-scale capital projects and customers industrial systems operating maintenance activities that lie at the heart of efficiently.
We also deliver customer training, our business.
to help meet their skill gaps, in 53 training centres located around the world.
Our main activities: Design innovative Manufacture most Deliver engineered Help customers Deliver training to products of what we sell solutions maintain customers We operate four principal 26 regionally located Over 1,600 highly 53 training centres operational R&D sites: Spirax Sarco manufacturing sites knowledgeable sales globally, many of efficiency UK, Gestra Germany, producing products for and service engineers, which have live A wide range of Watson-Marlow UK and sale through our 100 in 62 countries steam and pumping monitoring equipment Chromalox USA sales companies designing bespoke demonstration facilities and site services offered engineered solutions to customers Our main competitive difference is our direct sales approach We create value for customers by providing solutions that help them to: Reduce Improve Meet Energy use and costs Product quality Statutory rules and regulations Water use and costs Pumping accuracy and reliability Industry standards CO emissions Production output H&S requirements 2 Chemical use and costs Efficiency Maintenance downtime Plant monitoring Pumping times Ease of validation Waste production Maintenance Risk of batch contamination Profitability Production times Whole life-cycle costs 12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Our business model continued Our direct sales approach makes us different Direct sales Routes to market Our direct sales approach Our sales and service engineers are In 2017, 71% of Group revenue was is our most important singularly focused on assisting steam, generated through direct sales channels: electrical heating and pump users to the remaining 29%, which generally arises differentiator.
It is this overcome their process challenges and meet from end users maintenance, repair that builds long-lasting their operational needs.
and overhaul activities, was indirect, via distributors.
Our direct sales model plays an relationships with our Our territories are covered segmentally important role in all our routes to market as where possible, with sector specialists customers, enables us our engineers call on end users and highlight allocated to our core industries, and the benefits of our products, solutions and toadd value and drives geographically where sectorisation is not services.
End users may then purchase from practical or appropriate.
us directly, specify our products in OEM build deep, long-term relationships with equipment, request that contractors specify their customers, who trust them as valued our products in their plans, or purchase from engineering partners or expert advisers in a distributor.
Operating Companies Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow sales companies hold stock locally and sell our products and services to customers Direct Sales Channels Indirect Sales 41% 20% 10% 29% Contractors End Users OEMs Distributors & Consultants End Users Industrial and commercial steam, electrical process heating and peristaltic and niche pump users, across a wide range of markets, purchase from us directly, specify our products, or buy from distributors Sales & Service Engineers Over 1,600 specialist sales and service engineers identify end user requirements The benefits of our direct sales approach Bridge the Focus on valueEncourage innovative Leverage information Self-generated growth knowledge gap creating solutions opportunities product and solution from our unique Many end users no longer have We are increasingly acting as As our sales engineers walk development databases the knowledge or engineering a trusted engineering adviser our end users' plants they A deep understanding of our We have large and unique resources that they once had, to our customers: solving their use their wide experience end users' processes drives databases of contact so they do not understand the problems, identifying efficiency and industry knowledge product innovation.
We have information for our customers problems they have or how improvement opportunities to identify unrecognised led the way in developing ready and potential customers.
We bridge that and providing valueneeds.
Providing solutions to install packaged solutions Leveraging this information knowledge gap.
to meet these needs that provide convenient, gives us a formidable creates opportunities effective and reliable solutions advantage for sales growth.
Our direct sales approach is instrumental in creating added-value and opportunities for self-generated growth Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 13 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Our business model continued Creating value through meeting customer needs Meeting the needs of our customers by helping them to solve their difficult productivity and process challenges, improve their operational sustainability and comply with increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental requirements, is at the core of what we do.
As we meet our customers needs we create value.
Competitive strengths Customer closeness Applied engineering Our direct sales business model It is not our products alone that creates a unique understanding provide value to our customers it of our customers needs and is the application of our extensive enables us to build deep, longknowledge of systems design, term relationships as we help operations and maintenance.
our customers solve their difficult Our customers increasingly rely productivity, control and energy on our expertise to deliver unique efficiency problems, and improve engineering solutions to achieve their operational performance enhanced and sustainable and sustainability.
Customer Regional manufacturing needs Wide product range Local availability of a wide range of The breadth of our product offering products, which meet applicable is unmatched by our competitors regional design codes, is critical to and our one-stop shop approach our business model and enhances simplifies the procurement top-line revenue growth.
We have process for our customers who are strategically located our major increasingly seeking partnerships manufacturing plants across the with competent full-service world in Europe, North America, suppliers.
We are committed to Latin America and Asia.
R&D to further widen our range of products and pre-fabricated engineered packages.
Value creation Driving sustainable growth and stakeholder value Read more about how we self-generate business by staying close to our customers on pages 16-19 How we maximise value Our Core Values We maximise value by focusing on our strategy Our Core Values of respect, accountability, passion, for growth.
integrity and delivery shape our company culture and provide the foundation upon which we work.
Read more on pages 21-27 Read more on page 56 14 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Beneficiaries of our value creation We engineer sustainable value through the effective use of financial, human and natural resources, and by carefully managing our relationships with customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, governments and our communities.
Wemanage these relationships in accordance with our Core Values and throughopen and transparent dialogue.
As we develop strong long-term relationships with key stakeholder groups wecreate sustainable value.
Link to sustainability The value we create: objectives: Customers Engineering We directly serve over 100,000 customers in 62 countries, through Through using our products and sustainable our global network of operating units and sales offices.
We also serve services, end users improve operational solutions customers via distributors in a further 54 countries.
As we focus on efficiency, productivity and safety, meet consistently delivering value to our customers we also generate value regulatory requirements and increase Read more on page 60 for other stakeholders.
Shareholders We have a diverse range of institutional and private shareholders, 58.1 million paid as dividends to who are geographically widespread.
Our shareholders value our shareholders during 2017. ability to achieve growth that outperforms our markets and our outstanding record of delivering shareholder value.
Employees Engineering Globally we employ over 7,250 people, in 62 countries.
Our people Nearly 300 million paid in wages, salaries for excellence are our most important asset and our greatest competitive and pension contributions, and extensive advantage.
We create value for employees as we invest in developing investment in training and development their knowledge and skills and remunerate them fairly for the work during 2017.
Read more on pages 55-56 that they do.
Suppliers Engineering By manufacturing regionally, using local and national suppliers, Over 400 million paid to suppliers of the responsible the beneficiaries of our value creation are geographically materials and services during 2017. way widespread.
We select responsible suppliers who adhere to our Read more on page 57 Supplier Sustainability Code and they in turn create value for their stakeholders.
Governments Through paying taxes in the many countries in which we operate Approximately 300 million paid in taxes we support the development of public infrastructure, healthcare corporation tax, employment taxes and net and educational provision, further broadening the reach of our VAT to national governments during 2017. value creation.
Communities We seek to have a positive impact on the communities in which we Over 400,000 cash and in-kind donations Engineering better futures operate, through making charitable donations to worthwhile causes, plus employee time donated to charitable employee volunteering and educational provision.
As we invest in causes worldwide during 2017. charitable causes we create value for the people that live and work in Read more on page 61 our local communities.
The environment Engineering We create value for the environment as we provide products and 5.8 million tonnes of CO emissions saved 2 sustainable services that improve the sustainability of our end users operations: by our end users annually from products solutions minimising their environmental impacts through reducing energy sold during 2017. consumption, emissions, water use and waste.
Read more on page 60 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 15 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
