Directors Report In accordance with the UK Financial option schemes are provided in the proxy forms electronically or by paper of not Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR Remuneration Report on page 67 and 68. less than 48 hours before the time appointed 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in It is the Boards policy that the GEB for the holding of the general meeting or the the Annual Report and Accounts, where Members should retain at least 105,000 adjourned meeting as the case may be.
4, is set out in shares value at 31 December 2017: There are no unusual restrictions on the this Directors Report.
1,042,650 in the Company and that transfer of ordinary shares.
The Directors theGroup Chief Executive Officer and Operations may refuse to register a transfer of a Group Chief Financial Officer hold shares certificated share unless the instrument of to the value of five times their respective The Company and its subsidiaries together transfer is: i lodged at the registered office the Group operate through a network of base salaries 1,375,000 and of the Company or any other place as the 1,050,000 respectively.
offices and associates throughout the Board may decide accompanied by the Americas, the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Directors interests in significant certificate for the shares to be transferred Pacific, Africa and the Middle East.
contracts and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of Results for the year No Directors were materially interested in the transferor to make the transfer: or ii in any contract of significance.
The results for the Group are set out in the respect of only one class of shares.
consolidated income statement on page 85 Statement of Directors which shows a reported profit for the The Directors may also refuse to register a responsibilities financial year attributable to the shareholders transfer of a share whether certificated or of the Company of 80.1m 2016: 66.9m.
In accordance with the Code and the uncertificated, whether fully paid or not, in Disclosure Guidance and Transparency favour of more than four persons jointly.
Dividend Rules DTR DTR4, the Directors Responsibilities Statement is set out on An interim dividend of 4.65p per ordinary As at 31 December 2017 the Company had page 76 and is incorporated into this share amounting to 6.3m 2016: 5.9m been notified of the following interests in the Report by reference.
It is Companys ordinary share capital in recommended that a final dividend of 10.45p accordance with DTR 5: Corporate Governance Statement per ordinary share amounting to 14.3m is paid, together with a supplemental interim In accordance with the Code and DTR Number of Shareholders shares % dividend of 15.1p per ordinary share 7.2.
9R, the Corporate Governance amounting to 20.6m and to be declared Statement on pages 38 and 39 is Aggregate of Standard by the Board on 15 March 2018, on 14 May incorporated into this Report by reference.
Life Aberdeen plc 2018 to shareholders on the register at affiliated investment Management Report management entities 13 April 2018.
More details of the proposed with delegated voting dividend and the Companys performance This Directors Report, on pages 74 and 75, rights on behalf of can be found in the Chairmans statement together with the Strategic Report on pages multiple managed on pages 4 to 7.
4 to 35, form the Management Report for portfolios 12,270,237 8.65 the purposes of DTR 4.1.
Principal developments Old Mutual Plc 6,685,646 4.71 Additional Information Disclosure The principal developments of the business Note: are detailed in the Strategic Report on pages Pursuant to regulations made under the CA No other changes to the above have been disclosed to the 4 to 35 and incorporated into this Report by 2006 the Company is required to disclose Company in accordance with DTR 5, between 31 December 2017 and 15 March 2018. reference.
Those disclosures not covered elsewhere within As at 31 December 2017, the Savills plc 1992 The principal risks and uncertainties are this Annual Report are as follows: detailed on pages 25 to 29 and incorporated Employee Benefit Trust the EBT held 4,819,684 ordinary shares and the Savills into this Report by reference.
Share capital and major Rabbi Trust held 800,000 ordinary shares.
shareholdings Directors Any voting or other similar decisions relating The issued share capital of the Company to these shares held in trust are taken by the Biographical details of the current Directors as at 31 December 2017 comprised trustees, who may take account of any are shown on pages 44 and 45.
All the 141,931,341 2.5p ordinary shares, details of recommendation of the Company.
During Board members served throughout the year.
which may be found on pages 137 and 138. the year the EBT waived all but 0.01p per As at 31 December 2017 the Board share of its dividend entitlement.
In comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, The Company has only one class of share December 2017 the EBT Trust Deed was two Executive Directors and five capital formed of ordinary shares.
All shares amended so that future Savills plc dividends Independent Non-Executive Directors.
forming part of the ordinary share capital will be waived in full.
have the same rights and each carries Interests in the issued share capital of the one vote.
The Savills Rabbi Trust does not currently Company held at the end of the period waive Savills plc dividends.
For further under review and up to the date of this Votes may be exercised for general meetings details of the trusts please refer to Note 2.21 Report by the Directors or their families are of the company, by members in person, by to the financial statements.
set out on page 67 of the Remuneration proxy or by corporate representatives in Report.
Details of share options held by the relation to corporate members.
The Articles Directors pursuant to the Companys share provide a deadline for the submission of Savills plc 74 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Purchase of own shares Annual General Meeting Human rights and equal opportunities In accordance with the Listing Rules, at the The AGM is to be held at 33 Margaret Street, AGM on 9 May 2017 shareholders gave London W1G 0JD at 12 noon on 8 May 2018: We support the principles of the UN authority for a limited purchase of Savills details are contained in the AGM Notice Universal Declaration of Human Rights and shares of up to 10% of the issued share circulated to shareholders with this Report.
the Core Principles of the International capital of the company.
During the year, no Labour Organization.
Half Year Report shares were purchased under the authority.
It is Group policy to provide employment on Like many other listed public companies, we The Board proposes to seek shareholder an equal basis irrespective of gender, sexual no longer circulate printed Half Year reports approval at the AGM on 8 May 2018 to orientation, marital or civil partner status, to shareholders.
Instead, Half Year results renew the Companys authority to make gender reassignment, race, colour, statements are published on the Companys market purchases of its own ordinary shares nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion website.
This is consistent with our target to of 2.5p each for cancellation or to be held in or belief, disability or age.
In particular, the reduce printing and distribution costs.
Details of the proposed resolution Group gives full consideration to applications are included in the Notice of AGM circulated Political contributions for employment from disabled persons.
to shareholders with this Annual Report the Where existing employees become disabled, The Company made no political AGM Notice.
it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, contributions during the year 2016: nil.
to provide continuing employment and to Change of control provide training and career development and Employees policies and promotion to disabled employees.
There are no significant agreements which involvement take effect, alter or terminate in the event of The Directors recognise that the quality, Independent Auditors change of control of the Company except commitment and motivation of Savills staff that under its banking arrangements, a In accordance with Section 489 of the CA are key elements to the success of the change of control may trigger an early 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of Group.
See pages 31 and 32 for more repayment obligation.
 LLP as Auditors of information as to employee engagement.
the Company will be proposed at the Articles of Association forthcoming AGM.
The Group provides regular updates covering The Companys Articles are governed by performance, developments and progress to Whistleblowing relevant statutes and may be amended by employees through regular newsletters, video special resolution of the shareholders in a The Group encourages staff to report any addresses, the Groups intranet, social media general meeting.
concerns which they feel need to be brought and through formal and informal briefings.
to the attention of management.
WhistleThese arrangements also aim at ensuring that The Companys rules about the appointment blowing procedures, which are published on all of our staff understand our strategy and to and replacement of Directors are contained the Groups intranet site, are available to staff build knowledge on the part of employees of in the Articles.
The powers of the Directors who are concerned about possible matters affecting the performance of the are determined by UK legislation and the impropriety, financial or otherwise, and who Group.
The Group also consults with Articles in force from time to time.
may wish to ensure that action is taken employees so as to ascertain their views in without fear of victimisation or reprisal.
relation to decisions which are likely to affect Unless determined by ordinary resolution of their interests.
the Company, the number of Directors shall Greenhouse gas emissions be not less than three and not more than 18.
Employees are able to share in the Groups Details of the Groups global greenhouse gas A Director is not required to hold any shares success through performance-related profit emissions for the financial year under review in the Company by way of qualification.
share schemes see page 71 for more can be found on page 34 and are However, as more fully described on page details and for UK employees including incorporated into this Report by reference.
72, in accordance with Board policy, the Executive Directors, share plans which members of the GEB which includes the include a Sharesave Scheme and a Share By order of the Board Executive Directors are expected to build-up Incentive Plan SIP.
The Sharesave and maintain a shareholding in the Scheme is an HMRC-approved save-asCompany.
The Board may appoint any you-earn share option scheme which allows person to be a Director and such Director participants to purchase shares out of the shall hold office only until the next AGM Chris Lee proceeds of a linked savings contract at a when he or she shall then be eligible for price set at the time of the option grant.
Group Legal Director & Company Secretary reappointment by the shareholders.
The Participants may elect to save up to 500 Articles provide that each Director shall retire 14 March 2018 per month and options may normally be from office at the third AGM after the AGM at exercised in the six months following the which he or she was last elected.
A retiring Savills plc maturity of the linked three-year savings Director shall be eligible for re-election.
The potential for extending the However, in accordance with the Code, all Sharesave Scheme internationally remains Directors of the Company are subject to under consideration.
The SIP is also annual re-election.
HMRC-approved and through which participants may make regular purchases of shares up to the current statutory limit of 150 per month from pre-tax income.
Shares under the SIP normally vest after five years, free from income tax and national insurance contributions.
Savills plc 75 Report and Accounts 2017
