Governance Report Regulatory disclosures In 2017, 64.4% of the proxy votes received Principal activities Results were lodged electronically through the Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc is a multiThe Groups results for the year have been CREST system.
national industrial engineering group that is prepared in accordance with the International domiciled and incorporated in the UK under Financial Reporting Standards as adopted At the AGM, the Group Chief Executive registration number 596337 and which by the European Union.
They are set out in will give a short presentation about the has expertise in steam, electrical thermal the Consolidated Income Statement, which previous year and, more generally, about energy solutions, fluid path technologies appears on page 121. current trading and the Groups future and peristaltic pumping.
The Chairman and other Board Dividend our principal activities, by business, is given members are available to answer questions The Directors are proposing the payment of on pages 2, 8 to 9 and 12 to 14 of the raised by shareholders.
Shareholders are a final dividend of 62.0p 2016: 53.5p which, Strategic Report.
invited to vote on the resolutions by way of together with the interim dividend of 25.5p a polled vote.
The results are announced Future development 2016: 22.5p, makes a total distribution for instantaneously at the AGM using the Equiniti An indication of likely future developments in the year of 87.5p 2016: 76.0p.
If approved Vote Now polling system, and on the the Group is given in the Strategic Report.
at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid London Stock Exchange and the Groups on 25th May 2018 to shareholders on website, www.
com, Strategic Report the register at the close of business on shortly after the conclusion of the meeting.
This is set out on the inside front cover to 27thApril 2018.
Following the AGM the Board is available to page 61 of the Annual Report.
answer questions and meet informally with Directors interests individual shareholders.
Risk management and The interests of the Directors in the share The Notice of Meeting convening the AGM, principal risks capital of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc to be held on Tuesday, 15th May 2018, and as at 31st December 2017 are set out on A description of risk management and the an explanation of the resolutions sought, is page 94. principal risks facing the business are on set out in the Circular posted on our website pages 30 to 33. and sent to shareholders in the format Constructive use of AGM selected by them.
We are delighted when our shareholders attend our AGM.
Those who are unable to attend are encouraged to vote online or using the proxy card mailed to them.
As at 31.12.17 As at 23.02.18 Number of % of issued Number of % of issued Substantial shareholdings Ordinary shares share capital Ordinary shares share capital MFS Investment Management 6,307,238 8.6% 6,390,257 8.7% APG Asset Management NV 4,000,000 5.4% 4,000,000 5.4% Fiera Capital Corporation 3,625,735 4.9% 3,630,782 4.9% Schroder Investment Management Ltd 2,965,669 4.0% 1,989,975 2.7% BlackRock Investment Management UK Ltd 2,594,904 3.5% 2,635,879 3.6% Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 2,334,865 3.2% 2,141,707 2.9% Good governance is the cornerstone of retaining long-term shareholder value.
Andy Robson General Counsel and Company Secretary Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 109 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Regulatory disclosures continued the Board at the first Board meeting after Substantial shareholdings PSP and Employee Benefit Trust his or her appointment.
The Board believes The voting rights in the table, on page EBT that the procedures established to deal with 109, have been notified to the Company The number of shares held in the EBT at conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
under the requirements of the UK Listing 31st December 2017 was 35,945 for the Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency purpose of satisfying the vesting of awards Articles of Association Rules DTR5, which represent 3% or more and options granted to employees under the The Companys Articles of Association of the voting rights attached to issued various Company schemes.
Dividends on are available from Companies House shares in the Company as at 23rd February shares in the EBT are waived.
in the UK or by writing to the General 2018 and 31st December 2017.
So far Counsel and Company Secretary at the Significant contracts as can be ascertained, the holdings are Groups registered office in Cheltenham.
There are no Controlling The Company is not a party to any Amendments to the Articles of Association Founder Shareholders.
significant agreements that take effect, alter can only be made by means of a special or terminate upon a change of control of the resolution at a general meeting of the Directors and Officers insurance Company following a takeover bid.
The Company provides Directors and There are provisions in the Executive Officers Insurance for Board members, Share capital Directors service agreements which Directors of the Groups operating As at 28th February 2018 there were no state that following a takeover or change companies and senior officers.
treasury shares held by the Company.
of control, if the Executive Directors The Company has also provided each Details of shares issued during the year are employment is terminated then both salary Director with an indemnity to the extent set out in Note 21 on page 145. benefits and a sum in respect of lost future permitted by law in respect of the liabilities bonus opportunity become payable as a As at 31st December 2017 the Companys incurred as a result of their holding office as a lump sum.
share capital was made up of Ordinary Director of the Company.
shares which each carry one vote at general The Strategic Report contains all the meetings of the Company.
Except as set out information required to comply with Section Appointment and replacement in the Articles of Association or in applicable 414 c of the Companies Act 2006 and there of Directors legislation, there are no restrictions on the are no contractual arrangements that need The appointment and replacement of transfer of shares in the Company and there to be disclosed which are essential to the Directors is governed by the Companys are no restrictions on the voting rights in the business of the Group.
Articles of Association, the Code, the Companys shares.
Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
Disclosure of information to The Company is not aware of any All Directors will seek election or the auditor agreements entered into between any re-election as the case may be at the AGM, As at the date of the approval of this Annual shareholders in the Company which restrict with the exception of Bill Whiteley who retires Report, as far as each Director is aware, the transfer of shares or the exercise of any at the end of the meeting.
there is no relevant audit information of voting rights attached to the shares.
which the Companys auditor is unaware.
The Directors stand for election or re-election Each Director has taken all such steps as he Powers of the Directors and on an annual basis at each AGM, in or she ought to have taken as a Director in accordance with the Code.
The Board purchase of own shares order to make himself herself aware of any considers that all Directors standing for Subject to the provisions of the Articles of relevant audit information and to establish election or re-election continue to perform Association, the Directors may exercise all that the Companys auditor is aware of effectively and demonstrate commitment to the powers of the Company.
In addition, the Board considers authority for the purchase by the Company that all Directors have the necessary of a maximum of 10% of its own shares was This confirmation is given and should be skills and experience, as set out in their in existence during the year.
However, the interpreted in accordance with the provisions biographies on pages 66 to 67.
Company did not purchase any of its shares of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. during that time.
This authority expires at Conflicts of interest Auditor the forthcoming AGM and it is proposed Under the Companies Act 2006 and The Companys auditor throughoutthe that a similar authority be approved.
the provisions of the Companys Articles period of this Annual Report was DeloitteLLP, The total number of shares in issue as at of Association, the Board is required to who was appointed on 20thMay 2014.
31stDecember 2017 was 73,600,195. consider potential conflicts of interest.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to The Company has established formal continue in office as auditor and a resolution procedures for the disclosure and review of to re-appoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest at the forthcoming AGM.
which the Directors may have and for the authorisation of such matters of conflict by the Board.
To this end the Board considers and, if appropriate, authorises any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest as they arise and reviews any such authorisation annually.
New Directors are required to declare any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest to 110 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Report Research and development Political donations Scope of the reporting in this The Group continues to devote significant The Group has a policy of not making Annual Report resources to the research and development political donations and no political donations The Board has prepared a Strategic Report and the updating and expansion of its range were made during the year 2016: nil.
including the Chairmans Statement, of products in order to remain at the forefront the Group Chief Executives Report and Greenhouse gas emissions of its world markets.
The R&D functions the Group Chief Executives Review of Details of our greenhouse gas emissions can in Cheltenham Spirax Sarco Steam Operations which provides an overview be found on page 59.
Specialties, Falmouth WMFTG, Bremen of the development and performance of Gestra and the Product Development the Groups business in the year ended Going concern function in Pittsburgh and Utah Chromalox 31stDecember 2017 and its position at The Groups business activities, together are tasked with improving the Groups the end of that year, and which covers likely with the main trends and factors likely to pipeline of new products, decreasing the future developments in the business of the affect its future development, performance time to launch, expanding the Groups Company and the Group.
and position, and the financial position addressable market and realising additional For the purposes of compliance with of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity sales.
Further information on the expenditure DTR4.1.
8 R, the position and borrowing facilities, are set on R&D is contained in Note 1 on page 127. required content of the management report out in the Financial Review on pages 48 The amount of R&D expenditure capitalised, can be found in the Strategic Report and to 51.
In addition, Note 28 on page 154 and the amount amortised, in the year, are these Regulatory disclosures, including the includes the Groups objectives, policies given in Note 14 on page 139. sections of the Annual Report incorporated and processes for managing its capital, its by reference.
Treasury and foreign exchange financial risk management objectives, its financial instruments and hedging activities, The Group has in place appropriate treasury The Strategic Report and the Directors its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
policies and procedures, which are approved Report were approved by the Board on by the Board.
Pages 109 to 111 form The Group has considerable financial manages interest rates for both borrowings the Directors Report for the purposes of the resources together with contracts with a and cash deposits for the Group and is also Companies Act 2006. diverse range of customers and suppliers responsible for ensuring there is sufficient across different geographic areas and The Annual Report contains the information headroom against any banking covenants industries.
No one customer accounts for required for compliance with the Companies, contained within its credit facilities, and more than 1% of Group turnover.
Partnerships and Groups and Non-Financial for ensuring there are appropriate facilities Reporting Regulations 2016.
As a consequence, the Directors believe available to meet the Groups strategic plans.
that the Group is well placed to manage its For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the In order to mitigate and manage exchange business risks successfully.
information required to be disclosed by rate risk, the Group routinely enters into LR9.8.
4 R is set out in the table below.
The Directors, having made appropriate forward contracts and continues to monitor enquiries, consider that the Company and exchange rate risk in respect of foreign the Group have adequate resources to currency exposures.
continue in operational existence and that All these treasury policies and procedures the Directors intend to do so, for at least one Andy Robson are regularly monitored and reviewed.
year from the date the Financial Statements General Counsel and Company Secretary It is the Groups policy not to undertake were signed, and that it is appropriate to 14th March 2018 speculative transactions which create adopt the going concern basis in preparing Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc additional exposures over and above those the Annual Report.
596337 arising from normal trading activity.
Section Topic Location 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration Report, pages 91-92 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Regulatory Disclosures, page 110 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Regulatory Disclosures, page 110 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 111 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
