Directors report The directors have pleasure Research and development Annual General Meeting in submitting their annual We continue to undertake research and report for the year ended Notice of the 2018 Annual General development to improve the processes, 31 December 2017.
Meeting to be held on Wednesday, materials and products used in the 23 May 2018 is set out on pages 150 construction of our developments and to to 153.
Members wishing to vote Other disclosures made in the enhance the energy efficiency of our range should return forms of proxy to the of homes.
Annual Report Companys Registrar not less than 48 The Company is required to disclose Disclosure of information hours, excluding non-working days, certain information in its directors report before the time for holding under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R which the directors have chosen to disclose the meeting.
There is no further information to be elsewhere in the Annual Report and is disclosed in accordance with Listing Rule incorporated by reference.
Details of The directors believe that all the 9.8.
where this information can be found are resolutions to be considered at the set out below: Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its Subject Pages shareholders as a whole.
The directors Likely future developments in the business 12 to 15 unanimously recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the Important events since the year end 146 resolutions, as the directors intend Going concern statement 28 to do in respect of their own shares in Directors interests 87 the Company.
Employee involvement employment of disabled persons 38 to 41 Greenhouse gas emissions 48 Directors Details of the directors are shown on Corporate governance report 60 to 75 pages 58 to 59.
Directors remuneration 78 to 97 Mike Stansfield was appointed as an Subsidiaries and associated undertakings 140 to 141 independent non-executive director on 28 November 2017.
Dividends In accordance with the UK Corporate A final dividend of Governance Code, all the directors, with An interim dividend of 15.0p 2016: 15.0p the exception of Alastair Lyons, will retire per share was paid on 17 November 2017. at the 2018 Annual General Meeting The Board proposes to pay, subject to 32.5p and, being eligible, offer themselves for shareholder approval at the 2018 Annual re-appointment.
Alastair Lyons will retire General Meeting, a final dividend of 32.5p 2016: 30.0p from the Board at the Companys 2018 2016: final dividend of 30.0p per share is proposed Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2018, in respect of the 2017 financial year on 25 having completed nine years as a nonMay 2018 to shareholders on the register executive director since the date of his at the close of business on 3 April 2018. first election.
On this basis, the total dividend for 2017 will be 47.5p 2015: 45.0p, representing Details of directors pay, pension rights, an increase of 5%.
service contracts and directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are The dividend reinvestment plan included in the Directors Remuneration gives shareholders the opportunity to Report on pages 78 to 97. reinvest dividends.
Directors names and functions are listed on pages 58 to 59 Notice of the 2018 Annual General Meeting pages 150 to 155 | 104 Our governance Our governance Shareholders are entitled to attend, speak Directors indemnities Articles of Association and vote at general meetings of the During the financial year and as at the date Unless expressly specified to the contrary Company, to appoint one or more proxies of this report, indemnities were in force in the Articles of Association, they may and, if they are corporations, to appoint under which the Company has agreed only be amended by a special resolution corporate representatives.
to indemnify the directors, to the extent of the Companys shareholders at a permitted by law and the Companys general meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting Articles of Association, in respect of all of the Company every shareholder present Share capital losses arising out of, or in connection in person or by proxy and entitled to with, the execution of their powers, duties The Company has a premium listing on vote has one vote and on a poll every and responsibilities, as directors of the the London Stock Exchange.
As at shareholder present in person or by proxy Company or any of its subsidiaries.
1 March 2018, its share capital comprised and entitled to vote has one vote for 134,670,804 fully paid Ordinary Shares of every ordinary share held.
Further details David Ritchie was a director of Bovis 50 pence each.
At the Companys 2017 regarding voting, including the deadlines Homes Pension Scheme Trustee Limited AGM, the directors were authorised to: for voting, at the Annual General Meeting the Pension Trustee until 9 January can be found in the notes to the Notice of 2017.
The Companys subsidiary, Bovis allot shares in the Company or grant the Annual General Meeting at the back Homes Limited, has granted a qualifying rights to subscribe for, or convert, any of this annual report and accounts.
pension scheme indemnity to the directors security into shares up to an aggregate No shareholder is, unless the Board decides of the Pension Trustee to the extent nominal amount of 22,397,969: otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either permitted by law in respect of all losses personally or by proxy at a general meeting allot shares up to an aggregate nominal arising out of, or in connection with, the or to exercise any other shareholder amount of 44,795,939 for the purpose execution of their powers, duties and rights if he or any person with an interest of a rights issue: and responsibilities as directors of the in shares has been sent a notice under Pension Trustee.
make market purchases up to section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 13,452,234 shares in the Company and has failed to supply the Company representing approximately 10% of with the requisite information within the Powers of the directors the Companys issued share capital at prescribed period.
Subject to the Companys Articles of the time.
Association, UK legislation and any Shareholders may receive a dividend and Shareholders will be asked to renew similar directions given by special resolution, on a liquidation may share in the assets of authorities at the 2018 AGM.
the business of the Company is the Company.
None of the ordinary shares managed by the Board, which of the Company, including those held by During the year the Company allotted may exercise all the powers of the the Companys share schemes, carry any 142,679 shares in connection with the Company.
The directors have been special rights with regard to control of exercise of options under the Companys authorised to allot and issue ordinary the Company.
Employees participating in employee share plans.
The Employee shares and to make market purchases the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Benefit Trust purchased 275,000 shares of the Companys ordinary shares Plan may direct the trustee to exercise during the year.
and these powers may be exercised voting rights on their behalf at any general under authority of resolutions of The Company has not held any shares in meeting but are not required to do so.
the Company passed at its Annual treasury during the period under review.
The instrument of transfer of a certificated General Meeting.
The rules in relation All issued shares are fully paid and free share may be in any usual form or in any to the appointment and replacement from any restrictions on their transfer, other form which the Board may approve.
of directors are set out in the except where required by law, such The Board may refuse to register any Companys Articles of Association.
The rights and instrument of transfer of a certificated obligations attaching to the Companys share which is not fully paid, provided that ordinary shares are set out in the the refusal does not prevent dealings in Companys Articles of Association, copies shares in the Company from taking place of which can be obtained from Companies on an open and proper basis.
Certain House in the UK or by writing to the employees and officers of the Company Group Company Secretary.
must conform to the Companys share dealing rules: these restrict the ability to deal in the Companys shares at certain times and require permission to deal.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 105 Directors report The Board may also refuse to register a Transfers of uncertificated shares must transfer of a certificated share unless the be carried out using the relevant system instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly and the Board can refuse to register a stamped if stampable, at the registered transfer of an uncertificated share in An interim dividend of office of the Company or any other place accordance with the regulations governing decided by the Board accompanied by the the operation of the relevant system and certificate for the share to which it relates with UK legislation.
There are no other 15.0p and such other evidence as the Board may limitations on the holding of ordinary reasonably require to show the right of the shares in the Company and the Company 2016: 15.0p transferor to make the transfer: ii is in is not aware of any agreements between per share was paid on respect of only one class of shares: and iii holders of securities that may result in is in favour of not more than restrictions on the transfer of securities or 17 November 2017 four transferees.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2017, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: % of voting rights of % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital BlackRock, Inc. - 7.45 0.51 10,726,928 7.96 Standard Life Aberdeen plc group of companies - 7.19 - 9,680,972 7.19 Prudential plc group of companies - 5.11 0.48 7,529,026 5.59 Shroders plc - 4.96 - 6,680,423 4.96 Royal London Asset Management Limited 4.14 - - 5,567,004 4.14 Legal & General Group Plc 3 - - - 3 Norges Bank 3 - - - 3 Between 1 January and 1 March 2018, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital were notified to the Company: % of voting rights of 1 March 2018, % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital Woodford Investment Management Ltd 5.53 - - 7,459,000 5.53 Prudential plc group of companies - 4.73 0.20 6,644,963 4.93 Norges Bank 3.05 - 0.17 4,335,572 3.22 Share capital comprised of Directors Remuneration Report pages 78 to 97 134,670,804 Notice of the 2018 Annual General Meeting fully paid Ordinary Shares pages 150 to 155 50p each 1 March 2018 | 106 Our governance Our governance Following an audit tender process financial position of the Company and conducted at the end of 2014, the Group and enable them to ensure Takeover directive  LLP were that the financial statements and the On a change of control, provisions appointed as auditor at the 2015 AGM.
Directors Remuneration Report comply in the Groups syndicated banking In accordance with the provisions of with the Companies Act 2006 and, as facility agreements described in note the Companies Act 2006, resolutions regards the Group financial statements, 4.3 to the accounts would allow concerning the re-appointment of Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are lenders to withdraw the facility.
 LLP and their also responsible for safeguarding the All of the Groups share schemes remuneration will be placed before the assets of the Company and the Group contain provisions relating to a 2018 Annual General Meeting.
and hence for taking reasonable steps for change of control.
Under these the prevention and detection of fraud and provisions, a change of control would Statement of directors other irregularities.
be a vesting event, allowing exercise responsibilities The directors are responsible for the of outstanding options and awards, The directors are responsible for preparing maintenance and integrity of the subject to satisfaction of performance the Annual Report, the Directors Companys website.
Legislation in the conditions, as required.
Remuneration Report and the financial United Kingdom governing the statements in accordance with applicable There are a number of commercial preparation and dissemination of law and regulations.
contracts that could alter in the financial statements may differ from event of a change of control.
None is legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors considered to be material in terms of to prepare financial statements for The directors consider that the Annual their potential impact on the Group each financial year.
Under that law the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, in this event.
directors have prepared the Group and is fair, balanced and understandable Parent company financial statements in and provides the information necessary accordance with International Financial for shareholders to assess a Companys Financial risk management Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted performance, business model and strategy.
Details of financial risk management and by the European Union.
Under company exposure to credit liquidity risks are law the directors must not approve the Each of the directors, whose names and included in note 4.6 to the accounts.
financial statements unless they are functions are listed on pages 58 to 59 of satisfied that they give a true and fair view the Annual Report confirm that, to the Political donations of the state of affairs of the Group and the best of their knowledge: No political donations were made during Company and of the profit or loss of the the Group financial statements, which the year ended 31 December 2017 Group and the Company for that period.
have been prepared in accordance with 2016: nil.
The Group has a policy of not In preparing these financial statements, the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true making donations to political parties or directors are required to: and fair view of the assets, liabilities, incurring political expenditure.
financial position and profit of the select suitable accounting policies and Auditors Group: and then apply them consistently: Each person who is a director at the date the Strategic Report contained in the make judgements and accounting of approval of this report confirms that: Annual report includes a fair review of estimates that are reasonable the development and performance of so far as the director is aware, there is and prudent: the business and the position of the no relevant audit information of Group, together with a description of state whether applicable IFRSs as which the Companys auditors are the principal risks and uncertainties that adopted by the European Union have unaware: and it faces.
been followed, subject to any material each director has taken all the steps departures disclosed and explained in that he she ought to have taken as a the financial statements: By Order of the Board director to make himself herself aware M T D Palmer prepare the financial statements on of any relevant audit information and to Group Company Secretary the going concern basis unless it is establish that the Companys auditors 1 March 2018 inappropriate to presume that the are aware of that information.
Company will continue in business.
This confirmation is given and should Bovis Homes Group PLC The directors are responsible for keeping be interpreted in accordance with Registered number 306718 adequate accounting records that are the provisions of Section 418 of the sufficient to show and explain the Companies Act 2006.
Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the | Bovis Homes Group PLC 107
