Portfolio Managers Review and Total which are the Companys two holdings in this sector.
Sam Morse has been the Companys Both companies, however, demonstrated their ability to improve Portfolio Manager since 1 January 2011. cash flows, as quarterly results progressed, by cutting operating He has more than 27 years investment and capital expenditure and Royal Dutch Shell ended the year on experience.
He also manages the Fidelity European Fund.
a positive note by detailing plans, at its strategy day, to remove the scrip element from its dividend.
Healthcare stocks struggled for much of the year suffering from a weaker dollar, given that much of their sales and profits are Performance Review sourced in America, and from continued pricing pressures in all geographies.
While Sanofi and Roche performed relatively poorly, As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, the net asset value with little relief from new drug launches, Novo Nordisk performed NAV total return, in the year to 31 December 2017 was 20.0% strongly, rebounding from a disappointing 2016 with investors compared to a total return of 17.5% for the FTSE World Europe re-rating the company as earnings revisions stabilised and on the exUK Index which is the Companys Benchmark Index.
The share approval of its new diabetes drug, Ozempic.
price total return was 26.2%, which is ahead of the NAV total return as a consequence of a narrowing of the discount from 11.1% at the The strong performance of technology stocks on Wall Street has beginning of the year to 7.0% at the end of the reporting period, been well documented but the continental European sector also based on the NAV excluding income all figures in UK sterling.
had a strong year which helped the Company given its double weighting in the sector with holdings in ASML, Amadeus IT Group, Market Background SAP and Dassault Systemes.
2017 turned out to be a very rewarding year for investors in the stock markets of continental Europe as companies grew their The largest contributor to outperformance for the Company was, earnings handsomely and as valuations continued to expand.
however, the financial sector with strong returns from many of the UK investors enjoyed even higher returns thanks to the continuing bank holdings, such as ABN Amro, Intesa Sanpaolo and KBC, as appreciation of the Euro against UK sterling.
investors warmed to their high and growing dividends and as thefear of harsh Basel IV regulation subsided towards the end of Equity markets entered the year in rude health riding a wave of the year.
optimism thanks to President Trumps election promises of more fiscal spending and a reduction in taxes.
Shares were further There were two other notables during the year from a stock-picking boosted, in the first half of the year, by market friendly election perspective.
The star of the year was Socit des Bains fide Mer results, particularly in France where Emmanuel Macrons En fide Monaco which almost doubled in value.
party swept to power removing one of the main angsts: sparked to life in the last quarter, after a few quiet years, when the possibility of a Marine LePen presidency.
Minor shocks in the its majority owner, the State of Monaco, added to its stake by latter part of the year, such as the disturbances in Catalonia or the buying out a sizeable shareholder.
The shares jumped again when war of words between the Presidents of the USA and North Korea, the company subsequently confirmed that its two major property were quickly brushed aside by the continuing pick-up in earnings, redevelopments, the Hotel fide Paris and Sporting DHiver, were and more importantly dividends, delivered by continental European on time, with completion by end 2018, and were on budget.
This is what really drives stock markets and this is what the catering and concessions business, was by contrast a poor allowed continental European shares to advance strongly even performer in the second half of the year, falling on disappointing though valuations were already high relative to historical norms.
guidance for next year which followed hot on the heels of the The year was also remarkable for a very low level of volatility resignation of the Chief Executive.
The holding has subsequently perhaps not to be repeated such that continental European been sold given that the company is no longer growing its indices marched up steadily and consistently through the year.
dividend and financial leverage is now an increasing concern.
Portfolio Review Use of Derivatives The Companys NAV outperformed the Benchmark Index by 2.5% in Gearing made a positive contribution to performance in the 2017.
Stock selection was the main driver of this outperformance.
reporting year, delivering 0.4% to the NAV total return of 20.0%.
During the second half of the year your Portfolio Manager started Among sectors there was quite a notable dispersion of to introduce more single-name short positions, using CFDs, performance in 2017.
The energy sector endured a poor first into the Company, as the market continued its relentless climb.
half of the year as analysts questioned the ability of the large Shareholders gave approval in late 2015, to use derivatives more integrated oil companies to generate cash and cover dividend flexibly and this has now developed into a more meaningful part payments against the backdrop of a stalling recovery in the price of the Companys investing activity.
Short positions are generally of the commodity.
This negatively impacted both Royal Dutch Shell taken in larger companies which are less likely to be taken over.
6 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 They are selected from a range of mature, cyclical sectors.
These stocks typically do not meet your Portfolio Managers investment criteria, in terms of dividend growth, or other factors, and are often negatively rated by the team of analysts at Fidelity.
As such, the short portfolio may magnify the Companys style in terms of performance relative to the Benchmark because it is a mirror image of the investment strategy of the Company.
Identification of a specific short term catalyst for underperformance is not required by your Portfolio Manager but mechanisms for capping losses, if the stock outperforms, will be applied.
An equivalent weighting in Euro Stoxx 50 futures was purchased during the second half of the year to keep net gearing at its previous level and to provide transparency on the performance of the short portfolio.
The performance of the short portfolio and the Euro Stoxx 50 futures largely off-set each other such that for the second half of the year the impact on the performance of the Company of this derivatives strategy was slightly loss-making.
The Manager is confident that this strategy will add value to the portfolio over time but this will be subject to periodic review.
Outlook After a very rewarding 2017, many investors are anticipating more of the same in 2018 given improving global economic growth and a lack of attractive investment alternatives.
Some, including our own global CIO of equities, have suggested that we may see a healthy correction soon given lofty multiples and high expectations for continued earnings growth.
This is a risk but last year shows that trying to time markets can be costly.
The main risks, or catalysts for a correction, are cited as geopolitical or related to central banks tightening monetary policy more quickly than expected, perhaps forced to do so by rising inflation.
If the latter happened it would simultaneously remove the valuation support of low bond yields and drain the liquidity that has supported share prices for much of the last decade.
In any event, your Portfolio Manager will stay fully invested, as always, and will maintain a focus on attractively-valued companies which have the potential to grow their dividends consistently over a three to five year period.
The Company may be buffeted in the shorter term by changes in the stock market or economic environment but in the longer run these sorts of companies should deliver outperformance versus the Benchmark.
Sam Morse Portfolio Manager 14 March 2018 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 7 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
