Governance Report Accountability Audit Committee Role of the Committee Summary of the key Summary of the key areas The main role and responsibilities of the Committee activities in 2017: of focus for 2018: Committee include: Reviewed Financial Statements Financial Statements monitoring the integrity of the Groups Reviewed external auditor effectiveness Review of Internal Audits Financial Statements and public and audit process On-going monitoring of risks announcements relating to the Companys Agreed Group tax strategy Group treasury strategy financial performance: Agreed Group Tax Policy Monitoring of Groups implementation of reviewing the effectiveness of the internal Analysed and approved integrated risk GDPR policy and process and external audit process: and assessment and management framework Monitoring effectiveness of reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Reviewed risk management and controls cybersecurity controls financial and internal controls and the Reviewed cybersecurity and Review of major acquisitions process for the evaluation, assessment agreed process for strengthening and management of risk.
cybersecurity controls The Terms of Reference for the Committee Agreed General Data Protection are set out in detail on the Groups website, Regulation GDPR policy and process www.
com, on the Policies and procedures page, within Read more on pages 78-80 the Governance section.
These terms are subject to regular review.
How the Committee spent its time Membership and attendance during the year There were three meetings in 2017 5% Committee member Attendance Committee member Attendance 10% C. G. Watson 3 J. Pike 3 35% 10% 10% 15% 15% J. S. Kingston 3 G. E. Schoolenberg 3 Finance and tax reviews Internal audit External audit Risk management and controls Corporate governance Results review Whistle-blowing The Committee plays an active role in reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and welcomes Dan Harvey, Head of Internal Audit, to strengthen that function.
Clive Watson Audit Committee Chairman Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 77 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Accountability Audit Committee continued Matters considered In 2017, the following matters were considered by the Committee and, where applicable, by the Board or other Committees: Review of internal audit The potential impact of Brexit Review of principal risks and Risk Management Assessing future compliance and effectiveness risk appetite Committee with legislation on data protection and prevention oftax evasion Annual Report fair, balanced Litigation update Annual forward plan Group Tax Policy Taxation and understandable Viability statement and Risk Appetite Statement External auditor and Audit Assessing future compliance Audit plan: annual audit and going concern Committee effectiveness with the UK Corporate interim review Governance Code 2016 Whistle-blowing Performance evaluation of Anti-bribery and corruption Group tax strategy the Committee non-audit fees should not exceed 70% of Review of 2017 Auditor the average audit fees charged in the last The Committee met three times in 2017.
This is the fourth financial year in which the three-year period.
During the year, the Group Kevin Boyd, Group Finance Director, Annual Report and Financial Statements spent 0.3 million on non-audit services JohnSenior, Group Financial Controller, have been audited by Deloitte LLP following provided by Deloitte LLP being 25% of the and the external auditor attended the their appointment as the Companys average of Group audit fees charged over meetings and had direct access to the external auditor as of 20th May 2014. the past three years.
Further details can be Committee Chairman.
The Group Chief This appointment is subject to on-going found in Note 7 on page 135.
Executive attended one Audit Committee monitoring and will run for a maximum of 10 meeting March, in accordance with the years before being tendered.
Internal audit recommendations made during the 2015 One of the primary responsibilities of the The Committee reviewed the schedule of external Board evaluation which were Committee is to assess the robustness planned internal audits undertaken in 2017 implemented during 2016. of the external audit process and make and assessed the robustness of the control During the year the Committee received recommendations to the Board in relation to framework that is in place to track and reports from external and internal auditors the appointment, re-appointment or removal monitor progress in remedying any identified on the major findings of their work and the of the external auditor.
This review ensures that the progress of management follow-up by way a number of factors into account when Committee is able to give assurances that of management reports.
evaluating the effectiveness of the external the Group has an effective and integrated audit including: risk management framework, in addition As a safeguard, the Committee holds to the oversight provided by the Risk separate meetings with the external and the quality and scope of the planning of Management Committee.
The internal audit internal auditors without management the audit in October 2017, Deloitte LLP process is explained on page 83.
In 2016 present to discuss their respective areas and presented their plan for the 2017 audit to  LLP PwC was any issues arising from their audits.
the Committee : and commissioned to undertake a review of feedback from all audited operating The Committee received assurance on the internal audit function.
This review units, the Group Finance team, senior going concern, viability, pension valuation, validated the Committees view of the management and Directors on the audit material litigation and risk management.
strengths and weaknesses of the current process and the quality and experience of The Committee considered this assurance approach and suggested other potential the audit partners engaged in the audit.
and concluded it was reliable.
development areas in light of best practice.
During the year, the Committee reviewed This year the Committee approved The PwC report concluded that peer review and approved the proposed audit fees and the Group Tax Policy and Tax Strategy works well and should continue, but also terms of engagement for the 2017 audit which had been amended to reference made a number of recommendations for and recommended to the Board that it the Groups new policy on prevention improvement.
A key recommendation proposes to shareholders that Deloitte LLP of criminal facilitation of tax evasion.
was the creation of a new role of Head be re-appointed as the Groups external This is available on the Groups website, of Internal Audit to oversee the internal auditor for 2018 at the AGM to be held on www.
com, in audit processes and procedures and be 15thMay 2018. compliance with the Finance Act 2016. responsible for implementing the other PwC The Committee recognises that the recommendations.
This recommendation The Group has complied with the independence of the external auditor is was adopted by the Committee and the new provisions of the Competition and Market an essential part of the audit framework Head of Internal Audit joined the Group in Authority CMA Order, issued by the CMA and has adopted a policy which sets out November 2017. in September 2014, for The Statutory a framework for determining whether it is Audit Services for Large Companies appropriate to engage the Groups auditor Market Investigation Mandatory Use of for non-audit services.
This policy states that Competitive Tender Processes and Audit any expenditure with the Groups auditor on Committee Responsibilities.
78 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Report determining the position adopted Significant issues in relation to Whistle-blowing in judgement and estimate areas The Group is committed to promoting a the Financial Statements for pensions: safe and effective culture for employees During the year the Committee considered risk areas set out in the Risk Management to raise genuine concerns without fear of significant issues in relation to the Groups Committee Report: reprisals.
To this end, and as a matter of Financial Statements and disclosures best practice, in 2014 the Group adopted receipt of regular strategy reports from the relating to: a Whistle-blowing Policy.
Linked to this Group Chief Executive and operational i Revenue recognition was the implementation of a multi-lingual reports from the Divisional Directors: In view of the profile of revenue and profit whistle-blowing helpline, facilitated by requesting members of management recognition in the final quarter of the year, Safecall, to ensure that employees can to attend Committee meetings to freely access an independent third party.
the need to focus on any new contracts provide updates on operational and and revenue cut-off for certain businesses The whistle-blowing helpline continues to be strategic matters: was highlighted to ensure the appropriate made available throughout the Group and reviews of the budget and operational recognition of revenue for the year ended in 2017 multiple calls were received from plan: and 31st December 2017.
The Committee individuals across the globe.
Managements consideration of judgements response and handling of reported cases received regular updates on the assessment and estimates.
of the impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from continues to be considered appropriate and Through these processes and its monitoring Contracts with Customers during the year.
of the effectiveness of controls, internal ii Pensions Finance team appointments audit and risk management, the Committee There are judgements and estimates made The Committee noted that, during the is able to maintain a good understanding in selecting appropriate assumptions in of business performance, key areas of year, the Group had appointed a new Tax valuing the Groups defined benefit pension judgement and decision-making processes Manager and new Head of Internal Audit.
obligations, including discount ratios, within the Group.
The Committee sees these appointments mortality, inflation and salary increases.
as positive steps to further strengthen the The Committee considered reports by the Fair, balanced Finance team and the control environment of Company, including those from independent and understandable the Group.
external advisers, and is comfortable that the One of the key governance requirements key assumptions are reasonable.
GDPR preparedness of the Committee is for the Annual Report On 25th May 2018, the GDPR will come iii Acquisitions to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The GDPR is an EU Regulation Acquisition accounting, in particular in The co-ordination and review of the that has direct legal effect in all European Group-wide input into the Annual Report is respect of the Gestra and Chromalox countries without the need for the UK to a significant exercise performed within an acquisitions, was also considered.
The GDPR After reviewing the presentations and reports exacting time frame, which runs alongside will apply to all of the Groups companies from management and consulting with the the formal audit process undertaken by the that operate in, or sell into, Europe.
auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the external auditor.
GDPR represents a major development Financial Statements appropriately address To ensure the Annual Report is fair, balanced in data protection and privacy laws, the amounts reported and the disclosures.
and understandable, the Committee with greatly increased penalties for The Committee is also satisfied that the assessed the consistency of the risks and non-compliance.
Accordingly, it will be a risk significant assumptions used for determining judgements, reviewed the Board minutes that the Committee will continue to review the value of assets and liabilities have been to ensure issues of significance were given throughout 2018.
To date, a gap analysis appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are prominence and arrived at a position where has been carried out by Ernst & Young LLP, sufficiently robust.
initially the Committee, and then the Board, all remedial actions have been identified and were satisfied with the overall fairness, iv Ensuring the Annual Report is fair, a schedule to ensure compliance has been balance and clarity of the document, which balanced and understandable prepared.
In addition, a new Group-wide is underpinned by the following: The Committee carried out a full assessment GDPR policy has been prepared and will be and review to ensure the standard implemented across the Group.
comprehensive guidance for contributors was satisfied.
at operational level: Preventing the criminal a verification process dealing with the v Other judgements in the Financial facilitation of tax evasion factual content of the reports: Statements In 2017, the Criminal Finances Act a consideration of the appropriateness of Viability and going concern have been introduced two new strict liability offences of alternative performance measures: assessed successfully.
corporate failure to prevent the facilitation of comprehensive reviews undertaken at tax evasion.
The Groups culture has always Review of the different levels in the Group that aim to been one where the facilitation of tax evasion Financial Statements ensure consistency and overall balance: is never acceptable.
During 2017, the Committee considered and many components of business performance comprehensive review by the senior in order to ensure it has a full understanding management team.
of the operations of the Group.
Key matters considered by the Committee include: Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 79 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Accountability Audit Committee continued We, therefore, welcomed the new corporate position, business strategy, the Boards face of adverse economic conditions and offences and formalised our stance on risk appetite and the potential impacts of or political uncertainty, as does our ability to this topic through the publication of a new the principal risks, outlined on pages 32 to self-generate business through identifying Group-wide policy Preventing the Criminal 33 of the Strategic Report, and the Risk solutions to our customers difficult process Facilitation of Tax Evasion.
The policy sets Appetite Statement on page 83.
Based on challenges and our ability to adjust our out the Groups position on this matter and this assessment, the Directors confirm cost base.
details the steps each Group company is that they have a reasonable expectation Whilst no Board can ever fully foresee all to take to ensure that it does not facilitate, that the Company will be able to continue possible risks facing the business in the and is not at risk of facilitating, tax evasion in operation and meet its liabilities as future, the Directors are of the view that a by any associated persons.
The Committee they fall due over the three-year period to robust assessment was undertaken of the notes that a requirement of the new policy 31stDecember 2020. severe but plausible scenarios that may is for each Group company to complete a The Board believes that a three-year feasibly impact upon the business over the risk assessment questionnaire which will viability assessment period is appropriate next three years.
We have also assumed that be reviewed by the Group Finance team on as the timeframe is covered by the Groups our various finance facilities will continue to completion and during internal audit.
strategic plan: takes into account the nature be available.
Furthermore, the Board remains of the Groups principal risks, a number of confident in the Groups risk management Cybersecurity which are external and have the potential to process and the risk mitigation actions taken The focus on cybersecurity increased impact over short time periods.
While the to address identified risks.
The Group has identified the Board has no reason to believe that the A number of scenarios were developed information assets that are potentially at risk Group will not be viable over a longer period, from the Groups principal risks, and the from a cyberattack and is taking steps to given the inherent uncertainty involved, the impact on future viability of the two worst ensure the relevant protections are in place.
Board believes that a three-year period case scenarios happening simultaneously, The Committee will continue to monitor and presents readers of the Annual Report with was assessed.
Both scenarios were review this significant risk during 2018. a reasonable degree of confidence while still associated with economic and political Specifically, during 2017, significant providing a longer-term perspective.
disasters occurring in two of the Groups investments were made to drive stronger In making their assessment, the Directors largest territories with subsequent contagion defences.
These investments include a completed a robust assessment of the throughout the rest of the world.
Despite the next generation global firewall deployment, principal risks facing the Group, as set adverse impacts, no viability issues resulted.
Furthermore, out on pages 32 to 33, including those In addition to this impact assessment, the we are rolling out new tools to all desktops that would threaten its business model, Directors also considered the probability to increase our resilience to ransomware future performance, solvency or liquidity, of occurrence of the principal risks, the through improved malware protection and and undertook sensitivity and stress Companys ability to control them and web filtering, accompanied by an education testing to determine the potential impacts the effectiveness of mitigating actions.
Security policies have been of the occurrence of one or more of the No viability issues resulted.
improved with an extensive compliance principal risks on sales, profit, margin programme on core activities such as the Financial Reporting and cash.
In addition to completing an updating of Microsoft patches.
impact assessment of the principal risks, Council FRC conclusion the Directors considered the probability Group Management Code of review on Companys of occurrence of the principal risks, the During 2017, the Committee disclosures in respect of the Companys ability to control them and the oversaw and approved revisions significant judgements effectiveness of mitigating actions.
to the Group Management Code.
The Committee was pleased that following The revised Group Management Code The Groups resilient business model has the FRCs thematic review of the disclosure can be found on the Groups website, proven strong and defensive in the long term in the Groups 2016 Accounts in relation www.
com, on the and has enabled the business to prosper, to significant accounting judgements and Policies and procedures page, within the even in challenging market conditions.
sources of estimation uncertainty: i the Governance section.
The diversity of our end user markets and FRC had no substantive issues to raise with customers, broad product range, wide the Group and ii they included the Groups Viability statement geographic spread, high replacement disclosure as an example of better practice In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the revenue streams and large base of installed when they published the results of their UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, equipment worldwide, together with our thematic review.
the Directors have assessed the viability of effective direct sales business model, the Group over a three-year period, taking enhances the viability of the Group in the into account the Groups current financial 80 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Report Accountability Risk Management Committee Role of the Committee Summary of the key Summary of the key areas The Committee ensures that the Group Committee activities in 2017: of focus for 2018: has risk management policies and Conducted a bottom-up review of risk On-going monitoring of risk management procedures, including those covering project and internal controls Added three new risks to the risk register governance, sanctions and embargoes, Creation of new anti-bribery and Updated risks identified as principal risks human rights, business continuity and corruption training: Reviewed Group risk register and business management.
The Committee is updated programme to be rolled out principal risks responsible for the management and control across the Group of significant risks affecting the Group.
Confirmed Risk Appetite Statement training to move from bi-annual to Reviewed need for development of Crisis annual requirement Management Plan Ensure continuing publication and Developed guide and Group policy availability to employees of third-party regarding the criminal offence of failure to whistle-blowing helpline prevent facilitation of tax evasion Develop and test Crisis Management Plan Read more on pages 82-83 and ensure training of relevant employees How the Committee spent its time Membership and attendance during the year There were three meetings in 2017 10% Committee member Attendance Committee member Attendance 20% 10% N. J. Anderson 3 N. H. Daws 3 20% 20% 20% Risk management framework K. J. Boyd 3 J. L. Whalen 3 including risk appetite Review of principal risks Internal audit and tax compliance Internal controls Anti-bribery Crisis Management Plan The following executives are also members of the Committee: 1 Jim Devine Mike Sutter Andy Robson Group Human President and CEO, General Counsel and Resources Director Chromalox Inc. Company Secretary 1 Joined in July 2017 and attended both Committee meetings held after his appointment.
In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee attends a Risk Management Committee meeting at least once per year.
Using the information obtained from this years bottom-up risk review, and viewed through the lens of the standards set by our risk appetite ratings, the Committee continued to monitor and plan for risks to the Group.
Nicholas Anderson Risk Management Committee Chairman Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 81 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Accountability Risk Management Committee continued Responsibilities To identify and understand the risks To determine our appetite for risk To accept and manage within the To identify appropriate risk mitigation facing the Group business those risks which our techniques and countermeasures employees have the skills and expertise to understand and leverage second line of defence the Risk All operating companies are required The risk review process Management Committee, with the annually to complete self-certification The Committee has accountability for Audit Committee, ensures that the risk questionnaires regarding compliance with overseeing risk management processes and compliance framework is effective the policies, procedures and minimum and procedures.
This is accomplished with so as to facilitate the monitoring of risk requirements for an effective system of support from the Audit Committee.
The Risk management with on-going challenge and internal controls.
Self-certification is given by Management Committee reports to the review of the risk profile in the business: both the General Manager and the Finance Board on the risks facing the Group.
Further, and Manager of each operation.
the Committee is charged with the on-going monitoring of sufficient and effective third line of defence internal audits This system of analysing and incorporating provide independent testing and mitigation plans for relevant risks at each information directly from the Group verification of compliance with policies and Group operating company and division.
companies allows the Committee to procedures and monitoring of follow up continually assess new and changing risks in The Committee employs internal controls on actions where required.
the risk management process, including via This approach ensures that senior managers the external and internal audits, to ensure Further, while internal controls are not have full accountability for the management the Groups actions and activities are in line an absolute assurance against material of risks in their specific areas.
with Group objectives and policies.
At least misstatement or loss, the Board believes the once a year at a local level, each operating regular cycle of review paired with internal Internal controls company is required to undertake a formal monitoring provides a commercially sound An on-going review process for identifying review of the risks which impact, or have the approach to protect the Group from the risks and managing risks faced by the Group potential to impact, its business.
that are a necessary part of its operations.
The review The reviews are consolidated into As required by the UK Listing Authority, covers and assesses the effectiveness of Group-wide risk reports which are throughout the year and up to the date of the all material controls, including financial, maintained and reviewed by the Committee publication of the Annual Report, the Group operational and compliance controls and risk on a regular basis.
has complied with the Code provisions on management systems.
It ensures that proper internal controls.
accounting records have been maintained, We have a robust risk management process that financial information used within the in place through which we identify, evaluate With respect to Anti-Bribery and Corruption business is reliable and that the preparation and manage the principal risks that could ABC concerns, the Group has continued of the Consolidated and Company Financial impact the Groups performance.
to reinforce the message of zero tolerance Statements and the financial reporting for bribery and corruption within its During 2017, we reviewed the Groups process comply with all relevant regulatory business through the online ABC training.
exposure to risk using a bottom-up reporting requirements.
The system of Further, representatives of the Group Legal approach, collecting information and internal controls is designed to manage, function provided presentations to the evaluations for each Group operating rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to senior management of the Groups newly company.
The Committee analysed this achieve the business objectives.
acquired businesses to emphasise the information and updated our risk register to significance of the ABC policies and training, The Board has ultimate responsibility for reflect the relevant changes, which included as well as the whistle-blowing hotline, in the effective management of risk across the expanding the risks addressed in the register, developing and maintaining a commitment Group and determining risk appetite.
as well as the assessment of and action to ethical business practices.
To ensure the plans for each risk.
Our principal risks and The Board also has overall responsibility ABC training remains relevant, engaging the product of the 2017 review are set out for the system of internal controls and for and up-to-date, we will be developing on pages 32 to 33. reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of and rolling-out a new online ABC training management is to implement Board policies The Groups governance structure is set up programme in 2018. on risk and control.
so that there are three lines of defence within The Groups statement regarding the the risk management framework: Modern Slavery Act has been confirmed first line of defence the business is once again, and is set out on page 57. responsible for the identification, control and management of its own risks: 82 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Report During 2017, the Audit Committee and Internal audit Board determined that the size of the Each of the Group operating companies Internal audit provides Group and the growing function of the undergoes an internal audit at least once valuable assurance to the internal audit warranted the appointment every three years.
Operating companies Board that the Groups key of a Head of Internal Audit.
In November located in higher risk territories are audited 2017, DanHarvey was appointed to this risks are being managed more frequently.
Dan has nearly 20 years of international effectively.
All businesses acquired by the Group are internal audit experience across a range subject to internal audit within one year of businesses in the engineering and Dan Harvey, from the date of acquisition.
Internal audits Head of Internal Audit technology sectors.
A qualified chartered are conducted by experienced, qualified accountant and internal auditor, he has accounting staff from principal Group recently held senior audit roles at Experian operating companies and a professional and BAE Systems, and spent four years auditing firm, BDO International.
Reports are leading the internal audit and risk function made to the Audit Committee and the Board at Dyson.
Read more on page 78 The Committee has ensured compliance with centrally documented control procedures on such matters as capital expenditure, information and technology security and legal and regulatory compliance.
Risk Appetite Statement We recognise that risk is an inherent part of business and, in order to achieve our business aims, we must accept certain risks.
We seek to implement a balanced approach to risk, ensuring that our resources are protected while still pursuing opportunities to accelerate and deliver growth.
The decision to take opportunity-based risks should, to the greatest extent possible, be deliberate and calculated.
We aim to confirm that the level of risk is commensurate with the strategic and economic benefits the risk might bring: we evaluate our ability to control the risk or mitigate its effects, should that risk materialise: and we always assess the potential ethical considerations arising from knowingly accepting some level of risk.
An informed and well considered process is crucial to any decision to accept risk.
The Risk Management Committee has undertaken a thorough evaluation process to determine an appropriate risk appetite rating for each principal risk.
During 2017, we updated our risk register and amended the risks identified as the Groups principal risks.
The eight principal risks and the risk appetite ratings are set out on pages 32 to 33.
In summary, the Group has a very low appetite for risks that could lead to violations of health, safety and environmental legislation, or to breaches of legal and regulatory requirements.
In contrast, the Group has a high risk appetite in relation to economic and political instability: with decades of experience in successfully managing operations in volatile markets, we have the control procedures in place to handle the challenges that come with those risks and we appreciate that without taking risks in new, albeit sometimes unstable, territories we would miss out on valuable opportunities for growth.
As a whole, we consider that the risk appetite ratings for the eight principal risks demonstrate that the Group has an appropriate and balanced risk appetite.
As an organisation we are risk aware, but not risk averse.
We continually monitor and assess the risks facing the Group and evaluate our ability to control them and mitigate their effects.
Focusing on our strategic objectives, we evaluate our risk appetite and decisions to accept risk in a way that will ensure the on-going financial health of the Group.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 83 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
