Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report of Long term A long term view improves performance and the Company.
The Chairmans Statement and Portfolio Managers reduces costs: and Review on pages 3 to 7 also form part of the Strategic Report.
Cautious A focus on managing downside risk creates a Business and Status strong foundation for long term outperformance.
The Company carries on business as an investment company The Portfolio Managers key focus is on identifying attractively and has been accepted as an approved investment trust by valued companies which show good long term structural growth HM Revenue & Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the prospects and which he believes can grow their dividends over Corporation Tax Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing to the next few years, as he believes these are likely to outperform meet eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the over time.
Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the conditions for continued approval.
In order to identify these companies, the Portfolio Manager looks for the following main characteristics: The Company is registered as an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and its ordinary shares Positive fundamentals structural growth, disciplined use of are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
It is not a capital, proven business models: close company and has no employees.
Cash generative often a good indication of future dividend Investment Objective growth: The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growth principally from the stockmarkets of continental Europe.
Strong balance sheet ensures ability to grow dividends is not jeopardised: and As mentioned in the Chairmans Statement on page 4, the Board is seeking to amend the above investment objective.
Details Attractive valuation good quality at a reasonable price.
of the revised objective, and the consequential changes to the investment policy, can be found in the Appendix in the Notice of The Portfolio Manager draws upon the extensive research Meeting on pages 62 and 63. generated by Fidelitys team of pan-European analysts when researching companies.
This first hand research is fundamental to Strategy seeking success stories of the future.
A great deal of importance is In order to achieve this investment objective, the Company placed on attending company meetings.
Being a bottom-up stock operates as an investment company which has an actively picker, the Portfolio Manager aims to generate outperformance managed portfolio of investments, consisting primarily of through company selection, on a three to five year investment continental European securities.
As an investment company it is horizon, rather than through sector or country positions.
able to gear the portfolio and the Board takes the view that long term returns for shareholders can be enhanced by the use of Investment Policy gearing in a carefully considered and monitored way.
The Company invests principally in continental European securities with a view to achieving long term capital growth for shareholders.
As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the management The portfolio is selected by the Investment Manager on the basis of the portfolio and certain other services.
The Portfolio Manager of its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual aims to achieve a total return on the Companys net assets over situations.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual the longer term in excess of the Benchmark Index, the FTSE World countries and industry sectors is monitored, the portfolio is not Europe ex UK Index.
The stock selection approach adopted by structured primarily on a country or industrial weightings basis, the Portfolio Manager is considered to be well suited to achieving although certain investment restrictions apply in an attempt to the objective.
Although income is received by way of dividend diversify risk.
payments, the emphasis is on capital growth and the Board takes the view that investing in equities is a long term process.
A minimum of 80 per cent of gross assets will be invested in companies from countries which are included in the Benchmark The Companys objective and strategy have remained unchanged Index the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index.
throughout the year ended 31 December 2017.
Investment Philosophy, Style and Process The Portfolio Managers three principles for investing in equities are: Bottom up Stock selection with a focus on dividend growth: 8 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 A maximum of: To hedge equity market risks where suitable protection can be purchased to limit the downside of a falling market at a i 20 per cent of gross assets may be invested in stocks of reasonable cost.
European countries which are not included in the Companys Benchmark Index.
This will include investing in UK companies, To enhance the investment returns by taking short exposures defined as companies in the FTSE All-Share Index: and on stocks that the Investment Manager considers to be overvalued.
ii 5 per cent of gross assets may be invested in stocks of nonEuropean countries where these stocks have some exposure To enhance returns through writing covered call options and to, or connection with Europe.
Any investments in this category writing put options.
will count towards the 20 per cent maximum limit in paragraph i above.
The Board has created strict policies and exposure limits and sub-limits to manage derivatives.
These limits and their impacts A maximum of 10 per cent of the Companys gross assets may be are monitored by the Manager on a daily basis and reported invested in the aggregate of: regularly to the Board.
a securities not listed on a recognised stock exchange: and The Companys normal policy is to be geared in the belief that long term investment returns will exceed the costs of gearing.
This b holdings in which the interest of the Company amounts to 20 gearing will be obtained through the use of borrowing and or per cent or more of the equity capital of any listed company.
through the use of CFDs to obtain exposure to securities selected by the Investment Manager.
The effect of gearing is to magnify The Company will not invest more than 10 per cent of gross assets the consequence of market movements on the portfolio and if the in any one quoted company at the time of acquisition.
portfolio value rises the NAV will be positively impacted, but if it falls the NAV will be adversely impacted.
The Board is responsible A maximum of 5 per cent of the Companys gross assets may be for the order of magnitude of gearing in the Company while the held in unquoted securities in aggregate at any one time.
Investment Manager decides gearing on a day-to-day basis within a range set by the Board.
The level of gearing is reviewed at The maximum amount of cash or cash equivalents held by the every Board meeting.
Company will be 25 per cent of the Companys total net assets, but this limit will not include any cash or cash equivalent paid as The aggregate exposure of the Company to equities, including collateral for unrealised losses on derivatives.
In practice the cash as a result of borrowing and the use of derivatives but excluding position will normally be much lower.
hedging, will not exceed 130 per cent of total net assets a gearing level of 30 per cent at the time at which any derivative The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets of up to contract is entered into or a security acquired.
10 per cent of the Companys total net assets.
The aggregate exposure of the Company under short derivatives, The Board also reserves the right to hedge the portfolio by way of excluding hedges and covered call options, will not exceed 10 per currency.
cent of total net assets at the time at which any derivative contract is entered into.
A maximum of 10 per cent of the Companys gross assets may be invested in the securities of other investment companies including The aggregate exposure of the Company under covered call listed investment trusts.
options, being the notional exposure of the calls, will not exceed 20 per cent of total net assets at the time at which any derivative The Company may utilise derivative instruments, including indexis entered into.
The notional exposure of covered call options is linked notes, futures, contracts for difference CFDs, covered call the number of contracts written x the notional contract size x the options, put options and other equity-related derivative instruments market value of the underlying share price.
on a limited basis as a tool to meet the investment objective of the Company.
They are used principally in the following ways: It should be stressed that the majority of the Companys exposure to equities will be through direct investment, not through As an alternative form of gearing to bank loans.
In addition, the limits on exposure to individual would enter into long CFDs which would achieve an equivalent companies and groups will be calculated on the basis that the effect to buying an asset financed by bank borrowing but often Company has acquired the securities to which any derivative is at lower financing costs.
European country for the purposes of this paragraph means a country included within the FTSE All-World Europe Index and non-European is to be construed accordingly.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 9 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Strategic Report continued Performance Key Performance Indicators The Companys performance for the year ended 31 December The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the 2017, including a summary of the years activities, and details performance of the Company and which are comparable to those on trends and factors that may impact the future performance of reported by other investment companies are set out below.
the Company are included in the Chairmans Statement and the Year ended Year ended Portfolio Managers Review on pages 3 to 7.
The Portfolio Listing, 31 December 31 December the Distribution of the Portfolio, the Ten Year Record and the 2017 2016 Summary of Performance Charts can be found on pages 14 to 20.
% % Results and Dividends 1 NAV per Ordinary Share 20.0 17.6 The Companys results for the year ended 31 December 2017 are 1 Share Price 26.2 7.6 set out in the Income Statement on page 40.
The total return per ordinary share was 41.50 pence of which the revenue return was FTSE World Europe ex UK 4.37 pence.
1 Index 17.5 19.7 The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 4.35 pence per Discount to NAV ex-income 7.0 11.1 share for the year ended 31 December 2017 be paid on 18 May Discount to NAV cum-income 8.6 12.9 2018 to shareholders who appear on the register as at the close 2 Ongoing Charges 0.93 0.99 of business on 23 March 2018 ex-dividend date 22 March 2018.
1 Total returns Attribution Analysis 2 The Board regularly considers the costs of running the Company to ensure they are The attribution analysis table below shows how the increase in the reasonable and competitive NAV total return for the year ended 31 December 2017 has been Sources: Fidelity and Datastream achieved.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns Analysis of change in NAV during the year % In addition to the KPIs set out above, the Board regularly reviews Impact of: the Companys performance against its peer group of investment companies.
Long term performance is also monitored and the Ten Index 13.0 Year Record and the Summary of Performance Charts on pages Exchange Rate 4.5 18 to 20 show this information.
Gearing 0.4 Principal Risks and Uncertainties and Risk Management Stock Selection 3.2 As required by provision C. 2.1 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has a robust ongoing process Expenses -1.1 for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks NAV total return for the year ended and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The Board, with the 31 December 2017 20.0 assistance of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager FIL Investment Services UK Limited the Manager, has developed Sources: Fidelity and Datastream a risk matrix which, as part of the risk management and internal Past performance is not a guide to future returns controls process, identifies the key risks that the Company faces.
The risks identified are placed on the Companys risk matrix and graded appropriately.
This process, together with the policies and procedures for the mitigation of risks, is updated and reviewed regularly in the form of comprehensive reports considered by the Audit Committee.
The Board determines the nature and extent of any risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Manager also has responsibility for risk management for the Company.
It works with the Board to identify and manage the principal risks and uncertainties and to ensure that the Board can continue to meet its UK corporate governance obligations.
The Board considers the following as the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
There have been no changes to these since the prior year.
10 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation Market Risk The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and the principal risks are therefore market related such as market downturn, interest rate movements, and exchange rate movements.
The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect and increase the Companys assets against this background is core to the Companys continued success.
Risks to which the Company is exposed in the market risk category are included in Note 17 to the Financial Statements on pages 52 to 57 together with summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
Performance Risk The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative to the market requires the application of risk such as strategy, asset allocation and stock selection and may lead to underperformance of the Benchmark Index.
The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the Companys Benchmark and that of its competitors and the outlook for the market with the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for actively monitoring the portfolio selected in accordance with the asset allocation parameters and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
The emphasis is on long term results as the Company may experience volatility of performance in the shorter term.
Economic and Political Risk The Company may be impacted by economic and political risks, including from the UKs departure from the European Union Brexit.
Further details of the continuing process of Brexit are in the Chairmans Statement on page 3.
The Board regularly reviews economic and political risks.
Discount Control Risk The price of the Companys shares and its discount to NAV are factors which are not within the Companys total control.
The Board continues to adopt an active discount management policy.
Some short term influence over the discount may be exercised by the use of share repurchases at acceptable prices within the parameters set by the Board.
The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Manager and considered by the Board at each of its meetings.
Gearing Risk The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan facilities or to use CFDs to invest in equities.
The principal risk is that the Portfolio Manager may fail to use gearing effectively, resulting in a failure to outperform in a rising market or to underperform in a falling market.
Other risks are that the cost of gearing may be too high or that the term of the gearing is inappropriate in relation to market conditions.
The Company currently has no bank loans and gears through the use of long CFDs which provide greater flexibility and are significantly cheaper than bank loans.
The Board regularly considers the level of gearing and gearing risk and sets limits within which the Manager must operate.
Derivatives Risk Derivative instruments are used to enable both the protection and enhancement of investment returns.
There is a risk that the use of derivatives may lead to a higher volatility in the NAV and the share price than might otherwise be the case.
The Board has put in place policies and limits to control the Companys use of derivatives and exposures.
These are monitored on a daily basis by the Managers Compliance team and regular reports are provided to the Board.
Further details on derivative instruments risk is included in Note 17 on pages 52 to 57.
Cybercrime Risk The risk posed by cybercrime is rated as significant and the Board receives regular updates from the Manager in respect of the type and possible scale of cyberattacks.
The Managers technology team has developed a number of initiatives and controls in order to provide enhanced mitigating protection to this ever increasing threat.
Other risks facing the Company include: The Company may be impacted by changes in legislation, taxation or regulation.
These are monitored at each Board meeting and Tax and Regulatory Risks managed through active engagement with regulators and trade A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could bodies by the Manager.
lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
Operational Risks The Company relies on a number of third party service providers, principally the Manager, Registrar, Custodian and Depositary.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 11 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Strategic Report continued It is dependent on the effective operation of the Managers The Companys performance has been strong since launch.
The control systems and those of its service providers with regard Board regularly reviews the investment policy and considers to the security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, whether it remains appropriate.
The Board has concluded that accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able requirements.
They are all subject to a risk-based programme of to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due internal audits by the Manager.
In addition, service providers own over the next five years based on the following considerations: internal control reports are received by the Board on an annual basis and any concerns are investigated.
The Managers compliance with the Companys investment objective, its investment strategy and asset allocation: Continuation Vote The fact that the portfolio mainly comprises readily realisable A continuation vote takes place every two years.
There is a risk securities which can be sold to meet funding requirements if that shareholders do not vote in favour of the continuation of the necessary: Company during periods when performance of the Companys NAV and share price is poor.
At the Companys AGM held on The Boards discount management policy: and 15 May 2017, 99.84% of shareholders voted in favour of the continuation of the Company.
The next continuation vote will take The ongoing processes for monitoring operating costs and place at the AGM in 2019. income which are considered reasonable in comparison to the Companys total assets.
Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate In addition, the Directors assessment of the Companys ability to Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects operate in the foreseeable future is included in the Going Concern of the Company over a longer period than the twelve month Statement in the Directors Report on page 22.
The Company is period required by the Going Concern basis.
The Company also subject to a continuation vote at the AGM in 2019.
The Board is an investment trust with the objective of achieving long term has a reasonable expectation that the Company will continue in capital growth.
The Board considers long term to be at least operation and meet its liabilities as they occur.
It therefore expects five years and accordingly, the Directors believe that five years is that the vote, when due, will be approved.
an appropriate investment horizon to assess the viability of the Company, although the life of the Company is not intended to be See proposed changes to the investment objective and policy in limited to this or any other period.
the Appendix to the Notice of Meeting on pages 62 and 63.
In making an assessment on the viability of the Company, the Board Diversity Board has considered the following: The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for The ongoing relevance of the investment objective in prevailing the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As market conditions: at 31December 2017, there were two female and four male Directors on the Board.
This will change to two female and The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and three male Directors when James Robinson steps down at the their potential impact: forthcoming AGM.
The future demand for the Companys shares: Employee, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues The Companys share price discount to the NAV: The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive and its day-to-day activities are carried out by third The liquidity of the Companys portfolio: parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to make in respect of employees.
The level of income generated by the Company: and The Fidelity group of companies including the Manager, FIL Future income and expenditure forecasts.
Investment Services UK Limited and FIL Investments International encourages Environmental, Social and Governance ESG factors in its investment decision making process.
It has been a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI since 2012 and submits an annual report detailing how it incorporates ESG into its investment analysis.
12 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights as it has no employees and its operational processes are delegated.
As an investment company, the Company does not provide goods and services in the normal course of business and has no customers.
Accordingly, the Board considers that the Company is not within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which has won awards for its environmental awareness and further details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon footprint.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited and FIL Investments International are registered with the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
Socially Responsible Investment The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in the Managers view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Corporate Engagement The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there are any particularly controversial issues which are then referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for corporate engagement and shareholder voting to the Manager.
These activities are reviewed regularly by the Managers corporate governance team.
Future Developments Some trends likely to affect the Company in the future are common to many investment companies together with the impact of regulatory change.
The factors likely to affect the Companys future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 3 to 7.
By Order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 14 March 2018 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 13 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
