Our business explained Our business model illustrates Our resources in simple terms how we create and relationships shareholder value through improving the strength of our premium brand, and through the delivery of profits and dividends to shareholders.
Our business We treat every client as an model individual and take time to understand what they need and how we can best service them.
We have built our brand and reputation on We work hard to ensure that our people enjoy working at Savills promoting their the quality of our people, relationships, resources and processes.
Savills has a personal and professional development.
We encourage them to develop their strong and well embedded culture, founded on an entrepreneurial approach and careers within the Group, nurturing the entrepreneurs and leaders of the future underpinned by our values and operational standards.
All that we do is underpinned by to share in the success of thebusiness.
strong governance, a disciplined approach We firmly believe that our people are key to to risk management and high standards of delivering excellent service to our clients and responsibility, which supports the achieving our objectives: they give us sustainable development of our business.
a unique perspective of the markets in which More detail of our governance structure, we operate and connect our clients with real policies and practices can be found later estate opportunities and market intelligence.
in this Annual Report on pages 38 to 59.
To be the real estate adviser of choice in our We are committed to delivering a high markets, and deliver superior financial quality service and creating long-term performance, we aim to employ people of relationships with our clients.
Because of our the highest quality supporting the delivery of personal approach to business, our people the highest standards of client service.
By are fundamental to our business and we choosing Savills, our clients have access to encourage an open and supportive culture over 34,000 staff with a broad range of in which every individual is respected.
We experience, skills and local knowledge, strive to provide an environment in which based in offices in key real estate locations our people can flourish and succeed.
across the globe and benefit from our This allows us to recruit, motivate and extensive market research material.
retain talented people and build on our status as an employer of choice.
Our value creation Savills plc 08 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Outstanding Long-term client Intellectual Financial people relationships property Client care Market Prudent capital Local knowledge programmes intelligence structure Entrepreneurial High quality Brand and Strong cash approach servicer reputation generation Defensive, scale business Cyclical high-margin businesses Property and facilities management Commercial 32% transactions 36% Consultancy Revenue 17% by business Residential transactions 11% Investment management 4% Underpinned by Our values Governance Disciplined approach to risk Risk mitigation to limit exposure Pride in everything we do Board oversight to any one market or economy Take an entrepreneurial approach High standards of governance Business and geography to business diversification Help our people fulfil their true potential Always act with integrity Shareholders Clients People Community Dividends Underlying Training and development Reducing High quality service earnings Restructured training environmental impact 30.2p per share Client care programme Carbon emission reduction Client relationship 75.8p Employee engagement Community investment Underlying management team Achieved One Star status Community engagement profit Diversity programmes 140.5m UK Diversity Group Savills plc 09 Report and Accounts 2017
