Strategic Report Our strategy in action Increase direct sales effectiveness 1 through sector focus As we sectorise our sales force around key industries, and align our products and services in support of this, we increase our ability to self-generate growth and provide value to customers.
During 2016 and 2017, Spirax Sarco Korea Maintaining customer service throughout the undertook a programme to increase the period of change was essential and the process sectorisation of its direct sales force.
Until recently, required detailed planning prior to implementation.
the companys sales force was divided into two To ensure a smooth transition, industry sales and teams: Project Sales and End-User Sales, with market size were analysed, industrial distribution some sector specialists in each team.
Four new was mapped, individual and collective industry sales departments have now been created to knowledge and application expertise were align sales engineers with key industries: reviewed, as were relationships with key accounts and customers.
Extensive training has been Team1 Food & Beverage, Healthcare and delivered to ensure maximum efficacy of the new General Industries: sales teams.
Team 2 Electric and Electronics: Spirax Sarco Korea is already seeing the benefits Team 3 Oil & Gas and Chemicals: and of these changes with increased sales efficiency and revenue generated from key industries.
By the end of the year, 40% of sales and service engineers were aligned to an industry sector.
Spirax Sarco Technical Consultants, Sangyoon Lee and Gunsun Shin, review a boiler control panel on a customer site, South Korea 22 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Rob Shipton Senior Trainer with graduate engineers Chola Shanyinde and Sean Spencer in the UK Steam Technology Centre Develop the knowledge and skills of our expert 2 sales and service teams The knowledge of our sales and service engineers is a key differentiator.
We invest extensively in the professional development of our people, building a level of expertise that is unrivalled by our competitors.
Recruiting talented young engineers and year rotational programme.
Each graduate will developing their knowledge, skills and expertise is experience four six-month placements, tailored essential for the on-going success of the Group.
to their individual interests and designed to In 2013 we developed an award winning graduate provide a broad range of business experience programme in our UK Spirax Sarco Steam across functions such as Product Development, Specialties company, which has attracted many Manufacturing, Sales, Business Development, highly talented engineers.
Building on the success Marketing, or Health, Safety & the Environment.
of that programme, in 2017 we launched a Group One of the four placements will be held in an Global Graduate Development Programme, to overseas operating company, ensuring firstincrease the number of placements that we can hand experience of the multi-national nature of offer, facilitate inter-company movement and the Group.
16 graduates joined the programme widen the range of opportunities and experiences in 2017, in the USA, Mexico, Argentina, Italy, available to programme participants.
We are recruiting high-calibre graduates, primarily Through investing in a Global Graduate with a STEM Science, Technology, Engineering Programme, we are adopting a co-ordinated and Mathematics background, to join a two approach to replenishing our pipeline of talent.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 23 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Our strategy in action continued Broaden our global presence 3 Our strong global infrastructure enables us to rapidly branch into neighbouring markets or leverage our existing infrastructure to pioneer the introduction of our businesses and technologies into new markets.
In January 2017, Watson-Marlow FluidTechnology customer value proposition and is crucial for Group began trading via a newly established sales the successful transition from distributor to company in Indonesia, having previously served direct sales.
The move to During 2017, the new company primarily focused direct selling brings a better focus to this growing on two core markets: the Pharmaceutical & market, increases the number of customers Biotechnology and Food & Beverage industries, that can be served and conveys the companys and sales have exceeded expectations.
The new expertise and advanced technologies into a operation is led by General Manager previously untapped market.
Rahmi Hidayati who, prior to joining WatsonPrior to commencing trading, during 2016 Marlow, had over 14 years of experience working Watson-Marlow intensively trained a local in the Biopharmaceutical industry.
Training took place within the in-depth understanding of the Biopharmaceutical region, supported by Watson-Marlows global market has had a significant impact on the training programme.
Having sector specialist, companys ability to quickly establish a foothold in expert engineers who understand customers this important industry.
applications is central to Watson-Marlows Rahmi Hidayati, General Manager of Watson-Marlow Indonesia 24 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report A CCX Cast Block Heater from Chromalox, installed in a customers plant in Italy Leverage our R&D investments 4 We leverage R&D investments to meet changing customer requirements, improve our offering, respond to market trends, expandour addressable market and maintain our market-leading position in eachof our business niches.
Chromalox is a highly innovative company with an condensation prevention for turbines, fuel oil active product pipeline and a vitality index of 15%.
pre-heating, water pre-heating, steam Amongst several new products launched in 2017 superheating, and air, CO and nitrogen heating.
2 was the CCX Cast Block Heater, which allows The CCX heater, part of the XtremeDuty Chromalox to be more competitive in the Power platform due to its ability to handle high Generation and Oil & Gas markets, particularly in pressures, has ASME American Society of Europe and Russia.
Mechanical Engineers and PED EU Pressure The unique construction of the Chromalox CCX Equipment Directive pressure certification: heater which utilises an immersion heater marine grade casting, making it suitable for and coiled tubing set in an aluminium casting salt-laden environments such as offshore allows for the indirect heating of fluids or gases platforms: an explosion-proof terminal enclosure up to pressures of 3,500 psi 241bar, with an junction box : and is IECEx International Trade option for up to 7,500 psi 517 bar, at a process of Electrical Equipment used in Explosive temperature of 200C.
Chromalox CCX heaters Atmospheres and ATEX EU equipment directive are suited to a variety of industrial process rated, meaning that it can be safely used in applications, including seal gas heating and hazardous environments.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 25 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Our strategy in action continued Optimise supply chain effectiveness 5 We operate a regional manufacturing strategy and focus on increasing supply chain agility and compressing lead times to enable greater responsiveness, reduce costs and improve customer service.
During 2017, we invested 1.4 million to develop The new facility in Singapore, which opened a new 1,500m distribution centre in Singapore in September 2017, will significantly increase to serve our Steam Specialties divisions sales supply chain efficiency.
The consolidation of companies throughout the Asia Pacific region and demand will increase the range of products an accompanying 1,800m office space to house offered in the region, without the need for sales our Singapore sales company, South East Asia companies to increase stock, and is expected headquarters, Asia Pacific divisional headquarters to reduce air freight in the region by around and training facilities.
The installation of a regional inventory management system will improve regional stock Historically, sales companies across Asia Pacific visibility, shorten lead times and reduce stock have sourced core stock directly from our regional replenishment time by an average of 13 days.
manufacturing centre in China and supplementary Cumulatively, these benefits will significantly stock from our manufacturing sites in Europe or improve customer service throughout the region.
the Americas, leading to a complex supply chain and limited visibility of regional product availability.
2 1,500m distribution centre, Spirax Sarco Singapore 26 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Jemma Moore, Environment, Health &Safety Manager, Spirax Sarco UK Operate sustainably and help improve our 6 customers sustainability In a resource constrained and competitive world, sustainability makes good business sense.
As we focus on improving our own operational sustainability and deliver innovative solutions that improve the sustainability of our customers operations, we create value and drive growth.
As part of our goal to improve the sustainability In addition, we have worked to improve waste of our operations and reduce our environmental management internally, increasing on-site impacts, in June 2017 we were pleased to attain segregation of waste streams to facilitate ease of zero waste to landfill at our Cheltenham-based off-site processing.
We have developed an internal manufacturing site and Group headquarters, which educational campaign for 2018 to raise awareness we intend to maintain from this point forward.
amongst our employees of the importance of waste segregation, describe what happens to the To achieve this milestone we worked with our waste we produce, and highlight the business and waste management providers to ensure that they environmental benefits of good waste management.
proactively segregate, re-use and recycle waste.
For example, all food waste is sent to an anaerobic As a result of the actions undertaken in 2017, we digestion facility and is used to generate electricity, will prevent approximately 35 tonnes of waste being while a wide range of plastics, metals, papers and sent to landfill annually.
Any general waste that cannot be recycled, which would historically have been sent to landfill, is now used to generate energy.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 27 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
