Governance Report Effectiveness Board evaluation The internal effectiveness review supported In accordance with the Code an annual Board evaluation the overall conclusion of the 2015 external review of the effectiveness of the Board is During 2017, the Board carried out an evaluation that the Board is collegiate, undertaken with input from an independent internal evaluation of the performance of transparent and effective.
In particular, it was external adviser every three years.
the Board and the Board Committees, noted that the Board is well-balanced across The process used for the external evaluation in accordance with the provisions of the skill sets and backgrounds and has a good is set out below.
The General Counsel and Company dynamic, with open discussion and the Secretary, on behalf of the Chairman, ability to table challenging points of view.
circulated a comprehensive questionnaire to members of the Board covering all issues The main recommendations, following the related to the effective running of the Board review, are: and the functioning of the Committees.
Board review of long-term risks linked to The responses were consolidated and the Strategic Plan: anonymised and common themes identified Non-Executive Director knowledge update in order for the Board to determine key via the Deloitte Academy: and actions and next steps for improving Board and Committee effectiveness succession planning - continue with current plans and focus.
External evaluation process Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5 Feedback Briefing shared with and Board Chairmen observation of Board and Committees One-to-one interviews with Board members Results collected, Action plan Review and the summarised and process General Counsel agreed evaluated and Company Feedback to Secretary Board and Board discussion Meeting observation Review of information flow 72 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Report Board evaluation findings Summary of recommendations following Summary of recommendations following Summary of key actions following internal external review in 2015 internal review in 2016 review in 2017 Refresh the Board and Executive Board to ensure up-to-date succession Please see the implementation of this plan Director succession plan plans are in place for the Board, Group on pages 75 to 76 Chief Executive and key management roles Board contact with major Non-Executive Directors have Board to facilitate contact, where shareholders requested increased contact with major appropriate.
In August 2017, Bank of shareholders America Merrill Lynch presented an investor perspective of the Group Update and refresh skills and Directors to be given sufficient June Board meeting at Spirax Sarco knowledge opportunity to familiarise themselves with Argentina including Board presentations key aspects of the Groups businesses from a broad range of senior managers processes, products, sales staff, Introduction of Governance training customers and competitors through the Deloitte Academy, the last Board to be given sufficient opportunity session having been held in February to update and refresh their skills and 2018 knowledge Review the maturity of the internal Appoint Head of Internal Audit Head of Internal Audit joined the audit function Company inNovember 2017 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 73 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Effectiveness Training and development The Board visits Group operating companies regulatory matters, governance, finance and Training and development where possible and other relevant industry investor relations.
The Board is regularly notified of changes to events such as major trade exhibitions.
relevant laws and regulations, with a report In the case of an Executive Director, this In June, the Board visited Spirax Sarco at each Board meeting from the General will include visits to our principal operating Argentina with presentations covering Counsel and Company Secretary.
companies in the Group in order to the Americas from members of the understand the international nature of our All the Directors are members of the management team.
business and, where appropriate, meetings Deloitte Academy, giving them access to In addition, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with key shareholders and analysts.
It is a comprehensive programme of training attended a Board meeting to give an investor essential that our Directors have a solid and technical support on a wide range of perspective of the Group.
grasp of our products and services and, in corporate governance matters to enable addition to product technical information and the Directors to update their knowledge Board induction marketing brochures, inductees are given and keep them informed of their duties.
On joining the Board, all new Directors an in-depth tour of our manufacturing and Non-Executive Directors are invited to receive a tailored and comprehensive R&D site in Cheltenham and are encouraged attend Group conferences, which provide induction programme, comprising a to take engineering courses at our UK information on business strategy, new combination of briefings and meetings Steam Technology Centre located at our product development and sales and with the Directors, General Counsel and Headquarters.
Directors also visit WMFTG marketing initiatives.
Business presentations Company Secretary, corporate advisers and in Falmouth to gain an understanding of the are given at Board meetings to ensure the senior management.
This covers Directors fluid technology business.
Directors are kept informed of new product duties and the UK listing regime, an overview development, regional operations, business of the business, its operations, risks and strategies and employee development.
Reflections on my first year Jane Kingston It has been a great pleasure to work with the Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Board and other colleagues during the past year.
I have been impressed by the strong governance, transparency and team working culture that is clearly present across the Group.
As a new Board member, I have had interactions with many parts of the business at Board meetings.
I have also had the opportunity to visit a number of Group companies, from Watson-Marlows operations in Falmouth, UK, to Spirax Sarco Argentina, and visited customers with field based colleagues engineers.
All this has enabled me to observe firsthand the implementation of the Groups strategic priorities.
After each visit or meeting I come away reflecting on how deeply passionate all of my colleagues are about the business and how focused they are on our customers.
Indeed, I am indebted to colleagues for their support and engagement in my first year.
This year, as a Board, we have focused extensively on both organic growth opportunities and also the significant acquisitions of Gestra and Chromalox.
As a member of the Nomination Committee I am pleased with the thoughtful and thorough succession planning we are undertaking to ensure long-term business continuity both for the Board and senior management.
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I have been impressed by the importance that Spirax Sarco attaches to its relationship with its shareholders and the quality of the engagement process.
Finally, I would like to extend a thank you to Bill Whiteley and all my fellow Directors who have made me extremely welcome in my first year and encouraged me to bring my experience to bear and to learn from their experience in equal measure.
Jane Kingston Independent Non-Executive Director 74 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Report Effectiveness Nomination Committee Role of the Committee Summary of the key Summary of the key areas The main role of the Committee is to Committee activities in 2017: of focus for 2018: recommend changes to the Board and Appointment of Jamie Pike as Chairman Board and Committee consider succession planning for the future.
succession planning Appointment of Clive Watson as Senior Independent Director Executive Director succession planning Appointment of Peter France as an independent Non-Executive Director Succession planning Reviewed tenure of Non-Executive Directors Reviewed Board and executive management diversity Read more on page 76 How the Committee spent its time Membership and attendance during the year There were two meetings in 2017 Committee member Attendance Committee member Attendance 1 2 10% W. H. Whiteley 1 J. Pike 2 40% 20% 30% N. J. Anderson 2 G. E. Schoolenberg 2 Succession planning Recruitment Diversity Board and Committee composition J. S. Kingston 2 C. G. Watson 2 1 2 Absence due to illness.
Board succession has been our principal priority this year.
The right balance of skills, international experience and diversity amongst our Directors is essential for the long-term future of the Company.
Bill Whiteley Nomination Committee Chairman Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 75 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Effectiveness Nomination Committee continued Responsibilities Make appropriate recommendations Review the structure and composition Recommend any proposed changes Consider succession planning to the Board for the appointment, of the Board with regard to the to the Board arrangements for Directors and, re-appointment or replacement overall balance of skills, knowledge moregenerally, senior executives of Directors and experience against current and perceived future requirements of the Group on succession planning made by DrLong of the diversity of our international footprint with Review of 2017 Boardroom Review Ltd in 2015.
The most future appointments to the Board.
At the 2018 AGM, Bill Whiteley will retire, recent review of succession planning by Jamie Pike will be appointed as Chairman Normalised for succession changes, we the full Board and the executive and senior and CliveWatson will be appointed as Senior currently exceed 20% gender diversity on the management team was undertaken as part Independent Director.
Board and we are committed to a target of a of the strategic review meeting held in June minimum of 33% women on our Board, the Jamie Pikes appointment follows a rigorous 2017.
In respect of all positions Korn Ferry Group Executive and their reports.
We ensure and independent selection process was instructed to advise on the suitability that this target is taken into account in our conducted in accordance with the Code.
of candidates against a job description succession planning and recruitment.
The process was led by a Nomination approved by the Sub-Committee Committee.
Sub-Committee made up entirely of We support the promotion of women to Korn Ferry provides no other services to independent Non-Executive Directors senior positions throughout the Group and, the Group.
and chaired by CliveWatson, the most during the last 12 months, women were A review of the tenure of the Non-Executive senior independent Non-Executive Director appointed as: Financial Controller, EMEA Directors was undertaken as part of the who was not conflicted.
The current Business Partner, Recruitment Manager, succession planning and we shall ensure that, Chairman, Bill Whiteley, and Jamie Pike, Senior Human Resources Business Partner, at all times, the number of independent Nonas a candidate, were excluded from the Group Human Resources Projects Manager, Executive Directors is the same or more than process in accordance with Code provision Head of Human Resources Watson-Marlow the number of Executive Directors so that we B.
The Sub-Committee developed a job UK, Head of Human Resources Asia Pacific, remain compliant with the Code.
specification and appointed Korn Ferry as an Head of Human Resources Americas, Group independent search and recruitment agency.
The appointment of Peter France is part of Talent Partner Spirax Sarco, Inc. USA, Korn Ferry assisted the Sub-Committee with the succession planning being undertaken to General Manager Asia Pacific Gestra and the evaluation of Jamie Pike against the job recruit Directors with the skills and experience Global Director Environmental, Health and specification and determined that he was to support the implementation of the Groups Safety Chromalox, USA, with a number of well qualified to perform the role.
Peter brings with him a these being internal promotions.
appointment was approved by the full Board broad range of relevant sector experience, We continue to offer practical support for following interviews with all Directors.
particularly his extensive services experience the Department for Business Innovation from his time at Rotork plc.
Jamie will step down as Chairman and and Skills Women on Boards FTSE Director of Ibstock plc on 24th May We cultivate a culture of achievement 250 initiative by encouraging two women 2018.
He will continue as Chairman of and career progression.
High-potential from our senior management team to RPCGroupplc.
This will bring his total FTSE individuals are supported in their professional serve as Non-Executive Directors on other Board chairmanships to two and, therefore, development through our Leadership company Boards.
the Board is satisfied that Jamie will have Academy, in conjunction with Ashridge We participated in the FTSE Women Leaders the time and capacity to fulfil his duties Business School, and our Advancing Hamilton-Alexander Review in June 2017. as Chairman of the Company.
Two FTSE High Performance programme for senior chairmanships is also compliant with the 2017 managers.
We also encourage leadership Direct reports to the Executive proxy adviser voting guidelines including those development through robust succession Committee excluding administrative issued by Institutional Shareholder Services planning and an individualised performance support staff : and Glass Lewis.
Jamie will, on appointment management culture.
as Chairman, resign from the Audit and During 2017, we formalised our commitment Remuneration Committees, in compliance 8 to the promotion of diversity as we with the Code.
He will chair the Board and the established a Group Diversity and Inclusion Nomination Committee.
The Group recognises the importance Peter France was appointed as an of diversity at all levels of the Company as well 27 independent Non-Executive Director as on the Board.
with effect from March 2018, and We believe that the Boards perspective and has joined the Audit, Nomination and approach is greatly enhanced by gender, age Number of Direct Reports Men Remuneration Committees.
and cultural diversity and it is our policy to Number of Direct Reports Women The Board changes set out above are the consider overall Board balance and diversity implementation of our succession plan to when appointing new Directors.
As shown With 22.2% of women on our Board ensure that appointments for Board roles on page 62, the range of nationalities and and 19.5% of the combined Executive are phased with the benefit of adequate experience of our Board is particularly Committee and their direct reports being handover periods, ensuring a smooth relevant given the broad international reach female, we ranked 124th in the FTSE transition.
They follow the recommendations of the Group and we will seek to increase 250 companies.
76 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017
