Strategic Report Acquisitions in 2017 The perfect fit What do these acquisitions bring How do you plan to ensure that to the Group?
management wont be distracted During 2017, a very rare opportunity arose to by the integration process?
acquire two outstanding businesses: Gestra The Board and Group Executive Committee and Chromalox.
invested considerable time to ensuring that Gestras and Chromaloxs acquisition Gestra is highly complementary to the objectives are supported by detailed Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties division and Steam system specialist and implementation plans.
Prior to the acquisition will enhance the implementation of Spirax technology leader in advanced industrial of Gestra, we engaged an external, Sarcos strategy for growth, as a result of its boiler controls independent operations and integration team well-developed capabilities in a wide range to undertake due diligence in relation to our of industries and applications.
Gestra brings Headquartered in Bremen, Germany synergy and integration plans and we have market-leading boiler controls to our 186 million acquisition, May 2017 appointed a highly experienced manager product portfolio.
from the Spirax Sarco steam business to Increases the Steam Specialties divisions Chromalox is closely related to the Spirax lead the company.
market share Sarco Steam Specialties division in Chromalox is being run as a stand-alone delivering thermal energy management global business unit, led by a strong, longsolutions to customers, with the decision serving executive team that has remained between using steam or electricity as a with the business, minimising the need for heating medium being driven by application significant integration activities.
Chromalox expands our total addressable Elsewhere in the Group we maintain our market by over 2 billion.
rigorous focus on implementing our strategy for organic growth.
What do you see as the main opportunities for growth?
Are more large-scale acquisitions Due to its strong brand, Gestra will operate in the pipeline?
Specialist provider of electrical alongside the Spirax Sarco steam business, As we focus on embedding both the products, systems and solutions targeting global growth in its key market Gestra and Chromalox acquisitions, we do for industrial process heating and sectors.
We will invest in Gestras product not anticipate any large-scale acquisitions temperature management and market development to extend its in 2018. addressable market, delivering enhanced Headquartered in Pittsburgh, USA value to both customers and shareholders.
Has the Group strategy changed?
US$415 million acquisition, July 2017 Our strategy, which allows for targeted We will leverage our worldwide footprint acquisitions, has not changed and we Expands our addressable market by to grow Chromaloxs presence outside its continue to focus on actions to help us self- 2.4bn core markets in the USA and will support generate sales and achieve organic growth.
the companys research and development Acquisitions will continue to supplement programme to ensure that it continues to organic growth, rather than supplant it.
deliver innovative new products to customers and drives sustainable value creation.
We are delighted to bring Gestra and Chromalox into the Spirax Sarco family.
These businesses are a perfect fit for the Group and, as they grow, will deliver enhanced value to both customers and shareholders.
Nicholas Anderson Group Chief Executive 20 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017
