Housing market overview The housing market trends our new strategy responds to Demand continues to Low interest rates and good Supportive government policy outstrip supply mortgage availability The Government continues to be There continues to be a high demand Despite the recent increase in interest rates supportive of the industry recognising for housing as the industry has struggled they remain low by historical standards.
the importance of continuing to to expand quickly enough over recent This coupled with competitive pricing build new homes to meet the current years whilst maintaining the required level within the industry mean low mortgage housing shortage.
The Help to Buy of quality.
This is due to several issues, rates that continue to boost the industry.
equity loan scheme has helped including within our planning system and Most observers expect interest rates to thousands of buyers purchase a newsupply chain that are touched on later, remain low, mortgage availability to remain build home and it has encouraged and has resulted in the UK facing a severe strong and lenders to provide reasonable housebuilders including Bovis Homes housing shortage.
However, this demand period fixed rate deals to their customers.
to focus on homes under 600,000. for housing means that the outlook for However, there is always the risk that the A further 10 billion of funding has just the industry remains positive, with output mortgage market could become restricted been announced to keep the scheme in continuing to increase and prices expected by government policy or that economic place until at least 2021. to remain stable.
circumstances lead to rising interest rates.
Constraints on labour resource Responding to government Delays caused by detailed regulations and standards A lack of skills to meet the demand for planning challenges labour is a challenge for our industry Whilst the Government continues to Our relationships with government and and we are strongly focused on strongly support the sector there have public bodies are important in delivering developing skills, particularly through been three recent items that have led to the necessary volume of detailed planning our apprenticeship scheme and our Site some fallout within the industry.
Firstly, the consents and technical approvals required Management training.
Where possible we use of leaseholds to sell houses has been to meet the UKs housing shortage.
partner with our supply chain to develop looked at and the Government has recently Planning authorities continue to be under strong relationships that allow them to proposed banning the use of leaseholds resourced, affecting their capacity to invest in bringing more people into our related to the sale of houses.
This is a manage applications and develop local industry.
The EU vote could have an impact practice that was not adopted by Bovis plans.
The emphasis on neighbourhood on the labour market in time if there is less Homes and will therefore have no impact.
plans and consenting to fewer larger sites access to skilled European workers.
Secondly, the perceived fall in the quality has constrained outlet growth across the of new homes being produced is being sector where no National Planning Policy looked at with several options open to the Framework-compliant local plan is in place Government including the possibility of and adopted.
Most observers expect a new Ombudsman.
Given our renewed interest rates to remain low, Good land availability focus on delivering a great quality home mortgage availability to to our customers we welcome this review Short-term land availability remains good and will work with whatever measures are remain strong and lenders supported by the overall planning regime put in place.
to provide reasonable across the country.
Outline planning approvals are outstripping housing output period fixed rate deals to Finally the recent review into build out and this is delivering a sustainable supply their customers rates by the Government may lead of land into the market.
to proposals to impact the speed of production on some sites.
Whilst we Implications of brexit support this aim the key challenges to Whilst the full implications of leaving the deliver this are certainty of demand in EU will remain unknown for a long period specific locations and the availability of time there is some uncertainty for our of labour.
Restrictions in the availability of EU labour could have significant consequences for the availability of labour which is already a constraint to growth.
There are also regulatory uncertainties around current EU legislation, especially from an environmental perspective and potential impacts in our supply chain.
| | 8 Strategic report Business overview Strategic report | Business overview Housing market Demand continues to outstrip supply - outlook for the industry remains positive | Bovis Homes Group PLC 9 | | 10 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Creating sustainable communities Committed to delivering high quality homes Shorelands, Bude | Bovis Homes Group PLC 11
