Market insights Case Study Spotlight on Europe The European economy enjoyed the strongest period of Gibson Hotel, Ireland economic growth in more than a decade, despite lingering political uncertainty.
Business expansion continued to drive Savills completed the sale of The Gibson Hotel, Dublin for office demand, often driven by the tech sector and by approximately 87m to Deka Immobilien M&Aactivity.
Consumer confidence was improving with demand for prime high streets driven by Fashion, Sports, Beauty and Technology brands, opening large inspirational flagship lifestyle stores, as well as by the expanding presence of F&B.
Additionally big box retailers were experimenting with smaller stores in tight, fast growing urban locations, with the additional benefit of easier pick-up and delivery services for online orders.
Demand for logistics space has been rising across Europe, driven by improved economic conditions, rising trade volumes, and expanding e-commerce.
Last mile logistics strengthened demand for mid-sized distribution centres, while the need for large-scale distribution centres in traditional logistics hubs continued to grow.
In 2017 the total investment volume across our markets totalled 234bn, a 7% increase year on year thanks to strong investment growth in the second half of the year.
Cross border investment accounted for over 50% of the total compared to 44% the previous year, with Asian investors overtaking the US to become the largest overseas investors in Europe.
Offices continue to be the asset class of choice accounting for 46% of the total investment volume.
However, lack of stock and competitive pricing was driving investors to other asset classes.
Of particular note, the industrial sector saw the biggest increase in investor demand accounting for 15% of the total investment volume, up from 11% in 2016 and 9% in 2015.
UK Case Study Property Management Royal Exchange, Internal Courtyard We act on behalf of the Landlord in managing The Royal Exchange located adjacent to Bank Station in the heart of the City of London.
Opened in 1844 by Queen Victoria, this iconic and historic Grade I listed mixed-use scheme comprises over 30 contemporary retailers as well as four restaurants and cafs at ground and mezzanine levels comprising approximately 40,000 sq ft.
The Royal Exchange is a luxury destination where the City converges to meet, eat and shop.
It offers an unrivalled collection of boutique shopping and dining, specially curated for the Square Mile.
Occupiers include Herms, Smythson, Watches of Switzerland, Boodles and Tiffany & Co. amongst others.
The impressive central courtyard is used for numerous large scale events including weddings and also serves as backdrop for television filming.
Savills have been involved with The Royal Exchange since 2014 providing management and building consultancy services.
Savills plc 10 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Spotlight on UK The commercial property investment market in the UK surprised on the upside in 2017, with turnover for the full year of just under 66bn against our forecast at the start of 2017 of 55bn.
This meant that 2017 was the second best year on record, a surprising result given the negativity around Brexit that was rife at the start of last year.
Just under half of last years acquisitions were by non-domestic investors, with this proportion rising to 80% in the Greater London market.
The single most active source of capital was Asia Pacific, whose investors put over 13bn into the UK market, much of which went to London.
However, both European and American investors also invested more in the UK in 2017 than they had in 2016.
While the office market remained the most active of the three main sectors last year, the biggest growth in activity was in the industrial sector where the global appetite for income security combined with an enthusiasm for the growth prospects for distribution property.
Other income-producing asset classes also saw a sharp increase in investor demand last year.
Occupational demand improved year on year in the office markets both inside and outside London, with steady take-up and low supply remaining the theme in the industrial sector.
Retail markets remained challenged by cautious tenant demand.
Price growth across the UKs residential markets slowed in 2017.
Buyer sentiment was affected by underlying political and economic uncertainty and the prospect of gradual increases to the cost of debt over the medium term.
The focus of residential investment continued to shift away from private individuals toward institutions as the build to rent sector continued to gather momentum, while the fiscal and regulatory environment for buy to let investors became less hospitable.
On the flip side, the residential development sector benefitted from continued Government support and a strong political focus on increasing housing delivery.
The prime housing markets continued to remain price sensitive, not least because of greater exposure to transactional and other capital taxes, particularly for overseas buyers.
Values in the prime central London market fell by a further 4.0% over the course of the year, meaning that they sat 15.9% below their 2014 peak at the end of 2017.
Elsewhere price adjustments have been much less significant, though prices for high value homes fell marginally across the commuter zone.
However, transaction levels over 1m remained relatively robust, particularly in the markets outside of London.
Case Study Kensington House, Phillimore Gardens Beautifully presented freehold detached house on Phillimore Gardens backing onto Holland Park was sold by Savills Kensington in January 2017.
The house featured an incredible indoor swimming pool and wonderful garden.
Savills plc 11 Report and Accounts 2017 Market insights continued Case Study Spotlight on Asia Across both developed and emerging Asia a broadly positive Signature Tower, Seoul economic environment alongside a stable political landscape saw markets continue to perform well during 2017 as low Transaction Advisory interest rates and ample liquidity proved to be broadly supportive of both transactions volumes and asset prices.
Savills represented one of South Koreas largest single office Despite concerns over debt levels in China and slowing property deals in the last decade, which was also the biggest growth, as well as a greater propensity for protectionism in amongst the transactions Savills Asia Pacific advised on in 2017. some regional markets, no single risk factor succeeded in Shinhan BNP Paribas, has successfully sold Signature Towers undermining investor confidence in local real estate.
The Seoul, a 17-storey premium class office asset which extends to appetite for land in Asias rapidly changing cities remained 99,991 sq m, located in Seouls CBD for approximately USD640 undimmed and sales of development sites hit record levels in million KRW726 billion.
Hong Kong also saw a notable growth in land sales 78% YoY supported by buyers from the mainland.
Sales of income producing assets surged during the year despite exceptionally low yields and a scarcity of good quality stock.
We note that investors are also beginning to explore a broader realm of asset classes beyond simply office and retail.
In Japan, Asias second largest market, investors took a greater interest in second tier cities such as Osaka and Yokohama, driven partly by heavily compressed yields in Tokyo.
The appeal of Australia endured for the security of its more mature commercial markets but scarcity and historically low yields had a negative impact on volumes.
Cross border activity remained a feature of the Asia-Pacific markets in 2017 and while activity from European and North American investors slowed, Asian investors took up the slack.
Both Hong Kong and Singapore have remained important financial intermediaries for global real estate capital flowing into and out of the region.
Case Study Spotlight on North America A strengthening US economy, particularly in tech and industrial W. W. Norton sectors, compensated for slowing international investment.
US economic growth in 2017 outpaced the previous year Savills Studley advised publisher W. W. Norton on a short-term significantly, with real GDP rising by 2.3%, versus 1.5% in 2016. lease extension and expansion while conducting a thorough search for alternative locations.
With viable options in hand, the Overall commercial leasing activity slowed slightly in 2017 in team then helped W. W. Norton secure a long-term lease renewal major US markets such as Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, for 95,000 sq ft in its prime Midtown Manhattan location at an San Francisco Silicon Valley and Washington, DC.
Demand for aggressive rent, including a substantial work allowance to cover office space, however, increased in the energy-dependent a staged renovation.
markets of Houston and Denver, as well as in the Sunbelt markets of Atlanta, Austin and Dallas.
Asking rent remained relatively stable in most major markets in 2017.
The exception to this was in several significant tech markets Austin, Boston, San Francisco Silicon Valley which all experienced 5% or higher growth in asking rent.
Investment sales activity declined for the second straight year.
However the tech markets Boston, San Francisco Silicon Valley and Seattle continued to be strong and there was increased investment activity in secondary markets Charlotte, Raleigh Durham, Nashville, Pittsburgh and Portland.
Investor interest in the industrial sector remained high it was the only asset class to see sales volumes increase in 2017.
Savills plc 12 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Case Study Spotlight on Investment Management 168 private equity real estate funds raised total capital of IKEA, Sweden $93bn in 2017, a drop from the $117bn raised in 2016.
However, the average amount raised in final closings by private Investment Management closed ended funds rose from $496m in 2016 to $533m.
The 2017 saw the launch of Nordic Fund III Retail, a closed ended fund fall in number of closed ended private funds was the fifth targeting Core retail in capital and regional cities across Sweden, straight year of declines, from a high of 339 funds closing in Finland, Denmark and Norway.
However, this fall in number of closed funds is not assets including retail warehouse parks, local food anchored matched by a fall in private equity dry powder, with Preqin shopping centres and high street stores.
It is a follow on fund to reporting that there was $249bn dry powder available versus Nordic Fund I Retail, which outperformed its benchmark by 2.6% $238bn 12 months prior.
However, 47% of funds closed in over 5 years, and is led by a local team of 15 investment 2017 did not meet their fund raising targets a five year high.
The Fund has thus far raised 129m and has made its The weight of money and continued improvement of occupier first acquisitions, purchasing retail parks from IKEA in Sweden.
market fundamentals continued to see capital values increase while yields decrease.
PERE noted that the trend for more opportunistic and value added funds fell in 2017, from 63% to 60% of investors strategies.
Increase in debt funds grew substantially, from 18% in 2016 to 29% in 2017.
Investors continued to look to North America for investments, with 41% of funds for the continent.
Europe was the second biggest focus, with 24% of all funds European focused, continuing an increase in interest in the continent.
From 201113, Europe accounted for 19% of capital.
The largest funds continued to gain in market share, with the six largest funds in the market accounting for nearly half of capital sought by the top 20.
Number of closedAverage amount of ended real estate capital raised by funds closed in 2016: private equity real estate funds in 2016: 168 $533m down from 183 in 2016 up from $496m in 2016 Total capital raised Total capital available in 2016: to fund managers: $93bn $249bn down from $117bn in 2016 up from $238bn in 2016 Savills plc 13 Report and Accounts 2017
