Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code is the standard against which we measured ourselves in 2017 and the Board fully supports the principles set out in the Code.
The Main Principles have been applied as follows: A.
Leadership balance of skills, knowledge, independence, C. Accountablity experience and diversity required in order to A1 The Boards Role C1 Financial and business reporting maintain an effective Board.
The Board met formally eight times during The Strategic Report is set out on pages 2 the year with specific focus on strategy, B2 Board appointments to 35 of the Annual Report and provides performance, leadership and risk, information about the performance of the The Nomination & Governance Committee governance and finance.
There is a schedule Group, the business model, strategy and the leads the appointment of new Directors to of matters reserved for the Board.
A2 Clear Division of Responsibilities The Directors going concern statement is B3 Time commitment given on page 50 of the Annual Report.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief On appointment, Directors are notified of the Executive are clearly defined.
The Chairman, time commitment expected of them.
C2 Risk management and internal Nicholas Ferguson, is responsible for the control leadership and effectiveness of the Board, The Non-Executive Directors have ensured The Board sets out the Groups risk appetite and the Group Chief Executive, Jeremy that they have sufficient time to carry out and, through the Audit Committee, annually Helsby is responsible for leading the their duties.
reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk day-to-day management of the Group within management and internal control systems.
B4 Development the strategy set by the Board.
To ensure a full understanding of Savills and The Directors carried out a robust A3 Role of the Chairman its businesses, on appointment each new assessment of the principal risks including The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, Director undergoes a comprehensive and those that would threaten the business manages the meeting timetable in tailored induction programme which model, future performance, solvency or conjunction with the Group Legal Director & introduces the Director to the Groups liquidity.
Those risks and how they are being Company Secretary and promotes a culture businesses, its operations, strategic plans, managed or mitigated is set out in the of open and constructive dialogue during key risks and its governance policies.
The Annual Report at pages 25 to 29. meetings.
induction also includes one to one meetings with the Heads of the Principal Businesses Taking account of the Companys current The Chairman, on appointment, met and and an introduction to each Group position and principal risks, the Directors continues to meet the independence criteria business's development strategy.
assessed the viability of the Group over a set out in B.
The Directors have a B5 Provision of information and support reasonable expectation that the Group will A4 Role of the Non-Executive Directors To enable the Board to discharge its duties, be able to continue in operation and meet its The Chairman promotes an open and each Director received appropriate and liabilities as they fall due over the three-year constructive environment in the boardroom timely information, including detailed papers period.
The viability statement is set out on and actively invites the Non-Executive in advance of Board meetings.
page 29 of the Annual Report.
The Non-Executive Directors provide objective, constructive and Each Director has access to the advice and The Board monitors the Groups risk rigorous challenge to management and meet services of the Group Legal Director & management and internal control systems regularly in the absence of the Executive Company Secretary and through him have and, at least annually, carries out a review of Directors.
access to independent professional advice the effectiveness of the Groups systems of in respect of their duties at the Companys internal control, covering all material controls, B.
including financial, operational and compliance.
The activities of the Audit B1 The Boards Composition B6 Board and Committee performance Committee are summarised on pages 51 The Board is made up of a majority of evaluation and 55 of the Annual Report.
Independent Non-Executive Directors, During 2017, the Boards annual evaluation excluding the Chairman.
C3 Audit Committee and Auditors was led by the Chairman and facilitated by the Group Legal Director & Company The Board has satisfied itself that Liz Hewitt The Board has determined that each Secretary.
The process and key findings are has recent and relevant financial experience Non-Executive Director is independent in explained on page 49 of the Annual Report.
and is confident that the collective character and judgement, commits sufficient experience of the members enables it to be time and energy to the role, and continues to B7 Re-election of the Directors effective.
The fact that a person has been make a valuable contribution to the Board All Directors are subject to election by identified as having recent and relevant and its Committees, including Charles Shareholders at the AGM.
All Directors will financial experience does not impose McVeigh, notwithstanding his long service.
stand for re-election by Shareholders at the additional duties, obligations or AGM on 8 May 2018.
Directors biographies The Nomination & Governance Committees responsibilities on that Audit Committee primary objective is to review the are set out on pages 44 to 45 of the Annual member.
The Committee also has access to Report, enabling Shareholders to take an composition of the Board.
In making the financial expertise of the Group and its appointments to the Board, the Nomination informed decision when determining their external and internal auditors and can seek re-election & Governance Committee assesses the further professional advice at the Companys expense, if required.
Savills plc 56 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Group Legal Director & Company D. Renumeration The Committee is advised by FIT Secretary ensures that it receives information Remuneration Consultants LLP, who provide D1 Levels and components of and papers in a timely manner to enable full an independent commentary on matters remuneration and proper consideration of agenda items.
under consideration by the Committee and The Groups focus and business policy is These agenda items are agreed in advance updates on market developments, legislative founded on the premise that staff in the real in its annual meeting activity plan.
requirements and best practice, and estate advisory sector are motivated through internally by the Group Legal Director & The main roles and responsibilities of the highly incentive-based and therefore variable Company Secretary.
Audit Committee are set out in written Terms remuneration consistent with the Groups of Reference which are available on our partnership style culture, which also ensures The Remuneration Committees terms of website.
The Committee is authorised to that the Groups reward arrangements are reference are available on our website.
An investigate any matter within its Terms of consistent with and sensitive to the overview of what the Committee has done Reference and has access to the services of cyclical nature of real estatemarkets.
during the year is provided on pages 58 to the Group Legal Director & Company 73 of the Annual Report.
The Groups Remuneration Policy is Secretary and, where necessary, the designed to deliver these objectives and to E. Relations with Shareholders authority to obtain external legal or other provide the reward potential necessary for independent professional advice in the E1 Shareholder engagement and the Company to attract, retain and motivate fulfilment of its duties.
dialogue the high-calibre individuals on whom its The Group Chief Executive Officer and The Committee has responsibility for reviewing continued growth and development depend.
Group Chief Financial Officer lead a regular the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, Reflecting this philosophy, the salaries for the programme of meetings and presentations including ensuring that appropriate Executive Directors, Group Executive Board with analysts and investors, including arrangements are in place for employees to be members and senior fee-earners are set presentations following the publication of able to raise, in confidence, matters of alleged significantly below market medians for similar the Companys full and half year results.
impropriety, and for ensuring that appropriate businesses, with a greater emphasis on the This programme maintains a continuous follow-up actions are taken.
performance-related elements of profit share two-way dialogue between the Company and or, outside of the UK, commission in the The Audit Committees role is to assist the and Shareholders, and helps to ensure total reward package.
Board in discharging its duties and that the Board is aware of Shareholders responsibilities for financial reporting, internal The Committee is mindful of its responsibility views on a timely basis.
The Board also control and in making recommendations to to reward appropriately, but not excessively, normally receives feedback twice each the Board on the appointment of the and rigorously assesses competitive year from the Companys corporate independent External Auditors.
The positioning in setting remuneration and brokers on investors and the markets Committee is responsible for the scope and determining targets to ensure that reward perceptions of theCompany.
results of the audit work, its cost properly reflects performance, that it The Chairman and the Senior Independent effectiveness and the independence and supports the delivery of our strategic and Director are also available to meet with objectivity of the External Auditors.
operational objectives and that it is fair to Shareholders if so required.
C4 Tenure of Auditor E2 Constructive use of the general The Remuneration Policy was reviewed in At the 2017 AGM, shareholders approved meetings 2016 17 and approved by Shareholders at the re-appointment of PwC as the the 2017 AGM as required by the Directors The AGM provides the Board with a valuable Companys External Auditor.
Remuneration Regulations 2013. opportunity to communicate with private The Audit Committee has assessed whether Shareholders and is generally attended by D2 Procedure suitable accounting policies have been all of the Directors.
adopted and whether management have The Remuneration Committee is principally The Notice of Meeting and related papers for made appropriate judgements and responsible for determining Company policy the AGM are sent to Shareholders at least 20 estimates.
The main areas of judgement on senior executive remuneration and for working days before the meeting.
considered by the Committee during 2017 setting the remuneration arrangements of are presented on page 54 of the Annual the Executive Directors and reviewing those Report.
The Audit Committee keeps under of the members of the Group Executive review the independence and objectivity of Board.
The Committee excluding the the External Auditor, including the review Non-Executive Chairman also determines of audit fee proposals and non-audit fees.
the level of fees payable to the NonThe Committee reported on how the Executive Chairman.
effectiveness of PwC was assessed for the 2017 financial year on page 55 of the Annual Report.
Savills plc 57 Report and Accounts 2017
