Strategic priorities Strategic priorities We have established a clear set of strategic priorities which underpins how we operate across all aspects of our business and will support driving towards our medium term targets Furlong Rise, Cheltenham | | 18 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Strategic priorities Risks involved Measuring success See page 20 People satisfaction Investment in the People capability and change Unplanned staff turnover development and training Health, safety and environmental Employee engagement of our people to ensure a score Increased regulation committed, motivated and engaged workforce See page 22 Customer satisfaction Delivering our customers Customer service HBF customer satisfaction quality new homes and Increased regulation NHBC reportable items a high level of customer service that meets their expectations throughout their entire journey with Bovis Homes See page 24 Healthy and safe working environment Ensuring the health and Materials and subcontract labour RIDDOR safety of our people and Health, safety and environmental Accident frequency rate minimising the accident Increased regulation frequency rate whilst delivering on time, is unequivocally at the core of our business See page 26 Enhanced shareholder returns Driving enhanced returns for Economic and sales environment Profitability our shareholders through Materials and subcontract labour ROCE increased profitability, return Project delivery TSR on capital employed and People capability and change total shareholder returns Increased regulation | Bovis Homes Group PLC 19 Strategic priorities People satisfaction Investment in the development and training of our people to ensure a committed, motivated and engaged workforce Our approach Progress in 2017 Priorities for 2018 In 2017, we invested in more training than We will continue to invest in the People development ever before for our employees 3,914 training training and development of our people is a priority and as days FY16: 2,892.
We have established the at this higher level.
The new Bovis Bovis Homes Training Centre and developed Homes Leadership Framework will a company, we are a range of training opportunities for all deliver training to all of our senior our employees.
In the year, we introduced investing in more training managers, embedding our Bovis Homes our new development programme for our Leadership style.
Our focus will also than ever before.
regional managing directors which has remain on ensuring we have the highest progressed well, we restructured our sales We are developing and supporting a culture quality site managers on all of our training to include both knowledge and of hands on leadership with a greater developments and our next priority area skills elements, and 94% of our employees operational focus, and are facilitating received customer service training.
for 2018 will be our commercial teams.
quicker decision making and accountability There has been a priority focus on ensuring In 2018 we will also be investing in training across the business.
We have closely aligned we have the highest quality site managers to deliver the successful implementation our employee incentive packages with the across all our developments and in the of our new COINS software to be launched strategic goals and medium term targets of year we have introduced an attractive across the Group in April.
remuneration package and greater level of training and development for this group.
Our overall focus is to continue to provide our employees a stable and thriving Our training programmes extend to our workplace with a resulting reduction in subcontractors and 100 of them have qualified as site safety supervisors in the the rate of unplanned staff turnover across year at no cost to them.
We signed the HBFs Home Building We are committed to Skills Pledge which commits us to working with others in the industry, including expanding the development subcontractors, to recruit and train opportunities for our specialist more people to the highest industrycontractors and have secured agreed standards.
We remain very committed to our Bovis funding from the Home Homes Apprenticeship Scheme and Building Skills Partnership welcomed 20 new recruits in the year.
In 2017, we launched a new monthly Peakon employee survey which measures employee engagement and has shown an improving level as we have progressed through 2017.
The increase in planned staff turnover in 2017 reflects both a challenging period and a period of restructuring.
Unplanned Peakon staff turnover engagement score Key Perfomance Indicators 31% 7.3 2016: 20% 2016: n a | | 20 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Investing in our people Putting the focus on training and employee engagement | Bovis Homes Group PLC 21 Strategic priorities Customer satisfaction Delivering our customers quality new homes and a high level of customer service that meets their expectations throughout their entire journey with Bovis Homes Our approach Progress in 2017 Priorities for 2018 Transforming our customer service has In 2018 we will see the launch of our We have put the been a number one priority since the start new housing range which will deliver customer back at the of 2017 and we have made good progress.
We have We have invested in our customer service developed this new range with input from core of everything function in terms of people and training our customers.
we do with a firm to ensure we are delivering our customers We will continue to improve the capability the high and consistent level of service they commitment across all of our customer service team through expect when buying a new home.
our regions to deliver In the year, we provided customer service We are very focused on high quality homes.
training to 94% of our staff and appointed our Customer Experience Director.
delivering a 4 star customer We have enhanced the resource across our We also formed the Homebuyers Panel satisfaction rating reflecting customer service function to improve both composed of our customers, who provide our project management capability and the step change in customer advice and challenge as we review all our day to day operational capacity.
aspects of our customer service.
We are working much more closely with our customers creating a more personalised We will focus further on the quality of our We have seen a significant improvement in and involved customer journey, where we homes to reduce further the level of NHBC our customer satisfaction scores and are on strive to best meet our customers evolving reportable items we receive.
track to achieve our target of being a needs.
Customer satisfaction is a key 4 star housebuilder.
performance indicator for all levels of management.
NHBC HBF customer 1 reportable items satisfaction Key Perfomance Indicators 0.38 HH 2016: HHH 2016: 0.47 1 Based on HBF star rating announced in March of that year relating to the prior period of 1 October to 30 September.
| | 22 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Delivering for our customers Listening and engaging to improve quality and service || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 23 23 Strategic priorities Healthy and safe working environment Ensuring the health and safety of our people and minimising the accident frequency rate whilst delivering on time, is unequivocally at the core of our business Our approach Progress in 2017 Priorities for 2018 In 2017 we developed a much more hands Our health and safety inspections and The Group is committed to on approach across all aspects of our support is now all delivered in-house rather delivering a high standard business resulting in far more frequent than through the NHBC.
It is structured visits to our developments by our Regional to reward good work and sharing best of health and safety and Executive management teams.
practice, as well as highlighting areas for all our employees, The restructuring of our regions and the that need improvement.
The in-house re-location of two of our regional offices model also helps to drive a more pro-active subcontractors and has assisted this, and the proximity of approach to health and safety and other on-site visitors.
our developments to the regional office not just a compliance role, and is the is a key criteria for land acquisition and preferred option of most of the larger We have in place, comprehensive development.
We have invested in our site UK housebuilders.
health and safety training, clear and managers and site teams, re-enforcing the accountable management processes and We are developing a importance of their role on site and across thorough, regular and transparent reporting the business.
new health and safety of performance.
management system which Our aim of reducing the NHBC risk score We are investing in our site managers and across the business was achieved and will be rolled out this year.
site teams to ensure our sites are well set our accident frequency rates for RIDDORs up from the start to deliver their production It will simplify processes and and minor injuries were both decreased.
We are working in partnership as a result be more time Our Warwick Gates development was with our subcontractors and promoting commended in the 2017 NHBC Health and efficient for site managers.
best practice across the organisation.
Our commitment to our subcontractors was demonstrated by the provision of safety training for them, resulting in 100 site supervision qualifications in the year.
Accident frequency rate RIDDOR RIDDOR incidence Key Perfomance 21 Indicators 410 2016: 32 2016: 620 | | 24 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Keeping our sites safe Committed to protecting the public and our people | Bovis Homes Group PLC 25 Strategic priorities Enhanced shareholder returns Driving enhanced returns for our shareholders through increased profitability, return on capital employed and total shareholder returns Our approach Progress in 2017 Priorities for 2018 2017 has been a year of re-setting the The Group is committed to building upon The Group has set out its business and addressing operational issues.
the operational progress made in 2017 medium term targets to Group profitability has been adversely and is confident of delivering a significant impacted by a number of factors including improvement in financial performance and be achieved by driving sales from our older, lower margin profitability, making good progress towards 2020 which will return sites, investment in process change and achieving our 2020 medium term targets.
customer service initiatives, increased build Bovis Homes Group to costs within our cost base brought in to the Reflecting the strong outlook, being a leading UK year and an overweight operating structure the Board anticipates for the reduced volume.
We have made housebuilder and deliver increasing the Ordinary good progress in addressing all of these significantly improved issues and the Group delivered against all dividend by 20% in FY18 its operational and financial targets for returns to shareholders.
and making its first Special FY17 with in particular, excellent progress dividend payment towards The management incentive schemes are with our balance sheet optimisation.
aligned to these medium term targets.
Reflecting the Groups commitment to increasing the efficiency of the balance sheet through a reduction of capital employed in the business, the Board intends that this surplus capital will Profit before tax Total shareholder return be returned to shareholders via special dividends.
114.0m 57% 2016: 18% 2016: 154.7m Return on capital Key Perfomance employed Indicators pre exceptional 13.7% 2016: 17.0% For calculation of ROCE, see table on page 146 | | 26 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Focus on better returns Driving improvements for our shareholders | Bovis Homes Group PLC 27
