Board of Directors Vivian Bazalgette James Robinson Chairman since 12 May 2016 Senior Independent Director Appointed 1 December 2015 since 18 May 2010 Member of the: Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee since 18 May 2010 Management Engagement Committee Chairman Appointed 1 June 2007 Member of the: Audit Committee Chairman Management Engagement Committee Vivian Bazalgette is a non-executive Director of Brunner Investment Trust James Robinson is a Chartered Accountant and has 34 years investment PLC and Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust PLC.
He is Chairman of Polar Capital Global Healthcare acts as an Adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund.
He is a Trustee of St. Income Trust plc and a non-executive Director of Montanaro UK Smaller Christophers Hospice.
He was previously Chief Investment Ocer at Companies Investment Trust PLC and JPMorgan Elect plc.
He was M&G PLC and a non-executive Director of St Jamess Place PLC as well Chief Investment Ocer Investment Trusts and Director of hedge as the Chairman of the Investment Committee of St Jamess Place.
funds at Henderson Global Investors prior to his retirement in 2005.
Fleur Meijs Robin Niblett Director Director Appointed 14 January 2010 Appointed 1 September 2017 Member of the: Member of the: Audit Committee Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee Management Engagement Committee Fleur Meijs is a Chartered Accountant.
She is a non-executive Director Robin Niblett is the Director and Chief Executive of Chatham House the Royal Institute of International Aairs.
He is a member of the of Invesco Asia Trust plc and Ruer LLP and she serves as Audit Committee Chair for both.
She is also a Director of Bridge to the World Economic Forums Global Agenda Council on Europe and served as Chair from 2012 to 2013.
He is also a Special Advisor to Future, the endowment fund for UWC United World College Mostar.
She was a Financial Services Partner at  LLP the House of Commons Foreign Aairs Select Committee.
Prior to this, he worked for the Centre for Strategic and International Studies until May 2016.
She was also a member of the Dutch Parliamentary committee in 2013 for the structure of banks in the Netherlands.
in Washington, DC, becoming Executive Vice President in 2001 and also serving as Director of its Europe Programme from 2004 to 2006.
Marion Sears Paul Yates Director Director Appointed 6 March 2017 Appointed 17 January 2013 Member of the: Member of the: Audit Committee Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee Management Engagement Committee Marion Sears is a non-executive Director of Dunelm Group plc, Paul Yates has 37 years investment management experience.
He is Chairman of the Advisory Board of 33 St Jamess Limited Persimmon PLC and Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust PLC.
She is a Director of WA Capital.
Her executive career and is a non-executive Director of Aberdeen Diversied Income and Growth Trust plc and The Merchants Trust plc.
He was was in investment banking and mergers and acquisitions.
CEO of UBS Global Asset Management UK Limited and in a number of global roles at UBS prior to retiring in 2007.
All Directors are non-executive and all are independent.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 21 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
