o p e x b Strategic Report Investment case Significant income from maintenance 1 and operations expenditure Maintenance and repair sales that maintain existing systems, supported by the end 15% users opex budgets, withatypical invoice value 85% of around 1k Small project sales of Group revenue is generated from annual maintenance and that improve existing operational budgets, rather than large projects from capex 50% systems, supported budgets, which are more likely to be cut during periods of by the end users opex 35% slower growth.
budgets, with a typical invoice value of 10k-50k By staying close to our customers we are able to understand Large project sales their needs.
We self-generate business as we provide that build new systems, small, typically better margin engineered solutions, to meet supported by the end users capex budgets, those needs.
witha typical invoice value of over 100k Based on internal estimates.
Includes full year revenue from acquisitions made in 2017.
Serving less cyclical industries Targeting self-generated growth 2 3 We have an excellent balance between higher-growth end Our overall strategic objective is to deliver self-generated markets and those that are more defensive and resilient.
growth in order to outperform our markets.
We achieve this by staying close to our customers, understanding their system requirements and providing them with innovative products c. 50% and solutions to solve their process challenges.
of Group revenue is derived from defensive, less cyclical end markets, including: Food & Beverage, Pharmaceutical & Biotechnology, Healthcare and Water & Wastewater.
Read more about our direct sales approach on pages 12-14 Based on internal estimates.
Includes full year revenue from acquisitions made in 2017. and our strategy for growth on pages 21-27 Our long-term market growth drivers remain positive 4 Population growth National and international climate change mitigation strategies Increased consumption and demand in all our major industry sectors.
Requirement for companies to manage energy more efficiently, increasing demand for energy management products Ageing population and services.
Increased demand for healthcare and pharmaceutical products.
Industrial production Increase in global energy consumption As steam, electrical heating and pumps are so widely used Increased investment in the Oil & Gas industry and demand for acrossindustry, our markets reflect changes in industrial energy management solutions.
production but our sales have consistently outperformed our markets as we have expanded our addressable market, extended Economic development in emerging markets our geographic penetration andgrown our market share.
New markets and increased consumption.
10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 u d s g t e e g t s d u b x e p a c
