Strategic Report Chromalox Acquired July 2017 Market overview Revenue 2017 full year revenue Electrical process heating and temperature management solutions specialist, Chromalox, joined the Group in July 75.1m 2017.
The companys products are widely used across a diverse range of industrial processes and, as a result, industrial production growth rates provide a good Revenue since For reference only, full year revenue: 146 million.
measure of conditions in the companys acquisition 75.1m markets.
Geographically, Chromalox Operating profit 2017 full year profit generated 73% of revenue in North America, 15% in EMEA, 9% in Asia Pacific and 3% in Latin America.
Due to its strong position 13.8m in the USA, the company has a high level of exposure to industrial production growth rates in that market and, to a lesser extent, elsewhere in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia, where it has a small Profit since direct sales presence.
While the USAs For reference only, full year profit: 26 million.
acquisition 13.8m economy returned to growth in 2017, Operating margin Group revenue % industrial production remained lacklustre and patchy, providing a subdued operating environment for most of the year, but with 18.4% some signs of improvement towards the end of 2017.
Elsewhere, conditions were similar to those in the Steam Specialties markets, 7.5% with moderate levels of growth in EMEA and slightly higher growth rates in Asia Pacific.
For reference only, full year operating margin: 17.8%.
With 16% of sales being generated in the Oil & Gas industry, the depressed oil prices Chromalox at a glance at year end throughout most of 2017 suppressed inward investment and limited opportunities for growth.
As the oil price increased towards 15 11 1,155 the end of the year, conditions began to operating units countries with a direct employees moderate, offering hope for improved trading sales presence conditions in 2018.
Operating units are business units that invoice locally.
Full Year 2017 2016 Exchange Organic Acquisitions 2017 For reference only Revenue 0.0m 75.1m 75.1m 146m -2% Adjusted operating profit 0.0m 13.8m 13.8m 26m 3% Adjusted operating margin 18.4% 17.8% 80 bps Chromalox contributed 75.1 million of revenue to the Group post-acquisition and 13.8 million operating profit, with an 18.4% profit margin.
Mike Sutter Divisional Director, Chromalox 44 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Currently sales outside of North America are Progress in 2017 Integration and strategy update relatively limited and over the coming years Chromalox contributed 75.1 million Post-acquisition, Chromalox has continued we will look to internationalise our business to Group revenue post-acquisition.
to operate as a stand-alone global division, further, leveraging Spirax Sarcos global For reference purposes, full year revenues maintaining its brand within the Spirax Sarco footprint to grow our direct sales presence in 2017 were 146 million, in line with our business group.
The company has a strong, outside the USA.
The Chromalox direct sales expectations at the time of the acquisition.
long-serving executive team, all of whom force will remain separate from the Steam On a comparable basis, sales were 2% remained with the business post-acquisition, Specialties division, but will utilise Spirax down on 2016 at constant currency, delivering continuity in a time of change Sarcos facilities, systems and experience following a difficult start to the year prior and bringing their experience to bear at this to gain a foothold in new markets, to acquisition.
However, from the second exciting new stage of the companys history.
while constantly pursuing commercial quarter on, order intake was higher than the While there will be many opportunities synergy opportunities.
same period in the prior year, with full year for Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc to order intake 3% ahead of 2016 at constant support Chromaloxs growth and margin Outlook currency.
Demand during the fourth quarter improvement over the coming years, this While market conditions were challenging reached the highest level of the past two stand-alone structure and the continuation of throughout much of 2017, the year ended years, translating into good sales and profit the management team minimises the need with conditions improving and a good order growth over Q4 2016 at constant currency.
The higher oil prices, if This was driven in part by a renewed focus During 2017 Chromalox celebrated its sustained, should provide greater buoyancy on OEM customers, particularly for highlycentenary.
This was an important time to in the Oil & Gas industry during the coming specialised, niche applications that are reflect on those factors that have contributed year, providing opportunities for growth.
addressable by Chromalox technologies to the companys success during the last and increased investment in direct selling It is too early to determine whether the more 100 years and to identify those things resources, positioning us well for 2018. positive industrial production levels seen that we must do going forward to deliver in the latter part of 2017 in the USA will Post-acquisition, Chromalox contributed enhanced growth and customer value.
Nevertheless, 13.8 million in adjusted operating profit.
Throughout the second half of 2017 we our direct sales business model, classFor reference, the full year 2017 adjusted conducted an extensive strategic review beating products, renewed strategic focus operating profit was 26 million, slightly and refreshed the Chromalox strategic and the opportunities for geographical ahead of our expectations at the time of the growth plan, with implementation starting in expansion that come from being part of acquisition.
On a comparable basis, full year January 2018. the Group, position Chromalox very well for profit was 3% ahead of 2016.
Under Spirax New product development is a key growth in the medium to long-term.
ownership, adjusted operating margin strategic priority for Chromalox.
On a comparable basis the Despite the increased revenue investments of innovative new products were launched margin for the full year 2017 increased 80 for growth and potentially unfavourable during the year including: the CCX bps to 17.8% due to an improved product currency headwinds, we anticipate Cast Block Heater: CXHXD Corrosionmix and a rigorous focus on continuous maintaining the trading margin in 2018 at Resistant Explosion Proof Unit Heater: improvement, an important element of the 2017s full year level.
RSP Remote Sensor Panel: TEH Tubular Chromalox Management System.
Enclosure Heater: and Wireless Monitoring enhancement for heat trace and heater control panels.
We will continue to invest in research and development to ensure that Chromalox continues to deliver innovative new products to customers.
Key market performance Industrial production growth rates, 2017 73% of revenue generated in NorthAmerica Industrial production growth in the USA lacklustre and patchy: subdued operating environment but some signs of improvement towards the end of 2017 Depressed oil prices suppressed investment in the Oil & Gas industry: conditions began to moderate late-2017 Good progress with OEM customers 4% 0% to 2% 2 to 4% 0% Compared with the prior year.
Source: Global Industrial Positive Neutral Negative Production Watch, CHR Economics, February 2018.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 45 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
