Governance Report Relations with shareholders Governance structure Shareholder engagement calendar 2017 We maintain an active dialogue with our principal investors, institutional January February March shareholder advisers and the investment community.
During 2017, we undertook Shareholder visit Investor and Preliminary Results a comprehensive calendar of events, as hosted by Spirax analyst calls announcement, shown in the shareholder engagement Sarco China analyst meeting and calendar.
By providing regular forums shareholder roadshow, Institutional meetings, for meeting and communicating with London Cheltenham shareholders, their advisers and the Broker industrials Shareholder investment community we ensure that conference, London consultation on we understand the views and opinions Institutional meetings, Remuneration Policy of our investors and are kept informed of Cheltenham any concerns that may arise.
We are also Investor and and London able to give updates on our results and analyst calls Investor and developments within our business.
analyst calls We communicate using a variety of forums including regulatory news announcements, interviews, investor and analyst calls, April May June one-to-one meetings, roadshows, site tours and capital markets events.
During the year Institutional meetings, AGM and Institutional meetings, Nicholas Anderson, Group Chief Executive, Cheltenham trading update Cheltenham and Kevin Boyd, Group Finance Director, Investor and Institutional meetings, Investor and attended Shareholder roadshows across a analyst calls Cheltenham analyst calls number of key countries, including the UK, including following and London France, Germany, Switzerland, Canada and Gestra acquisition Investor and analyst the USA.
announcement calls following AGM, At the AGM in 2017, shareholders were able trading update and to hear from and put questions to the Board Chromalox acquisition on a range of matters.
announcement Our forthcoming AGM will take place on 15th May 2018 at our UK Head Office: July August September Charlton House, Cheltenham.
The Group Chief Executive will give a short presentation Investor and Half Year Results Institutional meetings, about the previous year and the Groups analyst calls announcement, Cheltenham strategic progress.
The presentation will analyst meeting and London be available on the Groups website, and shareholder Shareholder www.
com, on roadshow, London roadshow, Canada the Shareholder notices page, after the Institutional meetings, and USA meeting.
Following the AGM, the Board will Cheltenham Investor and be available to answer questions and meet Shareholder analyst calls informally with shareholders.
roadshow, Scotland Investor and analyst calls October November December How our investors can find us: Shareholder Institutional meetings, Institutional meetings, roadshow, Europe Cheltenham Cheltenham Our Group website France, Germany and London Investor and www.
com and Switzerland Trading update analyst calls Online 2017 Annual Report Investor and Investor and analyst calls www.
com analyst calls investors pages .
aspx 84 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017
