Strategic Report The markets we serve We serve a very wide range of industries and have a great diversity of end markets and customers.
Food Beverage Oil & Gas Chemical Steam is used for blanching, Steam is essential for brewing Electrical heating products Steam and electricity are widely cooking, baking, packaging, and distilling processes.
increase fluid viscosity, deliver used as an energy source cleaning and sterilising.
It is used to protect product freeze protection and help in chemical production and Electric heating elements quality and flavour, and ensure separate natural gas, crude oil product processing, while our are used in commercial food compliance with industry and water during extraction.
pumps are used to safely and equipment.
Pumps are used to standards.
Pumps are Our steam products enable accurately transfer and dose meter ingredients, deliver food used to transfer fruit, juice, optimum steam system critical chemical components.
to process lines and handle concentrates, yeast and performance and reduce process waste.
energy use during oil and gas production.
Pharmaceutical Co. Pharmaceutical OEM Machinery Healthcare Buildings Original Equipment Steam is used in hospitals Steam is used to provide space & Biotechnology Manufacturers OEMs are and clinics for space heating, heating, humidification and Clean steam reduces the companies that build and hot water production, hot water in public and private risk of product and process supply machines for use in humidification and sterilisation.
buildings, while our electrical contamination: electrical industry.
Our activities with Pumps and associated products are used for hot heating is used in a wide range OEMs vary from simple product equipment are used in the water and heat generation, of process heating applications: supply to advising on machine manufacture of products for the snow melting, gutter and our peristaltic pumps, valves performance improvements Healthcare industry.
roof fide-icing, and frostand single-use components and process plant design.
enable precise flow control and fluid isolation.
08 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Water & Wastewater Pulp & Paper Revenue by key industry sector % Peristaltic pumps are used Our steam, electric and pump to dose chemicals during products facilitate the accurate water treatment processes control of critical processes, and to transfer viscous such as washing, bleaching, 1% 14% and abrasive slurries.
dyeing, drying and finishing, in 18% 1% Electrical heating solutions the manufacture of paper and 2% provide freeze protection, a wide range of domestic and temperature maintenance industrial tissues.
3% 3% and space heating in water 3% treatment plants.
4% 16% 4% 5% 7% 12% 7% Food Beverage P harmaceutical & Biotechnology OEM Machinery Oil & Gas Chemical Healthcare Power Generation Buildings M ining & Precious Metal Processing Water & Wastewater Pulp & Paper Rubber & Plastic Textiles Other Where there is little visibility of end user industry sector primarily in sales via distributors, sales have been allocated across industries on a pro-rata basis.
In 2017 these unknown sales accounted for 24% of total revenue.
OEM sales to identifiable end industries have been allocated to those industries.
Sales to OEM customers accounted for 20% of Group revenue in 2017.
Revenue by industry sector includes full year revenue from Mining & Precious Power Generation acquisitions made in 2017.
Electrical heat technologies are Metal Processing widely used to optimise power Peristaltic pumps reduce generation.
Steam turbines water, energy and chemical transfer chemical energy in fuel use and increase productivity into electrical energy and steam while moving and processing is used to distribute and re-use abrasive ores and slurries.
waste heat formed during the Electrical heating is used for power generation process.
temperature maintenance and space heating for workers.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 09 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
