Strategic Report Our business model in action Engineering opportunities by... developing product applications for growing industries Globally, there is a growing demand for Lithium ion Li-ion batteries, which are used in electric vehicles, consumer products and energy storage systems.
We are engineering opportunities for growth as we expand our addressable market and develop new product applications to meet the needs of this andother growing industries.
Steam is increasingly being recognised as a highlyefficient heating medium in the production of Li-ion batteries.
Steam has safety and environmental benefits over alternative heating solutions.
It is also highly energy efficient, providing estimated energy cost savings of around 140,000 per year, per drying oven.
By developing steam system heating solutions to support this growing industry, Spirax Sarco China has seen more than a 700% increase in sales to Li-ion battery manufacturers over the last two years.
Opportunities for growth are not limited to heating applications.
In South Korea, when using locally manufactured hose to transfer chemicals a Li-ion battery manufacturer was experiencing frequent problems of hose breakage and chemical leakage.
Aflex, which joined the Group in 2016, recommended the use of Corroline PTFE lined hose, which is uniquely designed by Aflex to provide flexibility, kink and chemical What it means for the customer resistance.
An initial trial proved so successful that the customer is now installing Corroline hose across all 149 assemblies on site.
140,000 In another application, at a Li-ion battery plant in China, savings per oven each year: lower energy consumption: increased process efficiency: pumps remove slurry generated during the milling of reducedmaintenance downtime lithium iron phosphate.
This viscous and abrasive fluid was causing wear, damage, reduced capacity and leakage of the installed air-operated double diaphragm pumps, leading to frequent downtime and costly repairs.
What it means for Spirax Sarco Watson-Marlow recommended the installation of Bredel 65 hose pumps, which have no seals, ball-checks, Opportunities for growth: diaphragms, glands, immersed rotors, stators or pistons to leak, clog, corrode or replace.
Once installed the over 700% Bredel pumps increased flow stability and reduced increase in revenue from this application for maintenance down-time, enabling the battery SpiraxSarco China, 2015-2017 manufacturer to meet planned output schedules.
16 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Engineering opportunities by... the application of new products Atlantic Engineering, an OEM based in Belgium, specialises in dispensing technology for the food industry.
The company has created an innovative packaging machine, called Innofill, which enables food manufacturers to take liquid food straight from cooking vessels, fill and seal it into flexible packets.
Innofills unique packaging system extends product shelf life, keeping it fresh for up to 40 days, and increases manufacturing efficiency.
The new Certa Sine Certa pump, launched by Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group in 2016, is the only pump on the market that can meet all of the OEMs exacting pumping requirements.
The pump must gently handle viscous fluids, with low pulsation: provide consistent and accurate flows: and be hygienic and easy to clean, while also having a high heat resistance.
Certas unique design makes it easy to clean: in just 60 seconds the pump can be cleaned in-situ and be ready to pump again.
Mr fide Bleye of Atlantic Engineering commented, We do use Watson-Marlow as a selling point.
The company has a good name and the quality of the pumps is widely known.
We are very satisfied with the qualities of the Certa pump and these advantages contribute to the success of Innofill.
Benefits to the end user are significant.
The Innofill machine, equipped with Certa, safely transfers the food product without degradation, reduces the manpower needed for packaging operations by 50% and increases product shelf life by up to 50%.
John Engels Regional Sales Manager, Benelux, WMFTG What it means for the customer Innovative packaging machine brought to market What it means for end users 50% 50% reduction in manpower longer shelf life for the in packaging operations food product Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 17 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Our business model in action continued Engineering opportunities by... helping customers toreduce costs At a railway terminal in Northern Canada, crude oil is off-loaded and reloaded onto railway cars for transportation to oil refineries.
In winter, when temperatures can drop as low as -40C, the oil must be safely warmed throughout the process to reduce its viscosity and improve flow rates.
When the railway terminal needed to significantly expand its operations, while tightly controlling costs, Chromalox was asked to design and supply an engineered heat trace solution.
As the customer required low set-up costs, electric heat tracing proved the most efficient solution.
Working closely with the customers project team, Chromalox designed a solution that utilised SLL Series Long Line Cable, Digital Thermostats and IntelliTrace Supervisory Controls, to deliver a fully monitored heat trace system at half the cost of a standard electric heat trace system, saving approximately US$250,000 193,000.
Our direct sales approach, combined with our deep knowledge and understanding of customers applications and process requirements, enables us to engineer opportunities for improved efficiency and cost savings for customers.
Cassandra Marcum Senior Application Engineer, Chromalox The long line cable solution required less than half the number of circuits to trace the piping than a standard cable system, reducing the number of power connections, material and labour costs, temperature sensors and equipment required to monitor the system.
What it means for the customer US$250k savings over standard electric heat trace system 18 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Engineering opportunities by... supplying industryleading products Karpowership, an industry pioneer, builds, owns and operates a fleet of Powerships floating power plants which provide midto long-term solutions to electrical power shortages in countries such as Indonesia, Ghana, Zambia, Iraq and Lebanon.
Since 2010, 15 Powerships have been completed with a further 18 under construction.
Steam is central to the power generation process.
To ensure maximum efficiency and reliability in a challenging environment, Gestra supplies Karpowership with a complete package of boiler house monitoring and control equipment, including water level limiter electrodes, level switches, alarms and a range of valves.
As the Powerships are located worldwide and have to operate continuously for many years with minimal maintenance and repair, product quality and reliability were paramount for Karpowership when selecting Gestras boiler house monitoring equipment and controls.
As we supply industry-leading products we engineer opportunities for our customers, who benefit from our expertise, and for ourselves, as we grow our business and increase our installed base.
Frank Heienbttel Sales Engineer, Gestra What it means for the customer Around two thirds of Karpowerships fleet of Powerships utilise Gestras boiler controls, with a global capacity of approximately 2,000MW What it means for end users Reliable, low-cost electricity generation Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 19 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
