INDUSTRY AND MARKET OVERVIEW Attractive place for doing business Georgia is an open and resilient emerging market and its ambition to transform itself into a Regional Hub Economy has already produced tangible results: tourism is booming and trade integration has strengthened.
These, coupled with a business friendly environment and policies aimed at further diversifying the economy, support to attract foreign investments and boost growth.
EASE OF DOING BUSINESS RANKED REFORMS-DRIVEN SUCCESS The EU-Georgia Association Agreement, that GEORGIA IN 2018 Georgia has carried out genuine economic came into force in July 2016, and related Deep and structural improvements which have been and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement In protecting minority investors institutionalised.
As a result, corruption has DCFTA, effective since September 2014, decreased, doing business has become easier, lay solid groundwork to improve governance, productivity was enhanced and the economy strengthen the rule of law and provide more 2nd diversified enabling the country to withstand economic opportunities by expanding the global financial crisis and recent shocks related EU market to Georgian goods and services.
In starting a business to the commodity price slump with a relative A closer economic tie with the EU and a trust strength.
Georgia is consistently ranked as in prudent policy-making are also expected the top performer in governance and doing to attract foreign investments to Georgia.
A 4th business indicators, in economic policy and visa-free travel to the EU, granted to Georgian institutional assessments as tracked by eminent passport holders in March 2017, is another In registering property international institutions.
Georgia, with a ranking major success of the Georgian foreign policy.
of 9, has implemented the highest number of While remaining committed to EU integration, business regulation reforms since the launch Georgia has also managed to stabilise its 4th of the Ease of Doing Business report by the relations with Russia, as the latter lifted its World Bank in 2003 a total of 47 reforms embargo on Georgian products in 2013. and Georgia is the only lower-middle-income Tourism increasingly benefits from rising Russian Overall ranking country that made it in the top 20 countries arrivals, with Georgia being re-discovered by ranked by Ease of Doing Business.
Russian as well as other visitors from regional countries.
Moreover, Georgia-China economic 9th Furthermore, Georgia is ranked 16th out of ties are increasing and a free trade agreement 180 countries by Index of Economic Freedom signed in 2017 is expected to further expand Up from 16th in 2017, ahead of Sweden, Ireland and Germany measured by Heritage Foundation in 2018 the Chinese market for Georgias exports.
In Source: World Bank Doing Business.
and 25th out of 200 countries in the Trace 2017, China was the third largest consumer of Internationals 2017 Matrix of Business Bribery Georgian wine, after Russia and Ukraine, and Risk.
Georgia is a positive exception to the the fifth largest consumer of Georgias exports ECONOMIC FREEDOM INDEX RANKED trend of high bribery rates in the regional overall.
Georgia is participating in Chinas huge GEORGIA IN 2018 economies and is on a par with European Belt and Road Initiative, that will have positive Union EU member states with only 7% of spillovers on the Georgian economy and the Up from 23rd in 2016, ahead of the Netherlands, people admitting having paid a bribe, according region overall.
The number of countries now the United States and Germany to the 2017 Global Corruption Barometer study engaged in the Initiative stands at nearly 70 by Transparency International.
and may reach 100 or more and cumulative investment in the corridors could reach US$ 16th The Economic Liberty Act, effective since 1 trillion over the next ten years according to January 2014, ensures the continuation of International Monetary Fund IMF.
a credible fiscal and monetary framework for Georgia, by capping consolidated Government Georgia once again demonstrated its GLOBAL CORRUPTION BAROMETER expenditures at 30% of Gross Domestic Product commitment to European standards and % OF SURVEYED ADMITTING HAVING GDP, fiscal deficit at 3% of GDP and public norms by ensuring free and fair 2016 PAID A BRIBE debt at 60% of GDP.
The Economic Liberty Act parliamentary elections.
After the elections, also requires electorates approval through a Georgias ruling Georgian Dream party Ahead of the Czech Republic, the Slovakia nationwide referendum for imposing new taxes introduced a package of legislative changes and Latvia and raising existing tax rates, subject to certain to support the implementation of the exceptions.
Furthermore, as of January 2017, Governments four-pillar reform programme corporate income tax is now applicable to aimed to boost growth and enhance the 7% only distributed profits: undistributed profits, economys resilience to external shocks.
reinvested or retained, are exempted.
Georgia The programme includes new tax benefits, Source: Transparency International 2017. has one of the worlds friendliest tax regimes infrastructure schemes, governance reforms according to the Forbes Misery Tax Index, and modernisation of the education system.
having slashed the number of taxes from 21 in 2004 to just six currently.
10 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC The ongoing US$ 285 million three-year IMF A natural transport and logistics hub, COMPARATIVE REAL GDP GROWTH programme will help Georgia reduce economic connecting important regions and a market RATES, % 2007-2017 AVERAGE vulnerabilities and promote economic growth.
of 2.8 billion customers without customs The programme includes ambitious structural duties.
Georgias favourable geographic 4.5 reforms to generate higher and more inclusive location between land-locked energy-rich growth and fully supports Governments countries in the East and European markets in four-point reform programme focusing on: the West and well developed air, land and sea improving education, investing in infrastructure, transport networks position the country to reap making public administration more efficient, and the benefits in transport, logistics and tourism.
further developing the business environment The Anaklia deep sea project is seen as a major to boost the private sector as a growth engine.
scheme to enhance the regional transit hub In September 2017, Moodys upgraded the potential.
The Port of Anaklia sits on the shortest sovereign credit rating of Georgia to Ba2 route from China to Europe, the route that from Ba3 and maintained the stable outlook.
has become a major focal point for Chinese According to Moodys, the Georgian economys investments in infrastructure.
Once completed, Source: IMF, GeoStat.
resilience in the wake of the 2014 regional it will be the first Georgian port capable of economic shock proves the countrys economic accommodating Panamax size cargo vessels.
and institutional strength and is the main driver The Governments ongoing infrastructure GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT % behind the one-notch rating upgrade.
investments and increased spending on roads, energy, tourism and municipal infrastructure Government focuses on addressing the will also reinforce the potential.
To enhance shortcomings in employment benefit schemes, Georgias competitiveness the Government 12.6% further cutting non-essential expenditures, continues to strengthen integration in existing consolidating public sector institutions, making international systems as well as new transit 7.2% 6.4% 6.2% 4.8% 4.6% social and healthcare spending more targeted routes e. g. Lapis Lazuli, Persian Gulf Black 3.4% 2.8% 2.9% 2.4% and increasing the efficiencies in capital Sea, Baltic Sea Black Sea.
regional energy corridor that accounts for approximately 1.6% of the worlds oil and In order to enhance external sustainability, gas supply transit volumes.
Georgias existing -3.7% National Bank of Georgia introduced a tenfree trade deals with the EU, CIS, EFTA, Turkey, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 point fide-dollarisation action plan, including the and China enable it to access a market of 2.8 reforms to expand the use of the local currency billion customers and are expected to further in the economy, address high dollarisation strengthen Georgias positioning as a platform Nominal GDP, US$ billion in the banking sector and support domestic to trade with, produce for and service regional Real GDP growth, % savings in the economy through capital markets.
Georgia MEASURES TO STRENGTHEN is already an established tourism destination.
CURRENCY WEAKENING VS. DOLLAR GEORGIAS POSITIONING TO BECOME Travel inflows are a significant source of foreign THE REGIONAL HUB ECONOMY currency for Georgia.
The number of visitors to Euro 7.4% With its business-friendly environment, Georgia increased at a 21.7% compounded stable Government, developed infrastructure, annual growth rate CAGR over 2008-2017 Armenia 15.4% stable energy supply, flexible labour legislation, and tourism inflows stood at US$ 2.8 billion Moldova 16.9% stable and profitable banking sector, strategic 18.2% of GDP in 2017.
The Government geography and a Government committed plans to enhance Georgias positioning as a Georgia 30.3% to addressing structural improvements in four-season tourism location through improved Russia 36.4% the economy through its four-pillar reform connectivity of different regions with an aim to programme, Georgia is well positioned to tap into their potential.
Turkey 43.1% become a regional hub economy.
Kazakhstan 43.2% Belarus 47.8% Azerbaijan 53.9% Ukraine 56.8% Source: Bloomberg: Dollar per unit of national currency, period 1 August 2014 14 February 2018.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 11 Ukraine 10.2 Latvia 12.8 Estonia 10.8 Czech Rep 11.6 Russia 14.4 Lithuania 15.8 Romania 16.1 Armenia 16.5 Poland 14.0 Moldova 14.0 Georgia 15.0 Turkey Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview INDUSTRY AND MARKET OVERVIEW CONTINUED NON-PERFORMING LOANS %, Stable energy supply and electricity transit strategic infrastructure projects such as the 2017 LATEST AVAILABLE DATA hub potential.
Georgia has a developed, British Petroleum gas pipeline construction stable and competitively priced energy sector.
project and the railway project connecting The country has overcome the chronic energy .
FDI was at all-time Georgia 2.8% Turkey 3.0% shortages of electricity and gas supply high during nine months 2017, reaching US$ interruptions of a decade ago by renovating 1.3 billion or 12.1% of GDP.
FDI increased Lithuania 3.3% and building new hydropower plants HPPs, substantially in construction 204.1% y-o-y, Latvia 3.6% improving transmission infrastructure and hotels and restaurants, 287.1% y-o-y and Czech Rep 3.8% increasingly diversifying its natural gas imports real estate 68.9% y-o-y sectors.
Importantly, Poland 4.1% from Azerbaijan, instead of from Russia.
Energy reinvestment by foreign companies almost Hungary 4.8% needs of the country are growing steadily: on doubled and reached c. US$ 600 million during Armenia 6.8% average by 3.6% for electricity and by 5.3% for nine months of 2017, indicating investors trust Russia 10.2% natural gas.
The needs are being addressed by in Georgias growth model and the success Bosnia & Herz.
11.1% constructing HPPs, renovating and rehabilitating of the profit tax reform introduced in 2017.
Croatia 12.3% internal and external electricity grid and natural Along with planned investment programmes Bulgaria 12.4% gas pipelines.
Currently, only an estimated of cross-country significance such as the Kazakhstan 12.7% 20%-25% of Georgias hydro potential is utilised.
Anaklia deep sea port and hydro energy Belarus 12.8% The pipeline of investment projects in the energy projects, Georgias business-supportive Portugal 15.5% sector is estimated at about US$ 4.4 billion in environment and the growing numbers of the next five to seven years, including US$ 2.5 free trade agreements are expected to lead billion for three large HPP projects: Nenskra, to further strong FDI inflows to Georgia in Source: IMF, NBG.
43 power plants 1.5GW are at various stages of construction or development, with 102 more Growing number of free trade deals.
There 3.7GW at feasibility study stage.
Government have been significant changes in Georgias policy over the last decade has encouraged export structure and destination markets in investment in the hydropower sector, resulting in recent years: however, Georgia has not yet 28 new HPPs, with a total capacity of 509.9MW, tapped into international markets.
Georgias being added to the system over 2012-2017. exports performance is explained by its Georgias transmission capacity is poised to commodity structure, dominated by used increase and accommodate an additional car re-exports and resource-based metals installed capacity of 3.5GW by 2027 to meet and minerals, while  the growth in export and domestic demand.
processed product exports remain secondary.
Georgia is foreseen to be an electricity transit One of the biggest changes in destination hub for neighbouring economies.
In 2016-2017, markets has been a reorientation from the already 1,104GWh was transited through Russian market after the 2005 embargo, Georgia to neighbouring countries.
as the embargo forced Georgian producers to redirect exports to other Commonwealth Attractive place for foreign investors.
of Independent States CIS countries, the EU Georgias business-friendly environment and the Middle East.
Exports to Russia picked coupled with its sustainable growth prospects up again in 2013 as Russia opened its borders continues to attract foreign investments.
Since 2013, Georgias Georgias liberal economic reforms and developed logistics and transport infrastructure business-friendly environment supported has helped to shore up opportunities for new substantial Foreign Direct Investment FDI over re-export commodities, including copper and the past decade.
These capital flows boosted pharmaceuticals.
Given these trends, it is productivity and accelerated growth.
Public likely that re-exports will continue to fuel infrastructure projects were also instrumental Georgias export growth supported also in driving growth, as well as better realising the by the Government policies which aim at countrys potential in logistics, transport and further enhancing the platform for current and tourism.
Faced with low domestic savings, potential trade partners.
Access to new large FDI is an important source of financing growth markets EU and China could increase in Georgia, as well as a reliable source of market penetration and there is also scope Georgias persistently high current account for diversifying agricultural exports, once the deficit funding.
Despite the fact that many quality and standards improve under EUcountries faced reduced capital flows during DCFTA.
Georgias existing free trade deals the recent economic turbulence, FDI into with the EU, CIS, EFTA, Turkey, and China Georgia was relatively secure thanks to the enable it to access a market of 2.8 billion business-friendly environment as well as customers without customs duties.
The prospective free trade agreements with Hong Kong and India also offer significant upside potential for Georgias exports.
12 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC GEORGIAN ECONOMY THE FASTEST After a weak start in 2017, the Georgian Lari WELL CAPITALISED BANKING SECTOR GROWING ECONOMY IN THE REGION started appreciating in mid-February, reflecting WITH LOW NON-PERFORMING LOANS Georgia continued to deliver positive results stronger external earnings and the pick-up in NPLS in 2017.
It is the ninth easiest place to do economic activity.
The NBG intervened in the The banking sector has been one of the faster business globally, according to the latest World FX market and purchased US$ 129.8 million growing sectors of the Georgian economy.
The resilience during April-August 2017 boosting international The banking sectors assets growth rate of of the economy has been acknowledged by reserves to US$ 3.0 billion.
The currency then 17.0% ten-year CAGR has far outstripped a one-notch sovereign credit rating upgrade started weakening against the Dollar again in the nominal GDP growth rate for the same from Moodys.
Trust in Georgias growth model September 2017, predominantly driven by the period.
The banking sector is entirely privatelywas demonstrated by record high reinvestment negative expectations built up over the past owned and quite concentrated, with the two by foreign companies in 2017, on the back three years.
The lack of fundamental reasons largest banks accounting for 70.8% of total of which the economy grew by an estimated behind this depreciation, coupled with a strong assets as at the end of 2017.
Increased external demand for goods external inflow supported the Lari to partially downgrades by global rating agencies across and services originating in Georgia made net regain its value without central bank intervention the region in the face of the economic exports the main driver of growth in 2017 for in December 2017. headwinds of 2015-2016, the Georgian banking the first time since 2013.
Tourism demonstrated sector has remained profitable and maintained a stellar performance, with revenues in the The growth is expected to accelerate further its credit ratings with a stable outlook.
Prudent sector totalling US$ 2.8 billion.
The Government in 2018 as an economic recovery in Georgias regulation and conservative oversight by the boosted capital expenditure, while the fiscal major trading partners is gaining momentum central bank resulted in stability and resilience deficit reduced to 2.9% in 2017 under an IMF and the public infrastructure investments and of the financial sector during different shocks supported programme.
growing free trade deals are boosting growth to the economy.
In 2017, the average capital prospects.
Notably, the 2018 budget envisages adequacy ratio remained above 16%, the Annual inflation came in at 6.7% in December a further decline in the fiscal deficit despite an share of NPLs.
NPLs stood at 2.8% and the 2017 above the National Bank of Georgias increase in capital spending.
Ongoing reforms overall liquidity ratio remained high at close NBG target of 4.0% as the rising world in various directions pension reform, capital to 40%.
Pick-up in economic activity along commodity prices and increased excise tax on market development and business enhancing with improved confidence supported the solid fuels and tobacco have been putting pressure measures are expected to further support credit portfolio growth at 17.9% y-o-y in 2017. on prices in 2017.
Notably, 3ppts of the growth investments, thus reinforcing the countrys Although Lari depreciation spurred loan and in prices was due to excise tax-related economic potential.
The IMF expects growth deposit ratios to GDP, the penetration rates increases.
With overall increase in prices driven to average 4.9% annually in 2018-2022, still remain low with the retail loans estimated broadly by fuel and food prices, core inflation making Georgia the fastest growing economy at 29.6% of GDP and the total loans at 54.8% remained below the headline figures throughout in the region.
Due to the central banks conservative expectations, the NBG increased the policy rate regulations, liquidity and capitalisation rates in to 7.25% in 2017 from 6.5% at end of 2016. the banking sector have been historically high.
As the price pressures are transitory, inflation Nevertheless, the sectors profitability has is expected to decline in 2018 close to the remained robust at 21.0% return of equity 3.0% target once the effects of the excise tax over the past three years.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 13 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview
