SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Fostering open and honest communication The Company has a comprehensive shareholder engagement programme and maintains an open and transparent dialogue with existing and potential shareholders, a responsibility that the Company takes very seriously.
The Boards primary contact with institutional shareholders is through the Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Directors, CEO and Head of Investor Relations, each of whom provide a standing invitation to shareholders to meet and discuss any matters they wish to raise.
Our Committee Chairmen also make themselves available to answer questions from investors.
We formally communicate with our shareholders via our AGM, Annual Report and Accounts, Half-Year Report and Interim Management Statements.
These are supported by a combination of presentations and telephone briefings.
Over the course of the year, we met with some 400 institutional investors, and participated in more than 20 investor conferences and road shows.
Throughout the year, our Directors and management met with shareholders in Georgia, the United Kingdom, Europe, the United States, Singapore and South Africa.
In November 2017, BGEO hosted an investor day in Tbilisi, which was open to all investors and analysts.
This investor day provided the opportunity for investors to receive an update from the Board and executive management on strategy and performance as well as meet informally with Board members and raise matters of interest.
BGEO was pleased to host approximately 60 investors and analysts at the investor day.
In addition to our shareholders, we meet and present to analysts throughout the year, hold regular meetings with the Groups existing lenders and actively engage with potential lenders to discuss our funding strategy.
Our Group Company Secretary also has ongoing communication with the shareholders advisory groups.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Board understands the views of major stakeholders.
The full Board is regularly kept informed of these views by the Chairman as well as executive management and the Investor Relations team and, to the extent deemed appropriate, issues raised at these meetings have been adopted by the Group.
Informal feedback from analysts and the Groups corporate advisors is also shared with the Board.
com, provides our stakeholders with access to the Groups results, press releases, investor presentations, analyst reports, details on our corporate governance and corporate and social responsibility framework, our leadership, as well as other information relevant to our stakeholders.
We also ensure that shareholders can access details of the Groups results and other news releases through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 97 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview
