DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT SHARE CAPITAL AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THE SHARES The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 75 was approved by the Board Details of the movements in share capital during the year are provided in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements on page 189.
As at of Directors on 7 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by Irakli Gilauri, Chief Executive Officer.
the date of this Annual Report, there was a single class of 39,384,712 ordinary shares of one pence each in issue, each with one vote.
The MANAGEMENT REPORT rights and obligations attaching to BGEOs ordinary shares are set out This Directors Report together with the Strategic Report on pages 1 in its Articles of Association.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled, subject to any applicable law and BGEOs Articles of Association, to: to 75 form the Management Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
5 R. have shareholder documents made available to them including the INFORMATION CONTAINED ELSEWHERE IN THE ANNUAL REPORT notice of any general meeting: Information required to be part of this Directors Report can be found attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table below and is in person or by proxy: and participate in any distribution of income or capital.
incorporated into this report by reference: Information Location in Annual Report At the 2017 AGM, the Directors were given a the power to allot shares Future developments Pages 2 to 75 up to a maximum nominal amount of GBP 131,564.40 representing approximately a third of the Companys issued share capital as at BGEO risk management Pages 32 to 33 31 March 2017, in addition to b the power to allot equity securities up Going concern statement Page 33 to an aggregate nominal amount of GBP 131,564.40, in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: i to holders of shares in proportion as Viability statement Page 33 nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders Bank risk management Pages 38 to 43 of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or, if the Directors consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those Principal risks and uncertainties Pages 34 to 37 securities, such amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount Directors Governance Statement Page 76 of shares allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any securities into shares granted under paragraph a, and subject to the Directors The Board of Directors Pages 77 to 79 having the right to make such exclusions or other arrangements as Nomination Committee Report Pages 89 to 90 they may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical Audit Committee Report Pages 91 to 94 problems in, or under the laws of, any territory.
These authorities will Risk Committee Report Pages 95 to 96 expire at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM or, if earlier, at the close of Greenhouse gas emissions Page 51 business on 1 September 2018 and approval will be sought at that meeting to renew a similar authority for a further year.
Employee matters Page 48 Environmental matters Pages 50 to 51 In addition, at the 2017 AGM, shareholders authorised the Board to allot shares up to a maximum nominal amount of GBP 19,734.66 for cash Share capital Note 21 on Page 189 without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their Information on the Groups financial risk Note 31 on Pages existing holdings in connection with a rights issue or otherwise up to a management objectives and policies, and its 195 to 202 maximum nominal amount of GBP 19,734.66. exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and financial None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to instruments control of BGEO.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that, unless the Directors RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS determine otherwise, a shareholder shall not be entitled to vote, either The Group Board expects to recommend a regular annual dividend personally or by proxy, at any general meeting or to exercise any other for 2017 totalling c. GEL 120 million.
This is in the range of our regular right conferred by membership if: dividend payout ratio target of 25-40% paid from the Banking Business any call or other sum payable to the Company in respect of that profits.
Since 2010, the Group has grown its annual dividend per share by share remains unpaid: or 40% CAGR on a GEL basis, and by 32% CAGR on a USD basis.
If the such shareholder, having been duly served with a notice to provide the expected demerger is successfully implemented as planned, it is intended Company with information under section 793 of the UK Companies that Bank of Georgia PLC the then new parent company of the Banking Act, has failed to do so within 14 days of such notice, for so long as Business, will instead, shortly after the demerger is completed, declare the default continues.
and pay a dividend in a similar or the same aggregate amount to shareholders then on the record.
In the event that the demerger is for any There are no other restrictions on transfers of shares other than certain reason not completed it is intended, subject to shareholder approval, that restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws or regulations.
the Board would implement the payment of this dividend, which would represent a payment of GEL 3.1 per share, payable in British Pounds BGEO SHARE BUYBACK AND CANCELLATION PROGRAMME Sterling at the prevailing rate, a 19.2% increase over the 2016 dividend.
Authority to make market purchases of up to 3,946,932 approximately 10% of BGEOs shares up to a maximum consideration of US$50 million As BGEO is a holding company, BGEO relies primarily on dividends and over a two-year period was granted to the Directors at the 2017 other statutorily if any and contractually permissible payments from its AGM the Buyback.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations and the Companys AGM in 2018 or, if earlier, at the close of business pay dividend to its shareholders.
Authority to make market purchases of up to 3,950,032 approximately 10% of BGEOs shares had previously been ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION granted to the Directors at the 2016 AGM, which expired at the 2017 BGEOs Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution AGM.
The Company entered into an agreement with Numis Securities at a general meeting of shareholders.
The process for the appointment Limited Numis on 7 March 2017 to enable Numis to purchase Shares and removal of Directors is included in our Articles of Association.
over a two-year period in accordance with the terms of the general The BGEO Articles of Association are available on BGEOs website: authority granted to the Company by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and http: bgeo.
com uploads pages  to its shareholders approval of a similar buyback resolution at association-91.
the 2018 AGM in respect of any purchases to be made after the date of that meeting.
Any shares repurchased have been or will be immediately cancelled.
Any purchase of shares pursuant to the agreement with Numis have been or will be carried out on the London Stock Exchange.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 115 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Buyback is a result of the Groups very strong capital position, The Relationship Agreement took effect on 12 November 2015 and will excess levels of liquidity and high level of internal capital generation.
continue until the earlier of: i GHG shares ceasing to be admitted to Furthermore, the Board believes the Buyback is likely to promote the listing on the Official List: and ii BGEO, together with its associates, success of the Company, is for the benefit of the shareholders as a ceasing to own or control directly or indirectly 20% or more of the whole and will result in an increase in the EPS.
voting share capital of GHG.
If BGEO ceases to be a controlling shareholder as defined in the Listing Rules, it may terminate the During 2017, US$ 5.0 million was returned to shareholders by way of the Relationship Agreement by giving one months written notice to GHG.
buyback and cancellation of 115,608 shares representing 0.29% of the issued share capital as at the date of this Annual Report.
Under the Relationship Agreement, for so long as BGEO and its associates together hold 20% or more of the voting share capital EQUITY SETTLED OPTION PLAN ESOP FUNDING of GHG, BGEO and its associates shall amongst other things: The Company operates an employee benefit trust EBT the ESOP, Conduct all transactions, agreements or arrangements entered into which holds ordinary shares on trust for the benefit of employees and between: i BGEO and its associates, and ii GHG or any of its former employees of the Group, and their dependents, and which is subsidiaries on an arms length basis and on normal commercial used in conjunction with the Groups employee share schemes.
Whilst terms and in accordance with the related party transaction rules set ordinary shares are held in the EBT, the voting rights in respect of these out in the Listing Rules: ordinary shares are exercised by the trustees of the EBT.
Not take any action that has or would have the effect of preventing GHG or any of its subsidiaries from complying with their obligations In 2017 the Group provided additional funding to enable Sanne Fiduciary under the Listing Rules: Services Limited, acting as trustee of the Trust, to purchase more shares Not propose or procure the proposal of any resolution of the in the market to satisfy upcoming employee share scheme awards.
shareholders or any class thereof which is intended, or appears to During the year, Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited, acting as trustee to the be intended, to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules: ESOP, purchased 784,084 shares in the market for a total consideration and or of US$ 34.1 million.
Abstain from voting on any resolution required by LR 11.1.
7R 3 of the Listing Rules to approve a transaction with a related party In accordance with a request issued by BGEO, Sanne Fiduciary Services involving BGEO.
Limited has waived its right to receive any dividends.
This waiver will remain in place indefinitely, unless otherwise instructed by BGEO.
The Relationship Agreement entitles BGEO to appoint one person to be a Non-Executive Director of GHG for so long as it together with its The Group previously committed that new shares issued in satisfaction associates holds at least 20% of the voting share capital of GHG.
The of deferred share compensation from the time of the Companys listing Relationship Agreement also provides that subject to permitted exceptions on the premium segment of the LSE will not exceed 10% of BGEOs neither BGEO nor its associates shall compete with the business of GHG ordinary share capital over any ten-year period.
nor use any names associated with GHG and that GHG shall not use any names associated with BGEO or its associates.
A copy of the Relationship PROPOSED DEMERGER Agreement is available to view at the Companys registered office.
A summary of the proposed demerger can be found on page 19 in the Strategic Report.
JSC ABC PHARMACIA ACQUISITION On 6 January 2017, Georgia Healthcare Group, through one of its POWERS OF DIRECTORS subsidiaries, acquired 67% of the shares of JSC ABC Pharmacy, a The Directors may exercise all powers of BGEO subject to applicable pharmaceuticals company operating in Georgia from individual investors legislation and regulation and BGEOs Articles of Association.
for GEL 73.8 million see page 162, Note 5 regarding Business Combinations in the Financial Statements.
The outstanding amount is CONFLICTS OF INTEREST due within tranches within 5 years and the Group has a call option and In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have adopted the managing shareholders a put option in regard of the 33% nona policy and procedure for the disclosure and authorisation if appropriate controlling interest in the combined pharmacy business, GEPHA.
of conflicts of interest, and these have been followed during 2017.
BGEOs Articles of Association also contain provisions to allow the Directors to GEORGIAN WATER AND POWER LOAN AGREEMENT authorise potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is not in breach WITH THE EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK of his or her duty under company law.
On 28 July 2017, Georgian Water and Power LLC GWP entered into a EUR 21.5 million Finance Contract with the European Investment Bank DIRECTORS INTERESTS to finance the rehabilitation and modernisation of the Groups water The Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of BGEO as at supply and waste treatment facilities in Georgia.
31 December 2017 are shown on page 102, together with any changes in those interests between the financial year-end and the date on which GWP LOAN AGREEMENT WITH FMO AND DEG this Directors Report was approved by the Board.
On 15 August 2017, GWP entered into a ten year EUR 25 million and US$40 million term facility agreement with Nederlandse  Maatschappij Voor Ontwikkelingslanden N. V. and Deutsche InvestitionsSubject to applicable legislation, every current and former Director or Und  MBH.
The loan is being used to finance other officer of BGEO other than any person engaged by the Company the refinancing of existing loans, capital expenditure in connection with as auditor shall be indemnified by BGEO against any liability in relation rehabilitation and modernisation of the water supply, and waste water to BGEO, other than broadly any liability to BGEO or a member of the treatment facilities, including the Gardabani Sewage Treatment Plant Group, or any criminal or regulatory fine.
Accordingly, the Company has and the rehabilitation of the Gardabani Wastewater Treatment.
provided for both indemnities and directors and officers insurance to the Directors in connection with their duties and responsibilities.
JSC SVANETI HYDRO CIVIL WORKS CONTRACT WITH SYNERGY JSC Svaneti Hydro entered into a civil works contract for the construction RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES of Mestiachala 1 and 2 HPPs on 1 March 2017 with Synergy Construction Details of related party disclosures are set out in Note 34 to the LLC, a subsidiary of Romania based Synergy Construction SRL.
consolidated financial statements on page 210.
GEORGIA GLOBAL UTILITIES SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS OF JSC GEORGIAN RENEWABLE POWER COMPANY On 23 October 2015, BGEO entered into a Relationship Agreement with In June 2017, JSC Georgia Capital and RP Global Investment GmbH, GHG and JSC BGEO Investments which regulates the degree of control an Austrian company, shareholders of JSC Georgian Renewable Power that BGEO and its associates may exercise over the management and Company, signed a shareholders agreement.
The agreement sets out the business of GHG.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement rights and obligations of the shareholders with respect to the development is to ensure that GHG and its subsidiaries are capable at all times of of a renewable energy projects in Georgia, including the ongoing project of carrying on their business independently of BGEO and its associates.
50MW HPPs construction in Mestia and 56MW HPP project in Zoti.
116 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC At no time during 2017 did any Director hold a material interest in any It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since contracts of significance with BGEO or any subsidiary of the Group.
However, notification of any change is not The Company is not party to any significant agreements apart from required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed.
The respective the Relationship Agreement that would take effect, alter or terminate regulatory filings by shareholders are available on the BGEO website: following a change of control of the Company.
com  and the London Stock Exchange website: http: www.
com exchange There are no agreements between the Company and any Director or news market-news market-news-home.
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or loss of employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
However, under POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS the plans and provisions of the Companys share schemes including IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DEMERGER for deferred share salary and discretionary share compensation and On 12 February 2018 the Board approved the implementation of the certain service agreements entered into between the Company and the demerger, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Executives as described in further detail in the Directors Remuneration The Company stated its reasons for the demerger, in accordance with its Report and between the Company and certain senior managers, certain announcement of 3 July 2017, and further announced that the Board had awards granted to the Executive and senior management will vest on a decided to increase the stake that Georgia Capital PLC will have in Bank takeover or other change of control.
PRESENCE OUTSIDE OF GEORGIA The Company continues to implement the demerger.
More detail is We have representative offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul and expected to be included in the circular to be sent to shareholders relating Tel Aviv and our Group office is in London.
See pages 4 and 63. to the demerger.
EMPLOYEE DISCLOSURES ACQUISITION OF BLACK LION LLC Our disclosures relating to the number of women in senior management, In February 2018, JSC Georgia Capital acquired 100% of Black Lion employee engagement and policies as well as human rights, including LLC, a craft beer producer operating in Georgia, for a total consideration employment of disabled persons, are included in Employee matters of USD 3.2 million.
ISSUE OF USD 300 MILLION NOTES DUE IN 2024 BY JOINT POLITICAL DONATIONS STOCK COMPANY GEORGIA CAPITAL The Group did not make any political donations or expenditures On 5 March 2018 JSC Georgia Capital successfully priced a US$ 300 during 2017.
Authority to make political donations and incur political million offering of 6.125% notes due March 2024 denominated in expenditure will be put to shareholders vote at the AGM in 2018.
US Dollars, which are expected to settle on 9 March 2018.
CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS Please also see page 212, Note 36 regarding Events After the Reporting The Board has adopted a Code of Conduct relating to the lawful and Period in the Financial Statements.
ethical conduct of the business, supported by the Groups core values.
The Code of Conduct has been communicated to all Directors and STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION employees, all of whom are expected to observe high standards of TO THE AUDITOR integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, staff and regulators in We confirm that, so far as we are aware, there is no relevant audit the communities in which the Group operates.
Our Code of Conduct is information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and we have available on our website: http: bgeo.
com uploads pages code-oftaken all steps that we reasonably should have taken as Directors in order .
to make ourselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys statutory auditors are aware of suchinformation.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of BGEO will be INFORMATION TO BE DISCLOSED IN ACCORDANCE put to shareholders at the upcoming AGM.
4R The following information required to be disclosed in terms of Listing MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES Rule 9.8.
4R is not applicable unless stated otherwise: The table below lists shareholders with voting rights of more than 3% as The amount of interest capitalised during the period under review and of 31 December 2017. details of any related tax relief.
Information in relation to the publication of unaudited financial As of 31 December 2017 information.
Number of % of voting Any arrangements under which a Director has waived emoluments, Shareholder voting rights rights or agreed to waive any future emoluments, from the Company.
Harding Loevner LP 3,275,324 8.32 Details of any non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash.
Sanne Fiduciary Services 1,942,308 4.93 Any non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by the Company or by Schroder Investment Management 1,914,428 4.86 any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking.
LGIM 1,290,202 3.28 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary.
Norges Bank Investment Management 1,224,590 3.11 Any contract of significance in which a Director is or was materially interested.
Any waiver of dividends by a shareholder.
The table below shows the changes in voting rights which have been By order of the Board notified to the Company for the period 1 January 2018 up to and including 6 March 2018.
Rebecca Wooldridge As of 6 March 2018 Group Company Secretary Number of % of voting 7 March 2018 Shareholder voting rights rights Standard Life Aberdeen plc 1,965,927 4.99 Sanne Fiduciary Services 1,714,220 4.35 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 117 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview
