RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Sustainability lies at the heart of our business We understand our corporate responsibility, which is embedded in our culture and believe we can make a difference to society.
The concept of sustainability lies at the heart assessment practices to its commercial We implement the following procedures to ensure of our business and reflects our contribution lending activities and in 2014, the Bank actively the operation and maintenance of the ESMS: to sustainable development development started to put the procedures into practice.
We refrain from financing environmentally that meets the needs of the present without The Bank defined priority targets and promotes or socially sensitive business activities compromising the ability of future generations environmental and social risk management mentioned in the exclusion lists of to meet their own needs.
Since then, the Bank Development Finance Institutions such ensures it has a consistent approach to as EBRD, IFC, DEG, FMO and ADB We consider sustainability to be integral to evaluating and managing the environmental, among others the growth of our business.
Our sustainability human health and safety risks of its financed We aim to assess the relative level of agenda allows us to be profitable as well as projects.
These procedures are now being environmental and social risk associated environmentally and socially responsible at the integrated into the Banks credit risk with clients businesses.
By implementing a sustainability management process and soon will be routinely certain customers to implement specific approach in our activities, we foster long-term applied to all commercial transactions.
In all environmental or social action plans to avoid relationships with our main stakeholders that the Bank does, it strives to find sustainable or mitigate their environmental and social by providing high return on investment for solutions that make business sense to clients impact and adhere to specific monitoring shareholders, satisfying the financial needs and minimise negative impacts on the social and reporting requirements that we set in of customers, developing employees and and natural environments.
order to minimise environmental and social contributing to the economic and social welfare risk.
These requirements are included as of local communities, while taking into account ESRM procedures were further updated in covenants in agreements between certain our environmental footprint.
The purpose of the review was to ensure of our customers and the Bank that the policy remains fit for purpose and We aim to regularly monitor environmental In 2012, in order to effectively manage the reflects experience and changes in the relevant and social risks associated with the Banks Groups direct and indirect impact on society legislation.
In 2017, the Bank updated the activities, and assess clients compliance and the environment, the Board of Directors assessment procedures of low, medium and with the terms of respective agreements adopted an Environmental and Social Policy.
high risk projects and refined the monitoring This policy describes the Groups strategy to procedures of the projects.
Through ensuring comprehensive environmental develop solid management controls to conserve and social assessment and action plans, as a part natural resources, minimise health and safety The main objective of the E&S Policy is to of stable due diligence, the Bank encourages its risks, and provide employees with equal increase environmental and social benefits for customers to fulfil their environmental and social development opportunities, fair compensation our clients.
Through the ESRM procedures, obligations and establishes a framework for and benefits.
We are pioneering sustainability the Bank enhances our clients opportunities to them to achieve good environmental and social practices in our operations and are constantly be in compliance with national environmental standards.
In many cases, the Banks proper and seeking new ways to improve our performance.
and social regulations and adopt international timely management of customers environmental The policy was last updated in 2016. best practices in this area.
The Environmental and social risks has helped them to avoid financial and Social Policy and Risk Management and legal sanctions during inspections conducted The Group continues to be included in the global procedures, along with other tools necessary by state enforcement agencies.
for their implementation, comprise the core The index is designed to demonstrate strong components of the Banks Environmental and Environmental and social issues are tracked Environmental, Social and Governance ESG Social Risk Management System ESMS.
at project sites in cooperation with the facility practices measured against international Under this concept, the Bank endeavours to staff, providing ongoing advice and guidance on standards.
become an environmentally friendly financial good practice and standards and monitoring institution.
In 2014, the Bank won the Green compliance with the requirements.
For SOCIAL MATTERS Service award at the Georgian Green environmental and social due diligence of certain The Group considers the interests of its Business Awards ceremony organised by high risk projects, the Bank contracts independent main stakeholders customers, shareholders, the Ministry of Environmental and Natural external experts.
As part of monitoring, the Bank employees, lenders and wider society when Resources Protection of Georgia.
requires each high risk client to provide the Bank developing the strategy and the processes with an annual report on their environmental and to improve its operations.
We continually In May 2017, the European Bank for social performance and the implementation of strive to positively contribute to society through Reconstruction and Development EBRD applicable Environmental and Social Action the entire scope of our business activities by awarded the Bank The Deal of the Year 2016 Plans.
Alternatively, the Banks staff visits high risk developing socially-oriented products and prize for having financed a project aimed at clients on a regular basis.
In 2017, the Bank held services, implementing responsible approaches boosting the renewable energy capacity of extensive Environmental and Social Due Diligence to our business operations, carrying out one of the hydropower plants in Georgia.
The ESDD, where the Bank monitored clients and sponsorship and charitable activities.
EBRDs Green Trade Facilitation Programme developed action plans for noncompliant clients.
TFP allows partner banks to use existing TFP Thanks to the Banks efforts, some clients SOCIALLY-ORIENTED PRODUCTS facilities to finance exports, imports and local conducted an environmental audit and obtained AND SERVICES distribution of imported green technologies the necessary environmental impact permits to CORPORATE BANKING and services in line with the EBRDs Green continue their business operations.
Those clients In order to efficiently manage its indirect Economy Transition approach.
started to identify, avoid, mitigate and manage environmental and social risks and their impact environmental and social impact, the Bank prioritised the integration of sustainable finance Furthermore, to ensure a more effective on the natural and social environment.
In addition, operation and maintenance of the ESRM as a result of ESDD some clients took out loans principles into its credit risk management procedures.
In 2012, in order to effectively Policy, the Social and Environmental Risk Unit to enhance their companies power and ability manage the Banks direct and indirect impact was created in September 2016.
Until then, to reduce negative impacts on the environment the Environmental and Social Risk Coordinator and positively benefit their communities.
on society and the environment, the Board of Directors adopted an Environmental and Social was responsible for the implementation of Others implemented environmental and the Policy.
In 2017, we selected a Social and social management systems in accordance E&S Policy.
In 2013, the Bank updated its Environmental and Social Risk Management Environmental Risk Specialist who will oversee with international standards.
ESRM procedures in order to ensure a proper the practical, day-to-day implementation of the Banks ESMS.
Procedures for addressing external queries and application of appropriate, risk-based and sector-specific environmental and social risk concerns, developed within the framework of 44 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC ESMS, provide a means for the public to submit The Bank financed the construction of a hydro The project includes the construction and queries or concerns related to the Banks E&S power plant HPP in Svaneti, in the North West refurbishment of a ten-floor building with Policy, and have these inquiries responded to by of Georgia.
The plant has an installed capacity a net usable area of 25,000 square metres, the Bank in a timely manner.
In the Association of 10.0MW and will contribute on average including 112 new auditoriums, an exam centre, Agreement between the European Union and 43.0GWh to local energy generation annually.
a conference hall for 500 guests, a library, a Georgia, Georgia has committed to progressively Out of the total investment of US$ 10.2 million, swimming pool, a fitness centre among others.
approximate its legislation in the relevant sectors the Bank financed US$ 9.1 million with EBRDs with that of the EU and to implement it credit line to SMEs that comply with DCFTA INFRASTRUCTURE effectively.
Through this approximation process, requirements.
The Bank channels the facility Infrastructure development remains one of the Georgia is actively developing and amending to support the companies that are willing to most important objectives for Georgia.
In 2017, its national legislation in the relevant sectors.
upgrade their facilities and invest in modern the Bank financed several important projects and As a result, the Bank regularly checks legal and  technologies.
among them is Caucasus Roads Project CRP developments and updates with regard to a leading Georgian construction company with environmental, health and safety, and labour HEALTHCARE its main focus on core infrastructure.
The Bank issues and places great emphasis on the In 2017, the Bank financed the Georgianhas partnered with CRP for many years and improvement of ESDD opportunities.
The Banks German Oncology Research Centre LLC, known supported the companys various projects.
In staff are very focused on introducing clients to as Mardaleishvili Medical Centre, which is one 2017, CRP won a public tender for the design, information about relevant existing and new of the leading diagnostic clinics in Georgia.
With construction and rehabilitation of the Tsknetiregulations and laws during ESDD with the aim the financing provided by the Bank, the company Samadlo and Tskneti-Akhaldaba roads, affected to strengthen public knowledge and capacity in will open a state-of-the-art diagnostic centre in by the natural disaster in Tbilisi on 13 June 2015. the area of environmental and social protection.
Tbilisi, equipped with the latest medical facilities The Bank supported the project by issuing a acquired from General Electric.
letter of guarantee for US$ 3 million to finance Training activities play an important role in the works.
enhancing the implementation of the policy.
In The Bank financed the rehabilitation of Zugdidis 2017, the Bank provided training opportunities hospital for infectious diseases the only clinic In 2017, the Bank financed several small and for the Head of Social and Environmental Risk where patients can receive Hepatitis C and medium-sized roads, water supply systems and the staff involved in environmental and social HIV treatment in Western Georgias Samegrelo and other construction projects.
The Bank risk management process.
The hospital has been fully rehabilitated issued guarantees for around GEL 130 million participated in the 11th Annual Performance in line with modern standards.
With a 25-bed to support two new projects announced by the Standards Community of Learning organised by capacity, the clinic also serves patients from Department of Roads of the Ministry of Regional IFC.
The Community of Learning is a knowledgeAbkhazia, occupied region of Georgia.
The Development and Infrastructure of Georgia.
sharing forum aimed at strengthening the treatment of Hepatitis C and HIV is supported One of the projects is the construction of Batumi implementation of environmental and social by the Global fund.
Bypass Road with a contractual value of around standards by financial institutions in emerging GEL 330 million, and another is the construction markets.
The event provided a chance to TOURISM of the E-60 highway section from Zemo Osiauri exchange experience, learn from investment Tourism remains one of the most rapidly to Chumateleti central Georgia with a case studies, and engage in dialogue among developing sectors of the Georgian economy.
contractual value of GEL 130 million.
Both environmental and social risk management The Bank actively provides financing for hotel projects are part of improving Georgias transit specialists from all over the globe.
Trainings was constructions throughout the country.
The Bank capacity and increasing the potential of the also held for staff and focused on strengthening has financed the construction of a hotel in Silk Road.
In collaboration with EBRD, the social and environmental due diligence and risk Akhasheni, in Georgias Kakheti region to the Bank financed more than 50 kilometres of road management.
More generally, the Bank has East.
The hotel is scheduled to open in the first rehabilitation with GEL 2.7 million in Western delivered several training sessions in this area half of 2018 and will be run by local management.
Georgias Samegrelo and Imereti regions.
and consequently more than 100 employees The hotel is located in the heart of a vineyard and were trained during the last three years.
Leading will be a part of the Wine Route.
This will make PRODUCTION AND EXPORT experts and state inspectors were invited as the hotel a popular destination not only among In 2017, the Bank financed a textile trainers.
We intend to continue the trainings in the tourists, but also the local population.
manufacturing plant in Western Georgias the future.
The plant produces apparel for The Bank has recently financed a land acquisition internationally recognised brands, employing The Bank is committed to respecting the in one of the most popular Winter resorts in more than 2,500 workers from the local principles of sustainable development, protecting Georgia.
The acquired area is reserved for population.
the environment, and is willing to improve the level a full-scale Winter ski resort development.
of public health safety as an essential element for In 2017, a contract was signed with Georgian The Bank supported Atlantic Group, a French sustainable development and economic growth.
Airports Union for the construction of a new manufacturer of heating systems and home terminal in Kutaisi International Airport.
Total appliance products, with around US$ 2 million The Bank will continue to conduct business project size is GEL 23 million and the Bank issued credit line.
The company entered the Georgian with due consideration to environmental and a guarantee in the amount of GEL 4.6 million market in 2017 and intends to commence a social protection and contribute to the creation for financing the construction works.
With this production process in Kutaisi Free Industrial Zone.
The Bank will further project, the capacity of Kutaisi International Airport help its clients benefit from a proper and diligent will double.
In addition to the Banks financial RETAIL BANKING 2 implementation of the E&S Policy.
support, the Groups real estate business m Bank of Georgia continues to innovate and started developing hotels and signed an exclusive generate a wide range of socially-oriented Bank of Georgia also continues to support agreement with Wyndham Group to develop financial products and services that provide Georgias emerging economy by financing Wyndhams three-star Ramada Encore hotel in additional value to individuals and small and industries that are of strategic importance Georgia.
First Ramada Encore opened in Tbilisi in medium-sized enterprises SMEs and meet 2 for the development of the country.
February 2018. m is also developing a four-star their respective needs.
Ramada hotel in Tbilisi and a three-star Ramada ENERGY Encore in Kutaisi where the international airport EXPRESS BANKING Electricity consumption growth in Georgia serves low-cost airlines and makes the city The Georgian banking sector still experiences has averaged 3.6% over the last five years.
popular with tourists visiting Georgia.
difficulties in overcoming economic and The Bank finances electricity generation geographical barriers in expanding its financial and transmission companies to support EDUCATION services in remote regions and among the countrys sustainable growth.
In 2017, In 2017, the Bank issued financing for a Georgian low-income segments of the population.
the Bank, in collaboration with two other university of GEL 10 million and US$ 4 million.
local banks, provided a long-term credit facility Due to increasing demand, the university decided Our Express Banking service plays an important to the electricity distributor in Tbilisi.
The total to build its fourth campus, which will increase role in addressing this issue.
financing amounted to GEL 36.0 million.
its capacity from 7,000 to 12,000 students.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 45 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED As at 31 December 2017, a network of 156 finance the tuition, living and insurance expenses currency loans and to provide essential financial Express branches and 2,842 Express Pay abroad.
The loans have a grace period of support for micro, small and medium-sized terminals are located all over the country, maximum 27 months.
With a recommendation enterprises in adhering to DCFTA requirements, including in remote mountain regions.
letter from IEC, the Bank finances the students as well as underserved women entrepreneurs.
Express financial products, such as Express without requesting a confirmation of income.
In Card, Express Deposit and Express Loan 2017, the Bank extended the contract with IEC In addition to assisting the SMEs financially, are uncomplicated, easily accessible and and will continue to support students education.
the Bank launched an SME portal in September affordable to a segment of the population 2017.
The portal provides financial and that would not have access to banking Another example of the Banks products business-related advice to entrepreneurs in products and services otherwise.
By aimed at supporting young people is a order to upgrade their financial literacy and 31 December 2017, the Bank had attracted social-educational project sCool Card a management skills and ensure the sustainable 524,366 clients, of which 52,399 became multifunctional card for school children.
The main development of their businesses.
The portal clients of the Bank in 2017. objective of the project is to teach children about provides entrepreneurs with information on financial culture and build their knowledge around trainings and equips them with knowledge and As a part of the Express Banking service, we financial services at an early stage.
sCool Card is skills in accounting, legal documents, business prioritise the development of self-service skills.
available at no cost and all of the transactions development, sales and marketing.
We plan to expand services offered by Express and services are also free of charge.
All of these changes will provide provides special benefits for children in Georgian Environmental and social risk management a more accessible banking service to our clients.
The benefits include processes of SME clients are embedded In 2017, the Bank developed web-based free public transport in Tbilisi metro, buses and throughout the Banks activities.
By ensuring application processing tools that enable Batumi buses, discounts for entertaining centres that comprehensive environmental and social completion of a full lending cycle remotely.
popular among children, bookstores, toyshops, risk assessments and the necessary action plans children cafes, as well as the accumulation of are undertaken, we encourage our SME clients In 2017, we enhanced the functions of points sCoola with each transaction.
to be in compliance with national environmental an Express Student Card.
It now offers and social legislation.
During site visits, we special discounts on public transport and In a further effort to help children better provide our clients with advice and guidance free distance banking services, among other understand banking products, the Bank on good practice and standards in these areas.
Moreover, students can get special opened a sCool Card Business School, where We update them on environmental, health and #StudentBreak discounts in various stores, experienced staff provide free training about safety, as well as labour issues and monitor cafes and entertainment centres.
Students topics such as: The importance of money, their compliance with environmental and social are automatically involved in the PLUS Loyalty Bank and me, Family budget, I am a legislation.
In many cases of noncompliance, Scheme the Banks initiative that offers different manager, etc.
Bank of Georgia and the sCool our proper and timely management of the status levels to customers and reward points Card are the finalists of the Child Friendly environmental and social risks of our SME clients that accumulate based on the clients business Banking Award 2017, The Global Inclusion has helped them to address issues that would with the Bank and can be redeemed into partner Awards 2017 Berlin, Germany.
otherwise have resulted in financial and legal companies products and or services, at the sanctions from the state enforcement agency.
PLUS points can also be SME SUPPORT converted into mobile phone top-ups and used We continue to provide financing to SMEs, AFFORDABLE HOUSING to pay public transport, utility bills and other Currently, the Georgian real estate market is a backbone of the Georgian economy that products.
The programme encourages the helps to ensure the sustainable development vulnerable to various economic and financial student population to use financial services and uncertainties.
Numerous construction projects of Georgia.
In addition to our own microsupports them financially during their studies.
financing and SME loan programmes, we also remain unfinished for long periods of time, while participate in various programmes that support there is a strong growing demand for housing In 2017, Express Bank launched a Student Loan, from the Georgian population.
Since 2015, the Bank has a product with a nine-month grace period on partnered with the non-profit Agricultural this increasing demand, the Groups real estate 2 principle payments.
The application process for development business, m Real Estate was Projects Management Agency APMA, which a Student Loan is fully web-based and once its supports SMEs in the agricultural sector.
established in order to offer affordable housing approved, the funds get automatically transferred Together, we have co-financed agricultural to the emerging middle class in Georgia and to 2 to the account of the selected university.
Nowadays, m is a loans at fixed annual interest rates, which are partially subsidised by APMA.
In 2017, the total major player in Georgias real estate market, Youth support.
We have developed a wide offering its customers turnkey apartments with amount of loans that the Bank issued to SMEs range of financial products to support young amounted to GEL 1.3 billion, of which GEL 85 fine-tuned infrastructure: fire-alarm systems people in Georgia.
For example, via special million was issued through the Preferential in accordance with international standards, conditions of the Child Deposit we provide parents round-the-clock security service, maintenance Agriculture Lending Programme.
In 2017, the with the opportunity to secure their childrens Bank continued to reinforce financing micro of elevators, as well as common and green 2 future.
Starting from a minimal amount of GEL 10, areas.
m Real Estate has completed seven business owners and considers this segment a deposit can be opened for at least two years at as one of the main areas of its portfolio growth.
projects so far and has delivered them to its any time from a childs birth until the age of 18. customers within, and frequently, ahead of The annual interest rate 10.2% for Georgian Lari the agreed deadlines.
The Bank has dedicated staff and established and 1.0%-3.5% for foreign currency is added processes for its new product micro-express to the initial deposit.
In 2017, we opened The company plans the design and construction loans that targets the micro business segment approximately 11,855 Child Deposit accounts.
and offers loans under GEL 10,000.
Increasing processes so that each square metre is 2 the automation and digitilisation is one of the distributed efficiently.
m uses energy efficient The Bank also offers special products that construction components, thus bringing energy cornerstones of the Banks micro lending allow young people to get a higher education.
In 2016, the Bank partnered with efficiency of its buildings up to 43%, which in turn Examples of such products are student loans translates into lower utility expenses incurred by the European Bank for Reconstruction and 2 with favourable terms that do not require any Development EBRD to offer the market a the tenants.
The level of energy savings in m s financial guarantees and collateral.
Total portfolio much needed local currency funding.
Bank of buildings is significantly above that of the average 2 of student loans amounted to GEL 790,456 by residential properties in Tbilisi.
m tailors the Georgia is committed to further extending its the end of 2017, while loans with a total value financing to SMEs.
Furthermore, the Bank is apartments to its customers needs and wishes, of GEL 400,852 were issued in 2017. allowing them to choose interior design and keen to develop financial products and lending practices to specifically service women-led materials for a fit-out themselves.
Since only In 2016, the Bank partnered with the SMEs, which will ultimately increase their a few customers can afford to buy large flats International Educational Centre IEC and with an area exceeding 100 square metres, the involvement in developing Georgias private created a new opportunity for students to study sector.
The loan facility signed with EBRD company continuously works to optimise the size abroad.
Students can apply for the loans to of its apartments to meet the current demand enables the Bank to issue longer-term local 46 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC without compromising convenience and usability employees are engaged in various programmes is granted a fully paid trip to London to attend a 2 of the apartments.
In June 2017, m acquired BK that supply socially vulnerable people with food global public speaking competition.
We aim to construction LLC, a local real estate construction and first aid kits.
support this competition in 2018 as well.
2 company, which is expected to reduce m s construction costs and improve the design As part of its sponsorship activities, Teliani The Bank has been supporting every single management process through vertical integration.
Valley focuses on promoting a healthy lifestyle.
TEDx Tbilisi conference since they were first As the sponsors of the Georgian Rugby Union organised in 2012.
A TEDx conference is a locally 2 A large segment of m s customers is made up and National Olympic Committee, the company organised TED format event, where communities, of young Georgian families more than 50% of aims to attract more youngsters to healthy organisations and individuals join to initiate a the companys customers are 23-42 years old.
The company is a main sponsor of conversation and connect with each other on We believe that by continuing to offer affordable the Georgian Tag Rugby initiative that is the different topics, which are important to society.
housing products, we are helping them to biggest platform for raising awareness of a 2 significantly enhance the quality of their lives healthy lifestyle among school children.
In 2017, m Real Estates subsidiary BK and enjoy modern living standards.
Construction signed a memorandum of GHG supported the construction of a childrens cooperation with the Ministry of Education SPONSORSHIP AND CHARITY hospice, which aims to create a friendly and and Science of Georgia.
According to the 2 As part of our sponsorship and charitable comfortable atmosphere, where, in addition memorandum, m will build an institute for activities, the Group continues to focus on to caring personnel, a great importance is vocational education in the Municipality of promoting and enhancing access to education, attached to the environment and the interior.
The institute conserving nature, supporting people with GHG traditionally participates in the state will offer more than 20 short-term vocational disabilities and special needs, developing social Childrens Oncology Programme, under courses in engineering to more than 200 enterprises and facilitating innovative projects which the company offers cancer-related students annually.
The studies will include both that focus on social goods.
The Groups conditions treatment for children with different theoretical and practical courses.
The latter will 2 Sponsorship and Charity Policy encourages cancer disorders leukaemia, tumours, and be conducted on m s construction sites.
Most 2 partnerships with various foundations and lymphomas in GHGs Iashvili Paediatric Tertiary of the alumna will be employed by m and its Non-governmental Organisations NGOs to Referral Hospital, a multi-profile paediatric subsidiary BK Construction.
deliver sustainable results and bring positive medical establishment.
Sponsorship and charity funds are Supporting people with disabilities.
Since channelled through the Banks Tree of Life Promoting and enhancing access to 2014, the Bank has focused its efforts on Foundation that, in its turn, distributes funding by education.
Bank of Georgia University has supporting people with disabilities one of means of grant competitions in order to ensure offered a top quality masters degree programme the most vulnerable social groups in Georgia.
transparent and fair methods of financing.
The since its foundation in 2014.
The university In 2017, the Bank donated GEL 78,200 to Group also implements its own social projects.
welcomed its fourth intake of MBA students in the Tree of Life Foundation for this cause.
The 2017 and simultaneously launched a bachelors Foundation distributed the funds through grant Tree of Life has allocated around degree programme.
The cost of studies in 2017 competitions one intended for the relevant GEL 2.5 million to support education, nature were again largely subsidised by the Bank with NGOs that work with people with disabilities conservation, people with disabilities and GEL 350,250.
Up to 20 students study at no and another with the specific aim of promoting special needs, social platforms, and cost, while 40 students benefit from a 0% loan social entrepreneurship.
In order to qualify for development of social entrepreneurship.
with grace period until graduation.
Bank of the competition, the proposals had to focus on Georgia University provides its students with the creation of a small enterprise with a social Bank of Georgia together with the Tree of Life hands-on experience by offering them the component aimed at improving the livelihood of Foundation established a charity platform possibility to observe various business people with disabilities.
ge, which connects the people processes at the Groups companies.
in need with those who are willing to donate The Bank continues to focus on the adaptation items, clothes, books, etc.
The platform offers In 2013, the Bank became the first Georgian of its own infrastructure.
In 2017, an additional collection, sorting and delivery of items.
company to cooperate with one of the most nine service centres became available for prestigious scholarship programmes in the people with disabilities.
Bank of Georgia recognises the impact it world the Chevening scholarship.
This 2 can have on the countrys social-economic cooperation provides Georgian students with m is in the process of constructing a new development.
Therefore, the Bank launched an opportunity to pursue education in the UK.
specialised family-type home for children with a grant programme to support socially driven In 2017, the Group provided GBP 89,532 to severe disabilities.
The project is built in Tbilisi enterprises in Georgia.
In 2017 and 2016, Bank finance a masters degree programme for three within the framework of Protection of Children of Georgia supported five social enterprises students.
The partnership with Chevening will with Disabilities a project run by the United with up to GEL 200,000 and GEL 50,000 per continue next year and the Group is looking States Agency for International Development project, respectively.
At the same time, the forward to selecting students who will continue USAID.
The project is being carried out by the Bank provided pro-bono services by helping their studies in the UK.
Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, the businesses in areas such as marketing, USAID and United Nations Childrens Fund public relations, information technology, etc.
In 2014, the Bank signed a partnership UNICEF since 2015.
The goal of the specialised The Bank partners with various NGOs to agreement with the prestigious US Fulbright home is to ensure that the children receive care in maximise its role in the social cause.
Thanks to the Bank of a family-like environment and are provided with all Georgias contribution, a selected number of the services necessary for their adequate growth, GGU regularly runs charitable activities for the students from Georgia are able to enrol in a individual development and smooth integration social service agency Child and Environment and two-year masters degree programme at a US into society.
After construction and renovation international humanitarian network Catharsis in university.
In 2017, the funding provided to the works are completed, seven children with severe Tbilisi.
GGU covers the annual water supply students for their two-year degrees amounted forms of disability will be moved to live in the 2 expenses for Child and Environment the to US$ 50,000.
It is worth noting that all m buildings are agency that cares for homeless children and granted US$ 250,000 to the US Fulbright friendly to people with special needs.
Twice a year GGU scholarship programme.
sponsors the project Dinner for Everyone, which Conserving nature.
Another priority of the is organised by Catharsis for approximately For the last four years the Bank has been Groups charitable activities is the preservation 3,000 people.
supporting a public speaking competition of wildlife diversity.
In 2017, the Bank granted organised by the English Speaking Union US$ 100,000 to the Caucasus Nature Fund Aldagi supports many socially vulnerable people Georgia.
The competition allows high school CNF to provide support to the Protected Areas by one-time help upon special requests.
The senior year or university freshman students to of Georgia.
Bank of Georgia allocated GEL 1 company traditionally provides a home for at prepare a speech on a pre-selected topic and million for restoration of the forests destroyed least one family every Christmas.
Aldagis present it in front of a competent jury.
The winner by the wildfires in the summer of 2017.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 47 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED TOTAL HEADCOUNT BY AGE CATEGORY In 2017, Bank of Georgia launched a car human rights pooling app Gzad for its employees.
The grievances application enables them to share a ride to retrenchment and from the Bank, which in turn helps reduce anti-nepotism air pollution and ease the traffic in Tbilisi.
25,795 The Banks HCM department works closely with In 2017, GGU granted GEL 250,000 to restore HR managers and executives from our subsidiaries a forest in Borjomi Gorge after a massive in order to ensure proper implementation of the 93 wildfire in August 2017. main principles and the provision of necessary 3,030 support in all HR-related matters.
Bank 5,501 1,773 2 In 2017, m committed to restoring a landscape 453 and a burnt territory of 20,000 square metres We recognise the importance of observing 152 on Tbilisis Mtatsminda slope.
The works are human rights and are committed to 1 conducted jointly with Tbilisi City Hall, Caucasus implementing socially responsible business 184 Environmental NGO Network CENN, Regional practices.
Our Human Rights Policy establishes Aldagi328 111 Environmental Centre for the Caucasus REC priorities and puts control procedures in place 24 Caucasus, the Greens Movement of Georgia to provide equal opportunities and prevent 8 GMG, botanical institute of Ilia State University discrimination or harassment on any grounds, 102 and the Ministry of Environment and Natural including disability.
Our Human Rights Policy 4,316 2 Resources of Georgia.
m was also one of the applies to all employees and includes 3,931 GHG15,070 sponsors of the all-time football stars charity procedures in relation to employment 2,834 game held at Tbilisi Dinamo Arena, dedicated processes including recruitment procedures 3,887 to the restoration of the forest burnt in Borjomi and procedures governing the continuity of 12 Gorge in August 2017. employment of employees who become 570 disabled during the course of their 552 GGU2,631 Air quality is an immediate and acute problem employment, training and development.
498 in Georgian cities, affecting peoples quality 999 of life.
In order to increase awareness of We are committed to employee engagement.
3 climate change and contribute to a healthier We believe that the knowledge of our Group is 62 2 environment, m actively promotes electric key and we strive to provide our employees with 57 2 m 156 vehicles.
As part of its spring campaign, the a continuous flow of information, which includes 13 21 company offered its customers electric scooters but is not limited to information about our 2 as a gift.
Moreover, throughout 2017 m corporate culture, the Groups strategy and 17 contributed to developing infrastructure for performance, risks relating to its performance, 293 Teliani electric vehicles by financially supporting a such as financial and economic factors, and our 196 586 Valley start-up company E-space with the installation of policies and procedures.
We provide information 51 29 up to 50 charging stations in the country Tbilisi, in a number of ways, including via managers, Batumi, Kutaisi, Rustavi, Kvareli and Telavi.
presentations, intranet, email and regular town 30 hall and off-site meetings.
We also value the 764 GHG contributed GEL 500,000 to rehabilitate views of our employees.
We consult with them Others 1,523 451 the damaged area and to help restore the regularly and have implemented feedback 177 101 remarkable nature in Borjomi.
With the support systems, such as frequent employee satisfaction of the CNF, the company is involved in the surveys, which ensure that opinions of our Project on Maintenance of Caucasus Natural employees are taken into account when making and Cultural Heritage.
The fund is meant decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
for effective long-term management of the Employee feedback also helps to improve our Less than 20 years old protected territories of Armenia, Azerbaijan and customer-focused approach.
In 2017 GHG donated GEL 52,800 31-40 years old to support the project.
In order to ensure pay is competitive, the Bank 41-50 years old monitors employee pay satisfaction via labour Over 51 years old EMPLOYEE MATTERS market compensation surveys in the banking A key factor to our success is a cohesive and industry.
The results of the 2017 survey confirm professional team, capable of accomplishing the that the Bank remains a competitive employer.
We are committed to attracting and identifying the best professionals, caring and In 2017, the Bank conducted Barrett planning for their needs, investing in their Organisational Values assessment.
The development and fostering their commitment.
results enable us to measure and manage organisational culture.
In 2017, we focused on The Human Capital Management HCM identifying the personal, current and desired department and the management system it organisational cultures in the Bank.
Cultural implements play a vital role in managing our alignment ensures positive outcomes such most valuable resources our employees.
The as job satisfaction, employee retention and HCM department develops Human Resource engagement.
Based on the survey results, our HR policies and procedures which determine cultural entropy is currently 7% cultural entropy key principles, areas, approaches and methods score 10% is considered healthy.
We are in that are crucial for building HCM systems for all the process of creating a holistic view of the our businesses.
cultural factors in performance indicators.
Examples of some of our HR policies and TALENT ATTRACTION procedures include, but are not limited to: Sustained development of the Groups businesses requires the strengthening of the David Morrison, BGEO Board member serves as employee planning and recruiting teams of our subsidiaries both by using the the Chairman of the Board of Directors of CNF.
The staff administration Groups own significant internal resources management concluded that the fund is not a related compensation and benefits through staff development and rotation and by party in accordance with the IFRS and the payment code of conduct attracting external candidates.
Our recruitment does not constitute directors remuneration.
employee development and training policy and relevant control procedures ensure 48 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC an unbiased hiring process that provides equal TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT GENDER DIVERSITY employment opportunities for all candidates.
To manage our employees in a way that best supports our business strategy, we seek to DIRECTORS According to the HR Policy, internal candidates help them contribute to business performance have priority when filling vacant positions, through personal and professional development.
especially in situations where there are Following our aspiration to develop strong vacancies in top and middle management.
leaders, we have developed an extensive Thus, in 2017, 266 Group employees were leadership development programme.
The Groups corporate learning system is In order to attract young talent, we actively comprised of a wide range of internal and 2015 9 1 8 partner with leading Georgian business schools external training sessions specifically designed 2016 7 1 6 and universities, participate in job fairs and run to meet the needs of front and back office 2017 8 1 7 extensive internship programmes aimed at the employees at the Groups subsidiaries including professional development of young professionals.
banking, energy and utilities, real estate In 2012, Bank of Georgia established a new development, healthcare and insurance.
Middle Female format for its traditional internship programme and and senior-level employees are given the Male constantly develops it.
The programme attracts opportunity to receive external training in well promising graduates and provides them with the known training institutions outside of Georgia.
opportunity to participate in professional trainings.
Interns are directly coached by the Banks In 2014-2015, Bank of Georgia launched a SENIOR MANAGERS executives and middle managers to help them Leadership Development Executive Coaching on their path to gaining their first management programme.
It provides an individual approach positions in the near future.
In 2016, the Company towards developing leadership skills.
The successfully completed a talent acquisition project programme continued to run successfully 93 for its Investment Officer position and launched it throughout 2017 and further expanded in 2017 as well.
The project selects a number of to lower leadership levels, having benefited young and talented candidates for various its participants with a personally tailored 2015 63 16 47 assignments within BGEO Group.
Employees involved 2016 76 16 60 number of young professionals under 30 years in the programme gained a greater awareness old represented 32% of the total headcount.
of their leadership strengths and opportunities 2017 93 27 66 for future growth.
Based on its previous years In 2017, GGU, in collaboration with Georgias experience, the Bank has refined its Leadership Female Innovation and Technology Agency, organised a Development System together with the 360 Male project for talented and motivated young people degree feedback process.
with technical academic backgrounds for the second consecutive year since its initial launch in The Bank highly values the talent of its 2016.
Participants had the opportunity to work employees and provides various talent retention ALL EMPLOYEES on and introduce technological solutions to real activities engaging them through leadership challenges that the company is facing in the fields development and various professional certification of water supply and sewerage systems.
BOG creates different development authors of the best projects were offered a job opportunities for employees in terms of career and they are successfully continuing their and personal growth.
Internal promotions are 25,795 work and development within the company.
part of the talent attraction and retention system GGU has been working in collaboration with and also create a basis for employee loyalty the countrys leading universities, professional and retention.
The Bank also offers competitive 2015 15,955 11,714 4,241 colleges and their career services to attract remuneration and benefit packages for its 2016 22,080 14,796 7,284 new talent.
The collaborations are bound by the employees and supports work-life balance by 2017 25,795 17,443 8,352 memoranda with Free University and, the latest, providing additional paid days off, in addition to with San Diego State University, according to those in the Labour Code of Georgia.
The Bank which the students will engage in GGUs also encourages engagement and dedication of Female traineeship programmes and benefit from its talented employees with awards made to the Male practical experience received at the company.
Best Employee and Team of the Year.
GHG offers continuous medical education In 2017, a GHGs human resources department Each of the Groups businesses has developed through Evex Learning Centre.
Apart from organised job fairs for students in leading an extensive training programme for front office modern training methods, the centre offers medical universities and nursing colleges in employees in order to provide them with relevant up-to-date equipment, auditoria, computer Tbilisi and other regions.
The companys skills, such as effective communication and labs and other facilities that conform to the healthcare services business attracted more building strong and valued client relationships.
In 2017, the than 300 students to its nursing course.
GHG For example, the Banks mentoring programme centre trained a total of 2,046 nurses, 1,510 has memoranda of understanding with various is part of a front office training process.
Every physicians and 1,508 administrative employees.
In 2017, GHGs new employee is provided with regular advice, Evex Learning Centre conducted six-month free guidance and practical instructions from an In 2017, GHGs healthcare services business spent nursing courses for 278 students from nursing appointed mentor, who later participates in about GEL 2 million on training and development.
72 graduates were offered jobs at the the new employees performance evaluation.
Most of the expenditures went towards training companys healthcare services facilities.
Through this programme, we aim to provide nurses, ER specialists and the advancement of individual support to our employees in achieving specialists in various medical fields.
In 2017, GHG signed a special memorandum their professional goals.
with Panatsea the biggest nursing college in HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY Tbilisi, whose students will undergo 18 months In 2017, the Bank launched an online The Human Resources and Human Rights of practical training at GHGs hospitals.
The top Learning Management System LMS, enabling Policies are an integral part of the employee five students will get a grant from Evex.
employees to easily and comfortably access on-boarding package.
It is available for corporate learning opportunities.
The Bank also employees on the intranet and the updates started updating the managerial induction and are communicated electronically.
onboarding programmes, which will cover employees at all levels.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 49 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED 2 The Human Rights Policy covers the following: m Real Estate publishes brochures and schedule presented in the Environmental & Social booklets with warnings and special rules to be Policy Framework, adopted by the company in Equal opportunities and anti-discrimination followed when working on sites.
ESMS is in compliance with the Georgian Work environment free of harassment control procedures include quarterly audits legislation and IFC performance standards Grievance policy by external health and safety consultants and Environmental, Health and Safety guidelines 2 internal monthly inspections of m Real Estate for Water and Sanitation.
As part of the ESMS, 2 CODE OF ETHICS AND ANTI-BRIBERY worksites.
In addition, m has a comprehensive environmental and social audit of the company POLICIES reporting procedure for health and safety has been performed.
The audit report covers the The Group has a Code of Ethics, as well as concerns.
With regard to emergency environmental issues that are mainly associated 2 Anti-Bribery Policy, which are also applicable to preparedness and response, m follows an with water treatment, water distribution, the Group companies.
In BOG, the Corporate Emergency Management Plan.
This outlines sanitation sewerage system and wastewater and Information Security department is in charge possible scenarios during emergency situations treatment and discharge, as well as occupational of implementing and monitoring controls related and determines specific strategies for the health and safety issues related to accidents to anti-bribery issues.
The department has the companys employees, contractors and visitors and injuries, chemical exposure, noise, etc.
To procedures in place, which define the process of on how to react when in a crisis situation.
manage and mitigate the risks associated with establishing relationships with vendors, undertaking GGUs business, the company has elaborated public tenders, etc.
The Corporate and Information ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS ESMS procedures and topical management Security department provides annual online The Group recognises that its operations plans, which are implemented according to the training for employees on anti-bribery issues, have both an indirect and direct impact on Environmental and Social Action Plan ESAP which are also included in induction trainings.
the environment, and therefore seeks to in the set timeframe.
ESMS will facilitate the establish management approaches which will process of obtaining the ISO14000 standard for As an organization that is fully committed to help it become a more  environmental management and the ISO26000 prevention of bribery and corruption, the Bank institution.
Being the leading financial institution standard for social responsibility.
ensures that appropriate internal controls are in in Georgia, the Bank, through the projects it place and operating effectively.
finances, produces significant indirect impacts GHGs most significant environmental impact on the environment.
In order to properly is associated with the generation of medical Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy manage this impact, the Bank has implemented waste.
The company developed medical waste enforcement processes include: Environmental and Social Policy and Risk management record keeping standards.
GHGs Management procedures, as detailed in the personnel is responsible for filling out daily and Operating an internal whistleblowing and Social matters section.
weekly forms, such as: waste registration form, hotline system: waste information form and hazardous waste Disclosure of gifts or other benefit, including As for the direct environmental impact, transportation form.
Special storing rooms hospitality, offered to, or received by the we believe that the impact of the banking were set up in GHGs hospitals, to place waste Bank personnel: and insurance businesses is not significant.
To prevent human and Voluntary disclosure of corrupt conduct: Nevertheless, we undertake a number of environmental harm, the companys clinics Third party screening to identify the level of measures to reduce electricity, paper, water and collect and dispose of medical and biological risk third parties might pose: fuel consumption.
Green Boxes are placed waste through an outsourced service Informing the banks partners counterparties on every floor of the Banks headquarters and specialising in medical waste disposal.
For about anti-corruption and anti-bribery are designated to collect paper for recycling waste collection, GHG uses plastic bags that principles before commencement of purposes.
In 2017, the lighting system in all of have sufficient strength and are secured with business relations: the Banks service centres was replaced with staples to safely retain waste.
Also, the company Ensuring that anti-bribery and anti-corruption energy efficient LED lamps, which consume far does not fill more than two-thirds of the bags clauses are incorporated in the agreements less electricity than traditional economical ones.
Further, steam sterilisation is used to with customers and third parties 30W lamps were replaced with more energy decontaminate biological and bio hazardous Ensuring that anti-bribery and anti-corruption efficient 12W lamps, and 40-60W light bulbs waste, including blood.
All used sharps are matters are included in contractual with 11W.
Furthermore, installation of modern placed only in the labelled, hermetic single-use agreements with partners counterparties computer technology resulted in reduction of special containers made of hard plastic.
Waste is Online training programs aiming raising energy consumption from 500-800W per unit collected from GHGs sites daily, or twice a day awareness in corruption and bribery issues to 150-300W.
Centralised uninterruptible power when required.
The maximum on-site storage among employees supply is being installed in the Banks service time of waste is up to 24 hours.
centres, which will save considerable energy As part of the Groups third party screening to resources compared to individual systems.
METHODOLOGY identify the level of risk the third parties might The most significant direct impact on the We have reported on all of the emission sources pose, the Group carries out the following due environment within the Group is created by required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic 2 diligence processes: indirect investigations our real estate development business, m Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 which includes general research of the activities Real Estate.
The company addresses industryScopes 1 and 2 and additionally have reported on undertaken by the proposed business partners, specific environmental issues and undertakes those emissions under Scope 3 that are applicable their reputation and information whether the appropriate measures to manage them.
All reported sources fall within company is a related party.
companys projects are constructed with our Consolidated Financial Statements, which impeccable attention to energy efficient can be found on pages 118 to 212.
We do not OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY design for sustainable development, which have responsibility for any emission sources that Ensuring the safety of the workplace and achieves energy savings over the long term.
are not included in our Consolidated Financial providing healthy working conditions are among Aiming to increase efficient use of energy, Statements.
2 the Groups fundamental HR management water and materials, m installs energy efficient principles.
The Group pays particular attention to lighting systems and uses low emissivity In preparing our emissions data, we have preventive measures, such as conducting regular window glasses and other modern insulation used the World Resources Institute World staff training and medical check-ups, certifying materials to cover a facade of the buildings.
Business Council for Sustainable Development workplaces and promoting a healthy lifestyle.
This reduces a U-value of constructed buildings WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: 2 to 0.21W m K. As a result, it is expected that A Corporate Accounting and Reporting In order to enhance the awareness of employees utility costs in these buildings will be cut by Standard revised edition and emissions factors and contractors regarding health and safety risks up to 43%, compared to average residential from the UK Governments Greenhouse Gas associated with construction work, the company buildings in Georgia.
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting conducts regular training and educational 2016.
For wastewater treatment and discharge seminars.
In 2015, 2016 and 2017, the number GGU is currently in the process of implementing operations we used conversion factors from of health and safety training hours amounted to an Environmental and Social Management 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse approximately 110, 70 and 86, respectively.
System ESMS in accordance with the roadmap Gas Inventories.
50 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC Our reported data is collected and reported on in Combustion of natural gas, diesel and Data on emissions resulting from travel is reported respect of six of the Groups main businesses: petrol in stationary equipment at owned for business-related travel only and excludes and controlled sites commuting travel.
Data from joint ventures, Banking, represented by the Bank, which Combustion of petrol, diesel and aviation investments or sub-leased properties have not includes all of its offices and retail branches, fuel in owned transportation devices cars been included within the reported figures.
where the Bank has operational control and aeroplanes 2 Real estate development, represented by m The data is provided by on-site delegates, Real Estate, which includes its offices and Scope 2 electricity, heat, steam and cooling invoices and metre readings.
construction sites purchased for own use includes emissions from: Utility and energy business, represented by GROUP POLICIES Georgia Global Utilities, which includes all of Used electricity at owned and controlled The Group has in place a Code of Ethics, as its offices and operational sites sites: to calculate the emissions, we used the well as policies which relate to environmental P&C insurance, represented by Aldagi, which conversion factor for Non-OECD Europe and matters, employees, social matters, our respect includes all of its offices and retail branches, Eurasia average conversion from the UK for human rights and anti-corruption and bribery.
where the company has operational control Governments Greenhouse Gas Conversion Beverage business, represented by Teliani Factors for Company Reporting 2014 Copies of these polices can be found on the Valley, which includes all of its offices and Used heat and steam only applies to Groups website: operational sites one site of Imedi L http: bgeo.
com page id 69 policies Georgia Healthcare Group, represented by Evex and Imedi L, which includes its main Scope 3 includes emissions from: office and hospitals, where the company Air business travel short haul and long haul : has operational control information on the class of travel is unavailable, hence, we used an average Scope 1 combustion of fuel and operation passenger conversion factor of facilities includes emissions from: Ground transportation, including taxis, coaches and car hire Environmental aspect Preventive measures Dust Introducing speed limits on unmade roads Damping down using water bowsers with spray bars Sheeting of construction materials and storage piles Using defined moving routes and reducing vehicle speed limits where required Spills and leaks during Installing a sealed drainage system at refuelling areas Providing suitable tanks e. g. double skinned, bunds and impermeable liners at fuel stores and refuelling points refuelling Using drip trays for static plant e. g. generators and pumps Training staff in refuelling and pump operations Shortening the refuelling line as much as possible Performing regular maintenance checks of hoses and valves Conducting follow-up procedures for proper and safe refuelling by operators Air emissions purchase Ensuring that new vehicles comply with the current European Union EU emissions standards at the time of purchase Implementing a regular maintenance programme to ensure all new vehicles continue to comply with relevant emissions standards Ensuring that older vehicles are maintained in order to eliminate extra emissions as much as reasonably practicable Strictly enforcing speed limits in order to optimise fuel consumption and production of exhaust fumes, and minimise dust generation on unpaved surfaces Water contamination Locating fuel stores and refuelling points further away from watercourses and aquifers Fire Providing a fire extinguisher adjacent to each item of mobile plant and equipment Noise Fitting effective silencers at all plant and machinery, and providing ear defenders and or plugs on sites No idling or revving of plant engines vehicles Using controlled venting, silenced equipment and absorbing screens Working at preferred times of day daylight hours Monday to Saturday, otherwise communicated to the local community and authorities Vibration Operating the equipment within the manufacturer specification limits and limiting any overuse Depletion of the Ensuring that no ozone depleting substances ODS such as chlorofluorocarbons CFCs and hydro stratospheric ozone layer chlorofluorocarbons HCFCs or products with known global warming potential are used TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA FOR THE PERIOD BEGINNING 1 JANUARY 2017 AND ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 TONNES OF CO E 2 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 emissions fuel combustion and facility operations 6,679 10,567 19,165 Scope 2 emissions from electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 12,183 30,826 47,869 Scope 3 emissions from air travel and ground transportation 4,487 10,266 16,229 TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 23,349 51,660 83,264 FTEs 15,955 21,278 25,900 TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PER FTE 1.46 2.43 3.21 Due to the nature of their operations, GHG, GGU and Teliani contributed to the increase in greenhouse gas emissions in 2017.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 51 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview
