GEORGIA CAPITAL STRATEGY Georgia Capital is a Georgia-focused, well diversified investment company targeting minimum IRR of 25% from its investments.
Georgia Capital seeks to capture growth opportunities in the sectors in which it currently operates and drive the development of new structurally attractive, high-growth businesses in Georgia, which it intends to add either by acquiring businesses in their early development stage or by establishing greenfield businesses, often consolidating fragmented or underdeveloped markets.
Georgia Capital actively manages its portfolio companies to maturity, setting the strategy and business plan of each business and driving its execution.
In order to unlock the value of the companies in which it invests and which it manages, Georgia Capital sets an exit strategy prior to making an investment.
GEORGIA CAPITALS KEY PRINCIPLES AROUND INVESTING AND MANAGING COMPANIES 1.
INVESTMENT & CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Georgia Capital does not have capital Georgia Capital will apply a hands-on Highly disciplined investing approach.
commitments or a primary mandate to management approach to the non-public The Georgian economy entered into a deploy funds or divest assets within a portfolio companies at early stages of their period of significant development and specific time-frame.
As such, it can focus development and acts as an advisor for the growth approximately ten years ago and on shareholder returns and on opportunities management of more mature companies.
different sectors and businesses are at an which meet its investment return and growth In the publicly listed companies, Georgia Capital early stage of formation.
The company targets a minimum IRR will be represented on the Board at least until its and management personnel is limited, of 25% for its existing and new businesses, ownership stake falls below 25%.
owners of businesses are cash poor and, to buy back and cancel its shares and or pay as a result, Georgia Capital can pursue special dividends linked to exits from its 3.
EXIT attractive investment opportunities and existing businesses and new investments As a business matures, Georgia Capital will acquire assets on relatively attractive terms normally seek to monetise its investment, with a view to consolidating fragmented 2.
MANAGING PORTFOLIO COMPANIES including through initial public offering, strategic and underdeveloped markets.
Because Georgia Capital sets the strategy and business sale or other appropriate exit, typically within five the company is under no time pressure to plan of each business it acquires or establishes to ten years from acquisition.
As investments invest, it takes a selective and opportunistic and then actively manages their implementation, are monetised, Georgia Capital plans either to approach to new investments.
Georgia particularly at early stages of development.
redeploy the proceeds to capture opportunities Capitals capital return policy is a natural As the availability of management personnel for growth in new sectors or in the companys self-discipline mechanism for its capital is limited, by developing top talent in Georgia existing businesses, or return proceeds to allocation decisions the company can add value for the companys shareholders in accordance with its capital shareholders.
Investing time in growing and return policy.
o 360 analysis when evaluating capital returns, developing management continues to be critical new investment opportunities or divestments.
for the success of the companys strategy.
KEY TO SUCCESS ALIGNED SHAREHOLDER PRIVATE EQUITY AND MANAGEMENT INTERESTS 2% management fee n a 20% success fee n a c. 2% operating expenses n a Cash preservation is a key target for Georgia Capital and therefore two thirds of total operating expenses are related to share-based compensation Georgia Capitals senior managements compensation will be paid in long-vested shares only, with no cash component Portfolio company management will be paid in proxy shares of their respective companies GEORGIA CAPITAL THREE PILLAR STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK SUPERIOR ACCESS TO CAPITAL ACCESS TO MANAGEMENT Only investment company in Georgia Reputation among talented managers as the best group to work for Uniquely positioned given the access to capital in a small frontier Attracted talent have demonstrated track record of successful delivery economy, where access to capital is limited: Proven DNA in turning around the companies and growing them c. US$ 500 million raised in equity at LSE efficiently Issued four Eurobonds totalling US$ 1.2 billion Strong skillset in company exits US$ 3 billion raised from IFIs EBRD, IFC, etc.
LSE IPO track record Flexibility to use own shares as acquisition currency Divestiture skills STRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Outstanding track record in: Institutionalising businesses, creating independently run managed institutions investor reporting transparency and granularity Aligned shareholder and management interests Management compensation linked to performance Equity performance dominating compensation structure Top class Board and governance 24 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC GGU NATURAL MONOPOLY IN THE WATER BUSINESS, WITH UPSIDE IN ELECTRICITY GENERATION AND SALES GGU has a significant opportunity to increase its operational cash flow over the next few years from a combination of improving cash collection rates, growing cost efficiencies from cutting technical and commercial water loss rates, and reducing energy consumption internally to preserve the supply available for sale to third parties, while also planning the construction of hydro, wind and solar power generation plants.
GGU is an established business with two In 2017, GGU commenced construction Establishing a renewable energy business lines water utility and electric power of a 50MW HPP in North-Western Georgia platform.
GGU plans to establish a generation.
In its water utility business, GGU Svaneti region with a target to have the HPP renewable energy platform by developing has a natural monopoly that supplies water operational in December 2018.
Construction hydro, wind and solar power plants.
and provides a wastewater service to 1.4 of 2.5MW Bodorna HPP also started in 2017, Currently, GGU owns and operates million people more than one-third of Georgias which is expected to become fully operational 149.3MW installed capacity, has c. 100MW population in three cities: Tbilisi, Mtskheta from September 2018.
Moreover, 44.3MW HPPs at a construction stage and c. 100MW and Rustavi.
GGU is self-sufficient in its Zoti HPP in Western Georgia Guria region wind projects at feasibility stage.
Additionally, power usage for water transportation and is currently under development with a target GGU is constantly identifying new renewable invests in additional capacity for electricity to complete the construction of this plant projects that it aims to develop in the generation with the goal to establish a by the end of 2020. c. 100MW wind projects medium term renewable energy platform.
are currently at the feasibility stage and once Preparing for IPO in the medium term.
complete, GGU expects to commence As part of preparing for a potential IPO, GGU has been investing heavily in its construction works.
GGU aims to achieve EBITDA of more than infrastructure, thereby replacing the depreciated GEL 115 million in 2019.
GGU plans to use asset base over time and achieving continuous The key elements of GGUs business strategy IPO proceeds to fund new development growth in the Regulatory Asset Base RAB.
are outlined below: initiatives, including renewable energy GGU plans to invest at least GEL 200 million projects over the next three years in the upgrade of Reducing water loss rates and existing and the development of substantial increasing energy efficiency.
GGU GGU has been successfully growing EBITDA new water utility infrastructure.
GGUs aims to achieve efficiencies in operating and reaching its targets for several years in Investment in infrastructure is expected to and maintaining its network by heavily a row and the company is well on track to significantly improve the rendering of water investing in the refurbishment of its existing further increase it to more than GEL 115 million supply and wastewater services to customers and the development of new infrastructure.
in 2019 by increasing its renewable energy and achieve cost efficiencies through reduced As a result, GGU plans to substantially portfolio and tapping into additional efficiencies water losses.
In 2017, GGUs regulatory body reduce technical and commercial water in the water business.
Strong and stable cash approved increased tariffs for water supply losses in the medium term, thereby reducing flow generation is expected to enable GGU to and wastewater services based on a new water and energy consumed internally.
sponsor steadily increasing dividend payouts methodology, which is in line with international Asa result of achieving efficiencies in its to shareholders and to prepare the combined best practices.
New tariffs provide fair return own energy consumption, GGU expects utility and renewable energy business for an on investment, as well as compensating for to free up electricity for third-party sales.
IPO in approximately two to three years.
GGU intends to achieve additional cost efficiencies through reduced maintenance costs for existing water infrastructure, which management expects to result in increased profitability TARGETS AND PRIORITIES FOR THE NEXT TWO YEARS CURRENT MEDIUM TARGETING STANDING TERM GOAL REVENUE 2017: GEL 125 million EBITDA 2019: DIVIDEND 1 UTILITY GEL 70 million PROVIDER EBITDA 2017: GEL 62 million REVENUE 2017: GEL 14 million EBITDA 2019: VALUE GEL 45 million CREATION 2 ENERGY EBITDA 2017: UPSIDE GEL 9 million 200MW capacity 149.3MW capacity Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 25 IPO in 2-3 years time Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview 2 m A FAST-GROWING, LEADING REAL ESTATE DEVELOPER AND ASSET MANAGER IN GEORGIA 2 2 m Real Estate develops residential and commercial property, including hotels, in Georgia.
Over the past ten years, m has established itself as 2 one of the most recognised and trustworthy residential housing brands in the country.
m is also in the process of building on its strong market reputation,  operating model and brand franchise to create a third business line that develops third-party land plots and 2 generates fee income.
For the next three years, the main priority for m Real Estate will be to target an internal rate of return of 40%, whilst delivering a capital return of US$ 25 million in 2020 by: 2 2 Developing remaining residential land which enables m to achieve construction Hotel development: m launched a 2 bank.
As a residential real estate developer, m and project development efficiencies three-star Ramada Encore hotel in Tbilisi 2 targets mass market customers by introducing Sales.
m is distinguished by its ability under Wyndhams seven-year Ramada high quality and comfortable living standards in to accomplish strong sales performance Encore brand exclusivity in February 2018.
Georgia and making them affordable through through dedicated sales personnel and The company is currently constructing a its well established branch network and sales access to finance.
Pre-sale reduces the four-star Ramada hotel in the centre of force.
The total value we are aiming to unlock equity needed to finance the projects.
Tbilisi and another three-star Ramada from the remaining residential land bank by 2020 The top three banks provide mortgages Encore hotel in Kutaisi is in pipeline.
2 is US$ 27.8 million with 4,690 apartments in under the m completion guarantee Both are expected to launch in 2019.
All 2 addition to 217 remaining apartments to be sold Execution.
m has an excellent track Wyndham brand hotels cater to the growing in the existing 11 projects, both completed and record for projects completed on time number of budget travellers and will offer 2 2 ongoing.
m does not expect the land bank to and to budget.
The company manages c. 400 rooms in total by 2019. m finances grow, as the companys strategy is to utilise its the entire process from development and the equity needs of the mixed-use hotel existing land plots within three to four years and, construction through to apartment handover from the profits and land value unlocked in parallel, start developing third-party land plots and property management services through the sale of the apartments in the 2 under franchise agreements.
The Ramada four-star hotel cooperated with Development Financial in Tbilisi will be constructed in-house by the Franchising real estate development in Institutions DFIs, has also been active in companys recently acquired construction 2 2 Georgia.
m focuses on franchising its well local fixed income instruments market and subsidiary.
In addition, in 2017, m acquired established brand to develop third-party land has issued Dollar-denominated bonds in a controlling stake in a lifestyle boutique 2 plots and generate a fee income.
While following the local market.
Since 2012, m has raised hotel, which is expected to launch in 2019 2 its asset light strategy, m will capitalise on its: approximately US$ 100 million of debt 2 financing, of which US$ 45 million is from Construction management.
m enjoys 92% international financial institutions Estate historically outsourced construction customer brand awareness among real and architecture works and focused on project 2 2 estate developers in Georgia Growing yielding business.
m will continue management and sales.
In 2017, m acquired BK 2 Pricing power.
Under m, apartments can growing its yielding asset portfolio through: Construction LLC, a local real estate construction sell at a higher price than under other company, with the aim to bring the construction 2 brands.
m has development expertise that Commercial space: enhancing the incomeworks in-house and achieve cost and project 2 the company uses to achieve efficiency in generating asset portfolio by incorporating development efficiencies.
m plans to fully utilise planning and design stages, which drives commercial elements in its residential the benefits of this vertical integration and boost revenues as well as margins.
Moreover, developments and opportunistically fee income generation from franchise deals and owing to a vertical integration of its acquiring and or developing high street retail, third-party constructions.
2 construction arm, m has control over the commercial and office space.
In addition to largest part of a developments cost base, rental income, these assets can also deliver capital appreciation TARGETS AND PRIORITIES FOR THE NEXT TWO YEARS 1 Unlock land value by developing own land bank Fully develop land bank valued at US$ 27.8 million by 2020 Use part of the proceeds to distribute dividends to shareholders 2 Franchise m brand 2 2 Harness m brand name as a platform to develop third-party land plots and generate fee income 2 Increase the awareness of m franchise among land owners 3 Grow yielding portfolio 2 Grow portfolio of rent-earning assets by retaining commercial space in residential buildings developed by m and opportunistically purchase yielding real estate in prime locations Develop hotels with a total of 500 rooms to increase yielding business 4 Construction management Utilise benefits of most recent vertical integration of a construction arm and achieve cost and project development efficiencies Generate fee income from construction management from both franchised deals exclusive contractor and third-party constructions NAV Net Asset Value US$ 59.5 million Yielding assets US$ 16.3 million Land bank US$ 28.1 million Deferred revenue US$ 18.0 million Capital management discipline aim to pay US$ 25 million dividends to the shareholders in 2020 2 Possibility to spin off yielding properties as a listed REIT managed by m 26 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC ALDAGI UNDISPUTED LEADER IN GEORGIAS FAST-DEVELOPING P&C INSURANCE MARKET Over nearly three decades in the Georgian P&C insurance market, Aldagi has achieved almost universal brand awareness, leading positions in retail insurance services, the largest product portfolio and exceptional financial strength.
The company has doubled its retail portfolio over the last three years, outperformed market growth by 5% and achieved a ROAE of 38.5%.
Based on the latest available market data as at 30 September 2017, Aldagi continues to be the most profitable insurance company in the local market with 89.4% share of the insurance industry profit and a market share of 38.6% based on gross premiums earned.
The current low level of insurance market Furthermore, a new law requiring a mandatory The company actively diversifies its distribution penetration in Georgia 1.2%, of which 0.6% local MTPL for all vehicles registered in Georgia channels by forming partnerships with financial relates to P&C insurance and 0.6% to medical is expected to launch in 2019 and significantly institutions.
Extended cooperations with leading insurance provides enormous potential of boost retail market penetration.
financial institutions in Georgia will enable growth and Aldagi is well equipped to capture Aldagi to uncover additional sources of high these opportunities.
In 2017, Aldagi actively worked on developing quality deals for its leading insurance products new products and introduced livestock and continue to successfully diversify its Aldagi aims to triple its current net profit and insurance to underpenetrated rural areas.
become a GEL 50 million net profit company The company came up with an online travel by 2022.
The company plans to achieve this insurance product, with a unique combination SME segment.
Georgias insurance market by strategically focusing on each of its three of coverage and competitive pricing.
Aldagi for small and medium sized enterprises is main business lines set out below: partnered with Public Service Hall, whose currently in its infancy.
Aldagis strategy is clients can electronically acquire affordable to focus the attention of its experienced Retail customers.
The Georgian retail insurance for any property registered on the retail sales force in addition to the corporate insurance market offers ample room for growth, public registry.
sales department towards entering this as most of its potential is yet to be unlocked.
Aldagi sees Aldagi aims to further strengthen its market significant potential to grow this segment Motor insurance accounts for 50% of the total leadership position by harnessing its digital of the portfolio by developing tailor-made retail insurance market in Georgia, of which insurance platform over the next five years.
products and providing them through digital Aldagis share is 42%.
The motor insurance The company intends to execute all of its portals, created especially for SME clients, segment has great potential to increase, as only processes and procedures, including issuance and its multi-channel distribution network.
4% of registered cars are insured on the local of e-policies, remote claims regulation and market.
Moreover, compulsory Border Motor building web mobile customer profiles, Large corporates.
Although the level of Third Party Liability MTPL insurance will be principally through digital channels.
Aldagi insurance penetration within the corporate effective from March 2018, and Aldagi expects plans to increase the percentage of retail sales segment is relatively high compared to it to increase the size of the existing P&C conducted online to approximately 20% of total retail and SME segments, a combination market by approximately GEL 30-50 million retail sales, and the percentage of motor claims of favourable Georgian macroeconomic 15-25% of the existing P&C insurance market.
processed online to 25% of total motor claims.
conditions, a good investment climate, stable economic growth and an increase in infrastructure projects will further increase customer demand for insurance products.
TARGETS AND PRIORITIES FOR THREE BUSINESS DIRECTIONS GEL c. 16 GEL 50 ALDAGI PROFIT MILLION MILLION 2017 2022 Retail | Penetration Low SME | Penetration Zero Corporate | Penetration No mandatory lines, border and Underpenetrated market Good investment climate local MTPL, also GTPL mandatory Developing tailored products Stable economic growth insurance to be introduced Digital portal for SME Increase in infrastructural projects Develop simple products for mass retail Digitilisation of all processes More partnership with financial institutions after demerger Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 27 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview TELIANI CREATING A LEADING BEVERAGE PRODUCER AND DISTRIBUTOR IN SOUTH CAUCASUS Teliani Valley aims to become a leading beverage producer and the biggest distribution company not only in Georgia, but in South Caucasus.
The company is well equipped to leverage its strong existing production and excellent sales and distribution franchise.
Teliani Valley is an established leading beverage Teliani has an established distribution franchise, to import and distribute Lavazza coffee in producer and distributor in Georgia with three which has contracts with a number of Georgia, and won other non-alcoholic beverage major business lines: wine production, beer international beverage brands.
Teliani plans to distribution contracts in 2017. production, and distribution of its own and diversify the products in its distribution portfolio third-party brands in Georgia.
and eventually become the largest third-party In 2017, Teliani launched production of a distribution company.
lemonade and local mainstream beer.
The The company is a leading wine producer in newly launched beer ICY was well received Georgia, selling around 3.5 million bottles of Telianis strong production and distribution by the local market, which immediately earned wine in 14 countries globally per annum, with franchise led the company to establish a 97% brand awareness and 16% market share about 68% of its revenue coming from exports.
Teliani will produce upon launch.
Both products are planned to be Teliani intends to not only retain its leading Heineken brands in Georgia under a ten-year exported to CIS countries.
position on the local wine market, but also to exclusive license agreement and sell them in become a top exporter by 2019.
Teliani aims to the countries of the South Caucasus region Of the US$ 49.3 million investment in the beer grow its domestic and international wine sales population of c. 17 million.
Teliani is well on project, US$ 29.5 million is equity, of which by benefiting from favourable market trends track to brew Heineken and Kruovice Beers US$ 23.3 million is BGEOs share.
Teliani in Georgia and expanding exports through in its brand new brewery in 2018. expects EBITDA to grow to c. US$ 5.5 million new sales channels in high-growth countries, in 2020, up from the current US$ 0.6 million, including China.
In line with its strategy to diversify its distribution with growth primarily driven by the expansion portfolio, Teliani obtained exclusive rights into the beer segment.
LOCAL MAINSTREAM BEER PRODUCTION LAUNCHED IN 2017 GOAL BECOME THE LEADING BEVERAGES PRODUCER AND DISTRIBUTOR IN SOUTH CAUCASUS BUSINESS SEGMENTS Wine Distribution Beer c. 3.5 million bottles sold annually c. 5,000 sales points Launched mainstream beer and lemonade production under ICY and GEL 24.3 million revenue in 2017 New distribution lines LAVAZZA Berika brands in June and August coffee and BAGRATIONI 1882 GEL 5.5 million EBITDA in 2017 2017, respectively sparkling wine 68% of sales from exports Beer and lemonade sales amounted Exporting wine to 14 countries, to GEL 17.5 million and GEL 1.5 including all FSU, Poland, Sweden, million in 2017, respectively USA, Canada and China c. 6,700 sales points as of 2017 year-end Ten-year exclusivity with Heineken to sell in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan c. 17 million population PRIORITIES FOR 2018 Wine Distribution Beer Grow in line with a local market Enhance product portfolio and Achieve 23% market share become the leading FMCG Enhance exports distributor in Georgia The results are presented excluding the IFRS 15 impact.
28 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC GHG LEADING IN ALL SEGMENTS OF GEORGIAS HEALTHCARE ECOSYSTEM GHG will continue to focus on building its presence throughout the Georgian healthcare ecosystem, while also focusing on enhancing its margins and achieving higher intergroup synergies through various cross-selling initiatives.
GHGs strategic priorities are set out below.
In the hospitals and polyclinics business GHGs In the pharmaceuticals business GHGs aim is to: In the medical insurance business GHGs aim is to: aim is to: Achieve a 30% market share in 2018, Reduce the combined ratio to less than Rebound healthcare services EBITDA margin whilst targeting an EBITDA margin to 8.0% 97% over the next few years currently up to c. 30% in the medium to long term Continue to decrease the cost of goods 102.5% Achieve a c. 25% market share by revenues sold services, by consolidating GHGs Improve synergies by seeking to retain and c. 28% market share by beds by 2018, pharmacy and hospital purchases of the number of claims of more than 70% and 30% market share by both in the long pharmaceuticals and medical disposables currently 59.1% term currently 21.0% share of revenues and Enhance the retail margin by launching 24.5% share of hospital beds private label initiatives, increasing the Roll out a network of polyclinics to achieve number of loyalty programme users a c. 5% market share of revenues in 2018 and expanding sales to hospitals and a 15% market share of revenues in Enhance digital channels the long term currently 2% Enhance digital channels The key strategic focus in the hospital business over the next few years will be to enhance the companys footprint in Tbilisi, continue to fill the current gaps in medical services in Georgia, and strengthen and expand services in elective care.
GHG HAS FULL PRESENCE IN GEORGIAS HEALTHCARE ECOSYSTEM SEGMENT HOSPITALS POLYCLINICS PHARMACY INSURANCE ADDRESSABLE MARKET 2017 GEL 1.2bn GEL 0.7bn GEL 1.5bn GEL 0.2bn By revenue | beds By revenue By revenue By revenue MARKET In 2015 18% | 27% 1% 38% SHARES In 2017 21% | 25% 2% 30% 29% For 2018 c. 25% | 28% c. 5% 30% 30% TARGET MARKET SHARES Long-term 30% 15% 30% 30% Renovated and Added three Successfully Increased claims PROGRESS TOWARD launched Tbilisi new district integrated two retained within STRATEGIC GOALS IN 2017 Referral Hospital polyclinics, major retailers the group by bringing the 11.4% y-o-y Renovated Deka Improved total number of Hospital which profitability Turning the clusters to 12 opened in 2018 margins corner in profitability Launched 50 new services in referral hospitals Excluding depreciation and amortisation expenses.
Addressable market excluding the revenue from speciality beds.
Addressable market excluding the revenue from dental and aesthetic services.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 29 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview
