Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Board of Directors and Executive Management Chairman and non-executive directors Executive directors Executive management Sir Nigel Rudd, Amee Chande Wayne Edmunds, David Blizzard Kevin Erickson Chairman Interim Group Chief Executive Peter Edwards Emma Gilthorpe David Crook, Gareth Hall Mark Johnstone Group Finance Director Susan Kilsby Peter Ratcliff e Erik Keller Tony Lefebvre Peter Ventress Maria Sastre 44 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors where in 2001 he was promoted to and Coca-Cola HBC AG.
Her current Sir Nigel Rudd 71 N R Wayne Edmunds 62 President of Business Aircraft.
Peter appointments include being Chairman Chairman Interim Group Chief Executive was Chief Executive Officer of Jet of Shire plc and a non-executive Appointed to the Board in December Appointed to the Board in August Aviation, a global business aircraft director of Fortune Brands Home 2013.
Sir Nigel Rudd became 2013 and became Interim Group service provider, between 2007 and & Security, Inc and Goldman Sachs Chairman in May 2014.
Sir Nigel is also Chief Executive on 1 July 2017.
Since leaving Jet Aviation, International.
Her experience advising Chairman of Meggitt PLC and Sappi Other current appointments include Peter has been active with his aviation clients across a range of industries Limited.
In February 2011, he was being Chairman of Dialight PLC advisory practice, along with various includes significant deals in the appointed Chairman of the Business and a non-executive director of roles in European based ventures in aviation and aerospace sectors.
Sir Nigel has a wealth of Ashtead Group and MSCI, Inc.
He has the commercial and business aviation experience at the top of UK industry, extensive commercial experience, Peter Ratcliffe 69 A N R sectors.
He is a director of Dunnincluding previous chairmanships particularly in the US markets.
He Non-executive director Edwards Corporation, a Los Angeles of Invensys plc, Alliance Boots plc, was Chief Executive of Invensys plc Appointed to the Board in January based manufacturer and retailer Pendragon plc, Heathrow Airport until January 2014 and Chief Financial 2009.
Peter brings to the Board his of architectural and industrial Holdings Limited and Pilkington Officer prior to that, having joined experience of working in an industry paint products.
plc: and as founder of Williams plc the business in 2008 as CFO of focused on customer service, as he oversaw its demerger in 2000, Invensys Process Systems.
He joined Emma Gilthorpe 47 A N R he was the Chief Executive Officer creating Chubb plc and Kidde plc.
Invensys plc from Reuters America, Non-executive director of P&O Princess Cruises until April Sir Nigel is Deputy Lieutenant of Inc. having held other senior business Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2003 and Chief Executive Officer of Derbyshire and a Freeman of the and financial roles in the technology 2018.
Emma brings extensive aviation the P&O Princess Cruises division of City of London.
sector, including 17 years at Lucent experience from her various roles at Carnival Corporation and Carnival Technologies, Inc. Amee Chande 44 A N R Heathrow Airport Holdings formerly plc from 2003 to 2007.
He also brings BAA, where she is currently Executive his significant experience both as David Crook 49 Non-executive director Director for Expansion.
She started an executive and a non-executive Appointed to the Board on 1 Group Finance Director her career at Cable & Wireless where director of UK and US public listed January 2018.
Amee has significant Appointed to the Board as Group she worked in commercial, regulatory companies.
He was previously an international commercial experience, Finance Director on 1 June 2017 and policy roles before becoming executive director of the Peninsular living and working in North America having joined BBA Aviation in April Group Director, Regulatory Affairs in and Oriental Steam Navigation and Asia before moving to the UK.
In 2005 she joined the launch Company.
He is a Chartered She is currently Managing Director Davids previous roles include Head Management Board of Openreach Accountant and a dual US UK citizen.
of Global Strategy and Operations at of Group Finance at AZ Electronic and moved to BT as Group Director Peter will step down from the Board at Alibaba, based in London.
She began Materials, as well as general for Industry Policy and Regulation in the AGM on 11 May 2018. her career at McKinsey and Co and management and finance roles within 2007.
She joined Heathrow Airport then moved into the retail sector, Sun Chemical, Telewest Global, Peter Ventress 57 A N R Holdings in 2009 as Regulatory gaining considerable experience Vantico Group and Corus Group.
Non-executive director Director and became Executive building growing consumer David is a qualified accountant Appointed to the Board in January Director, Strategy in 2013, before propositions at Wal-Mart, Staples and holds an MBA from Warwick 2016.
Peter is Chairman of Galliford taking her current position.
In 2015 she became one Business School.
Try plc and a non-executive director a Barrister and is also currently of the first international leaders of Softcat plc and Staples Solutions a non-executive director at South to join Alibaba.
Amee is an active N. V. He was formerly a non-executive East Water.
volunteer with the World Association director of Premier Farnell plc.
From of Girl Guides & Girl Scouts and the Susan Kilsby 59 A N R 2009 he spent six years as Chief Kensington and Chelsea Foundation.
Non-executive director Executive Officer of Berendsen plc.
She has an MBA from Harvard Appointed to the Board in April Prior to this he held several senior Business School and an MSc.
from 2012 and became Chairman of the executive roles, including International The London School of Economics.
Remuneration Committee in May President at Staples Inc. and Chief 2013.
Susan brings to the Board Executive Officer at Corporate Peter Edwards 62 A N R her global investment banking Express NV, a Dutch quoted company, Non-executive director experience, having begun her career prior to its acquisition by Staples Inc.
Appointed to the Board in January at The First Boston Corporation and Peter has held a number of other 2016.
Peter has spent his career later worked at Bankers Trust and senior management positions across primarily in the aerospace sector BZW, before the latter was acquired different businesses in a variety of across a wide spectrum of roles.
She was chairman of industries and has lived and worked in began his career with AirResearch Key to Committee members the EMEA Mergers and Acquisitions France, Canada and the Netherlands.
Aviation, followed by nine years at Group at Credit Suisse until 2009 and AAudit and Risk Committee Gulfstream in a variety of senior sales she was also a non-executive director NNomination Committee and marketing roles.
In 1995, he joined of LOccitane, Keurig Green Mountain RRemuneration Committee Bombardier Aerospace Corporation, 45 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement The Board is committed to ensuring appropriate Corporate standards of Corporate Governance are maintained at BBA Aviation plc.
Governance The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it.
The Board monitors the evolution of Corporate Governance best practice, reviews at a Glance and updates its procedures as required, and adopts, where relevant, recommendations of governance review bodies in relation to Board leadership and effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
The governance framework is shown below: The Board Remuneration Committee Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee see page 47 for a summary and see page 47 for a summary see page 47 for a summary the Directors Remuneration and page52 for more detail and page 51 for more detail Report starting on page 56 Disclosure Committee Implementation Committee see page 47 for more detail see page 47 for more detail Group Chief Executive Executive Committee Risk Framework see pages 20 to 23 for more detail 46 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees Remuneration Committee The Board The Remuneration Committee has two principal functions: There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board that includes making recommendations to the Board on the framework and Board matters such as: strategy and objectives: Group policies: annual policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors and budgets: dividends: acquisitions and disposals of businesses over a other designated senior executives: and certain size : expenditure over a certain limit: financial results: and the determining, on behalf of the Board, the specific remuneration appointment and removal of directors and the Company Secretary.
package for each of the executive directors, including pension This schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board each year.
Matters rights and any compensation payments.
outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided by management Nomination Committee in accordance with delegated authorities approved by the Board and The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to: the Audit and Risk Committee.
make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the The Board recognises its responsibilities for monitoring the culture of appointment or replacement of additional directors: the organisation, ensuring that the values remain relevant and that they, devise and consider succession planning arrangements for directors in conjunction with the Group Chief Executive, set the tone from the top.
and senior executives: and Audit and Risk Committee regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board and The Audit and Risk Committee may consider any matter that might make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
have a financial impact on the Group.
However, its primary roles are to: Implementation Committee monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys systems of The Implementation Committee comprises any two directors internal control and risk management process: normally the two executive directors and it is authorised to implement monitor the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit function: Board decisions.
review and assess the Companys external audit function, including the annual audit plan and results of the external audit and the Disclosure Committee independence of the external auditor: The Disclosure Committee comprises any two directors or any director monitor the integrity and audit of the Companys financial and the Company Secretary and has responsibility for determining, on a statements and any formal announcements relating to the timely basis, the disclosure treatment of material information.
Companys financial performance, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained within them: review the contents of the Annual Report and Accounts and advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy: review the Going Concern Statement and the Viability Statement on behalf of the Board: and establish and oversee the Companys arrangements for employee disclosure and fraud prevention within the Company.
47 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement During the year, the Chairman met the non-executive directors on a one-to-one basis.
Additionally, the Chairman met the non-executive directors without the Compliance executive directors on a number of occasions.
There were several occasions during the year when discussions between various directors took place on an informal basis.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintains regular contact during Statement the year with the other directors to discuss specific issues.
As part of the Board effectiveness review see B6 below, Susan Kilsby collated the feedback on the Chairman, discussed this with the other non-executive directors and provided feedback to the Chairman.
The Company applies the principles of Corporate Governance set out in the UK Section B: Effectiveness Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 the Code, which is the version B1: The Composition of the Board of the Code that applies to the 2017 financial year.
The Directors can confirm At the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, six independent compliance throughout 2017 with all relevant provisions set out in the Code.
non-executive directors and two executive directors, who contribute a wide range The section below sets out how the Company has complied with the main principles of complementary skills and experience.
of the Code and the disclosures are set out in the order they appear in the Code The Board has concluded that Amee Chande, Peter Edwards, Emma Gilthorpe, Susan Kilsby, Peter Ratcliffe and Peter Ventress are independent in character Section A: Leadership and judgement.
A1: Role of the Board The Company has formal procedures in place to ensure that the Boards powers to The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Its authorise conflicts are operated effectively and such procedures have been followed role includes providing effective leadership and agreeing the Groups strategic aims.
throughout 2017 and to the date of this report.
It assesses business opportunities and seeks to ensure that appropriate controls are in place to examine and manage risk.
B2: Appointments to the Board It is responsible for reviewing managements performance and oversees senior level There is a rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments that is described in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 51.
Amee Chande and succession planning within the Group.
The Board is also responsible for setting the Companys values and standards, ensuring that the Companys obligations to its Emma Gilthorpe were appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018 following a comprehensive process.
As described in the at a glance section there is a schedule of matters reserved to the The process to select the new Group Chief Executive, Mark Johnstone, who will join the Board on 1 April, is also described in the report from the Nomination Committee.
Board and this is reviewed annually by the Board in December.
The following sections of the Corporate Governance Report discuss the work of the Board and the work of B3: Commitment its Committees.
The Chairman and each of the non-executive directors have provided assurances to The Company has arranged insurance for the directors and officers of the Company.
the Board that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and can dedicate the necessary amount of time to attend to the Companys affairs.
The Board is A2: Division of responsibilities satisfied that each of the directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Company The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct.
The division of and its affairs to effectively discharge their duties.
responsibilities is reviewed annually by the Board and is available on the Corporate Letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection Governance Section of the BBA Aviation plc website.
The statement was last reviewed by the Board in December 2017.
In summary, Sir Nigel Rudd, the Chairman, by shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
is responsible for leading the Board and its effectiveness: the Chief Executive is responsible for the implementation of the Group strategy and running the businesses.
Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the Board before accepting a non-executive directorship in any other company.
The Board understood A3: The Chairman Wayne Edmunds non-executive commitments when they asked him to take on Sir Nigel sets the Board agenda in consultation with the Chief Executive, the the Group Chief Executive role on an interim basis.
Group Finance Director, other Board members and the Company Secretary.
On appointment as Chairman in May 2014 the Board considered Sir Nigel to be B4: Development independent in accordance with the Code provisions.
There is a written framework for the induction of new directors which includes site visits, meetings with senior management and advisers, and the provision of A4: Non-executive directors corporate documentation.
The focus of any induction programme is tailored to the Susan Kilsby has been the Senior Independent Director throughout the year.
background of the new director concerned.
The induction programmes for the new Peter Ventress became Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee from 1 July directors are described in more detail on page 50. when Wayne Edmunds became the Interim CEO following Simon Pryces retirement from the Board.
The Board and its Committees are kept informed of Corporate Governance and relevant regulatory developments as they arise and receive topical business briefings.
The Board also keeps itself informed about the Companys activities through a structured programme of visits and presentations from each of the businesses within the Group and from the Groups function leaders.
48 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement The Board Effectiveness Review covered training needs.
If any training needs C3: Audit Committee and auditors are identified, then plans are put in place and the Company provides appropriate Compliance with the Code provisions in respect of the Audit Committee resources for developing and updating the directors knowledge and skills.
requirements and auditors is contained within the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 5255.
The Board believes that the identification of individual training and development needs is primarily the responsibility of each individual director, bearing in mind the Section D: Remuneration range of experiences and skills that are developed by their differing portfolios.
Please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report for further information and B5: Information and support in particular: The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors receive accurate, D1: Level and components of remuneration timely and clear information, with Board and Committee papers being circulated Pages 5684. sufficiently in advance of meetings.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, D2: Procedure Pages 5684. and the Board has established a procedure whereby directors wishing to do so in furtherance of their duties may take independent professional advice at the In addition, the fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board as a Companys expense.
The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in whole on the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive.
No director is involved respect of legal actions against its directors.
The Company has also entered into in deciding his or her own remuneration or fees.
indemnities with its directors, as described on page 82.
B6: Evaluation Section E: Relations with shareholders In 2017, the Company Secretary conducted the Board evaluation with support from E1: Dialogue with shareholders Lintstock, a governance advisory firm.
The directors each completed a questionnaire The Board is kept up to date on the views of BBA Aviations major shareholders.
covering a wide range of topics.
The outputs were written up and discussed at the The executive directors undertake an annual programme of meetings with banks, Board meeting in November.
institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts to maintain a continuing dialogue with the Companys providers of finance.
The Board receives formal written Overall, the conclusion from the Board evaluation and appraisal process was positive reports from its brokers, the executive directors and the Head of Investor Relations and it was felt the Board and its Committees were operating effectively.
The Board regarding the views of shareholders following the roadshows that follow the asked the Company Secretary to review the arrangements for the Committee preliminary and half-year results announcements and at other times as appropriate.
meetings to create more time between the Committee meetings and the Board meetings.
The Board recognised succession planning as an area that continues to All non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Director, are available require focus through 2018. to meet with major shareholders.
The Chairman wrote to major shareholders ahead of the 2017 AGM offering them the opportunity to raise any issues or questions.
In November 2017, the Board also reviewed the evaluation findings from 2016 and The Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also maintain noted progress had been made in all areas, but as noted above will continue to focus contact, as required, with major shareholders about directors remuneration matters.
In 2017, there was a comprehensive engagement programme on remuneration with shareholders accounting for over half of the issued share capital.
The Board B7: Re-election The Board has decided that all Board members will retire at the AGM and all considers that its non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Director, have a good level of understanding of the issues and concerns of major with the exception of Peter Ratcliffe who is retiring from the Board will stand for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
The Board believes that each of such directors shareholders, as required by the Code.
should be re-elected by shareholders, because each continues to be effective E2: Constructive use of general meetings and demonstrates commitment to their role.
The Companys AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
It is intended that the notice of the AGM and related papers are sent Section C: Accountability to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Sir Nigel Rudd as C1: Financial and business reporting Chairman of the Board and the Nomination Committee, Peter Ventress as Chairman The Directors responsibility statement for preparing the report and accounts is set of the Audit and Risk Committee, and Susan Kilsby as Chairman of the Remuneration out on page 88.
Committee and Senior Independent Director will each be available to answer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM in 2018.
Shareholders can vote separately on The business model is within the Strategic Report on pages 10 and 11.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect of the AGM and Concern and Viability Statements are set out on page 85. makes available the proxy voting figures for, against and vote withheld on each resolution.
The voting results of the AGM, together with the details of proxy votes C2: Risk management and internal control cast prior to the meeting, are made available on request and on the Companys The Board undertook a comprehensive review of the principal risks facing the website.
The results of the AGM voting are also announced to the market via a Company and how the risks may impact the Companys prospects.
The Risk Regulatory News Service.
Management process is described in detail on pages 2023.
Overall responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the Board.
The Board reviewed the effectiveness and systems throughout the year and further information is set out on pages 54 and 55.
49 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement The Board, supported by the Nomination Committee, has spent a significant amount The Board of time during the year considering the appointment of a permanent Group Chief Executive to replace Wayne Edmunds, who stepped into the role on an interim basis How the Board spends its time following Simon Pryces retirement.
Board meetings focus on strategy and financial and business performance.
Additional meetings are called as required to deal with specific matters.
2017 Board and Board Committee meeting attendance A number of the key matters considered by the Board during 2017 are shown in The following table shows the attendance of Board and Board Committee members the table below: at scheduled meetings.
It does not show attendance by non-Committee members at meetings or part of meetings to which they were invited.
Meeting Main issues considered Annual Results and Report content Name Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination February AGM and dividend Number of TM May Business Presentations: Ontic and TECHNICAir scheduledmeetings 7 5 5 5 Visit to ERO and Signature operations in Dallas Sir Nigel Rudd 7 7 5 5 5 5 Summary Business Presentations covering the David Crook 5 5 whole portfolio June Review of policies on ethics Wayne Edmunds 7 7 2 2 2 2 2 2 Half year results and interim dividend Peter Edwards 7 7 5 5 5 5 5 5 July Progress against Board objectives Susan Kilsby 7 7 5 5 5 5 5 5 Business Presentation: Signature Mike Powell 2 2 Capital Structure and Financing October Investor Relations Update Simon Pryce 3 3 Strategy Session Peter Ratcliffe 5 7 3 5 3 5 3 5 Capital Structure and Financing Peter Ventress 7 7 5 5 5 5 5 5 Independent presentation on shareholders views Board Evaluation If any director is unable to attend a meeting, they discuss, in advance, with the November FBO visit relevant chairman their views on the business of that meeting so that their position Board objectives and progress can be represented.
2018 budget and goals December Matters reserved and Committee terms of reference The Board held two additional meetings in 2017: the Remuneration Committee held four additional meetings and the Nomination Committee held five additional In addition to the matters set out above at each meeting in 2017 the Board received meetings.
These additional meetings were well attended with only two individual reports from the Group Chief Executive and the Finance Director together with absences at the 11 meetings.
reports and updates on Health and Safety, litigation and potential mergers and acquisition activities.
Members of the Executive Committee attended a number of Induction meetings in 2017 to report to the Board on their areas of responsibility.
Opportunities The induction programmes for Amee Chande and Emma Gilthorpe have started and also exist throughout the year for informal contact between Board members and will continue.
with members of the senior management team.
Both Amee and Emma have undertaken site visits in the UK and held meetings with In 2017, the Board held two of its scheduled seven meetings in the USA.
The June various members of the executive team.
Amee spent two days in the USA, meeting meeting was held in Dallas, which allowed the Board to visit two of the GES sites and members of the executive team and visiting the head office in Orlando and a number the Signature operation at Dallas Love Field.
In November, the Board meeting was of the Groups FBOs on the east coast.
held at the FBO in San Diego allowing the Board to tour the FBO.
The Site visits are an important part of the Boards programme, enabling Board members to meet a New non-executive directors are available to meet major shareholders on request.
number of employees from different parts of the Group.
Board Committees In November, the Board conducted a comprehensive review of the Groups strategy Written terms of reference for each Committee are reviewed each year and these and execution against the strategic plans.
The Board also spent time discussing are available on the Groups website www.
com for the main Committees.
the findings of the Board evaluation and receiving an independent presentation on The main responsibilities have been described in the At-a-glance section on pages investors perceptions.
The work of the Board Committees is described below.
In December, the Board reviewed the objectives it set itself for 2017 which included monitoring strategic progress, executive succession planning, non-executive succession planning, capital allocation and capital structure, conduct and review and independent investor survey and addressing the Board Effectiveness actions from 2016.
The Board considers it has made good progress against its objectives during the year, although it recognises that succession planning will need to remain an area of focus.
50 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement The appointment process Nomination Committee Group Chief Executive succession The Committee was considering succession plans for the CEO role when it was The composition of the Nomination Committee is set out in the table below.
During 2017, the Nomination Committee comprised the Chairman and independent agreed to bring forward Simon Pryces retirement from the Board.
In order to address the immediate concern, the Committee recommended the appointment of Wayne non-executive directors.
Wayne Edmunds stepped down on his appointment as Interim Group Chief Executive.
Edmunds as Interim Group Chief Executive.
Having met a number of firms, the Committee appointed Korn Ferry to support the During year appointment of a permanent CEO.
Korn Ferry supported the Committee in defining 01 01 17 Resigned Appointed 31 12 17 28 02 18 a detailed role profile and the skills required in the ideal Chief Executive Officer candidate.
Korn Ferry prepared a long list of potential candidates and worked with the Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman Committee to prepare a short list of candidates.
Following assessments including Wayne Edmunds 30 6 2017 a CEO simulation exercise for the internal candidates, preliminary meetings and Peter Edwards interviews with Korn Ferry, the Committee members met a number of internal and external candidates for formal interviews.
The Committee discussed the decision in Susan Kilsby detail before making their recommendation to the Board.
Peter Ratcliffe Korn Ferrys only relationship with BBA Aviation plc was in respect of search, selection Peter Ventress and recruitment.
Amee Chande Group Finance Director succession Emma Gilthorpe When Mike Powell resigned, the Nomination Committee were pleased, having evaluated a number of options, to recommend the appointment of David Crook, The Nomination Committee meets as required and other directors attend the former Group Financial Controller, as the successor to Mike Powell in the role Nomination Committee meetings by invitation.
David was on the succession plan for the Group Finance The Nomination Committee had five scheduled meetings and four additional Director role.
This was supplemented by informal meetings, individual briefings Non-executive directors and meetings between Committee members.
The additional meetings were related to the appointments of the Group Chief Executive, the CFO and additional The Board identified the need to search for a new non-executive director and agreed to appoint JCA Heidrick Struggles to assist with this search.
Committee considered a skills matrix to help them understand the existing balance of experience, skills, knowledge, independence and diversity of backgrounds on the How the Committee spends its time Board.
The Nomination Committee briefed the JCA team on the characteristics of During the year, the Committee continued to discuss matters relating to talent an ideal candidate before a long list of candidates was drawn up.
The Committee and succession planning for leadership development across the Group.
Diversity discussed the candidates and identified a number for interview.
Members of is considered as one aspect of the succession planning discussions, together the Committee conducted the interviews and the interviewed candidates were with developing and strengthening of the pipeline of talent within the Group and discussed by the Committee before making a recommendation to the Board that increasing the interaction between Board members and executive management and two new non-executive directors were appointed to the Board.
JCA Heidrick Struggles are a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms on gender diversity and their only relationship with BBA Aviation plc was Diversity Diversity covers a variety of different elements, including professional and in respect of search, selection and recruitment.
industry experience and an understanding of different geographical regions, ethnic backgrounds and genders.
The Board does not believe that gender quotas or any other quotas effectively promote the development of appropriate and broad diversity.
However, the Board does believe that an appreciation of the value of a diverse range of backgrounds is an important part of succession at all levels of the organisation.
Appointment term Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Board for an initial term of three years.
This term is subject to the usual regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory performance of duties following the Boards annual performance evaluation.
Reappointment for a further term is not automatic but may be made by mutual agreement.
51 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement All members of the Audit and Risk Committee are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is well qualified with comprehensive experience of corporate finance matters, Peter Ratcliffe has a professional accountancy qualification and Peter Edwards has good relevant industry knowledge.
The Board believes that the Committee has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge its duties.
Wayne Edmunds and Peter Ventress organised a handover when responsibilities changed at the end of June.
During 2017, the Audit and Risk Committee had five scheduled meetings, generally coinciding with key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
The meetings are minuted by the Company Secretary.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, and Chief Risk Officer as well as the external auditor and the PwC partner responsible for the co-sourced Internal Audit function also generally attend Audit and Risk Committee the Audit and Risk Committee meetings by invitation.
In 2017, the Audit and Risk Committee held confidential sessions with the Head of Group Internal Audit, and The Audit and Risk Committee, as can be seen from the description of its role in the with the external auditor, but otherwise without management present.
In addition, At-a-glance section above, discharges a number of key responsibilities on behalf the Committee Chairman met with the external auditor, the Chief Risk Officer and of the Board and the Company.
These include monitoring BBA Aviations financial Internal Audit on a number of occasions during the year and through to February reporting processes, overseeing the work of the Internal Audit team and reporting 2018.
The Committee Chairman may call additional Audit and Risk Committee on the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
meetings at the request of any director or the external auditor.
While risk strategy and risk appetite are matters for the whole Board, the oversight How the Committee spends its time of the processes that underpin risk assessment and internal control are matters that The Audit and Risk Committee is routinely briefed on accounting and technical the Board delegates to this Committee.
For the production of the 2017 Report and matters by senior management and by the external auditors.
In 2017, briefings Accounts, the Audit and Risk Committee was asked by the Board to advise whether included the impact of new IFRS standards and in particular revenue recognition the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable IFRS 15 and accounting for leases IFRS 16. and that they provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews twice-yearly reports on the Groups key business risks and the Committee members all of whom are also members The Audit and Risk Committee also reviewed the Viability Statement and the of the Remuneration Committee are aware of the importance of keeping the supporting process on behalf of the Board.
appropriateness of incentive structures under review.
The Committee also The report of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out below.
assesses compliance with the Directors Responsibility Statements.
There is a twice-yearly formal report to the Committee on business ethics and Peter Ventress, compliance, which includes such matters as the review of the Groups Disclosure Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee of Unethical Conduct Policy, under which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
In addition, Composition the Committee reviews reports on any items arising under that policy.
The composition of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2017 is set out in the The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on matters table below.
Wayne Edmunds stepped down on his appointment as Interim Group within its remit, including the remuneration and appointment of the external auditor.
While the appointment of the external auditor is considered each year, it is the policy of the Committee to review the appointment in greater detail at least every five During year years.
A tender process took place in 2014.
The Committee considers a number of 01 01 17 Resigned Appointed 31 12 17 28 02 18 factors, including audit effectiveness at, both operating Company and Group-level: Wayne Edmunds 30 6 2017 quality, continuity, expertise, depth of resources, and competitiveness of fees.
Chairman until 30 June The appointment of the Senior Statutory Auditor is rotated every five years and Peter Ventress Ed Hanson will hand over to a new partner after the completion of the 2017 year-end Chairman from 1 July audit work.
Peter Edwards The Committee discharges its responsibilities through the review of written reports Susan Kilsby circulated in advance of meetings and by discussing these reports and any other matters with the relevant auditors and management.
Peter Ratcliffe Amee Chande Emma Gilthorpe 52 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Tax and the impact of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Topics covered by the Committee during 2017 and to date in 2018 included: The impact of the US tax cuts and Jobs Act was material to the Groups financial Review of any significant financial reporting issues and judgements statements.
The impact of the change in legislation requires judgement and is in respect of the half-year results and year-end report and accounts dependent on long-term forecasts of the performance on the business in the US.
described in more detail below : The treatment and presentation of the changes as an exceptional item was also Review of any significant matters raised by the internal auditors: material to the Groups continuing underlying effective tax rate.
Consideration of the audit fee and the balance between audit and The Committee reviewed analysis provided by management and the report of non-audit fees: Deloitte LLP.
The Committee was satisfied that the judgements made and the Annual review of the terms of reference of the Committee, of the disclosures made in relation to them were appropriate.
schedule of the Committees agenda items for the forthcoming year, of the non-audit services policy and of BBA Aviations matrix of Purchase price accounting authority levels: The Group completed a number of acquisitions during 2017.
In each case the Review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit and discussion of Group allocation of fair values to all acquired assets and liabilities is an area of significant Internal Audits overall strategy: judgement.
Key to the judgements is the estimation of the related cash flows for Auditor independence and audit effectiveness described in more detail each and every asset and liability acquired.
The judgements are often inherently on page 54 : and dependent on, and sensitive to, long-term forecasts of the performance of the Systems of internal control described in more detail starting on page 54. underlying business.
The Committee relied upon analysis provided by management both from the The Committees terms of reference were reviewed in December 2017 and no acquisition due diligence and the purchase price accounting exercise.
The work of significant changes were made.
management was reported on by Deloitte LLP.
The Committee was satisfied that the purchase price accounting and the disclosure made in relation to it were appropriate.
Significant financial reporting issues considered Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory by the Audit and Risk Committee The Group holds significant inventory across its operations, with $249.9 million of To aid its review, the Committee considers reports from the Group Finance Director net inventory at 31 December 2017.
This inventory is held at cost net of a provision and Group Financial Controller and also reports from the outcome of the half-year for slow moving or obsolete inventory.
The Group has a clear policy for inventory review and annual audit.
The Committee supports Deloitte LLP in displaying the provisioning and the policy is applied on a consistent basis.
This policy forms an necessary professional scepticism its role requires.
The primary areas of judgement important part of the audit by Deloitte LLP.
considered by the Committee in relation to the 2017 financial statements and how these were addressed include: The Committee has confirmed through its enquiries of management and Deloitte that the policy remains appropriate and has been consistently applied.
Recording of exceptional and other items within operating profit: Accounting for the disposal of ASIG: Taxation and the impact of the US tax cuts and jobs act: Purchase price accounting: and, Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory.
These issues were discussed with management and the external auditor in the July, September and December meetings when signing off on the auditors plan for the year-end, and no new areas were identified subsequently in the February meeting.
Recording of exceptional and other items within operating profit The Groups policy is to include certain items within operating profit within a middle column within the Income Statement.
These items relate to restructuring activities, transaction costs associated with acquisitions, the amortisation of acquired intangibles and material non-recurring events.
The Committee reviewed analysis provided by management and the report of Deloitte LLP.
The Committee was satisfied that the judgements made were consistent and aligned to the Groups policy and the disclosures made in relation to them were appropriate.
Accounting for the disposal of ASIG On 31 January 2017, the Group concluded the disposal of the ASIG business.
In 2017 the disposal accounting undertaken included judgements surrounding the residual commercial and transactional exposures retained by the Group.
The Committee was satisfied that the judgements made and the disclosures made in relation to them were appropriate.
53 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement In December 2017, the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the non-audit services Audit and accountability policy and adopted a more restrictive regime for non-audit services to match the a.
Auditor independence and audit effectiveness latest guidance.
The non-audit services policy is available on the Companys website Central to the Audit and Risk Committees work is the review and monitoring of www.
the external auditors independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing The Committee carried out a formal effectiveness assessment in respect of work its effectiveness rests with the Board.
Management is accountable to the directors carried out during the year by the external auditor, including: for monitoring this system and for providing assurance to the directors that it has the continuity and objectivity of the audit partners and audit team: done so.
The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing process embedded the effectiveness of audit planning and execution: in the Groups businesses for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant the role of management in ensuring an effective audit: risks faced by the Group, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The Group communication with and support of the Audit and Risk Committee: and considers that it has adequate information to identify and assess significant risks and the formal reporting of the auditor.
opportunities affecting its long and short-term value.
The assessment was completed with input in the form of a survey of the key financial This ongoing process has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2017 and up management team, including the divisional Chief Financial Officers CFOs, the to 28 February 2018 and the directors can therefore confirm that they have reviewed Group Financial Controller and the Group Tax Director, together with the Chairman the effectiveness in accordance with the internal control requirements of the Code of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Other members of the Audit and Risk Committee also input their views and it The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually by the directors and was concluded that the external audit for 2017 had provided appropriate focus accords with the FRCs guidance Risk Management, Internal Control and Related and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk.
Overall, the quality of the audit Financial and Business Reporting formerly known as the Turnbull Guidance.
The Audit and Risk Committee also carried out a selfsystem is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve assessment and believes that it has satisfied the requirements of the Code and business objectives.
It can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the Guidance on Audit Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council material misstatement or loss to the extent that it is appropriate, taking account of in September 2012.
The Committee has confirmed that during the year it had costs and benefits.
formal and transparent arrangements for considering corporate reporting, risk The principal risks and uncertainties which the Group faces are summarised on pages management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate 2023, together with a description of their potential impact and mitigations in place.
relationship with the external auditor.
The main features of the Groups internal control and risk management systems are One of the safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity and independence is the Groups listed below.
policy on the provision of non-audit services by its external auditor.
R isks are identified through a detailed written self-assessment process carried reviewed each year and, since December 2012, the policy prohibits the Groups out by division and by function.
The process analyses risk into eight types external auditor from carrying out remuneration consultancy and tax planning work covering strategic, operational, financial, people, compliance, governance, for the Group.
The external auditor is also prohibited from carrying out a number hazard and an other category, including unpredictable, although with hindsight, of other services for the Group such as book-keeping, Internal Audit, valuations, often inevitable, events.
They are recorded on risk registers together with actuarial services and financial systems design and implementation.
policy is not to use the external auditor for acquisition and due diligence work.
However, where the Group considers it appropriate or where conflicts arise, suppliers 2.
On a bi-annual basis, risk registers are refreshed, and the key risks at division and other than the preferred supplier may be asked to tender.
This would only include the Group level are plotted on risk maps, which are discussed with senior business external auditor in unusual and exceptional circumstances.
management, Divisional management and BBA Aviations Executive Committee in order to validate the risk profile.
The validated risk maps are then discussed with Non-audit fees paid or due to the external auditor are regularly reviewed by the the Audit and Risk Committee, together with key mitigation activities, and further Committee and those paid in 2017 are set out in note 2 to the Consolidated mitigation, if any, is agreed.
Group Internal Audit reviews the risk maps and risk registers and builds its annual During 2017, if fees for non-audit projects within the scope of permitted tax services audit plan from the risk profile.
A transparent mapping is produced to link the key were expected to exceed 250,000, then the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman risks to the Internal Audit profile, setting out the rationale for the focus of Internal was required to pre-approve each project.
In any event, specific project approval is Audit activity.
This is agreed annually with the Audit and Risk Committee.
required by the Committee Chairman for any such project where estimated fees exceed 100,000.
Pre-approval would have been required for non-tax projects where Based on this information, the Board reviews the risks and, if satisfied, confirms fees are estimated to exceed 25,000. it is satisfied that the risks are appropriately mitigated.
If this is not the case, the Board requests that management take further action.
Deloitte LLP has confirmed that all non-audit services they performed during the year were permitted by APB Ethical Standards and do not impair their independence or objectivity.
On the basis of their own review of the services performed, the requirement of pre-approval and the auditors confirmation, the Committee is satisfied that the non-audit services currently provided by Deloitte LLP do not impair their independence and objectivity.
54 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement 3.
An organisational structure is in place at both head office and divisional level which 12.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures concerning: business clearly defines responsibilities for operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, ethics, bribery and corruption, gifts and entertainment, equal opportunities legal, company secretarial and insurance functions.
and anti-harassment, competition law, legal policy, data privacy, Corporate Responsibility, market disclosure and communications and share dealing.
An Internal Audit function undertakes a programme of risk-based reviews of controls and business processes.
The role of Internal Audit is defined in a Group A review of compliance with such policies by Group companies is carried out Internal Audit charter and this includes its terms of reference, the standards to twice a year and senior executives are also required to confirm compliance with which it adheres, the scope and coverage of its work and its reporting processes.
Group policies are complemented by divisional The Audit and Risk Committee receives a report from Internal Audit at each and Company-led initiatives and are supplemented by the Groups Disclosure meeting which includes opinions on the adequacy and effectiveness of controls, of Unethical Conduct Policy, which includes a 24-hour hotline available to all together with a summary of key issues, work schedules and any action required.
This is supported by a formal investigation protocol and regular In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit and Risk reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee as part of the twice-yearly report Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of Internal Audit using on Business Ethics and Compliance.
The Ethics Implementation Policy seeks outside specialists as well as self-assessment techniques.
to codify the overarching principles and processes that underlie the various elements set out in more detail in the Code of Business Ethics and the policies A co-sourcing arrangement exists with PwC, headed by a specialist PwC Internal on bribery and corruption and gifts and entertainment.
Compliance with all Audit Partner who manages both BBA Aviation and PwC staff in the delivery of the these policies and with the Groups procedures concerning the appointment and Internal Audit service.
This arrangement provides access to a broad range of skills remuneration of foreign agents is subject to review as considered necessary and experience to support its effective delivery.
as part of the ongoing risk-based Internal Audit programme.
The effectiveness of these policies is assessed alongside the risk review process described in 5.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies and financial controls item 1 above.
applicable to all reporting units.
The Group accounting policies are aligned with International Financial Reporting Standards and compliance with these policies 13.
A Group Safety Management System outlines policies, standards and is reviewed as part of the Internal Audit process.
procedures in conjunction with the business line procedure manuals of the operating companies which are applicable throughout the Group.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for each of the Groups assessment and or audits are carried out at Company level against the Group reporting units.
standards and business line procedures.
Group-level HSE audits are performed 7.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to management which to validate Company level compliance.
An executive summary Health, Safety measure actual performance against budget and forecasts.
The monthly and Environmental HSE report is tabled at each meeting of the Executive forecasts of sales, profits and operating cash are updated on a quarterly basis.
The Board also receives a summary HSE report in addition to A monthly report is provided to the Board, based on these management updates on HSE activities.
These reports cover all Group companies and are accounts, highlighting key issues and summarising the detailed financial prepared by the internal Group HSE function.
Key HSE performance metrics are information provided by the operating units.
The integrity of management reviewed and verified annually by an independent third party organisation.
Senior accounts with the underlying financial records is subject to review as part of managers performance and related financial incentives are tied in part to their the Internal Audit process.
success against selected annual HSE improvement objectives.
Further details about HSE matters are set out on the BBA Aviation website.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, authorisation levels Internal Audit team includes a number of questions on Corporate Responsibility requiring the approval of major projects by the Board, and post-investment matters in the annual Control Risk Assessment questionnaire which is completed appraisals.
The lessons learned from the post-investment appraisals are also by each of the operating businesses.
shared with members of senior management.
The Corporate Governance Statement was approved by the Board on 28 February 9.
D efined procedures are laid down for investments, currency hedging, granting 2018 and signed on its behalf by: of guarantees and use of treasury products.
A m atrix defines the levels of authority for the Groups senior executives and Sir Nigel Rudd, their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, capital expenditure, commercial Chairman and employee contracts and treasury matters.
This is authorised by the Audit and Risk Committee on behalf of the Board and is reviewed on an annual basis.
Compliance is reviewed as part of the Internal Audit process.
A ll significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or businesses are approved by the Board.
