CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Stephen Hemsley Colin Halpern David Wild Rachel Osborne Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Vice-Chairman N Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed Stephen joined the Board as Colin was appointed to David was appointed to the Rachel was appointed Chief Finance Director in 1998, was theBoard as nonexecutive Board as a nonexecutive Financial Officer in October 2016. appointed as Chief Executive in ViceChairman in December Director in November 2013, Experience 2001 and as Executive Chairman 2007, prior to whichhe held became Interim Chief Executive Rachel is a chartered accountant in 2008 and became avariety of senior Executive Officer in January 2014 and who joined the Group from nonexecutive Chairman roles within the Group.
was appointed as Chief Executive Vodafone, where she was CFO inMarch 2010.
Prior to Experience Colin acquired the Dominos Experience this she was finance and strategy Stephen is a chartered Pizza Master Franchise David was previously chief director for John Lewis and accountant by profession.
Agreement for the UK and ROI executive officer of Halfords also held senior roles at Sodexo, in 1993 through International Group plc and held senior roles Kingfisher and PepsiCo.
Other appointments Franchise Systems Inc.
In 1999, within Walmart Stores Inc. Stephen is also executive Other appointments with Colin as Chairman, the Tesco Stores plc and RHM chairman of AIMlisted Rachel is currently nonexecutive Company was taken public Foods Limited.
He was also Franchise Brands plc and its director of HM Courts and andlisted on AIM and senior independent director subsidiary companies.
Tribunals Service, an agency subsequently moved to the ofPremier Foods and a ofthe Ministry of Justice.
Main Market in 2008. nonexecutive director of Practicology Limited and Other appointments TheBankers Investment Trust.
Colin is the managing director of HS Real Company LLC Other appointments andDayenn Limited and David is senior independent nonexecutive director of director of Ten Entertainment several other companies.
Audit Committee member Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member Committee Chairman A N R 34 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Steve Barber Kevin Higgins Ebbe Jacobsen Helen Keays Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director A R A R N A N R Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed Steve was appointed to the Kevin was appointed to the Ebbe was appointed to the Helen was appointed to the Board as a nonexecutive Director Board as a nonexecutive Board as a nonexecutive Board in September 2011 and in July 2015.
Director in January 2014. was appointed as the Senior Independent Director on Experience Experience Experience 20April 2016.
Steve has almost 30 years Kevins career spans more than Ebbe has wide experience of experience in accountancy, 20 years in branded consumer operating in Germany and Experience principally with foods in both Europe and the other European countries, most Helen has over 20 years , United States, and he has recently with Delsey.
He has experience in travel, retail, where he was a senior partner, previously served as president been in retail all his working life consumer markets and telecoms, and also with Ernst & Young.
of Burger King Europe, Middle and has panEU retail knowledge having held a number of other He has also worked in industry, East and Africa.
Prior to his role with significant experience in nonexecutive directorships, and was formerly the chief with Burger King, Kevin served franchising, multisite and including most recently at operating officer of Whitehead as general manager of Yum!
The majority Mann, the finance director of Brands Pizza Hut, KFC and the introduction of US fast food ofher executive career was Mirror Group plc and a Taco Bell Europe and Russia chain Burger King into the Nordic spent at GE Capital and Vodafone, nonexecutive director of Franchise Business Unit based countries in the 1970s and held where she held various senior Nextplc where he also in Switzerland.
Earlier in his the position of director and marketing roles.
career he held executive roles operating partner when the Other appointments with PepsiCo and Mars.
Other appointments Helen is currently a nonexecutive Other significant retail experience Steve is a founder of The Other appointments director of Communisis plc and includes having been CEO of Objectivity Partnership, a Kevin is nonexecutive Nichols plc and a trustee of the IKEA in Germany, CEO of member of the steering group chairman of Lunch Garden, Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
Delsey and CEO of Habitat.
of the Audit Quality Forum and aBelgian restaurant chain.
Other appointments None Audit Committee member Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member Committee Chairman A N R Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 35
