STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Viability statement financial, technical and human resources The key assumption in this modelling of The Companys current position necessary to implement itsuccessfully.
our strategy and the impact ofthe The Groups business model has been principal risks includes: shown to be robust since the business The resulting agreed strategic plan is wasformed.
We operate under what is generally prepared on a five-year basis, while a number of industry commentators effectively a perpetual Master Franchise but both management and the Board are believe that there is a natural ceiling on Agreement in each key territory, so our aware that we operate in a the number of pizza stores we can open, business model is long-term and effectively .
the Group has consistently delivered open-ended.
The Groups strategy and growth ahead of these predictions.
We business model which is explained on The process of assessing our continue to assume that the UK market, pages 13 to 15, is well established and we in particular, is capable of sustaining viability andkeyassumptions have a market-leading position in the UK the growth in store numbers we anticipate.
The strategic plan reflects the Directors and ROI business and have successfully best estimate of the future prospects of exploited the emergence of e-commerce This key assumption is linked to the the business, but we have also assessed as a sales channel.
We continue to open Groups principal risks regarding new store the potential impact on the Group of a new pizza stores and drive increases in openings and explained further in the risk number of scenarios based on each of the like-for-like sales, and can demonstrate management section.
principal risks and uncertainties described strong growth in system sales, and Group in this section of the Annual Report.
Those turnover and profitability, over many years.
The results of this modelling showed that, risks are principal because they could Ourbusiness is profitable and we due to the inherent strength and stability prevent the Group from delivering on its successfully convert almost all of this into ofour business, the Group should be able strategy.
Although our strategic plans cash generation.
At 31 December 2017, to withstand the impact should any of have a five-year horizon, we chose to the Group has net debt of 89.2m and a thesescenarios materialise over the model the impact of these risks over committed 350m five-year multi-currency three-year period.
aperiod ofthree years in view of the bank facility, which expires in July 2022. dynamic nature of our business and the We also investigated whether reverse The Board has considered its appetite for environment in which we operate, and stress-testing would offer an alternative risk and there is a clearly articulated also the inherent unreliability ofsome view.
Although we have net debt and a statement of this which forms the basis for data when forecast five years in advance.
committed bank facility, we could find the Groups risk management activities.
noplausible scenario which had such an We have also explored the impact of severe impact on the Groups future performance, but plausible combinationsof these risks, solvency or liquidity that it would lead Our strategic planning process in circumstances that we believe the Group tothe Groups financial failure.
The The CEO, supported by the leadership could experience, including: mostobvious risk which could have such team, is responsible for the Groups an effect would be a breach of the Master strategic planning process.
This is an only managing to open half of the Franchise Agreement, which is annual review of the current strategy, planned number of new pizza stores, highlyimprobable.
informed by monitoring of market trends while simultaneously suffering an and developments and in-house analysis, assumed 10% increase inthe costs of supported where necessary by external Longer-term viability statement sourcing food ingredients: and market research.
This results in a draft Based on their assessment of prospects strategic plan, supported by detailed the complete failure of our e-commerce and viability above, the Directors confirm financial modelling, which is debated by ordering systems in the busiest week of that they have a reasonable expectation the Board at its annual strategy away-day.
our trading year, while simultaneously that the Group will be able to continue in The Boards role includes considering suffering a breach of data security leading operation and meet its liabilities as they whether the plan appropriately factors in to additional costs, regulatory penalties fall due over the three-year period to the the changing external environment and and a 1% reduction in sales due to lost end of December 2020. whether the Group has access to the customer confidence.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 27
