COM DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Directors present their Report As at 2 March 2018, the Company has paid Governance Code, all the Directors prepared in accordance with the the following dividend in respect of the previously elected at an AGM, and Companies Act 2006, which requires year ended 31 December 2017: being eligible, will offer themselves the Company to provide a fair review up for re-election.
of the business of the Group during the Per share Total financial year ended 31 December 2017, p m None of the Non-Executive Directors and audited Financial Statements have service contracts.
Interim dividend of the Company and its subsidiary paid 30 October 2017 6.3 16.5 undertakings for the year ended In accordance with the Companys 31 December 2017.
Conflict of Interests policy, Directors are The Directors recommend that a final required to review their potential conflict dividend of 14.4p 2016: 14.4p per The Companys Registered Office is of interests at least on an annual basis share be paid, making a total dividend Avebury House, 201 - 249 Avebury and to notify any changes to the Company distribution for the year of 20.7p 2016: 20.7p.
Secretary & General Counsel as soon as possible.
During 2017 the current register The final dividend, subject to shareholder The Directors Report comprises pages was approved at each Board meeting and approval at the AGM, will be paid on 60 to 113, and the sections of the Annual no material conflicts of interest were 1 May 2018 to shareholders on the register Report incorporated by reference are as identified during the year.
on 16 March 2018. set out below: At no time during the year has any Directors Membership of Board during page 67 Director had any material interest in a As at 31 December 2017, the Board of 2017 financial year contract with the Group, being a contract Directors comprised: Financial instruments and page 40 of significance in relation to the Groups financial risk management to 49 business.
A statement of Directors interests Paul Lester Non-Executive Chairman Greenhouse gas emissions page 56 in shares of the Company is on page 102.
Paul Forman Chief Executive Corporate Governance report pages 67 to 72 Terry Twigger Senior Independent Share capital Director Future developments of the page 19 The issued share capital of the Company business of the Group to 20 Stefan Schellinger Group Finance Director is shown in note 19 to the Financial Employee diversity page 53 Tommy Breen Non-Executive Director Statements on page 163.
Mary Reilly Non-Executive Director Lorraine Trainer Non-Executive Director In accordance with the UK Financial On 31 December 2017, there were Ralf K. Wunderlich Non-Executive Director Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, 264,129,170 ordinary shares of 25p each the information to be included in the Annual in issue.
There were 1,170,925 ordinary shares Report and Accounts, where applicable, of 25p each held in treasury.
The rights The Company is adopting the requirements under LR 9.8.
4 is set out in the Directors and obligations attaching to the Companys of the UK Corporate Governance Code in Report.
ordinary shares, and the provisions relation to Directors appointments, and governing the appointment and replacement in particular the annual re-election of Results and dividends of, as well as the powers of, the Companys all Directors.
The profit on ordinary activities after Directors, are set out in the Companys taxation of the total Group for the year Articles of Association, copies of which can Mary Reilly and Ralf K. Wunderlich were ended 31 December 2017 was 115.8m be obtained from Companies House in the appointed as Non-Executive Directors on 2016: loss 39.6m.
UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
1 July 2017 and will be putting themselves forward for election at the 2018 AGM, The profit on ordinary activities after There are no restrictions on the voting having been appointed since the 2017 AGM.
taxation of the continuing operations rights attaching to the Companys ordinary for the year ended 31 December 2017 shares or on the transfer of securities in Terry Twigger will be retiring as a Nonwas 5.5m 2016: loss 51.0m.
the Company, except, in the case of Executive Director following the 2018 transfers of securities: AGM and therefore will not be standing for re-election.
That certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and Except for the above, in accordance regulations for example, insider with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate trading laws 108 DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Whereby, pursuant to the Listing Political contributions control.
Outstanding options and awards Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, In line with Group policy, the Company normally vest and become exercisable certain employees of the Company made no political contributions 2016: nil.
on a change of control, subject to the require approval of the Company to deal satisfaction of any performance conditions in the Companys ordinary shares Environmental at that time.
The disclosures concerning greenhouse No persons hold securities in the Company gas emissions required by law are included There are a number of other agreements, carrying special rights with regard to in the Corporate Responsibility statement involving the Company or its subsidiaries, control of the Company.
The Company on page 56. that take effect, alter or terminate upon a is not aware of any agreements between change of control of the Company following holders of securities that may result in Directors indemnities a takeover bid, such as commercial restrictions on the transfer of securities During the year, and as at the date of contracts and joint venture agreements.
this Report, indemnities are in force None are considered to be significant in under which the Company has agreed to terms of their potential impact on the Unless expressly specified to the contrary indemnify the Directors and the Company business of the Group as a whole, to any in the Articles of Association of the Secretary & General Counsel, in addition to potential bidder for the Company or Group.
Company, the Companys Articles of other senior executives who are Directors Association may be amended by special of subsidiaries of the Company, to the Annual General Meeting resolution of the Companys shareholders.
extent permitted by law and the The AGM of the Company will be held at the Companys Articles of Association, in Hilton London Paddington, 146 Praed Street, Substantial shareholders respect of all losses arising out of or in London, W2 1EE on 19 April 2018 at 12 noon.
At the close of business on 2 March 2018, connection with the execution of their the Company was advised of the following powers, duties and responsibilities as a In addition to the ordinary business of the voting rights attaching to the Companys Director or Officer of the Company or any AGM, resolutions in respect of the following shares in accordance with the Disclosure of its subsidiaries, including the pension matters of special business are included in and Transparency Rules: scheme trustee companies.
The scope the Notice of Annual General Meeting: of the indemnities extends to include liabilities to third parties.
Authority to allot unissued shares % of total voting rights At the 2017 AGM, the Directors were Significant agreements granted authority to allot relevant Prudential plc 5.86 The Company has committed bank securities up to a nominal amount of Invesco 5.10 facilities dated November 2017 consisting 21,907,373, which expires at the end Heronbridge Investment 5.09 of two five-year multi-currency revolving of the forthcoming AGM.
Management LLP credit facilities of 285m and 100.8m.
Standard Life Investments 4.82 Under the terms of these facilities, the At this years AGM, shareholders will be Holdings Limited banks can give notice to Essentra to repay asked to grant the Directors authority Kames Capital 2.99 outstanding amounts and cancel the to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe commitments where there is a change of for or convert any security into shares: Employees control of the Company.
i up to an aggregate nominal amount As at 31 December 2017, the Company of 21,913,187 representing approximately employed 8,283 people globally and 1,219 Under a note purchase agreement dated one-third of the Companys issued share people in the UK.
Information on the 29 April 2010 relating to US$80m senior capital, excluding treasury shares, at Groups policies on employee recruitment, notes due 29 April 2020 and a further note 2 March 2018 such an amount to be engagement and the employment of purchase agreement dated 29 November reduced by the nominal amount allotted disabled persons can be found in the 2017 relating to a total of US$75.0m senior or granted under section ii below in excess Corporate Responsibility statement notes due between 29 November 2024 and of such sum : and iii comprising equity on page 53.
29 November 2029, on a change of control securities up to an aggregate nominal the Company must make an offer to amount of 43,826,374 representing prepay all the notes at par, without any approximately two-thirds of the issued premium of any kind, together with share capital, excluding treasury shares, accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
at 2 March 2018 such an amount to be reduced by any allotments or grants made All of the Companys share schemes under section i above in connection with contain provisions relating to a change in an offer by way of a rights issue.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The proposal conforms to the guidelines a special resolution to enable the Company 500,000 per annum, or such higher issued by the institutional investment to purchase its own shares.
That approval amount as may be decided by ordinary protection bodies to ensure that existing expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
At this years shareholders interests are safeguarded.
AGM, shareholders will be asked to The Directors have no present intention of At this years AGM, the Directors consider it approve an increase to the level of this exercising either of these authorities, which expedient to seek shareholders approval to limit to 1,000,000 per annum in will expire at the end of next years AGM or, enable the Company to purchase, in the aggregate.
This limit will cover the total if earlier, the close of business on 19 June market, up to 10% of its issued share capital annual fees paid to the Chairman and 2019 except in relation to share options.
excluding any treasury shares for the Non-Executive Directors.
cancellation, or to be held in Treasury, such Allotment of shares for cash power to apply until the end of next years The Directors believe it is desirable to At the 2017 AGM, shareholders approved AGM or if earlier, 19 June 2019.
In increase this limit to provide flexibility for a special resolution to enable the Directors accordance with the requirements of the any future increases in Directors fees to to allot shares for cash without first Listing Rules of the Financial Services attract the best Board members available.
offering them to existing shareholders in Authority, the minimum price exclusive of The increase would also provide flexibility proportion to their existing shareholdings.
expenses which may be paid for a share is for any increase in the number of That approval expires at the end of the its nominal value and the maximum price Directors, thereby facilitating the effective forthcoming AGM and resolutions 15 and exclusive of expenses for shares which may review and management of the composition 16 in the Notice of AGM seeks to renew it.
be paid is the highest of: i an amount of the Board.
Any remuneration policy as equal to 105% of the average market value may be approved by the shareholders As per previous years, the Company for a share for the five business days from time to time will continue to apply.
seeks a resolution which authorises immediately preceding the date of the If this increase is approved, the Directors disapplication of pre-emption rights in purchase: and ii the higher of the price of would not anticipate needing to propose respect of up to an aggregate nominal the last independent trade and the highest any further change for a number of years.
amount of 3,286,978 representing current independent bid on the trading 13,147,912 ordinary shares.
This aggregate venues where the purchase is carried out.
External Auditor nominal amount represents approximately The Directors have no present intention of  have expressed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of exercising the authority to make market their willingness to continue to be appointed the Company excluding treasury shares.
purchases, however the authority provides as External Auditor of the Company.
the flexibility to allow them to do so in the Upon the recommendation of the Audit In addition to the above Resolution, future.
The Directors will only utilise this Committee, resolutions to appoint them the Company seeks a Resolution which authority if satisfied that to do so would as External Auditor and to authorise the authorises disapplication of pre-emption be in the best interests of the Company Directors to determine their remuneration rights in respect of up to an aggregate and its shareholders generally, and could will be proposed at the AGM.
nominal amount of 3,286,978 be expected to result in an increase in representing 13,147,912 ordinary shares earnings per share of the Company.
Recommendation in connection with acquisitions and other The Directors believe that the resolutions in capital investments as contemplated by During the financial year ending the Notice of Annual General Meeting are the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of 31 December 2017, 116,027 ordinary shares in the best interests of the Company and its Principles.
This aggregate nominal amount were transferred out of Treasury by the shareholders as a whole, and unanimously represents an additional 5% of the issued Company to satisfy share options under recommend that shareholders vote in ordinary share capital of the Company the Companys Sharesave and executive favour of each resolution.
Derivatives These authorities will expire at the No dividends have been paid on shares Information related to derivatives is conclusion of the following AGM or, if while held in Treasury and no voting rights included in the Accounting Policies on earlier, on 19 June 2019.
The proposal attach to the treasury shares.
page 124 and in note 14. conforms to the guidelines issued by the institutional investment protection bodies Changes to aggregate annual limit of Going concern statement to ensure that existing shareholders Director fees as set out in the Articles The Directors have a reasonable interests are safeguarded.
of Association expectation that the Company has Article 86 of the Companys Articles of adequate resources to continue in Purchase of own shares Association limits the aggregate total operational existence for the foreseeable At the 2017 AGM, shareholders approved fees which may be paid to Directors to future and accordingly have adopted 110 DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM the going concern basis in preparing the The assessment has been based on the In making the assessment, the Directors consolidated Financial Statements.
Groups strategy and implementation have made a number of assumptions programme, balance sheet and financing and considerations: Information regarding the financial position, and the potential impact of the position of the Group, its cash flows, key risks and uncertainties described Capital markets and bank funding will liquidity position, and borrowing facilities above.
The Group strategy has been continue to be available over the period are described in the Financial Review on translated into a three-year strategic plan In the event of a major risk crystallising, pages 22 to 23.
In addition, note 18 to the comprising a one-year detailed budget the Company would take corrective Financial Statements includes the Groups and a financial forecast for the following capital action to preserve the cash objectives, policies and processes for two years.
The plan will be subject to resources of the firm managing its capital, its financial risk annual updates by management and management objectives, details of its review by the Board.
As a consequence, Management would be in a position to financial instruments and hedging the Directors have chosen a three-year implement effective mitigation action activities and exposures to credit, market time horizon for the Longer-Term Viability to reduce the impact a potential risk event and liquidity risk.
Cash balances and Statement LTVS as being an appropriate borrowings are detailed in note 21.
Essentra time frame for assessing the viability of Based on the modelling undertaken, the is primarily funded by a series of US Private the company.
However, the Directors have Directors have a reasonable expectation Placement Loan notes from various also given due consideration to any that the Group will be able to continue financial institutions.
An $80m Loan note potential risks beyond this time horizon in operational existence and meet its which was repaid in April 2017 was In order to support the assessment of the liabilities as they fall due over the period refinanced in November 2017 with three viability, the Directors have considered the of the assessment.
new Loan notes totalling $75m and the following realistic and plausible scenarios: new Revolving Credit Facility of 375.0m.
Directors statement as to disclosure At 31 December 2017 available bank of information to the External Auditor Scenario 1 facilities totalled 374.2m 2016: 414.2m.
As required by section 418 2 of the Brexit middle scenario The US Private Placement notes have Companies Act 2006, the Directors who Packaging under performance by 10 - 15% original maturities ranging from seven and were members of the Board at the time National catastrophic event twelve years and the Revolving Credit of approving this Report, having made Facility matures in November 2022. enquiries of fellow Directors and of the external auditor, confirm that: Scenario 2 The Directors have prepared plans and Brexit severe scenario forecasts for a period of at least twelve As far as each Director is aware, there Packaging under performance by 10 - 15% months from the date of signing these is no relevant audit information of Financial Statements.
Based on these, and which the Companys External Auditor Supply chain single point failure Nottingham Tapes taking into consideration the risks detailed is unaware in note 18, the Directors have a reasonable Each Director has taken all steps that expectation that the Company has Scenario 3 they ought to have taken as a Director adequate resources to continue in to ascertain any relevant audit Brexit middle scenario operational existence for the foreseeable information, and to ensure that the future, and accordingly have adopted Cyber event Companys External Auditor is aware the going concern basis in preparing the Supply chain single point failure of that information Nottingham Tapes consolidated Financial Statements.
This disclosure has been prepared in The Strategic Report and Directors Report, accordance with the Financial Reporting In addition to the modelling of the three including the Report of the Remuneration Councils UK Corporate Governance Code.
scenarios, the Directors have also added Committee, were approved by the Board a further stress test of the most severe on 2 March 2018.
Viability statement scenario by aggregating the three scenarios.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of By order of the Board the Corporate Governance Code, the In modelling the scenarios, the Directors Directors have assessed the longer-term have assumed that the individual risks are viability of the Group over the period to independent and there is therefore a very JON GREEN December 2020. remote probability that the three risks in Company Secretary each scenario would all crystallise in the 2 March 2018 time period considered.
