Directors Report Additional Disclosures Directors indemnities The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each of its directors, Additional under which the Company agrees to indemnify each director against liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of their office.
In addition, the Company has entered Disclosures into indemnity deed polls in substantially similar terms in favour of members of the Executive Management Committee and other members of senior management.
Where such deeds are for the benefit of directors, they are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 309B of the Companies Act 1985 or section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, as applicable.
At the date of this report, these indemnities are therefore in force for the benefit of all the current directors Group results and dividends of the Company and other members of senior management.
The results for the year ended 31 December 2017 are shown in the Consolidated On 1 November 2007, a subsidiary of the Company, BBA Aviation Finance, entered into Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 91. qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in favour of its directors, under which each director is indemnified against The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary share dividend for 2017 of 9.59 per share on 25 May 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of their office and such provisions remain in force of business on 13 April 2017, which together with the interim dividend paid on 3 November 2017 makes a total of 13.4 net per ordinary share for the year as at the date of this report.
Shareholders will receive their dividends in sterling unless they have previously elected to receive their dividends in US dollars.
Shareholders who Employee information wish to receive dividends in US dollars must make the appropriate election to the The Company provides employees with various opportunities to obtain information Companys registrars no later than 5.30 pm on 30 April 2018.
A new election is not on matters of concern to them and to improve their awareness of the financial and required if shareholders have previously made a valid election to receive dividends economic factors that affect the performance of the Company.
These include in US dollars.
Further information concerning the dividend currency election can All Hands Briefings, staff forums, and meetings with trade unions that take place be found on the Companys website at www.
All companies within the Group strive to operate fairly at all times and this includes Acquisitions and disposals not permitting discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment Acquisitions and disposals in the year are described in notes 24 and 25 to the on the basis of race, religion or belief, colour, gender, disability, national origin, age, Consolidated Financial Statements.
military service, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital status.
This includes giving full and fair consideration to suitable applications for employment from Events after the balance sheet date disabled persons and making appropriate accommodations so that if existing There are no disclosable events after the balance sheet date.
employees become disabled they can continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, making every effort to find suitable alternative employment and to provide relevant training.
Board of directors The current directors of the Company at the date of this report appear on pages 44 and 45.
On 31 May 2017, Mike Powell stepped down from the Board as Finance Agreements Director and was replaced by David Crook.
On 30 June 2017, Simon Pryce retired Under section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company discloses that in the from the Board and Wayne Edmunds was appointed as Interim Group Chief event of a change of control in the Company: i the Companys commitments under Executive.
All other directors held office throughout the financial year under review.
the $1,650 million Acquisition Financing Agreement dated 23 September 2015 and as Amee Chande and Emma Gilthorpe were appointed to the Board as non-executive amended and restated on 16 November 2015, its $650 million revolving credit facility directors on 1 January 2018. dated 10 April 2014, its $300 million private note placement dated 18 May 2011 as amended and its $200 million private note placement dated 17 December 2014 could become repayable: ii the Engine Lease Agreement dated 29 June 2009 as Directors interests in shares amended under which $83 million of aircraft engines have been leased to the Engine Directors interests in shares and share options are contained in the Directors Repair & Overhaul ERO business could be terminated: iii the consent of Netjets Remuneration Report.
would be required for the transfer of the benefits under its contract with Signature Flight Support: iv the operating licence with London Luton Airport Operations may be terminable: and v certain licence agreements within the ERO and Ontic businesses are terminable or require the consent of the counterparty but none of these contracts in their own right are significant to the Group.
86 Directors Report Additional Disclosures Future developments Substantial shareholdings The Strategic Report discusses future developments of the Groups businesses.
The Company has been notified of the following material interests in the voting rights of the Company under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Suppliers payment policy As at As at The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when 31 12 17 28 2 17 agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of William H. Gates III 14.19% 14.19% the terms of payment and abide by the terms of the payment.
Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 6.32% 7.58% Share capital APG Asset Management NV 5.17% 5.17% Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the share capital are shown in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
That note also contains a Charitable and political donations summary of the rights attaching to each class of shares and details of the number Group donations to charities worldwide were $877,024 2016: $1,057,712.
of ordinary shares held in employee benefit trusts.
Awards granted under the No donations were made to any political party in either year.
Companys share plans are satisfied either by shares held in the employee benefit trust or by the issue of new shares when awards vest.
The Remuneration Committee monitors the number of awards made under the various share plans and their Auditor As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the directors, at the potential impact on the relevant dilution limits recommended by the Investment Association.
There is a 5% limit in respect of discretionary plans and a 10% limit in date of the approval of this report, confirms that: respect of all plans.
Based on the Companys issued share capital as at 31 December a s o far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 2017 the Company has used 2.2% towards the 5% limit and 2.5% towards the Companys auditor is unaware: and 10% limit.
b the director has taken all the steps that s he ought to have taken as a director to The Company was given authority to purchase up to 14.99% of its existing ordinary make herself himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that share capital at the 2017 AGM.
That authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Accordingly, a special resolution to renew the authority will Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be interpreted in accordance be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The existing authority for directors to allot ordinary shares will expire at the A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
Accordingly, an ordinary resolution to renew this the AGM.
authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, it will be proposed to give the directors further authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a Greenhouse gas emissions rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders.
This is in line with guidance issued by The greenhouse gas emissions are disclosed on page 29. the Investment Association.
If the directors were to use such further authority in the year following the 2018 AGM, all directors wishing to remain in office would stand for re-election at the 2019 AGM.
Financial Risk Management Financial Risk Management is discussed on pages 20 to 23.
Details of these resolutions are included within the Notice of AGM.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 28 February 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held on 11 May 2018.
Accompanying this report is the Notice of AGM which sets out the resolutions to be considered and approved at the David Blizzard, meeting together with some explanatory notes.
The resolutions cover such routine Company Secretary matters as the renewal of authority to allot shares referred to earlier, to disapply pre-emption rights and to purchase own shares.
