Strategic Report Our Markets in 2017 BBA Aviations key market showed good Our Markets growth in 2017.
B&GA movements in the USA increased by 3.7% year on year and in Europe in 2017 grew by over 7%.
Business & General Aviation Military legacy aircraft life extensions of between seven and ten years US B&GA monthly flight activity cycles were positive with growth every on platforms such as the C-130, ACV-8B, F-15 and AH-64 and delays month, but showing particular strength in the second half.
on new aircraft, such as the F-35 and A400M are key drivers for our Ontic business.
The current US Air Force fleet is more than 25 years Modest growth in the economies of the majority of the top 20 business old on average, with some platforms significantly older.
Average age is aviation markets worldwide continues to be a key factor affecting new expected to continue to rise despite the large defence budget increases.
aircraft orders and sales of pre-owned aircraft.
Deliveries of business jets have been broadly flat over the last six years.
However, long-term Commercial aircraft production is expected to be reasonably flat over the forecasts still predict the delivery of more than 8,000 new business next few years after a slowdown in 2016 and with an increase in delivery jets between 2018 and 2027: projecting total active global fleet growth deferrals, the influence of the low oil price and growing passenger and of 24% or 2.2% CAGR in the period, with new platforms coming to freight traffic this results in increased passenger load factors and so the market.
The North American market is expected to take nearly 60% of outlook for our legacy support business, Ontic, is positive.
these deliveries, growing the total active fleet of business jets in BBA Aviations key region by 22% over 10 years.
Aircraft utilisation rates in B&GA Aircraft Movement Trends USA and Europe the USA, while still historically low, increased during the year.
Pre-owned % change inventory for sale of both jets and turboprops also fell during the year.
15 Over the longer term, the key drivers for B&GA remain intact 10 continued growth in GDP and total wealth, the increasing value of peoples time, corporate confidence and corporate activity levels all 5 point to improving sentiment.
The unusual nature of the 20072009 0 crisis and the halting return to growth have meant that, although -5 corporate profits have recovered and confidence has improved, flight -10 activity has lagged.
However, steady growth in US GDP and the current upward trend in US business confidence supports a continued increase US ight activity monthly - year on year % change in B&GA movements in the USA with the FAA currently forecasting an Europe ight activity monthly year on year % change average growth in B&GA Jet and Turboprop flying hours of 2.5% per Source: FAA ETMSC and EUROCONTROL ESRA 08 annum to 2037.
The political environment in the USA could also be positive in the short US B&GA Aircraft Movements and US Small Business confidence and medium-term, with commentators speculating that the new US tax policy could be marginally beneficial to jet purchases.
% change 15 10 Commercial and Military Aviation 5 Trends in military aviation are likely to improve as the global defence 0 market recovers after years of pressure due to budget retrenchment.
-5 -10 The perceived and continuing threat environment and regional tensions -15 are expected to be the biggest driver of spending.
US defence spending -20 -25 represents approximately 34% of global spending and this grew in 2017 driven by the new administrations focus on strengthening the nations military.
The USA accounts for 26% of the global military aviation YOY 12 month rolling change in B&GA aircraft movements fleet c13,800 aircraft.
Budget growth and a higher tempo of military % change in US Small Business confidence operations are expected to positively impact flight activity and thus Source: FAA ETMSC and Bloomberg maintenance spend as more missions are executed.
Life extension programmes continue to be important as the US military aircraft ages.
