Overview Our strategic framework for transforming tobacco Our strategy remains as relevant today to drive our transforming tobacco ambition as it was when it was first rolled out in 2012.
It enables us to deliver growth today while driving the investment required to deliver our transformational agenda.
Our vision remains clear: while combustible tobacco products will remain at the core of our business for some time to come, we understand that long-term sustainability will be delivered by our transforming tobacco ambition.
08 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our vision Our mission Strategic focus areas Worlds best at satisfying Delivering our commitments Our four key focus areas remain consumermoments in to society, while championing fundamental to our strategy tobaccoand beyond.
aswe focus on our transforming tobacco ambition.
Our consumers are at the core of everything We have long known that, as a major Growth page 20 we do and our success depends on addressing international business, we have a responsibility their preferences, concerns and behaviours.
to address societal issues with our tobacco Constantly developing our portfolio of products, and that, as our business continues potentially reduced-risk products and We know that these are fragmenting and to grow, so does our influence and the new technologies while continuing to evolving at an unprecedented pace, and responsibility that comes with it.
drive revenue growth from our traditional consequently, we are focusing on providing combustible products.
a range of tobacco and nicotine products We are also clear that we have a duty to across the risk spectrum.
In addition, we our shareholders to ensure we continue to Productivity page 23 are clear that to win in this space we need deliver today and invest for a sustainable to understand our consumers preferences future and to our consumers to provide, in Effectively deploying resources between and further invest in a pipeline of ever addition to our combustible products, a range product categories and managing our evolving innovations.
of potentially reduced-risk products such as costbase to release funds for investment.
NGPs and oral tobacco products.
Winning organisation page 25 Our transforming tobacco ambition, with its core objective of providing consumers Ensuring we have great people with the with more choice, more innovation and less right skill sets in the right teams to drive risk will allow us to: satisfy these consumers: thetransformation ofour business.
address societal concerns at large through the Sustainability page 27 growth of multiple categories ofpotentially reduced-risk tobacco and nicotine products: Ensuring a sustainable business that meets the and provide a sustainable, profitable future expectations of all our various stakeholders.
Read about our industry page 15 Guiding Principles Our Guiding Principles provide clarity about what we stand for.
They form the core of our culture and guide how we deliver our strategy.
Enterprising Freedom through Open Strength from spirit responsibility minded diversity We value enterprise from all of We give our people the Our corporate culture is a great Our management population our employees across the world, freedom to operate in their local strength of the business and one comprises people from over giving us a great breadth of ideas environment, providing them of the reasons we have been, and 140nations, giving us unique and viewpoints to enhance the with the benefits of our scale will continue to be, successful.
insights into local markets and way we do business.
We have the but also the ability to succeed We are forward-looking and enhancing our ability to compete confidence to passionately pursue locally.
We always strive to do anticipate consumer preferences, across the world.
We respect and growth and new opportunities the right thing, exercising our winning with innovative, highcelebrate each others differences while accepting the considered responsibility to society and other quality products.
We listen to, and enjoy working together.
entrepreneurial risk that comes stakeholders.
We use our freedom and genuinely consider, other We harness diversity of our with it.
We are bold and strive to to take decisions and act in the perspectives and changing social people, cultures, viewpoints, overcome challenges.
This is the best interest of consumers.
We are open to brands, markets and ideas to cornerstone of our success.
We value what makes each of us unique.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 09
