Strategic Report Measuring Success Each year we set a series of specific and measurable Measuring goals aligned with our five-year strategic goals and embed them in our businesses.
Execution of actions Success associated with these goals is actively monitored by our management processes.
Group financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs are detailed below.
Our non-financial safety KPIs are described on pages 2429 in Corporate Responsibility.
Growth Performance Optimisation Cash Generation Value Creative Investment 1 1 Organic Revenue Growth Total Group Adjusted Total Group Cash Conversion Total Group Return 1 1 Organic revenue growth is a Earnings per Share Cash conversion measures on Invested Capital measure of the underlying Adjusted earnings per how effectively we convert Measuring ROIC ensures we growth of the business.
It share measures the profit operating profit into cash.
are focused on the efficient excludes the impact of foreign attributable to shareholders Focusing on this measure use of assets and capital, with currency, fuel price fluctuations after interest and tax.
encourages strong discipline the target of operating returns and any contribution from It excludes the impact in the management of working generated across the cycle acquisitions and disposals.
of exceptional and other items.
capital and decisions on capital exceeding the cost of holding deployment, enabling us to the assets.
ROIC is calculated Signature continued to Underlying PBT increased by continue to invest in growth by dividing underlying perform well, delivering 12% resulting in adjusted EPS opportunities.
operating profit for ROIC by good organic growth.
Underlying net assets for ROIC.
This growth was in part offset continuing PBT increased by The Group delivered 134% by weak markets at ERO, 25% resulting in continuing cash conversion, reflecting ROIC increased 90 bps to driving a small increase adjusted EPS increasing its attractive underlying 11.0% in 2017. in Group organic underlying by 24%.
Refer to Note 6 for adjusted earnings per share calculation.
13 2 Historic adjusted earnings per share figures restated for the impact of the October 2015 rights issue.
