Strategic Management Our global business British American Tobacco is a leading, multi-category consumer goods company that provides tobacco and nicotine products to millions of consumers around the world.
With market leadership in over 55 countries and cigarette factories in 42 we have genuine global reach.
Our world-class portfolio of cigarette brands is complemented by our increasing range of potentially reduced-risk products.
This includes our Next Generation Products, comprising our vapour and tobacco heating products, and our oral tobacco and nicotine products such as moist snuff and snus.
Following the acquisition of leading brands in the US, as well as the growing importance and progress of our potentially reduced-risk products, we have established a portfolio of priority brands our Strategic Portfolio to replace the Global Drive Brands Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall and Rothmans.
Our geographic diversity BAT is a truly global consumer goods 55 45 companywith brands sold in over 200 markets.
In 2017, we had strong market positions in countries where we cigarette factories each of our five regions, outlined here.
are market leader in 42 countries We have one principal associate company ITC Ltd in India and we also have a jointoperation, CTBAT, with China National Tobacco Corporation.
United States Americas Western Europe Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific As of 1 January 2018, the Groups International regional structure ex US was reduced to three regions comprising: Americas and Sub-Saharan Africa: Europe and North Africa: and Asia-Pacific and Middle East.
16 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our Strategic Portfolio, as set out below, reflects our priority to provide consumers with a range of potentially reduced-risk products while recognising the important role that our combustible brands play in delivering ongoing value for shareholders and the funds required to invest further in our Next Generation Products.
We also have many international and local cigarette brands which, although not part of our Strategic Portfolio, play an important role in delivering the Groups strategy in a number of Key Markets.
Strategic Portfolio Cigarette Potentially reduced-risk brands product brands NGPs Oral Other international  BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 17
