COM STRATEGIC REPORT | WHAT WE DO WHAT WE DO The Essentra Group comprises nine businesses, serving multiple endA portfolio of activities markets with a very broad and differentiated range of products Although our businesses produce Global partner with local presence and services.
a diverse range of products and Essentra has a comprehensive serve a wide range of end-markets, international production and distribution Reflecting our strategic review, nonetheless we share a number of footprint, which can be flexed to respond with effect from 1 January 2018 capabilities and characteristics.
to customers needs, whether they be Essentra changed its structure and product, service, cost or supply chain is now organised as three global Focus on sizeable end-markets driven.
The Company is focused on being divisions of Components, Packaging with growth opportunities a low-cost producer, to secure revenue and Filters, with a fourth division Essentra has a clear, data-driven strategy growth at attractive margins and Specialist Components comprising for each of its Components, Packaging continuous improvement programmes our six smaller businesses.
and Filters global divisions, each of which with tight cost control and productivity operates in sizeable end-markets which gains serving to reduce conversion costs.
In order to create sustainable long-term present opportunities for future growth, value, our business model seeks to and in which the Company is Efficient footprint and strong effectively and efficiently manage fundamentally well-positioned to drive value proposition this portfolio of global leading, diverse long-term growth and margin expansion.
Essentra has a well-invested and activities, while adding further to this flexible international sourcing, supply through a clearly articulated role for Develop long-standing blue chip chain and production infrastructure.
the Group underpinned by robust customer relationships This provides businesses across the financial and capital allocation policies.
Essentra develops and maintains a Company with the opportunity to use the close relationship with a wide portfolio existing infrastructure and management of blue chip customers, who are successful to exploit new opportunities efficiently and leaders in their respective markets.
The Companys extensive The high standards of service and supply international distribution network ensures demanded by such customers help to the delivery of cost-competitive and drive continuous improvement across high-quality products in response to the Company.
High levels of and distribution expertise adds value in service and broad geographic reach are response to customer demands, and an important competitive differentiator.
its innovative capabilities drive the joint development of new products and services with key strategic partners.
Invest in innovation capability The continued successful launch and commercialisation of new products and services is a key driver of Essentras growth.
Investment in research and development functions, supported by the identification of additional product sourcing opportunities to deliver product innovation and range development, provides the platform to further enhance the Companys competitive positions.
Robust quality systems maintained to internationally accredited standards assist the fulfilment of customers demands.
6 STRATEGIC REPORT | WHAT WE DO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM A portfolio of activities With shared business priorities Sustainable, long-term value There is clear scope for the Group to Together with common sense, logic and A unified whole add value through a defined role.
good faith behaviour, Essentras Ethics Our respective businesses have secured Code provides a framework and structure leadership positions in the majority of Portfolio management and strategic to guide employees in determining the the industries which they serve.
Through development correct course of action, and the harnessing this strength in diversity with While each division is responsible for Companys policies continue to promote a clearly defined and unifying role for the contributing to the successful delivery fair and ethical dealings with customers Group all of which underpinned by clear of Essentras strategic and financial and competitors as a matter of law financial and capital allocation policies, objectives, it is important that this is and conscience.
appropriately aligned to management managed within an established and incentives we are well-placed to agreed framework which not only Talent management create sustainable long-term growth facilitates and challenges the next stage Essentras greatest asset is its employees for our shareholders.
of corporate development, but also and, at all levels, we have a highly identifies and exploits any commercial experienced and well-regarded team.
synergies between the Essentra businesses.
Their skills and experience are essential to driving the innovation which enables Risk management the Company to provide added value Effective management of risk and to its customers, enhance supply chain opportunity is essential to the protection logistics and reduce the environmental of Essentras reputation and the delivery of impact of its operations.
The Board of Directors is responsible for determining In creating a winning and engaged team, the risk attitude of the Company and for it is important that we have a world-class communicating to the organisation what global talent management process and constitutes acceptable risk-taking.
We must also Board, supported by the Audit Committee, strive for excellence in health and safety also oversees the management process for and proactively manage learning and the identification, assessment and development, and our objective is to mitigation of risk across Essentra.
become exemplary with regard to diversity and inclusion.
Legal requirements and compliance Essentra is committed to doing business Process alignment and sharing the right way to continually earn the of best practice trust of its customers, other stakeholders Sharing certain facilities and functions and the wider marketplace, and to ensuring from Human Resources, Operations that all of its activities are conducted in and Corporate Governance to Finance, accordance with all applicable legal and IT and Commercial allows us to develop regulatory requirements and the highest and implement aligned processes and standards of ethical business conduct.
procedures, identify and fill skill gaps, Essentras Ethics Code helps to ensure that share best practice across the everyone working for or on behalf of the Company and exploit our collective Company understands its expectations size, infrastructure, investment and conducts Essentra business in a way and capabilities.
that is consistent with the Companys six principles and with its procedures.
