STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors report The Directors have pleasure in For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4CR, the information required to be disclosed byLR9.8.
4R presentingthe statutory financial canbe found in the followinglocations: statements for the Group for the Section topic Location 53weeksended 31 December 2017.
1 Interest capitalised Note 16 to the accounts The Company has chosen in accordance with 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 4 Details of longterm incentive schemes Remuneration report to include the disclosure of likely future 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable developments in the strategic report on 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable pages 2 to 33, which includes the following: 7 Nonpreemptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable the Chairmans statement on 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable pages2and3: 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Directors report a description of the market on 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable pages6and 7: 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors report the Chief Executive Officers review on 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors report pages 8 to 12: 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable a description of the business structure, All the information crossreferenced above is hereby incorporated by reference into this model and strategy on pages 13 to 15: Directors report.
the Chief Financial Officers review on pages 16 to 19: The Ordinary shares are listed on the Group results the key performance indicators on pages London Stock Exchange and can be held in The Group profit for the period from 20 and 21: certificated or uncertificated form.
continuing operations after taxation was the discussion of risk management, the 66.8m 2016:65.2m.
This is after a Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to table of principal risks and uncertainties taxation charge of 14.4m 2016: 17.3m attend and speak at general meetings of the and the longerterm viability statement representing an underlying effective tax Company, to appoint one or more proxies on pages 22 to 27: and rate of 18.3% 2016: 20.3%.
The financial and, if they are corporations, corporate statements setting out the results of representatives who are entitled to attend the corporate social responsibility report theGroup for the 53 weeks ended general meetings and to exercise voting rights.
On a show of hands at a general meeting Together, this information is intended to ofthe Company every holder of Ordinary provide a fair, balanced and understandable Dividends shares present in person or by proxy and analysis of the development and performance The Directors recommend the payment of entitled to vote shall have one vote, unless of the Groups business during the year, a final dividend of 5.25p per Ordinary the proxy is appointed by more than one and its position at the end of the year, its share, to be paid on 24 April 2018 to shareholder and has been instructed by one strategy, likely developments and any members on the register at the close of or more shareholders to vote for the resolution principal risks and uncertainties associated business on 16March 2018 exdividend date 15 and by one or more shareholders to vote with the Groups business.
March 2018, subject to shareholder approval.
against the resolution, in which case the Together with the interim dividend of 3.75p The sections of the Annual Report dealing proxy has one vote for and one vote against.
per Ordinary share paid on 1 September with corporate governance, the reports This reflects the position in the Shareholders 2017, the total dividend in respect of the ofthe Nomination Committee and Audit Rights Regulations 2009 which amended period will be 9.0p compared with 8.0p for Committee and the Directors remuneration the Companies Act 2006.
On a poll, every the previous year, an increase of 12.5%.
report set out on pages 36 to 64 inclusive member present in person or by proxy and are hereby incorporated by reference into entitled to vote shall have one vote for every Dividends are recognised in the accounts this Directors report.
None of the Ordinary in the year in which they are paid or, in the shares carry any special voting rights with For the purposes of compliance with case of the final dividend, when approved regard to control of the Company.
Therefore, the amount Articles specify deadlines for exercising requiredcontent of the management recognised inthe 2017 accounts, as described voting rights and appointing a proxy or report can be found in the strategic report in note 14 on page 101, comprises the 2016 proxies to vote in relation to resolutions and Directors report including thesections final dividend and the 2017 interim dividend.
The relevant of the Annual Report & Accounts proxy votes are counted and the number incorporated by reference.
Share capital for, against or withheld in relation to each As at 31 December 2017, the Companys resolution are announced at the AGM and authorised share capital was 4,000,000 published on the Companys website after divided into a single class of 768,000,000 the meeting.
Ordinary shares of 25 48p each and there were 486,834,530 Ordinary shares in issue.
All issued Ordinary shares are fully paid up.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report continued Share capital continued Substantial shareholdings There are no restrictions on the transfer As at 7 March 2018, the Company had been notified, in accordance with the FCAs ofOrdinary shares in the Company other Disclosure, Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the following holdings of voting rights than certain restrictions that may be attaching to the Companys shares: imposed from time to time by the Articles, % of total % of total law or regulation and pursuant to the voting rights voting rights Listing Rules whereby certain Directors, Number of as at as at officers and employees require approval shares 31 December 2017 7 March 2018 todeal in Ordinary shares of the Company.
OppenheimerFunds, Inc. 55,042,305 11.31 11.31 The Group is not aware of any agreements MFS Investment Management 48,991,388 10.06 10.06 between holders of securities that may Vontobel Asset Management, Inc. 16,576,163 3.40 n a result in restrictions on the transfer ofOrdinary shares.
On 6 March 2018 the Company was notified by Vontobel Asset Management Inc, that it no longer had a notifiable interest.
Shares held by employee sharetrusts The Group has had an employee No other notifications under DGTR 5.3.
1R 1 have been received since 31 December 2017. benefittrust EBT for a number of years, the trustee of which is Intertrust There is an annual review of conflicts disclosed Directors and their interests Fiduciary Services Jersey Limited.
As at and authorisations given.
The register of The Directors in service at 31 December 2017 31 December 2017, the EBT held 2,114,550 Directors conflicts ismaintained by the were Stephen Hemsley, Colin Halpern, shares, which are used to satisfy awards Company Secretary.
David Wild, Rachel Osborne, Helen Keays, under employee share schemes.
The Ebbe Jacobsen, Kevin Higgins and Steve Barber.
votingrights in relation to these shares Directors indemnities areexercisable by the trustee: however, in The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity The biographical details of the present accordance with best practice guidance, provision contained in the Articles of Directors are set out on pages 34 and 35 of the trustee abstains from voting.
The provision, which is a this Annual Report.
qualifying thirdparty indemnity provision Dividend waivers The appointment and replacement of as defined by section 234 of the Companies A dividend waiver is in force in relation Directors is governed by the Articles of the Act 2006, was in force during the year toshares in the Company held by the EBT Company, the UK Corporate Governance ended 31 December 2017 and remains in see previous paragraph, which relates Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related force and relates to certain losses and toatotal of 2,114,550 shares.
Subject to the Articles of liabilities which the Directors may incur Association, the Companies Act 2006 and tothird parties in the course of acting as Purchase of own shares any directions given by special resolution, the Directors or employees of the Company.
At the 2017 AGM, a special resolution business of the Company is managed by waspassed to authorise the Company The Group maintained a directors and the Board, which may exercise all the tomake purchases on the London Stock officers liability insurance policy throughout powers of the Company.
Exchange of up to 10% of its Ordinary the financial year, although no cover exists shares for the year under review.
The The interests of Directors and their in the event that Directors or officers are Company engages in share buybacks to immediate families in the shares of the found to have acted fraudulently or create value for shareholders when cash Company, alongwith details of options and dishonestly.
No indemnity is provided flows permit and there is no immediate awards held by Executive Directors, are forthe Groups auditor.
alternative investment use for the funds.
contained in theDirectors remuneration Shareholders will be requested to renew report set out on pages 46 to 64.
Should Employees this authority at the forthcoming AGM, any Ordinary shares be required to satisfy The Group employed 3,490 people as at tobe held on 19 April 2018. awards over shares, these may be provided 31December 2017 2016: 999 including by the EBT.
During the year the Company made discontinued operations.
purchases of 7,849,454 Ordinary shares There have not been any changes in the Employment policies with a nominal value of 40,882.
Since the interests of the Directors, including share The Group is committed to the principle of year end the Company has made purchases options and awards, in the share capital of equal opportunity in employment.
The over 5,310,000 Ordinary shares with a nominal the Company between the year end and Group recruits and selects applicants for value of 27,656, under the terms of the 8March 2018.
None of the Directors have employment based solely on a persons Share Purchase Programme announced abeneficial interest in the shares of qualifications and suitability for the position, on15 December 2017. anysubsidiary.
whilst bearing in mind equality and diversity.
It is the Groups policy to recruit the most In line with the Companies Act 2006, the capable person available for each position.
Board has clear procedures for Directors to The Group recognises the need to treat all formally disclose any actual or potential employees honestly and fairly.
The Group conflicts to the whole Board for authorisation is committed to ensuring that its employees as necessary.
All new conflicts are required feel respected and valued and are able to to be disclosed as and when they arise.
66 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS fulfil their potential and recognises that the As discussed more fully on page 82 in Note 2: Directors statement of disclosure success of the business relies on their skill Accounting policies in the section on key ofinformation to auditor and dedication.
judgements and estimates, the Chairman Having made the requisite enquiries, and certain former directors entered into theDirectors in office at the date of this The Group gives full and fair consideration indemnity contracts with the Group in Annual Report and Accounts have each to applications for employment from disabled connection with their participation in some confirmed that, so far as they are aware, persons, with regard to their particular historic share based remuneration schemes.
there is no relevant audit information of aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made A provision for employment taxes amounting which the Groups auditor is unaware and tocontinue the employment of those who to 11.0m has been recorded in these each Director has taken all the steps he she become disabled during their employment.
financial statements, of which the Company ought to have taken as a Director to make has estimated that 9 million could be himself herself aware of any relevant audit For more information on the Companys recoverable under the indemnities.
The information and to establish that the Groups employment practices please see page 31. amount that the company has estimated it auditor is aware of that information.
would recover from the Chairman under the General information Going concern indemnity with him, and based on the amount Annual General Meeting The Companys business activities, provided, equates to approximately 3m.
The notice convening the AGM to be together with the factors likely to affect heldat 12.00 noon on 19 April 2018 at Articles of Association itsfuture development, performance and theCompanys Supply Chain Centre, The Articles of Association remained position, are set out in the strategic report 1Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes unchanged during the 2017 financial on pages 2 to 33.
The financial position of MK6 4BB, is contained in a separate yearand can only be amended by special the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position shareholder circular.
Full details of all resolution at a general meeting of the and borrowing facilities are described resolutions to be proposed are provided in shareholders.
A resolution to adopt new inthe financial review on pages 16 to 19. that document.
The Directors consider that Articles of Association will be put to In addition, notes 28 and 29 to the all of the resolutions set out in the Notice shareholders at the AGM in 2018.
Groupfinancial statements include the of AGM are in the best interests of the Branches Companys objectives, policies and Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Dominos Pizza Germany Limited a subsidiary processes for managing its capital, its The Directors will be voting in favour of company of the Company closed its German financial risk management objectives, themand unanimously recommend that Branch, Dominos Pizza Deutschland on details of its financial instruments and shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
26June 2016. hedging activities and its exposures to Significant agreements and change credit risk and liquidity risk.
Environmental and social responsibility ofcontrol provisions and GHG emissions The Directors have a reasonable expectation The Group judges that the only significant The Group acknowledges that it is part that the Company has adequate resources agreements in relation to its business are ofawider community and recognises that to continue in operational existence for the UK and ROI Master Franchise Agreement, it has a responsibility to act in ways that theforeseeable future and have therefore the Know How Licence Agreement and the respect the environment and the social continued to adopt the going concern basis Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein wellbeing of others.
Details of the Groups in preparing the financial statements.
Master Franchise Agreement pursuant to approach to these issues and emissions which certain of the Groups companies are Cautionary statement attributable to all activities are set out in granted the right to franchise stores and This Annual Report and Accounts the corporate social responsibility report operate commissaries in the territories by  statements.
Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc.
These forwardlooking statements are not Political donations guarantees of future performance: rather, The Groups significant agreements listed The Company made no political donations they are based on current views and above do not terminate on a change of in the year 2016: nil.
assumptions as at the date of this Annual control.
The Group does not have agreements Report and Accounts and are made by with any Director or employee that would Key performance indicators KPIs theDirectors in good faith based on the provide compensation for loss of office or Details of the Groups KPIs can be found information available to them at the time of employment resulting from a takeover onpages 20 and 21. their approval of this report.
These statements except that provisions of the Groups employee should be treated with caution due to the share schemes may cause options and Auditor inherent risks and uncertainties underlying awards granted to employees, including EY has signified its willingness to continue any such forwardlooking information.
The Directors, to vest on a change of control.
in office as auditor to the Company and the Group undertakes no obligation to update The Groups banking arrangements do Group is satisfied that EY is independent these forwardlooking statements.
contain change of control provisions which, and there are adequate safeguards in place if triggered, could limit future utilisations, to safeguard its objectivity.
A resolution to By order of the Board require the repayment of existing utilisations reappoint EY as the Companys auditor or lead to a renegotiation of terms.
will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
On 8 December 2017, the Company Adrian Bushnell announced its intention to appoint PwC as Company Secretary external auditor commencing with the 7 March 2018 financial year ending on 29 December 2019.
A formal recommendation regarding the new appointment will be put to shareholders at the Companys AGM to be held in 2019.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 67
