Strategic Report Capturing the value of the network Capturing the value of the network During the year we have: 2017 Revenue Splits Made significant progress on the commercial transition of the enlarged Signature network We have brought together the commercial arrangements of Signature and Flight Support 69% Landmark and started to utilise the wealth of data we capture as to how Aftermarket Services 31% our customers traffic the enlarged network.
We have also explored the priorities of our different customer segments, whether it be ramp access, Signature 69% hangarage or line maintenance, to provide a full, cost-effective service offering across the network.
Engine Repair & Overhaul 22% Invested to position the network for future growth Ontic 9% We have committed capital expenditure to enhance the Signature network through lease extensions, adding hangar space to satisfy customer requirements, and growing our non-fuel service offering.
We have partnered with other strategic aviation players to combine expertise on B&GA 88% technology enabled means of global flight planning.
We have invested in Commercial 8% our people and systems to support further service led growth.
Military 4% Continued to actively grow Ontic We have added licences to our extensive range of maturing and legacy North America 85% products and systems and grown our reputation as a trusted partner for OEMs wishing to transition products.
Rest of World 15% Achieved steady state at ERO We have delivered a much improved performance at ERO despite continuing challenging markets.
The benefits have started to flow as we approach completion of our operational transformation and from our investment in our new, cost-efficient, multi-engine overhaul and test facility in Dallas.
Determined the most appropriate capital structure for the Group Profit before tax going forward 2016: $ 82.2 m $175.5m An extensive review has been undertaken and, based on the strong and robust cash flow fundamentals of the Group, an increase in our target leverage range was deemed appropriate.
This revised range gives flexibility Total Group 1 ROIC, and headroom for the investment requirements of BBA Aviation and the up 90bps cyclicality of the B&GA market.
11% 2016: 10.1% Revenue, Locations up 10% $2370.6m 2016: $2,149.1m 218 Underlying Employees 1 operating profit, up 19% $360.6m 6,700 2016: $302.6m Figures are reported on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise stated.
1 Defined and reconciled to reported financials under Alternative Performance Measures APMs.
