Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other Accounting developments Foreign exchange rates Going concern The Group has prepared its annual The principal exchange rates used to convert A description of the Groups business consolidated financial statements in the results of the Groups foreign operations activities, its financial position, cash flows, accordance with IFRS.
There were no material to sterling, for the purposes of inclusion and liquidity position, facilities and borrowings changes to the accounting standards applied consolidation within the Groups financial position, together with the factors likely to in 2017 from those applied in 2016. statements, are indicated in the table below.
affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in this Annual Report Future changes applicable on the accounting Where the Group has provided results at and Form20-F. standards that will be applied by the Group constant rates of exchange this refers to the areset out in the Notes on the Accounts translation of the results from the foreign The key Group risk factors include analyses note1 Accounting Policies.
operations at rates of exchange prevailing of financial risk and the Groups approach in the prior period thereby eliminating the tofinancial risk management.
Notes 20 and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 potentially distorting impact of the movement 23 in the Notes on the Accounts provide Revenue from Contracts with Customers will in foreign exchange on the reported results.
further detail on the Groups borrowings apply to the Group Financial Statements with andmanagement of financial risks.
effect from 1 January 2018, and the expected Litigation and settlements impact of these changes is also disclosed in The Group has, at the date of this report, As discussed in note 28 in the Notes on the note 1. sufficient existing financing available for its Accounts, various legal proceedings or claims estimated requirements for at least the next Under IFRS 9, the recognition of potential are pending or maybeinstituted against 12 months.
This, together with the proven impairment of receivables under the the Group.
ability to generate cash from trading activities, expected loss model, and changes in the the performance of the Groups Global Government activity carrying value of debt modified in historic Drive Brands, its leading market positions liability management exercises, are expected The marketing, sale, taxation and use of in a number of countries and its broad to reduce reserves by 37 million at tobacco products have been subject to geographical spread, as well as numerous 1 January 2018. substantial regulation by government and contracts with established customers and health officials for many years.
For information Under IFRS 15, certain trade related suppliers across different geographical areas about the risks related to regulation, expenditure is reclassified from operating and industries, provides the Directors with the seepage49 and pages 226 to 231. costs, reducing reported revenue in 2017 confidence that the Group is well placed to by 664 million 2016: 618 million.
manage its business risks successfully in the Off-balance sheet arrangements In addition, in 2017, an adjustment for the context of current financial conditions and and contractual obligations timing of payments to indirect customers thegeneral outlook in the global economy.
Except for operating leases, the Group has no would have reduced revenue and profit from After reviewing the Groups annual budget, significant off-balance sheet arrangements.
plans and financing arrangements for the next The Group has contractual obligations to three years, the Directors consider that the make future payments on debt guarantees.
Group has adequate resources to continue In the normal course of business, it enters into operating and that it is therefore appropriate contractual arrangements where the Group to continue to adopt the going concern commits to future purchases of services from basis in preparing the Annual Report and unaffiliated and related parties.
See page 224 Form20-F. for a summary of the contractual obligations asat31 December 2017.
