FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The following provides information on Goodwill is not amortised but is tested Included in the tax payable is a liability those policies that management considers annually for impairment, along with the of 18.9m 2016: 15.1m for transfer critical because of the level of judgement finite-lived intangible assets and other pricing matters and 19.0m 2016: 10.6m and estimation required which often assets of the Groups cash generating for other uncertain tax positions.
involves assumptions regarding future units.
Tests for impairment are based on The movement is due to adjustments for events which can vary from what is discounted cash flows and assumptions current year transactions, including the anticipated.
The Directors believe that the including discount rates, timing and growth disposal of Porous Technologies, foreign Financial Statements reflect appropriate prospects which are inherently subjective.
exchange movements, expiry of statute judgements and estimates and provide Judgement is also required in identifying the of limitations following the passage a true and fair view of Essentras events which indicate potential impairment, of time and agreement reached with performance and financial position.
and in assessing fair value of individual tax authorities on previous matters.
assets when allocating an impairment ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES loss in a cash-generating unit or groups The group is aware of the European of cash-generating units.
The Group Commission press release on 26 October i Pensions performs various sensitivity analyses 2017 where the Commission opened Essentra accounts for its defined benefit in respect of the tests for impairment, an in-depth investigation into the UKs pension schemes in accordance with as detailed in note 8. finance company partial exemption IAS 19.
The application of IAS 19 requires from controlled foreign company rules the exercise of judgement in relation The useful lives of the Groups finite-lived to determine whether EU state aid rules to the assumptions used and for each intangible assets are reviewed following have been breached.
Management do assumption there is a range of possible the tests for impairment annually.
not consider it probable that an outflow outcomes see note 17.
In consultation of cost will arise to the group as a with Essentras actuaries, management Judgement may also be required in consequence of this and so no current or decides the point within those ranges determining the fair value of other deferred tax liability is held.
Management that most appropriately reflects Essentras assets acquired and liabilities including consider it impracticable to calculate the circumstances.
Small changes to these contingent liabilities assumed.
potential contingent liability since there is assumptions can have a significant too much uncertainty regarding how the impact on valuations.
The Group performs iii Taxation process may conclude.
Management will a sensitivity analysis for the significant Liabilities for tax contingencies require monitor the progress of this investigation.
assumptions used in determining management judgements and estimates post-employment costs and liabilities, in respect of tax audit issues and Management may engage with as detailed in note 17. exposures in each of the jurisdictions professional advisors in making their in which it operates.
Management is assessment and, if appropriate, will liaise ii Business combinations also required to make an estimate of with the relevant taxation authorities and intangible assets the current tax liability together with an to resolve the matter.
The tax liability IFRS 3 requires the identification of assessment of the temporary differences is reassessed in each period to reflect acquired intangible assets as part of which arise as a consequence of different managements best estimate in light a business combination.
The methods accounting and tax treatments.
If the final used to value such intangible assets management conclude that a tax position outcome of these matters differs to the require the use of estimates and is uncertain, a current tax liability is held liability held in the Financial Statements, judgements such as customer attrition, for anticipated taxes that are considered the difference may impact the income tax cash flow generation from the existing probable based on the information expense credit in the year the matter relationships with customers and returns available.
Key judgement areas for the is concluded.
Future results are Group include the pricing of intercompany impacted by the amortisation periods goods and services as well as the tax ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS adopted and changes to the estimated consequences arising from restructuring useful lives would result in different operations.
i Exceptional items effects on the income statement Judgement is required to determine and balance sheet.
whether items should be included within exceptional operating items by virtue of their size or incidence.
Details of the items categorised as exceptional are disclosed in note 2.
