STRATEGIC REPORT Business model We are different from most UK-listed restaurant businesses in that we operate afranchise model.
This means we can grow with relatively low capital intensity, generating high returns.
The dynamics of the business are much more akin to a branded food manufacturer and distributor, and our areas of investment reflect this.
SHAREHOLDERS 2 DOMINOS DOMINOS PIZZA 1 3 FRANCHISEES 4 CUSTOMERS PIZZAINC.
GROUP PLC 5 BRAND TECHNOLOGY SUPPLY CORPORATE CHAIN STORES OUR KEY RELATIONSHIPS Dominos Pizza International Franchising We have historically generated a return on 1 2 Inc. DPI assigns an exclusive ten-year invested capital comfortably above our Master Franchise Agreement to the Group cost of capital, growing the intrinsic value in each country.
If we remain of good of the business.
We pay a progressive standing, we have a legal right to renew.
dividend while maintaining cover of 1.52x We pay DPI a royalty fee of 2.7% of system relative to earnings, and have a policy of sales, in return for which we have exclusive returning excess capital to shareholders rights to the use of the Dominos brand, too, typically through share buybacks.
and the benefit of the shared expertise ofthe Dominos system worldwide.
We make money by selling dough and Franchisees make money by making and 3 4 other food and non-food products to selling pizza and other food items to end ourfranchisees.
They supplement the national Standard Franchise Agreement for each advertising budget with local marketing, territory that they manage.
Franchisees and invest in labour to provide strong meet the cost of new store openings, customer service.
Franchisee profitability which enables us to grow our reach with is an important driver of growth for Dominos limited capital intensity.
In the UK, they as it is a key variable in new store openings.
payus a royalty fee of 5.5% of system Average opening costs are 300k and sales, and contribute a further 4% to the average mature store EBITDA in the UK National Advertising Fund, which we for2017 was151k.
investin the brand on their behalf.
14 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BRAND TECHNOLOGY We are part of a global system covering 80 Our investment in technology serves two main countries, with a brand that has become purposes to make constant improvements to synonymous with delivered pizza in recent the customer ordering experience, and to help years.
We invest 4% of system sales on behalf franchisees maximise their own operating offranchisees innational advertising, efficiency.
Customers have a widening range of TVsponsorship and other brand-building ways to order delivered food, and we need to be activity.
Wealso build and protect the brand at the forefront of technology innovation to earn through very high operating standards to which and retain their loyalty.
For franchisees, our franchisees need to adhere, a commitment technology tools such as GPS help them to to high quality, fresh ingredients and continuous manage labour costs and provide an even better innovation to enhance service for customers.
The scale of the Dominos system allows us to spread the investment cost effectively over a large franchisee base.
5 INVESTMENT IN KEY ASSETS Our business is built on our ongoing investment in key assets our brand, technology and supply chain.
These drive sales and profitability for our franchisees, increasing the scale of the system, generating cash for reinvestment and thus creating a virtuous circle.
We now also invest selectively in our own stores.
SUPPLY CHAIN CORPORATE STORES We make fresh dough and deliver it to our UK We have recently begun to invest in directly stores three times a week, along with all the other operated stores a new use of capital for food and supplies that franchisees need to make theGroup.
This makes sense in new countries and sell great pizza.
This is how we make money, where we need to build up store-level so this is where we make our biggest investments.
profitability before attracting franchisees to In 2018 we will complete our new commissary and takeon the next stage of growth.
We are also Supply Chain Centre in Warrington, at an expected investing in our own stores in London, where our budget of 40m.
This will give us sufficient highly market share is much lower than elsewhere in efficient capacity to produce dough for our target the UK.
Other benefits include the operational of 1,600 stores.
Ourfranchisees benefit from the experience it gives our management team, and huge scale and logistics advantages we provide the ability to test new menus, pricing and giving cost economics that their competitors technology in a live environment before are not able to replicate.
introducing them to the wider franchisee base.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 15
