COM DIRECTORS REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Paul Lester, CBE Paul Forman Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Terry Twigger Stefan Schellinger Senior Independent Group Finance Director Director Tommy Breen Lorraine Trainer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mary Reilly Ralf K. Wunderlich Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 62 DIRECTORS REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM N A R N Paul Lester, CBE Other appointments: Senior Independent Mary Reilly Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director the Audit Committee of X Power Limited.
Appointed to the Board: December 2015 Appointed to the Board: July 2017 Past appointments: Chief Executive of Skills and experience: Paul is currently Non-Executive Skills and experience: Mary is currently a Meggitt PLC, Director of Lucas Aerospace.
Chairman of Forterra plc the leading UK producer Non-Executive Director of global media internet of manufactured masonry products McCarthy & company Travelzoo a US-listed publisher of travel Stone plc the UKs leading retirement housebuilder Stefan Schellinger entertainment and local offers Ferrexpo plc and Knight Square Holdings the property services an iron ore mining company Mitie Group plc Group Finance Director business.
Paul brings a wealth of experience to a facilities management company Saranac Appointed to the Board: October 2015 Essentra, gained in increasingly senior operational Partners a wealth management partnership and strategic executive roles, and has also served and the Department of Transport in the UK.
Mary Skills and experience: Stefan joined Essentra on a number of Boards in a non-executive capacity brings a wealth of accounting, finance and in 2013, and prior to being appointed to his current for more than 20 years.
international management experience to Essentra, position in 2015, he was Corporate Development having previously been a Partner of Deloitte LLP Director where he played a key role in the Other appointments: Non-Executive Chairman for more than twenty years, as well as serving development of the Companys strategy and of Forterra plc, McCarthy & Stone plc and Knight on a number of Boards in a non-executive capacity in building its mergers and acquisitions activity.
Before joining Essentra, Stefan was Finance Director Emerging Markets at Gilbarco Veeder Past appointments: Chairman of John Laing Other appointments: Non-Executive Director and Root a division of the Danaher Corporation from Infrastructure Fund, Greenergy and Parabis Group, Chair of the Audit Committee of Travelzoo and of 2011, having initially joined the Danaher Corporation Chief Executive of VT Group plc and Graseby plc, Ferrexpo plc.
Non-Executive Director of Mitie Group as Director, Corporate Development Europe in Group Managing Director of Balfour Betty plc, plc and Non-Executive Director and Chair of the 2005.
Stefan gained extensive investment banking President of the Society of Maritime industries, Oversight Committee of Saranac Partners.
experience as a Vice President at JP Morgan, the BSA and the Engineering Employers Federation.
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit having started his career in accountancy at & Risk Committee of the Department of Transport.
N Paul Forman Past appointments: Non-Executive Director of A R N Chief Executive Tommy Breen Cape plc, London 2012, the London Development Appointed to the Board: January 2017 Non-Executive Director Agency, Woodford Investment Managers, Crown Appointed to the Board: April 2015 Agents Ltd and Crown Agents Bank Ltd.
Skills and experience: Prior to joining Essentra, Paul was Group Chief Executive of Coats Group plc Skills and experience: Prior to his recent A R N Ralf K. Wunderlich the worlds leading industrial thread manufacturer retirement, Tommy was Chief Executive of DCC plc, for seven years, where he oversaw company Non-Executive Director an international sales, marketing, distribution and rationalisation as well as growth through acquisition, Appointed to the Board: July 2017 business support services group, headquartered in instigated and delivered a clear vision and corporate Dublin and with operations in 13 countries.
Tommy strategy, drove material improvements in financial Skills and experience: Based in Singapore, brings significant experience to Essentra, in particular performance and built the momentum to position the Ralf is currently a senior adviser to private equity of growing diverse businesses both organically and business as an innovative and global industry leader.
firms and an independent consultant.
He was via acquisition during his 30-year career with DCC.
previously President and Managing Director of Amcor Before assuming the role of Group Chief Executive, Flexibles Asia Pacific and a member of the Global Past appointments: Chief Executive of DCC plc.
Paul held a number of increasingly senior operational Group Executive Team of Amcor, the world leader and strategic positions at a variety of companies, in packaging with operations in approximately 40 R A N Lorraine Trainer and has a proven track record of international countries and revenue of approximately US$10bn.
Non-Executive Director manufacturing experience at the highest level.
Ralf brings extensive international experience in Appointed to the Board: July 2013 the packaging industry to Essentra, gained over Other appointments: Non-Executive Director many years and through living and working Skills and experience: Lorraine began her of Tate & Lyle plc.
executive career at Citibank, and has some 20 years experience in Human Resources at such blue Past appointments: Group Chief Executive Other appointments: Non-Executive Director chip companies as the London Stock Exchange and of Coats Group plc and Low & Bonar PLC, of AptarGroup, Inc. Coutts NatWest Group.
Lorraine currently combines Non-Executive Director of Brammer plc.
her Board work with consultancy at and around Past appointments: Non-Executive Director Board level in Director development.
A R N Terry Twigger Senior Independent Director Other appointments: Non-Executive Director, Appointed to the Board: June 2009 Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Jupiter Fund Skills and experience: Terry has considerable Management plc, Non-Executive Director of Committee membership key mergers and acquisitions experience and has also Sonae SGPS, S. A. held a number of senior finance roles, including A Audit Committee having previously been Finance Director at Past appointments: Non-Executive Director Meggitt PLC.
Prior to his retirement in 2013, N Nomination Committee of Aegis Group plc and Colt Group S. A. Terry was Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC.
