Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Overview British American Tobacco BAT is one of the worlds leading consumer goods companies, with brands sold around the globe.
We employ over 55,000 people globally, partner with over 90,000 farmers and have factories in 42 countries, with offices in even more.
Transforming T obacco At BAT, we have been Our acquisition of Reynolds satisfyingconsumers, American Inc. Reynolds delivering shareholder American or RAI, which has valueand creating valued transformed both the scale employment for over and geographic reach of our acentury.
business and our portfolio ofpotentially reduced-risk However, we are entering products, now positions us the most dynamic period perfectly to capitalise on ofchange our industry has thisambition.
We call this ambition An unprecedented transforming tobacco and confluence of technology, we are fully committed to societal change and public leading this transformation.
health awareness has created a unique opportunity: the opportunity to make a substantial leap forward inour long-held ambition toprovide our consumers with lower risk tobacco and nicotine choices.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 01 Overview The advent of new and better consumer technologies meant that, in 2012, we articulated a new vision to be the best at satisfying consumer moments in tobacco and beyond with consumers right at the centre of our strategy.
We were clear then, as we are now, that we would build our business based on outstanding products, informed consumer choice and a drive towards a reduced-risk portfolio.
More choice, more innovation, less risk.
Leading change to shape the future It is widely accepted Since 2012, together with that most of the harm Reynolds American, we associated with tobacco have invested approximately is caused by inhaling US$2.5 billion in the growth the smoke produced of our range of NGPs.
by the combustion of We have also significantly tobacco.
Thatis why increased the size of our we are dedicated to the existing oral tobacco development and sale business with the addition of a range of potentially of more snus and moist reduced-risk products snuff brands in the US.
thatprovide the enjoyment Our commitment to of smoking without leading and accelerating burningtobacco.
this transformation is also These potentially reduceddemonstrated by the risk products include changes we are making in Next Generation Products how we run our business NGPs, comprising vapour including our NGP activities and tobacco heating being integrated into the products THPs, as well as heart of the Company across oral tobacco and nicotine all functions and across products such as snus allgeographies.
02 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information While we cannot be certain whether all smokers will switch to potentially reduced-risk products, we are committed to making a range of high-quality, innovative products as widely available as practicable to address the varied preferences of our consumers.
We believe that by doing this, and working with regulators to establish supportive regulatory regimes, many millions of smokers will increasingly make the choice to switch.
supported by proactive external engagement This transformation is We also need the objective larger than just BAT.
Lasting and balanced support change will only be achieved of public health bodies, by a combination of the politicians, media and commitment and product academics in driving investment from companies informed choice and like BAT and the support consumer trust.
of regulators through the If we can all work establishment of sensible successfully together regulation promoting a wecandrive a triple win.
spectrum of potentially Ourconsumers willhave reduced-risk products.
arange of potentially safer choices: society could benefit from real progress in tobacco harm reduction: and our shareholders will own an even more sustainable .
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 03 Overview The investments that we have made are now delivering real, tangible results.
Thanks to our commitment, we are now able to provide an unrivalled suite of potentially less harmful products that can address the many and varied preferences of todays more demanding consumers.
Inspiring p roducts Today, we have industryThis investment has been leading products in driven by our firmly held vapour: in tobacco heating belief that our consumers products:in oral tobacco are not all the same and including snus and moist so will need a range of snuff : and in our tobaccodifferent products to meet free nicotine pouches.
their varied and constantly Thisisjust a beginning.
However, this is just These smokeless the start.
To lead this productsoffer genuine transformation we must win choices to consumers the technology race, soour searching for alternatives R&D investment, led by totraditional cigarettes.
hundreds of scientists across the world, is predominantly focused on developing our pipeline of potentially reduced-risk products.
04 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information that meet evolving consumer preferences BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 05 Overview All of the progress we have made to date gives us confidence to set clear ambitions for our future.
By the end of 2018 our objective is to generate over 1 billion revenue from NGPs and by 2022 to have increased that figure fivefold to 5 billion.
Taken together with the growing revenue from our oral tobacco business, we fully expect that by 2030, a very significant percentage of Group revenue will be generated by our suite of potentially reduced-risk products.
This is only the beginning These aims will not We often get asked why be easy to reach, but, we dont just stop selling 1bn 5bn with a combination cigarettes?
In short, we ofcommitment and dont believe this would In 2018, our aim is to By 2022, our aim investment, we believe be commercially sensible double our NGP revenue is to deliver 5 billion theyare achievable.
or practical: the ongoing to1 billion.
consumer demand for However, even with these these products would ambitious objectives, it either transfer straight is clearthat conventional toour competitors or, cigarettes will remain a key moreworryingly, the part of our business for blackmarket and in many many years to come and markets there are still willcontinue to provide a realregulatory obstacles vitalsource of investment tolaunching NGPs.
That is why alongside our commitment to the transformation of our business, we also remain fully committed to our combustible tobacco business during thistransformation.
06 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
