Strategic Management Our business model At the centre of our global business, operating in Source over 200 markets, is What we do While the Group does not own tobacco farms the manufacture and or directly employ farmers, we buy more than Our people 400,000 tonnes of tobacco each year for our marketing of superior combustible tobacco products, our oral tobacco and relationships combustible tobacco products and our THPs.
We employ over 55,000 What makes us different products and potentially people worldwide, with a We provide on-the-ground support and advice reduced-risk products workforce that is diverse to over 90,000 contracted farmers to help and multicultural.
ensure consistency and quality of supply.
this includes our Next We have a devolved structure, We invest over 60 million each year in our Leaf Generation Products with each local company Research & Development R&D and support having responsibility for farmers through our Extension Services.
Our leaf operations are managed vapour and tobacco The quality of our people globally to ensure that the Group works is a major reason why the with reliable, efficient and responsible heating products THPs, Group continues to perform farmers in our source countries.
In return, we commit to alongside oral tobacco and The e-liquids used in our vapour investing in our people as we products are made from medical grade nicotine products such as do in our brands.
nicotine sourced internally or from We encourage a culture moist snuff and snus.
ofpersonal ownership and we value our employees Our sustainable approach talents and abilities.
to sourcing, production, Their diverse perspectives helpus to succeed.
distribution and see pages 27 to 29 We also have excellent for more details marketing helps us to relationships with a range of stakeholders, including farmers, create value for a wide retailers and distributors.
group of stakeholders, We engage with regulators around the world to support from farmers Market regulation that is based on robust evidence and thorough to consumers.
What we do research, that respects legal We offer adult consumers a range of rights and livelihoods, and We use our unique products, including cigarettes: Fine Cut delivers on the intended tobacco: snus: moist snuff: vapour: and policy aims while recognising strengths and employ THPs in a number of markets around unintended consequences.
Our range of high-quality our resources and products covers all segments, from You can learn more relationships to value-for-money to premium.
about ourwork in supporting farmers in What makes us different deliver sustainable our leaf supply chain at www.
com farmervideo Our successful portfolio of international, regional and orwww.
com growth in earnings local cigarette brands continue to deliver significant welcometobat value over the long term and meet a broad array of for our shareholders.
adult consumer preferences wherever we operate, see pages 25 to 32 for based onsound consumer insights.
more information For more information on the structure of the Group, see page 216 Our international brand strategy focuses on our GlobalDrive Brands, which account for 50% of the cigarettes wesell and are asignificant driver of growth.
We offer the broadest choice of products to consumers seeking potentially lower risk alternatives totraditional cigarettes.
Our development of, and investment in, our range ofpotentially reduced-risk products enables us to meetvaried consumer preferences.
see pages 20 to 22 for more details 18 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Produce What we do We manufacture high-quality products in manufacturing facilities all over the world.
We also ensure that these products and the tobacco leaf Resources we purchase are in the right place at the right forsuccess time.
Our NGPs are manufactured in a mix of our own and third-party factories.
We work to ensure Innovation that our costs are globally competitive and that We make significant we use our resources as effectively as possible.
investments in research What makes us different and development to deliver In 2017, we had 45 cigarette factories across the innovations that satisfy globe.
These strategically placed factories enable or anticipate consumer us to maximise efficiency and ensure products preferences and generate are where they need to be at the right time.
growth for the business across all categories.
Our production facilities producing cigarettes The main focus of this and the consumables for our THPs are designed investment is in our NGPs, to meet the needs of an agile and flexible supply such as vapour and THPs.
chain, providing a world-class operational base Since 2012, together with that isfit for the future.
Reynolds American, we have For our NGPs, we expect our contract invested over US$2.5 billion manufacturers to comply with the same high in the development and standards that exist on our own sites.
commercialisation of potentially lower risk Consumers alternatives to smoking.
We also conduct R&D into We place consumers our conventional cigarette at the centre of our business.
see pages 23 and 24 innovations such as capsule We invest in world-class research for more details products, additive-free to understand changing consumer products, slimmer products, preferences and buying behaviour.
tube filters and Reloc, our This drives our leaf sourcing, resealable pack technology.
product development, innovations, brands andtrade activities.
World-class science We aim to satisfy consumers with We have an extensive scientific Distribute arange of inspiring products across research programme in a the risk spectrum and address What we do broad spectrum of scientific expectations about how weshould We distribute our products around the globe fields including molecular market them.
effectively and efficiently using a variety of biology, toxicology and different distribution models suited to local chemistry.
We are transparent circumstances and conditions.
Around half of about our science and our global cigarette volume is sold by retailers, publish details of our supplied through our direct distribution capability research programmes on or exclusive distributors.
We continuously review our dedicated website, our route to market for combustible products, www.
com, and oral tobacco products and NGPs, including our the results of our studies in relationships with wholesalers, distributors and peer-reviewed journals.
You can take a video tour What makes us different inside our state-of-the-art Our relationships with, and efficient distribution plant biotechnology labsand meet some of the to, retailers worldwide ensures we can offer scientists behind the science the products our adult consumers wish to buy, at www.
com labtour where and when they want them.
com welcometobat Our global footprint and direct distribution capability enables new product innovations to see pages 21, 22 and 27 for be distributed to markets quickly and efficiently.
more information see pages 23 and 24 for more details BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 19
