Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Global market overview The global NGP market is predicted to The advent and growth of potentially reduced-risk more than double between 2016 and 2021, with growth coming from a diverse array products, including Next Generation Products NGPs like of products.
vapour and tobacco heating products THPs, combined The US remains one of the biggest with a mix of regulation and changing societal attitudes, NGPmarkets.
However, the NGP market in Asia-Pacific is now growing at a rate of 65% has seen a gradual fall in the number of combustible thanks, in part, to the launch of a number of dynamic new products, with THPs emerging cigarettes consumed over many years.
For example, Japan has become the worlds most importantTHP While more than one-fifth of the worlds adult market, and the Group estimates that, in 2018, THPs will already account for more than population smokes, and most of them smoke traditional 20% of tobacco consumption there.
cigarettes, the global NGP market is set to more than Vapour products are predicted to dominate in two regions: Western Europe and the US.
double between 2016 and 2021, with different products These markets have already seen a strong and set to lead this growth in different markets.
growing appetite for e-cigarettes, despite a fallin popularity for cig-a-like style products.
Oral tobacco sales are growing in both Combustible regulation Tobacco is one Scandinavia snus and the US snus and Global combustible market ofthe worlds most regulated and most taxed moist snuff.
The most recent estimates for the global industries.
Manufacturers are expected to tobacco market 2016 indicate it is worth NGP regulation The NGP market comply with a swathe of regulations that are approximately US$760 billion excluding comprising vapour and THPs is relatively highly varied across markets.
More than US$680 billion of nascent, and therefore regulation is also this comes from the sale of conventional Over the past decades, legislation and in its early stages.
Globally, there is a mix cigarettes, with some 5,505 billion cigarettes subsequent regulation has focused on the of attitudes between regulators who aim consumed per year.
introduction of plain packaging, product to encourage NGPs as products that are specific regulation, graphic health warnings potentially lower risk for smokers and those However, the Group estimates there has been on packs, tougher restrictions on smoking who view them with greater scepticism a 3.5% fall in industry overall volume between in enclosed public places and bans on shops including some countries where they 2017 and 2016.
This is a trend which is displaying tobacco products at the point are banned.
predicted to continue as attitudes change: of sale.
the sale of illicit cigarettes continues to rise: The UK is an example of what can happen regulation increases further: and alternative, Litigation Legal and regulatory court with the support of regulators and public potentially reduced-risk tobacco and nicotine proceedings continue in a number of forms health bodies.
Public Health Englands and the products continue to develop and become against the tobacco industry, with the most Royal College of Physicians major reports on more consumer-acceptable.
common being third-party reimbursement the reduced risk of e-cigarettes combined cases, class actions and individual lawsuits.
with a more liberal approach to regulation Illicit tobacco Cigarettes are a reliable are potential contributing factors to an source of tax revenue for governments Special factors that led to product liability increase in product uptake.
However, the increase in their litigation in the US and Canada are not price and broader macroeconomic pressures typically replicated inother countries, which In the US, the Food and Drug Administration are leading to a growth in the illicit cigarette is why large volume and high-value litigation FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb made trade.
The World Health Organization WHO has not generally spread to other parts of clear, in July 2017, that he wanted the FDA estimates that 1 in every 10 cigarettes and the globe.
to strike an appropriate balance between tobacco products consumed globally is regulation and encouraging the development The industry has a proven track record of illicit, with the market supported by various of innovative products that may be less defending its rights and managing risks such players, ranging from individuals to organised dangerous than cigarettes potentially paving as these.
criminal networks involved in arms and the way for greater acceptance of vapour human trafficking.
products and THPs in the US and beyond.
Global potentially reduced-risk It is generally accepted that there is a direct productsmarket As the income from traditional cigarette correlation between steep and ad hoc taxation falls over the longer term, there is a The global tobacco and nicotine market is increases in tax and an increase in illicit clear risk of increased taxation on NGPs that increasingly diversifying beyond traditional sales.
For example, the Australasia region does not take into account their relative risks combustible tobacco withthe growth of is expected to see legal volumes decline when compared with traditional cigarettes.
NGPs as well as the oral tobacco and nicotine substantially, following successive excise market e. g. snus and moist snuff.
increases and illicit volumes increase.
see pages 48 to 54 to learn more about The latest global figures 2016 suggest thePrincipal Group risk factors However, the current relative punishments the NGP market is worth an estimated versus the profits for illegally selling tobacco US$12.3 billion, a 34% increase on products make them an appealing prospect theprevious year, while the oral tobacco for criminals.
and nicotine market is worth an estimated US$12.5 billion demonstrating how quickly the nascent NGPcategory has progressed against a moremature category.
All data sources on this page are from Euromonitor Internationalunless otherwise stated.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 15
