Strategic Report Signature Flight Support 2017 Performance Signature Flight Support 2017 Performance Revenue In 2017 Signature expanded its affiliate FBO programme, Signature Select.
It signed an extended licence agreement with Fly Across at 2017 2016 Inc dec Toluca International Airport in Mexico, just a 30-minute drive from $m $m % Santa Fe, the countrys financial and business district.
This location North America 1,463.0 1,279.2 14.4% increases the Signature Select network to 19 locations globally and we Europe & ROW 180.0 164.0 9.8% continue to look for further opportunities to expand this proposition.
Total 1,643.0 1,443.2 13.8% Signature has continued to invest in its current network, with the successful opening of its newly constructed FBO with premium hangar Signature Flight Supports locations delivered another strong space to satisfy the growing tenant demand at Boeing Field, Seattle performance in a good growth environment, as we started to capture which completed in June 2017.
It also secured a new strategic lease at the benefits of our strong and customer-relevant network.
Against a background of a US B&GA market that grew 3.1% in the first BBA Aviation has also recently taken a minority investment in Victor, half, Signature performed broadly in line with the market despite a a leading on-demand private jet charter company.
Through this short-term negative impact on fuel volumes while negotiations with minority investment, which concurrently acquired RocketRoute, a Signatures customers were undertaken and the loss of the Santa global flight planning and trip support business, we are committed Ana FBO in April 2017.
In the second half, Signature outperformed its to being at the forefront of advances in data and technology enabled principal US B&GA market with 4.4% organic revenue growth against customer service.
As the demographic using and chartering private the market which grew at 4.1% reflecting both the positive customer jets continues to change, our ability to utilise technology will ensure we response to the enlarged network proposition and the good progress bring the best possible service to our many discerning customers.
There are now 198 locations in Signatures global network.
The hurricanes in August and September Harvey, Irma and Maria caused minimal impact overall across the Signature network and we were able to re-establish services quickly and provide support for the rescue and relief efforts.
Damage to our FBO network was limited although there were some excess payments made on our insurance policies by Signature.
Signature is well positioned to focus on optimising its unique and high-quality global network of FBOs and line maintenance locations, through the provision of a broader range of B&GA services to our extensive customer base and enhancing network performance to accelerate value creation.
The unique Signature network has the unmatched ability to satisfy the needs of our customers at many more locations that they want to fly to, supporting anticipated continued outperformance in 2018 and beyond.
