Directors Report Going Concern and Viability Statement The directors have carried out a critical review of the Groups 2018 budget and medium-term plans with due regard for the risks and uncertainties to which the Going Concern Group is exposed and the impact that these could have on trading performance.
The key assumptions used in constructing the budget were as follows: In Flight Support we anticipate continued strong momentum in Signature Flight and Viability Support, supported by growth in B&GA flying hours.
In Aftermarket Services, Ontics outlook remains solid with a strong order backlog.
Engine Repair & Overhaul has substantially completed its footprint rationalisation Statement programme but, with a competitive market and pricing environment, further opportunities to simplify the business will be taken to improve efficiency.
In addition, our overall performance will be supported by further incremental contributions from the substantial investments made across the Group in recent years.
Over the longer term, the underlying strengths of our market-leading businesses, the continuing improvement in their operational performance and Going Concern the structural growth and consolidation in our major markets support the Boards The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future confidence in our ability to generate superior through-cycle returns.
development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report and The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have Directors Report on pages 188.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
and liquidity position are described on pages 3436.
In addition, note 17 to the Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and annual financial statements.
processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Viability Statement In accordance with provision c. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the The Groups committed bank facilities comprise a $650 million multicurrency directors have assessed the financial and operational position and prospects of the revolving credit facility RCF dated 10 April 2014 due to expire in April 2019 and BBA Aviation Group.
The directors assessment considered the three-year period to an Acquisition Financing Agreement AFA put in place during 2015 to fund the December 2020.
This assessment was based on the three-year financial forecast for acquisition of Landmark Aviation in conjunction with the rights issue.
Following the the BBA Aviation Group.
The BBA Aviation Group three-year financial forecast was prepayment of Facility A and the partial prepayment of Facility B in June 2016 from prepared on a business by business basis alongside the BBA Aviation Group annual the disposal proceeds of the six FBOs in accordance with the U. S. Department of budget process.
Justices requirement in relation to the Landmark Aviation acquisition, there remain two term debt facilities.
These are Facility B due to expire in February 2019 and The Directors consider the three-year period to December 2020 to be the Facility C due to expire in September 2020.
During the year the Group used part of appropriate viability assessment period based on the historic performance of the the net proceeds from the disposal of ASIG to prepay $110 million under Facility B of Group and its key underlying markets.
The directors believe the period is the optimal the AFA and, therefore, as at 31 December 2017 $253 million remains outstanding balance of long-term projections and acceptable forecasting accuracy.
under this term debt facility.
There have been no prepayments under Facility C of In making their assessments the directors have considered the potential financial the AFA and, therefore, as at 31 December 2017 the full amount of $450 million and operational impacts of severe yet plausible scenarios that could impact the remains outstanding.
three-year financial forecasts for BBA Aviation.
The plausible scenarios considered In addition, BBA Aviation plc has US private placement USPP obligations of $500 are broadly aligned to the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 2023.
In million senior notes with various maturity dates between 2018 and 2026. their assessment of the impact of plausible scenarios on BBA Aviation, the directors have also considered the likely effectiveness of available mitigating actions.
In total the Group has debt obligations and facilities of $1,853 million and as at 31 December 2017 the Group has available $535 million of undrawn committed Based on this assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the borrowing facilities.
These debt obligations and facilities are subject to cross default.
Company and the BBA Aviation Group will be able to continue in operation and meet Further details relating to these debt arrangements are provided in note 16 to the their liabilities as they fall due for the three-year period to December 2020.
The bank facilities and the USPP notes are subject to two main financial covenants: maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA of 3.5x and minimum net interest cover of 3.0x underlying EBITDA.
The directors expect the Group to comply with these covenants for the foreseeable future.
The Groups forecasts and projections taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities in the foreseeable future.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the forecasts and projections, to which the Group is exposed, relate to the number of hours of flying activity, principally in Business & General Aviation, but also to a lesser extent in commercial and military aviation.
Flying hours largely dictate the drivers of revenue, namely fuel volumes in Signature, engine overhaul cycles in ERO and demand for components in Ontic.
Further details of these risks and uncertainties are provided on pages 2023.
