Strategic Management Delivering our strategy Revenue m Growth 20,292m Our multi-category portfolio of brands continued 37.6% to deliver in 2017, driven by our Global Drive Brands 20,292m 2017 38% and Next Generation Products.
2016 14,751m 3% 13,104m 2015 -6% Highlights during the year Group revenue grew by 37.6% at current rates of exchange.
Definition: Revenue recognised, net of duty, exciseandother taxes.
Group market share in Key Markets up by over 40 bps.
Global Drive Brands cigarette volume grew 10.0% 7.6% organic.
Change in adjusted revenue The Group established itself as the worlds leading tobacco and Next Generation at constant rates % Productsbusiness by revenue and profit.
30.7% Business performance Global Drive Brands KPI Non-GAAP Group revenue, at current rates of exchange, Our five leading brands GDBs are Dunhill, was 37.6% higher than 2016, driven by the Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall and Rothmans.
2017 31% acquisition and subsequent consolidation of 2017 org 3% The Groups market share has grown Reynolds American, pricing, growth of the 2016 7% consistently over the last seven years, Next Generation Product NGP portfolio and 2015 5% poweredby our GDBs.
They play a key role the continued relative weakness of sterling.
inour growth strategy and now account for Definition: Change in revenue before the impact of At constant rates of exchange, adjusted adjusting items and the impact of fluctuations in foreign over 50% of all the cigarettes and THPs we excluding excise on goods bought-in from exchange rates.
third parties, organic revenue was up 2.9%.
Dunhill: Overall market share was down Group cigarette and THP volume from Global Drive Brands GDBs 10bps with volume lower by 5.9%, driven subsidiaries was 686 billion, an increase of cigarette volume and THP volume by the economic slowdown impacting 3.2% against the previous year and a decline consumers disposable income in Indonesia of 2.6% on an organic basis as volume and continued down-trading in Malaysia growth in Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Nigeria and 357bn and GCC, and industry contraction in GCC was offset by declines in Pakistan, Russia, South Korea.
Kent: Volume increased by 11.2%, with The Groups cigarette and THP market share 2017 357bn market share up 30 bps, driven by Japan, in its Key Markets continued to grow, up 2016 324bn due to the success of glo, Turkey and Brazil, 40 basis points bps.
This was driven by 2015 301bn offsetting a decline in Iran.
another excellent performance by our Global Drive Brand GDB portfolio with volume up Lucky Strike: Market share and volume grew 2016: 7.5% 7.6% on an organic basis and market share, by 20 bps and 12.2% respectively, with 2015: 8.5% outside the US, increasing 110 bps, driven by growth in Indonesia and Spain more than growth in Brazil, Pakistan, Turkey and Mexico.
offsetting reductions in Argentina and Egypt.
Global Drive and Key Strategic Brands Volume growth of our GDBs, including Key Pall Mall: Market share grew 20 bps, with GDSBs total cigarettes and THP volume Strategic Brands together known as GDSBs volume up 14.8%, or 6.4% on an organic was up 17.2% or7.5% on an organic basis.
basis, as growth in GCC, Nigeria and Poland The Groups NGP portfolio contributed more than offset Chile and Russia.
405bn 397 million of revenue, at current rates of Rothmans: Volume increased 14.3%, with KPI 17.2% 7.5% organic exchange, which includes the contribution market share up 40 bps, driven by Russia, from RAI Companies brands since the Poland, Nigeria and Colombia, offsetting 2017 405bn acquisition date.
Including a full years lower volume in Kazakhstan and Egypt.
2016 346bn revenue from RAI, in 2017, revenue from 2015 323bn NGPswas approximately 500 million.
In 2018, we expect to generate over 1 billion 2016: 7.2% in revenue from our NGPs, rising to more 2015: 8.0% than 5 billion in 2022.
We expect the NGP business to break even by end 2018 and to deliver substantial profit by 2022.
20 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information US cigarette brands Potentially reduced-risk products Group market share of key markets In the period since acquisition, RAI Potentially reduced-risk products is the Companies cigarette volume in the US was term we use to define our Next Generation 36 billion, outperforming the industry with Product NGP business, comprising vapour 40 bps total cigarette market share at 34.7%, up and THPs, and our oral tobacco and nicotine 20bps on 2016. business, including products such as snus and KPI moist snuff.
Newport and Natural American Spirit 2016: 50 bps continued to grow market share driven by We are seeking leadership of the entire 2015: 40 bps the investment into the trade and, together, category and have a suite of products to cater they are the fastest growing premium brands for consumers many and varying preferences.
Total shareholder return TSR of the on the market.
Camel market share increased In 2017, we further enhanced our range of FMCG group 1 January 2015 due to the performance of the menthol range.
potentially reduced-risk products with the to 31December 2017 % Pall Mall market share was lower due to price acquisition of the e-cigarette brand ViP in the The FMCG group comparison is based competition in the value for money category.
UK and Winnington, the maker of Epok, the on three months average values market leading white snus product in Sweden.
Local and international Median BAT cigarette brands Vapour products 9.3% 15.7% 30 We have many other international and local Following the acquisition of Reynolds 25 cigarette brands including Vogue, Viceroy, American we are now the worlds leading 20 Kool, Peter Stuyvesant, Craven A, Benson & vapour company.
15 Hedges, John Player Gold Leaf, State Express Outside of the US, the Group has market 10 555 and Shuang Xi.
leadership in Poland and the UK, with the 5 Although experiencing a slow overall decline, latter driven by the two fastest growing 0 our local and international brands continue vapour brands in the market, Vype and Ten to play an important role in delivering the Motives.
Vype is now present in nine markets Upper quartile KPI Groups Strategy in several Key Markets, and in duty free via our Global Travel Retail Lower quartile including Brazil, South Africa, Vietnam, business and, while still immaterial in the Pakistan, Bangladesh and Japan.
context of the Group, our European vapour business grew with revenue up strongly Other international brands declined by against the same period last year.
13.4%, as growth in State Express 555 and B&H was more than offset by lower volume In the US, the R. J. Reynolds Vapor Company from Craven A, Viceroy, Peter Stuyvesant, a Reynolds American operating company John Player Gold Leaf and Vogue.
was formed in 2012 and started selling Vuse digital vapour products in Colorado in June Combustible product 2013 before expanding nationally in 2014.
1 Innovations The Vuse range of products continues to have a significant presence in the market.
In addition to innovations in our NGP portfolio, innovations in our combustible The Group has a range of products covering tobacco portfolio remain an important part open and closed vapour systems, all designed of our strategy to provide consumers with a to meet the emerging preferences of range of exciting and differentiated products consumers.
We also have a strong product from which to choose.
pipeline in place to cater for changing preferences in this category.
Innovations volume grew by 11.6%, driven by the continued growth of tube filters and capsules which now account for 37% of our cigarette volume.
Defined as any Group-manufactured cigarette containing non-standard features such as slims, capsules, Reloc or tubes.
In addition to revenue and the other measures discussed in this Annual Report and Form 20-F, BAT management focuses on volume as a key measure to evaluate performance.
Volume is an unaudited operating measure and is calculated as the total global cigarette and THP volume of the Groups brands sold by its subsidiaries.
The Group believes that volume is a measure commonly used by analysts and investors in the industry.
Accordingly, this information has been disclosed to permit a more complete analysis of the Groups operating performance.
The Group also uses market share to evaluate its performance.
The Group evaluates changes in its retail market share, or market share, in its key markets for tobacco products, based on the latest available data from a number of internal and external sources.
Key markets consist of approximately 40 territories across all geographical segments, and represent approximately 80% of the Groups global volume.
Growth in these markets is largely driven by the Global Drive Brands.
The Group also highlights drivers for change in specific markets e. g. volume or market share.
For Next Generation Products, the Group monitors its performance in select countries e. g. UK, Germany, Italy based upon category retail market share, based on the latest available data from a number of internal and external sources.
In addition, the Groups performance is affected by global pricing, which is impacted by discounts, terms of credit with customers, excise taxes and other competitive, market-driven and regulatory factors.
In certain markets, the Group has experienced increases or decreases in average prices resulting from changes in product mix, also referred to as price mix.
The Group believes that pricing and market share are measures commonly used by analysts and investors in the industry.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 21 Strategic Management Delivering our strategy continued Tobacco heating products Change to performance measure Our tobacco heating product THP, glo, is Revenue Growth from the Strategic present in six markets Japan, South Korea, Portfolio effective 2018 Russia, Romania, Canada and Switzerland The Group continuously assesses the with additional launches planned for 2018. performance metrics to ensure they remain Following the initial launch of glo in the relevant to reflect the Groups shortand Japanese city of Sendai in December 2016, long-term delivery in line with the strategic werolled the product out nationally in vision.
To that end, from 2018, the Group October 2017.
We are already at 3.6% market will introduce a new measure called Revenue share in Japan and our research shows that, Growth from the Strategic Portfolio, as part in Tokyo, three out of four new consumers of the short-term incentive scheme.
This will in thecategory are choosing glo over other have a 30% weighting, with the Strategic products on the market.
Portfolio reflecting the focus of the Groups investment activity, and defined as: We launched glo in the South Korean city of Seoul in August 2017 and subsequently The GDBs Kent, Dunhill, Lucky Strike, expanded into three more cities Busan, PallMall and Rothmans : Daegu and Daejeon with continuous The three main brands from the US business market share growth being captured at Camel, Newport and Natural American national level.
Encouraging progress is also Spirit : and being made in the other markets where glo is present and wehave a number of market Key brands within our potentially and new product launches planned for 2018 reduced-risk products portfolio.
The new metric will replace the Global Drive To support our on-going glo expansion Brand GDB & Key Strategic Brand KSB plans, and to meet the increasing demand, volume growth metric.
The volume share investment in Neostik our glo consumables metric of key markets is retained with a production capacity has taken place in South weighting reduced from 20% to 10%.
In 2017, while not part of the Groups KPIs, Oral tobacco and nicotine products toprovide the comparator against which 2018 will be measured, Revenue from the In the US, American Snuff Company, LLCs Strategic Portfolio was 16,711 million volume of moist snuff was 228 million cans assuming we had owned RAI for the full inthe period since the acquisition of Reynolds 12 months and after the implementation of American.
Total moist market share was up the new accounting requirements of IFRS 15.
100 bps on 2016 to 34.4%, primarily due to Grizzly, a leading US moist snuff brand, benefiting from its strength in the pouch and wintergreen categories, as well as the recent national expansion of its Dark Select style.
22 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Profit from operations m Productivity 6,476m We have continued our drive towards a more 39.1% effective and efficient globally integrated 6,476m 2017 39% organisation by leveraging global systems and new 2016 4,655m 2% 4,557m 2015 0% ways of working.
This global integration ensures the lowest possible overheads, the most cost-effective Definition: Profit for the year before the impact of net finance costs income, share of post-tax results and responsive supply chain and that productivity of associates and joint ventures and taxation on ordinary activities.
Highlights during the year Change in adjusted profit from operations at constant rates % Record productivity savings delivered.
Opening of the new Global Supply Chain Service centre in Southampton, UK, and furtherexpanded shared services for Human Resources and Finance in Romania.
39.9% KPI Continued optimisation of leaf growing andmanufacturing locations.
Non-GAAP 2017 40% The drive towards above-market aggregation Globalising operations and 2017 org 4% is not only reducing cost through less improving efficiency 2016 4% duplication, but also ensuring the best 2015 4% Global systems and ways of working across expertise is exploited throughout the Group.
the Group are exploited to minimise our cost Definition: Change in profit from operations before the Doing so helps ensure resources are made impact of adjusting items and the impact of fluctuations base and maximise expertise.
Furthermore, available to establish more global activities in foreign exchange rates.
by ensuring back-office activities are carried across our combustible and Next Generation out most efficiently and effectively, the Product NGP businesses and that those end markets are free to focus their efforts Operating cash flow conversion ratio activities are implemented efficiently @ on sales activities.
This drive to a globally % and effectively.
integrated enterprise is most apparent In Supply Chain, the Group is integrated in our Supply Chain, Human Resources, globally such that the single view of future Finance, Procurement and Information 79% demand ensures resources and investments KPI Technology functions.
Non-GAAP can be most effectively prioritised.
In line with this strategy, during 2017 the This includes machinery investment Group opened a new Global Supply Chain 2017 79% sothatcapital expenditure is targeted to Service centre in Southampton, UK, and 2016 93% theareas of the business with the greatest 2015 92% further expanded shared services for Human return on the investment.
This global view Resources and Finance in Romania.
In all also enhances our ability to react quickly cases, these opportunities have been enabled Definition: Operating cash flow, as defined on page in situations when speed to market gives by the Groups single global SAP system.
221 as a percentage ofadjusted profit from operations.
Operating cash flow isnot a measure defined by IFRS.
The successful completion of the migration Continued strategic investments in new of Croatia, Greece, Serbia and Indonesia to machinery in 2017, supported by our global our single system at the start of the year has planning systems and integrated business meant that during 2017 the Group has been model, have ensured we deliver on time and able to focus on embedding expertise and in full in all our Key Markets at optimal cost, rolling out initiatives to leverage the Groups with speed and scale.
@ denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part of BATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 23 Strategic Management Delivering our strategy continued Continued optimisation of Record productivity savings Net cash generated from operating activities m manufacturing locations and By operating globally, exploiting our systems and driving for results, the Group leafgrowing delivered record productivity savings in 2017.
In 2017, we continued to optimise our 5,347m This has been reinforced by the acquisition of manufacturing footprint and at the end of the Reynolds American which will provide further 16.0% year had 45 cigarette factories in 42 countries.
In addition, the acquisition of Reynolds 5,347m 2017 16% American added a further six manufacturing These savings are returned to the business 2016 4,610m -2% facilities to the Group.
for re-investment and to increase shareholder 4,720m 2015 27% return.
The following examples show how The Malaysia factory was closed this year and the Group considers all opportunities in the German factory was refocused on OTP, Definition: Movement in net cash and cash equivalents the supply chain, including Procurement, Dry Ice Expanded Tobacco DIET and Casing before the impact of net cash used in financing activities, International logistics and Leaf operations: net cash used in investing activities and differences Flavours Manufacture with the ending of on exchange.
cigarette manufacture planned for early 2018.
Procurement Global visibility of forward This factory reduction is balanced against demand and product specifications in one continued strategic acquisitions to support system has delivered significant benefit Change in adjusted cash generated from @ theGrowth Agenda.
with the tender at a global level of print operations at constant rates % materials and tow being notable examples.
Factory expansions in Romania and South In addition to the benefits of lower product Korea to accommodate new opportunities in cost, the development of long-term supplier 0.3% NGPs, specifically consumables production for relationships with key suppliers has improved KPI glo, show how our sourcing is responsive to Non-GAAP security of supply and enabled higher innovative growth demands while remaining flexibility in the supply chain.
This complements substantial 2017 0% investment in device capacity, which is International logistics Whether by 2016 21% also taking place in response to increased road, air or sea, this is now organised 2015 2% consumer demand for glo.
This facilitates opportunities to negotiate globally with Definition: Change in adjusted cash generated from We are continually looking to improve the third-party providers for us to benefit from operations, as defined on page 222, before the impact efficiency of our entire supply chain with the offluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Furthermore, this maximises the opportunities to improve our manufacturing use of return shipments and economic order operations being a focus in 2017, continuing quantities to ensure maximum efficiency into 2018.
We are realising the benefits of our Operating margin whilemaintaining the flexibility for fast % Integrated Work Systems, a programme that response tomarket opportunities.
is designed to maximise equipment efficiency while ensuring we maintain high standards Leaf operations These are similarly 31.9% ofproduct quality.
managed globally to ensure that the Group works with reliable, efficient and responsible The improved equipment efficiency is farmers in our source countries.
Our Global delivering real benefits through improved Leaf Pool operation aggregates demand to productivity and lower maintenance costs 2017 31.9% meet supply across all internationally traded 2016 31.6% together with reduced waste.
This approach balances the lowest 2015 34.8% positive by-product is the release of capital possible working capital investment while expenditure which can be used to invest reducing any exposure to climatic impacts infurther innovation.
Definition: Profit from operations as a percentage onour crops and guaranteeing the best of revenue.
While the Group does not own tobacco quality leaf to meet consumer demands.
farms or directly employ farmers, it sources While transactional foreign exchange rates Adjusted operating margin over 400,000 tons of tobacco leaf each year again negatively impacted on our cost base % directly from over 90,000 contracted farmers in 2017, by continuing to improve our and through third-party suppliers mainly in productivity in all areas of our supply chain developing countries and emerging markets and elsewhere in the Group, we can increase 39.9% in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
The Group our profitability and continue to deliver also purchases tobacco leaf from India where Non-GAAP returns to our shareholders today and invest the tobacco is bought over an auction in the future.
The price of tobacco in US dollars 2017 39.9% varies from year-to-year driven by domestic 2016 37.2% inflationary pressures, supply, demand 2015 38.1% and quality.
The Group believes there is an adequate supply of tobacco leaf in the world Definition: Adjusted profit from operations markets to satisfy its current andanticipated asapercentage of adjusted revenue.
24 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Group diversity Winning organisation Total Male Female Main Board 13 9 4 Senior We enable growth by having a winning organisation: management 740 584 156 by investing in our people, by attracting the best, Total Group employees 55,761 42,452 13,309 and by enhancing the high performing leaders who Main Board Senior management inspire diverse teams of committed and engaged people in a fulfilling, rewarding and responsible 21 31 work environment.
69 Highlights during the year 79 Accelerated talent development and attraction in growth markets and growth categoriesincluding the Next Generation Products business.
Total Group employees Doubled our intake to the global graduate programme focused on developing the 24 commercial acumen of our junior talent.
Certified as a Top Employer in Europe, Africa and Asia-Pacific by the Top Employer Institute.
Exceptionally strong employee engagement and culture of passion and commitment % Male 76 shown through the most recent employee opinion survey in 2017.
% Female Investing in leaders Attracting the best talent Nationalities represented The quality of our people is a major reason When we do recruit externally, we actively Total why the Group continues to perform well.
seek those who will provide additional In return, we commit to investing in our knowledge and skills that will strengthen Main Board 7 people as we do in our brands.
our teams and ultimately make us a stronger Global headquarters 77 business.
In 2017, we continued to enhance The long-term culture of the Group has Management level globally 143 our internal capabilities to engage and recruit been about developing talent from within, those people who will help us win in growth stretching and supporting the high-performing markets and growth categories including Employee engagement index managers who will lead the delivery of our Next Generation Products.
This year, over 92% of our senior appointments were drawn from people We continued the digital growth of our already within the business moves that have employer brand Bring your Difference 83% helped to deliver stronger and more diverse across core social media channels.
We have leadership teams and succession plans.
more than doubled our followership on FMCG comparator group 71% Facebook and increased followership by 20% 2017 saw the introduction of our new Global on LinkedIn.
We are leading the industry in 2017 83 Graduate Academy: an intensive two-week social media engagement and have moved 2014 72 programme focusing on accelerating the ahead of several top FMCG companies.
development of commercial leadership in Definition: Results from our Your Voice employee our next generation of leaders.
Over two As competition for talented employees opinion survey, carried out in 2017, enable us to calculate cohorts during the year, 108 global graduates intensifies, people increasingly want to work for our employee engagement index a measure that from 37 countries came together in London businesses with a good corporate reputation, reflects employee satisfaction, advocacy and pride in the organisation.
for a challenging and interactive learning so we are proud to have been ranked among experience supported by senior leaders from the top employers around the world and have Objective: To achieve a more positive score than across the business.
been named as a Top Employer for Europe, the norm for FMCG companies in ourcomparator benchmark group.
Africa and Asia-Pacific bythe Top Employer We continually update our capability Institute, an independent global certification frameworks and learning portfolio to enable company.
We also received similar accolades Senior managers: Companies Act 2006 development of new capabilities to drive inmany ofthe countries in which we operate.
In 2017, we launched For the purposes of disclosure under section 414C 8 of the Companies Act 2006, the Group had 203 male and 26 female new programmes across Leadership, Growth through diversity senior managers.
Senior managers are defined here as the Marketing, Legal and External Affairs and members of the Management Board excluding the Executive Diversity matters to the Group because it R&D.
These included a new leadership Directors and the directors of the Groups principal subsidiary makes good commercial sense having a programme for junior managers integrated undertakings.
The principal subsidiary undertakings, as set out diverse workforce means we are better able in the Financial Statements, represented approximately 70% of with leading edge digital content and tounderstand and meet the varied preferences the Groups employees and contributed around 76% of Group programmes focusing on brand-building revenue andprofitfrom operations in 2017. of our global consumers.
Our efforts to drive andNext Generation Products.
diversity are built on three pillars of driving Excluding data for RAI Companies as this was not tracked before ownership and accountability, building diverse You can learn more about our the acquisition in July 2017.
Global Graduate Programme at talent pools and creating enablers: all of which www.
com graduates are underpinned by an inclusive culture.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 25 Strategic Management Delivering our strategy continued We are a diverse employer.
There are 143 The vast majority of all Group accidents are Leadership for change nationalities represented at management in Trade Marketing & Distribution TM&D, The world is changing fast.
The accelerated level within our Group, and 35 within our where we have over 29,800 vehicles and pace of transformation both in our industry executive cadre.
We are pleased with the motorcycles out on the road every day.
and the organisation demands that our continuous progress we are making and Many of these are in challenging parts of the people are ambitious, courageous and thesustainable pipeline we are building world with high levels of road traffic accidents resilient: that they learn quickly and are interms of nationality diversity.
responsive to opportunities: and that they continue to drive and own results.
As our We are also proud of the notable progress Our driver safety and security programme organisation evolves, we continue to focus and achievements we made in 2017 in continues to focus on addressing these on these traits and on what has served the gender diversity.
We achieved 31% female risks, such as through the use of in-vehicle Group well through its history having a representation on our Board and increased the telematics monitoring systems to analyse culture of passionate owners and having female representation in senior management driver behaviour data, insights from which people who lead and inspire each other for to 21% in 2017, which was largely driven are used to tailor our training programmes the journey ahead.
We also have female toimprove driving skills and hazard executives on all our senior functional and perception.
Since 2014, all our vehicles are In 2017, we ran the Groups global employee geographical leadership teams.
Over 50% of required to meet strict safety specifications, survey.
our graduate intake were females, ensuring and we also continually assess threat levels The survey had a response rate of 95% a sustainable pipeline of women for senior to enhance security protocols and escorts 10percentage points higher than the average management roles.
response rate for this type of survey with the Engagement Index score of 83% being Several initiatives have been instrumental in In 2017, accidents across the Group increased 12 percentage points higher than the FMCG the progress we have made.
Our Women significantly, from 182 in 2016, up to 217. comparator norm of 71% see chart on page in Leadership programme is designed to Sadly, this included an increase in fatalities, 25.
This survey conveys the pride which support and accelerate the development and with the death of a contracting electrician in many employees have in working for us career progression of female talent.
In 2017, our factory in Bangladesh from contact with and is demonstrable as we have continued we trained 145 women across the Group electricity: two TM&D contractors who died to see employee turnover stay below anumber equal to those trained in the in road traffic accidents in Brazil: and one comparator benchmarks.
Furthermore, TM&D employee and eight TM&D security two new diversity training modules, Inclusive contractors who died in violent attacks in Brazil Rewarding people Leadership and Cross-Cultural Awareness, and South Africa.
Eleven members of the public Reward is a key pillar in ensuring that we have have been developed and are being also lost their lives in road traffic accidents the right people to drive the business forward.
involving BAT vehicles ineight countries.
Reward is necessarily local and we strongly Providing women and other diverse groups We deeply regret this loss of life and the support this through global frameworks an opportunity to connect, engage and suffering caused to friends, family and to ensure leading edge policies, processes share experiences is one of our key enablers: colleagues.
We liaise closely with the relevant and technology are available to all markets.
we have more than ten different affinity authorities and conduct our own detailed Base pay rewards core competence relative groups globally to support this.
The newest investigations to determine the root cause of to skills, experience and contribution to the of these affinity groups, Women in BAT UK, each accident, identify any lessons that can Group, while annual bonuses, recognition was launched in June 2017 and has already be learned and implement action plans, the schemes and ad hoc incentives provide the amassed more than 350 members.
outcomes of which are reviewed at Board-level.
right mix to ensure that high performance is recognised and rewarded.
The Long-Term Our regions and end markets also work to Overall, our driver and vehicle safety Incentive Plan LTIP has been established to progress the global diversity strategy through programmes have led to a decline in road make annual awards of free shares to senior on-the-ground initiatives relevant to local traffic accidents in 2017 involving cars or managers provided certain challenging cultures and contexts.
vans, but this was offset by a rise in accidents long-term performance conditions are met.
involving motorcycles, which we have In March 2018, we will be publishing data The LTIP is one element of senior executives increased the use of in markets where the relating to UK Gender Pay in line with statutory reward package aiming to align the interests high density of traffic means they are a more requirements.
We are confident that men of the Groups senior managers with those practical option.
To address the increased and women are rewarded equally for similar of shareholders.
Further information on the risks, we have put in place motorcycle roles, however, we do have a gender pay Groups Remuneration Policy for the Executive training programmes in all markets, where gap as defined bythe UK legislation.
This is Directors and the Non-Executive Directors motorcycles have been recently introduced, to largely a reflection of having more men than canbe found on pages 73 to 98. provide practical techniques for different road women in senior roles and is something we are conditions and types of traffic, safe speeds We also offer our UK employees the chance committed to addressing through initiatives and distances, and how to spot a potential to share in our success via our Sharesave like those outlined above.
problem and take action to deal with it safely.
Scheme, Partnership Share Scheme and You can learn more about our published data Share Reward Scheme, and operate several relating to UK Gender Pay in line with statutory Equal opportunities for all similar schemes for senior management in requirements at www.
com genderpayreport We are committed to providing equal ourGroup companies.
We do not Safe place to work discriminate when making decisions on hiring, We are committed to providing a safe promotion or retirement on the grounds working environment for all our employees of race, colour, gender, age, social class, Excluding data for RAI Companies as this was not tracked and contractors, and have a Group-wide goal religion, smoking habits, sexual orientation, before theacquisition in July 2017. of zero accidents.
Our approach is based on politics or disability, subject to the inherent The 2016 figure has been updated to include reportable risk management and assessments, employee requirements of the role to be performed.
The previously reported figure training and awareness, and specific initiatives We are committed to providing training and was 175.
Excluding data for RAI Companies as we continue for high-risk areas of our business.
development for employees with disabilities.
26 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 tonnes CO e per million cigarettes 2 Sustainability equivalentproduced 0.82 Sustainability is a key pillar of our Group strategy and 46% lower than plays a fundamental role in all aspects of our business.
2000 baseline Our sustainability agenda was developed through a detailed assessment process, which werefreshed in 2017, that identified the three key areas that have the greatest 2017 0.82 2016 0.84 significanceto our business and our stakeholders.
2015 0.80 Harm reduction: We are committed to working to reduce the public health impact of smoking, through offering adult consumers a range of potentially reduced-risk products.
Definition: Group CO e in tonnes per million cigarettes 2 equivalent tCO e MCE produced.
2 Sustainable agriculture and farmer livelihoods: We are committed to working to enable prosperous livelihoods for all farmers who supply our tobacco leaf.
Target: To reduce Group CO e in tCO e MCE by 55% 2 2 by 2025 and by 80% by 2050 against our 2000 baseline.
Corporate behaviour: We are committed to operating to the highest standards ofcorporateconduct and transparency.
Group energy use gigajoules per million cigarettes Highlights during the year equivalent produced Implementation of our new operational standard on child labour prevention, whichcomplements our long-standing Child Labour Policy.
10.48 Launch of the Groups new global compliance programme, 11% lower than knownasDeliverywith Integrity.
2007 baseline 46% reduction in carbon dioxide equivalent CO e emissions from our 2000 baseline.
2 2017 10.48 Read more about how we identified these issues and detailed information on our performance 2016 10.41 ineach area at www.
com sustainabilityreport 2015 9.98 High standards and enabling Harm reduction Definition: Group energy use in gigajoules per million responsiblegrowth cigarettes equivalent GJ MCE produced.
Tobacco harm reduction is about encouraging Following high standards to ensure quality adult smokers, who wish to continue using Target: To reduce our energy use to 9.17 GJ MCE by 2025, 25% lower than our 2007 baseline.
andconsumer safety is at the heart of tobacco or nicotine products, to switch to everything we do in the design, development potentially lower risk sources of nicotine as and manufacturing of our products.
We would compared to conventional cigarettes.
Our focus Water use like to see the same approach across the cubic metres per million cigarettes on Next Generation Products NGPs, equivalentproduced whole industry, so, in 2017, we continued to comprising vapour and tobacco heating advocate for, and collaboratively contribute products THPs, and oral tobacco products to the development of, consistent national provides an opportunity to dramatically reduce 3.27 and international standards and proportionate the public health impact of smoking.
33% lower than Read about our progress in potentially reduced-risk products on pages 21 and 22 This is essential for giving consumers the 2007 baseline assurances they need to support take-up by 2017 3.27 more smokers which can ultimately help to Cutting-edge science 2016 3.44 realise the potential benefits for public health.
BAT and Reynolds American share a tradition 2015 3.56 of world-leading scientific research and, Sustainable agriculture and following the acquisition, we are at the Definition: Group water use in cubic metres per million farmer livelihoods 3 forefront of developing a new generation of cigarettes equivalent m MCE produced.
Tobacco leaf remains at the core of our alternatives to cigarettes, as well as pioneering 3 Objective: To reduce water use to 3.17 m MCE by 2025, products, even with the growth of NGPs, new scientific methods to evaluate their harm 35% lower than our 2007 baseline.
sothe farmers who grow it are crucial to reduction potential.
thecontinued success of our business.
We have developed a framework of scientific Recycling We have traceability down to the farm level percentage of waste recycled tests to assess the reduced-risk potential of and centralised management of our tobacco NGPs relative to smoking cigarettes and, in leaf supply chain.
This enables an agile, 2017, published the results of a series of studies efficient and reliable supply of high-quality 93.2% for both our Vype ePen and our glo THP.
tobacco leaf to meet consumer demand, In 2018, we are embarking on one of our 2017 93.2 while also enhancing the sustainability most ambitious and large-scale clinical studies, 2016 92.6 ofruralcommunities and agriculture.
following hundreds of consumers in the UK 2015 92.8 for a full year, to look at whether switching to a NGP is as good as quitting smoking, Definition: Total percentage of Group waste reused or interms of reducing toxicant exposure and recycled against total waste generated.
the potential impact on health.
Objective: To recycle 95% or more by 2025 in each year.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 27 Strategic Management Delivering our strategy continued In 2017, the BAT Group purchased more than suppliers covering nearly 80% of our total Sustainability reporting 400,000 tonnes of tobacco leaf: tobacco leaf purchases.
We are now using the results to inform our approach to selecting 66% from 17 BAT leaf operations, which and developing new partnerships and source from over 90,000 farmers: and community-based projects that will have a 34% from 20 third-party suppliers, which demonstrably positive impact for farmers and source from over 260,000 farmers.
Transforming Tobacco Find our more in our Sustainable Agriculture Human rights in tobacco growing Sustainability Report 2017 and Farmer Livelihoods Focus Report at Agricultural supply chains are particularly www.
com sustainabilityfocus susceptible to the risks of child labour and, in 2000, as part of our long running Supporting our farmers commitment to end the practice within Through our global leaf research and tobacco farming, we became a founding development, we develop new and innovative board member of the Eliminating Child farming technologies and techniques, which are Labour in Tobacco Growing ECLT rolled out to farmers as part of comprehensive Find out more about our focus on Foundation.
We remain active members sustainability in our Sustainability agri-support packages.
today, alongside other major tobacco Report 2017.
We have a network of expert field technicians companies and leaf suppliers.
ECLT helps to It is available onour corporate website who provide on-the-ground support, technical strengthen communities and bring together www.
com sustainability assistance and capacity building for all our key stakeholders to develop and implement 90,000 directly contracted farmers, helping local and national approaches to tackle them to run successful and profitable farms.
Our third-party suppliers provide their own We provide training and communications Delivery with Integrity is about support for all the 260,000 farmers they to farmers and rural community members re-emphasising our commitment to source from.
to raise awareness of human rights issues, transforming tobacco in line with the highest By supporting farmers in this way, we can help which reached over 67,000 beneficiaries in ethical values.
This is an area in which we them maximise the potential of their farms and 2017.
We also run on-the-ground projects in already have strong foundations, so while this enhance the livelihoods and resilience of rural farming communities to address root causes, is not new for us, weare further enhancing communities.
They and future generations are such as rural poverty, in collaboration with ourcompliance procedures.
then more likely to feel motivated to remain local partners.
The importance of sustaining a culture of in agriculture, look after the environment and In 2017, we developed a new operational integrity across the Group was a key theme see the value of growing tobacco as part of a standard on child labour prevention, with for our annual Group Leadership Meeting.
inputs from the ECLT and the International The Delivery with Integrity programme Setting standards and driving change Labour Organization.
This complements was launched in a two-day workshop our long-standing Child Labour Policy and held in London with 120 leaders from We use the industry-wide Sustainable Tobacco includes detailed standards, guidance and our Legal and External Affairs Function Programme STP to conduct assessments and processes for our leaf operations to ensure it worldwide, opened by our Chief Executive.
independent on-site reviews for 100% of our is effectively applied in a robust and globally This was followed by a global Delivery with tier one tobacco leaf suppliers, including our consistent way.
Integrity communications campaign to all own leaf operations, to ensure alignment with employees worldwide.
international standards, such as for human Corporate behaviour rights and environmental protection.
A key focus area of the programme in Our actions and behaviour impact all areas 2017 has been to enhance the Groups STP was introduced in June 2016, replacing of our business which is why corporate long-standing procedures for the annual our previous Social Responsibility in Tobacco behaviour is such an important focus for SoBC employee sign-off, with the Production programme, which from 2000 ourlong-term sustainability strategy.
introduction of a new online SoBC portal.
until 2015 set the standard for all our leaf Our commitment to good corporate The new portal is available to employees in suppliers worldwide.
behaviour is underpinned by our Group multiple languages and provides tracking Since implementation, two rounds of selfStandards of Business Conduct SoBC, or and performance reporting capabilities.
assessment have been completed, and a localised equivalent, which require all our Over 18,000 management-grade and total of 26 independent on-site reviews have staff worldwide to act with a high degree office-based employees across the Group been conducted in 19 countries, covering ofbusiness integrity, comply with applicable completed an online SoBC training course 50% of our total supply base.
By the end laws and regulations, and ensure that our and assessment in the new portal in addition of 2018, 100% will have been reviewed by standards are not compromised for the to their annual sign-off, and our remaining AB Sustain, an independent supply chain sakeof results.
employees, who may not have easy online management company.
Delivery with integrity Our Thrive sustainable agriculture and farmer Speak Up channels In 2017, we introduced the Groups livelihoods programme takes a more holistic updatedcompliance programme, To increase the accessibility of, and and collaborative approach to identifying and Deliverywith Integrity, focused on strengthen, our long-standing whistleblowing addressing root causes and long-term risks, strengthening and driving a globally policy and procedures, in early 2018 we such as rural poverty.
consistent approach to compliance across launched a new third-party managed Thrive assessments have been completed in theGroup.
The programme is led by Speak Up system, following a review of the 2016 and 2017 for approximately 250,000 ourBusiness Conduct & Compliance Groups existing whistleblowing procedures farmers who supply all our own 17 leaf department, reporting directly to the undertaken in 2017. operations and six strategic third-party leaf GroupLegal and External Affairs Director.
28 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The system includes a website available All these suppliers are now assessed according Reducing our environmental impacts in multiple languages, and local language to independent human rights indices and Our approach to reducing the environmental hotlines for our markets, and enables those with the highest risk exposure are impacts of our operations is long established.
improved global oversight of all reported prioritised for enhanced due diligence.
We have a comprehensive Environment, issues in real time.
Health and Safety EHS management system In 2017, independent on-site audits that is based on international standards, Please refer to pages 69 and 70 for more wereconducted on 65 direct suppliers in including ISO 14001, and we monitor our information about the application of the 29 countries, representing 20% of our total Group-wide environmental performance for SoBC in 2017, the Audit Committees direct procurement spend.
For our indirect all BAT sites worldwide.
responsibility for oversight and monitoring suppliers, 102 suppliers in 16 countries were ofcompliance with the SoBC and our identified as high risk and required to undergo In 2017, we continued to work towards our reported compliance metrics.
a self-assessment in 2017. long-term target of reducing CO e emissions 2 by 80% by 2050 against our 2000 baseline Safeguarding human rights With the majority of our employees working and so far have achieved a 46% reduction.
in business areas where we have robust With operations and supply chains in See the business measures on page 27 for oversight and control, human rights risks in many different diverse and challenging more details.
We usethe Greenhouse Gas our own operations are substantially avoided.
environments around the world, human rights Protocol Corporate Standard to guide our The risks that do exist are also mitigated as a are particularly important for our business and CO e reporting methodology see table result of the suite of robust policies, practices, 2 an area we have long focused on addressing.
below for defining, consolidating and compliance and governance procedures that In recent years, we have been strengthening reporting our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope3 we have in place across all Group companies.
our approach to further align to the United CO e emissions.
2 However, we recognise that we need to Nations Guiding Principles on Business Further details of our approach to our continually work to ensure these are effectively and Human Rights UNGPs.
This began reporting methodologycan be found at applied and that we carefully monitor the with a review of our existing policies and www.
com corporatebehaviour scope situation in high-risk countries.
So, in 2017, approach to human rights management, we further strengthened our approach with Our focus in 2017 has been on continuing informed by an  enhanced monitoring for our operations in to reduce CO e emissions and energy use in stakeholder dialogue.
2 countries identified by independent indices our factories and in our fleet and logistics, As a result, in 2014, we incorporated our ashigh-risk.
including investing in energy-efficient Human Rights Policy into our SoBC.
In early technologies and switching to low-carbon or 2016, we complemented this with the Further details of our approach to human renewable energy sources.
Our manufacturing rights and our Modern Slavery Act statement introduction of our Supplier Code of Conduct, processes do not use as much water as many can be found at www.
com humanrights which defines the minimum standards other industries but, with the realities of expected of all our suppliers worldwide, Marketing responsibly water scarcity increasingly being felt in some including the respect of human rights.
parts of the world, in 2017 we expanded the We are committed to ensuring all our product scope of our water risk assessments to include Having established a strong policy base, marketing complies with local legislation all our factories and green leaf threshing we have continued to focus in 2017 on and we have voluntary Marketing Principles sites worldwide.
enhancing due diligence across our business in place for our different product categories and supply chains.
Arguably, the area of to govern our approach to responsible For our tobacco leaf supply chain, greatest risk is in our tobacco leaf agricultural marketing to adult consumers only.
environmental criteria form a central part supply chain, so we have extensive due of supplier assessments, as part of the In light of our shift to being a multi-category diligence processes in place, as detailed on Sustainable Tobacco Programme, and our business, we are now developing, as part of pages27 and 28. expert field technicians provide farmers NGP integration, a new set of consolidated with technical assistance on areas such as For our non-agricultural supply chain, we have Marketing Principles to cover all our product sustainable soil, water, biodiversity, and forest long had due diligence processes in place for categories, including combustible cigarettes, and pest management.
Our long-running strategic direct product materials suppliers.
smokeless oral tobacco and NGPs.
efforts to address deforestation, by eliminating However, to more closely align with the In 2017, we revised and strengthened our the use of unsustainable sources of wood as a UNGPs and to better manage supply chain long-standing approach to youth smoking fuel for tobacco curing, has also helped ensure risks and opportunities, we expanded the prevention with the launch of our new Youth that, in 2017, 99% of farmers wood fuel scope in 2016 to include all our direct Access Prevention YAP guidelines.
This now came from sustainable sources.
materials suppliers, as well as strategic covers all our different product categories indirect suppliers.
from conventional cigarettes to NGPs.
We have also broadened the scope to include markets where our products are distributed through third parties, and strengthened the The 2015 and 2016 data for CO e emissions and energy 2 governance process for ensuring compliance.
use, and 2016 data for water use have been updated.
This is broadly due to expanding the scope of recent and historical data to include three sites in one country for completeness Emissions and correction of reported volume of MCEs in another site.
Additionally, following the implementation of our new reporting 2017 2016 system, we have taken steps to improve our calculation Scope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 326,242 311,561 methodology, which has resulted in slight adjustments to 2 overall historical data.
For details of previously reported figures, Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 357,645 376,348 2 see page 35 of our 2017 Sustainability Report, which can be Scope 3 CO e emissions tonnes 230,017 208,013 found at www.
com sustainabilityreport 2 Total tonnes 913,904 895,922 Note: Data from RAI Companies is excluded from this section Intensity per million cigarettes equivalent 0.82 0.84 unless stated otherwise, as we continue the integration.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 29
