STRATEGIC REPORT The market The delivered food market is booming, stimulated by the growth in home entertainment, the increased choice of cuisines and the rise of digital ordering.
Pizza remains the most popular choice, offering great tasting food, speed, convenience and value for money.
UK delivered food market The Group has a very strong position in UK DELIVERED FOOD MARKET The UK delivered food market is worth the UK food delivery market, which is 6.2billion and was estimated to grow at 6.2bn experiencing continued growth and in 11% in 20162017, and grew at a compound which pizza is the most popular cuisine.
The UK PIZZA DELIVERY MARKET There are a number of ongoing secular main drivers of this growth have been 2.1bn drivers for the market which give us technology, convenience and choice.
In confidence in its sustained ourannual survey, among the nearly 40% DOMINOS PIZZA MARKET long-termgrowth.
of respondents who were ordering 1.0bn delivered food more often: On the other hand, we have seen a rise in competition from new business 40% cited ease of ordering models which provide customers with increased choice and alternative ways 33% said it was more convenient to order delivered food.
In the short thangoing out term, our franchisees are also 24% liked the wider variety of experiencing cost pressures from optionsavailable inflation in labour and food.
Finally, the broader economic environment is also 24% admitted to having less time putting pressure on customers spending tocookat home power.
Each of these factors is analysed in more detail below.
In summary, our According to the survey, this growth is scale, brand and operational excellence migrating in broadly equal measure from continue to confer a significant cooking in and ready meals on the one hand, competitive advantage.
and dining out and takeaways on the other.
We anticipate all of these trends to continue, The focus of the analysis is the UK market leading to further growth in the market.
as that represents the vast majority of our revenue and profitability, but we One additional factor in the strength of the see similar long-term trends for delivered food market is the rise in home delivered food in our other markets.
entertainment: big screen televisions, 46% catch-up TV, streaming services and DOMINOS MARKET SHARE interactive gaming have all increased the OF THE UK PIZZA number of occasions when households DELIVERYMARKET order in.
Pizza delivery Pizza is the single biggest cuisine within thedelivered food market, accounting 2.1bn for2.1bn of sales including pre-order OF PIZZA SALES WITHIN THE carry-out, or collection sales.
Pizza has been a very successful delivered food for DELIVERED FOOD MARKET including pre-order carry-out, many years because it appeals to a wide orcollection sales range of tastes, it is quick to cook fresh, it travels easily while retaining its heat, and it has a relatively high margin PIZZA 27% because of its mix of ingredients.
DELIVERED INDIAN 15% FOOD Pizza continues to grow, albeit at a lower CHINESE 20% OTHER 38% MARKET rate than the overall market for delivered food.
This reflects the recent increased availability of a wider range of cuisines for delivery.
However, Dominos growth Source: Parthenon study 2017 has kept pace with the wider market over the last three years, as we have continued totake share in the pizza segment.
06 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS quality and consistency of our pizzas.
We The collection market expect these drivers to continue to support Broader economic drivers While the traditional takeaway or collection further share growth for Dominos.
There has always been a strong market has seen a shift towards delivery correlation between the rate of over time, this remains a core segment.
The In recent years a number of new businesses economic growth and the level of attractions of collection for customers are have launched which give customers easier spending in the restaurant and food that it is a source of quick, convenient hot access to a much wider range of options delivery sectors.
Food delivery tends food during the daytime, and in the evening for ordering delivered food online.
There to be more insulated than dining out it can be picked up on the way home.
As a are two distinct business models.
A pure because it can act as a trading down result, it often serves the impulse market as aggregator, such as Just Eat, enables option when consumers are being well.
Given the lack of delivery costs for customers to place online orders with a more cost conscious.
This year has restaurants, the deals and promotions on wide range of local restaurants, with a witnessed not only slower economic offer for collection are particularly strong.
focus on smaller chains and independents: growth, but also wage inflation lagging these restaurants then deliver the order For Dominos, collection is a core part of our broader cost inflation, reducing themselves.
Businesses such as Deliveroo growth strategy.
Increasingly our stores are consumers disposable income.
focus more on branded restaurant chains located in high visibility, easy access locations and also take care of delivery.
Our annual consumer survey clearly close to other shops and businesses.
highlighted the increasing importance Furthermore, it is our belief that customers These developments have increased choice of value for money as a consideration who live within a mile of a Dominos have a for customers and offer the convenience for customers.
Of those customers higher propensity for collection, and that this ofordering a range of cuisinesthrough a surveyed who ordered pizza less business is incremental to delivery orders.
This has also grown awareness frequently this year, 44% said it was of delivered food, and the combination of because pizza was less good value for The competitive landscape greater convenience and wider publicity money than other cuisines.
Competition in delivered food splits broadly has stimulated market growth.
Our own between the more traditional pizza delivery investment in our digital platform has been While all our analysis shows that pizza businesses, and online aggregators enabling akey response to this, driving significant continues to be the most cost-effective newer entrants offering different cuisines online participation and increasing order way of feeding a family with delivered via a single online or app-based portal.
food, the pizza market model of higher menu prices and big promotional Within the UK pizza market, we estimate Dominos will continue to enjoy two very discounts can make it harder to our 2017 market share to be around 46%.
important competitive advantages: first, compare with other cuisines in value Our two main branded competitors, the inherent benefits of pizza as a delivered terms and may affect value perception PapaJohns and Pizza Hut, have a combined food discussed above: and second, the as a result.
This is something we began market share of 2025%.
The rest of the control of the end-to-end customer to address during 2017 through clearer market comprises small local chains and experience, from the ordering platform, pricing communication, and will independent operators.
Our growth in market through the food procurement and the continue to focuson in 2018. share has been driven byour brand, our cooking of the pizza, to the delivery itself.
scale, our growing store network and the Changing tastes and Labour and food costs healthconsiderations The two biggest cost drivers in the Food costs, particularly dairy, are volatile Obesity and related health problems are broader restaurant market are labour in nature.
Supply capacity inevitably lags quite rightly a major factor in public policy.
For our franchisees, these price moves both up and down, thus The promotion of a balanced diet with fewer coststypically account for nearly 60% exaggerating any movements in the market.
processed foods, as well as the introduction ofrevenue.
Foreign exchange movements also play a in 2018 of the sugar tax, serve to raise significant role as most foodstuffs are broader awareness and influence consumer Labour costs have experienced significant easily traded across the European Union.
Takeaway and delivered food does inflation over the last two years with from time to time come under the spotlight.
increases to the UK National Living Wage.
After a prolonged period of price In 2015 the hourly rate for someone aged deflation in 20152016, prices rose Our customers on average order from 25 was 6.70, since when it has strongly from mid-2016 as a result of the Dominos five times a year, making pizza an increased by 12% to 7.50.
We have also EU referendum result which saw sterling occasional treat rather than a central part seen a tighter labour market, created by fall heavily against the euro.
Our pizzas are baked using fresh high levels of employment and increased food inflation to continue into 2018. dough, 100% mozzarella cheese and other demand for delivery drivers from the carefully sourced, high quality ingredients.
MILK PRICESper litre newentrants described above.
We introduced our Italiano pizza range in The Group and our franchisees are 2016, with thinner crust and more exclusive 31.39p wellpositioned to absorb these rises toppings, which have fewer calories overall relative toother operators in the market, than the equivalent traditional Dominos pizza.
2017 31.39 given the very strong economics of Our low fat mozzarella cheese has 33% less ourstores.
Our franchisees also fat than our regular mozzarella.
We also offer 2016 22.75 differentiate themselves from delivery gluten-free bases and a range of chicken service companies by offering full 2015 25.65 sides and salads, to appeal to those customers employment terms to drivers rather who want a higher protein or lower 2014 34.15 thanflexible contracts.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 07
