COM DIRECTORS REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Executive Board Directors Paul Forman Stefan Schellinger Chief Executive Group Finance Director Divisional Managing Directors Scott Fawcett Iain Percival Managing Director, Managing Director, Essentra Components Essentra Packaging Kamal Taneja Tim Wilson Managing Director, President, Essentra Filters Essentra Specialist Components Enabling Function Directors Richard Cammish Kathrina FitzGerald Chief Information Strategy & Commercial Officer Director Jon Green Gavin Leathem Company Secretary Group Human & General Counsel Resources Director Nick Pennell Group Operations Director 60 DIRECTORS REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Paul Forman Gavin Leathem Chief Executive Group Human Resources Director Pauls biographical details can be found Gavin Leathem joined Essentra as Group Human on page 63.
Prior to joining Essentra, Gavin was Vice President of HR for Europe, Middle East and Africa at Emerson Network Power Systems, Stefan Schellinger before which he was Group HR Director at Chloride Group Finance Director Group plc during his 13-year career there.
Gavin is Stefans biographical details can be found a Chartered Fellow of the Institute of Personnel on page 63.
Richard Cammish Nick Pennell Chief Information Officer Group Operations Director Richard Cammish joined Essentra as Chief Nick Pennell joined Essentra as Group Operations Information Officer in 2017, prior to which he was Director in 2017, prior to which he was Chairman Group Chief Information Officer for Coats plc.
of Lavery Pennell and a Partner at Booz Allen During a 25-year career, Richard has gained Hamilton Booz & Co. in the UK and China.
extensive IT and digital experience at a range Nick has extensive experience of performance of large multi-national companies in increasingly improvement, operational and strategy senior roles at global, regional and local country development projects gained across the industrial level, as well as through running start-up and energy sectors, and in many geographies.
businesses and as a management consultant.
He has also held operational and corporate strategy roles at Bass Brewers and at Shell.
Scott Fawcett Managing Director, Iain Percival Essentra Components Managing Director, Scott Fawcett joined Essentra in 2010 as Managing Essentra Packaging Director of the European Components business, Iain Percival joined Essentra as Managing Director, and was appointed Divisional Managing Director Essentra Packaging in 2017, before which he was in January 2014.
Prior to joining Essentra, Scott was Divisional CEO, Beverage Cans Europe for Rexam plc.
Head of eCommerce at Electrocomponents plc, Prior to this, Iain held a number of increasingly where he held a variety of increasingly senior sales, senior roles at Rexam plc, Toyota Motor Europe marketing and eCommerce positions during his Manufacturing and Dowty Group, and has extensive 17-year career there.
experience in category management, manufacturing and supply chain optimisation.
Kathrina FitzGerald Strategy & Commercial Director Kamal Taneja Kathrina FitzGerald was appointed as Strategy Managing Director, & Commercial Director in January 2018.
Prior to Essentra Filters joining Essentra, Kathrina worked with DMGT plc Kamal Taneja joined Essentra as Managing a portfolio of information and media businesses Director, Essentra Filters in 2017 from Amcor Tobacco where she held a number of increasingly senior Packaging, where he worked as Vice President and roles during her ten-year tenure, including Business General Manager, based in Singapore.
Prior to this, Development Director, Managing Director of Kamal held increasingly senior roles at Ingersoll DMGT International and Director of Strategy Rand and Trane, and has extensive marketing, and Development.
Kathrina started her career commercial, operational and supply chain at JP Morgan, where she spent seven years optimisation experience throughout the Asia in investment banking.
Jon Green Tim Wilson Company Secretary President, & General Counsel Essentra Specialist Components Jon Green joined Essentra in 2005, and was Tim Wilson was appointed as President, Essentra appointed Company Secretary & General Counsel Specialist Components in January 2018, prior to in July 2005.
Prior to joining Essentra, Jon worked which he was President and Chief Executive Officer as an in-house lawyer for a number of large of Arnold Magnetic Technologies, a leading global international businesses, including Hays plc manufacturer of engineered magnetic solutions.
After an early career in Operations roles, Tim held increasingly senior positions with ENI a division of Emerson Electrics and Videojet a division of Danaher Corporation, and has extensive international manufacturing and commercial experience.
