Strategic Management Finance Directors overview These financial results illustrate the ongoing strength of the Group delivering against the financial objectives whilst investing for the changing environment Ben Stevens Finance Director In Americas, adjusted profit from Another set of good Continuing strength operations was up as growth in Canada, financialresults ofcashflowgeneration Chile and Mexico more than offset the The Group delivered another set of good Net cash generated from operating activities continued economic challenges in Brazil.
Whilst the results grew by 16.0% to 5,347 million, largely due Transactional foreign exchange headwinds are dominated by the inclusion of RAI as a to the cash generated by RAI subsequent to the and difficult trading in Russia, GCC and wholly owned subsidiary since the acquisition acquisition, the profit from operations earned SouthAfrica led to adjusted profit from date of25 July 2017, the Group continued in the period from the rest of the Group and operations in EEMEA being marginally lower toperform well on an organic basis.
This more than than prior year.
In Western Europe, adjusted offset an increase in receivables, reduction in profit from operations was up driven by The Groups results continued to benefit trade and other payables, the payment of the Romania and Germany.
from the weakness in sterling which, due 2017 liability related to the Master Settlement to the Groups operating results being Operating margin increasing, Agreement MSA in the United States and predominantly delivered in local currency the final quarterly payments in relation to the with net finance costs and tax andconverted to sterling for reporting Quebec Class Action.
purposes, acted as a tailwind of 4%.
impacted by the RAI transaction @ Adjusted cash generated from operations Our operating margin increased by 270 bps, Increased revenue and asdefined on page 222 was 3,282 million, driven by the performance of the organic profitfrom operations an increase of 5.4%, or in line with 2016 business and by RAI, which had a positive on a constant rate basis.
This increase Revenue grew by 37.6%, or by 2.9% mix effect on margin, and partly due to the was impacted by the timing of the early excluding the impact of acquisitions and US$70 million synergies achieved by the year payment of the 2017 MSA liability, excise on bought-in goods, and on a constant end.
Organic adjusted operating margin which is tax deductible at 2017 tax rates.
This was driven by pricing increased by 40 bps.
Excluding the timing of this payment, andthe growth of NGPs, notably in Asia Net finance costs grew as the Group adjusted cash generated from operations Pacific, more than offsetting a decline in incurredan increase in borrowings to would have increased by over 45%.
support the acquisition of RAI.
Our banking Based upon net cash generated from operating Profit from operations was up 39.1%, as facilities require a gross interest cover of at activities, the Groups cash conversion ratio the inclusion of RAI and growth in revenue least 4.5 times.
In 2017 this was 7.8 times decreased from 99% in 2016 to 83% in 2017. more than offset the marketing investment 2016: 12.2 times.
@ Operating cash flow conversion ratio as in NGPs, the amortisation of acquired brands Due to the change in reporting of RAI as defined on page 221 fell from 93% to 79%.
and costs incurred as part of the Groups a wholly owned subsidiary following the Excluding the timing of the payment of the restructuring programme.
acquisition, the Group recognised a deemed 2017 MSA liability, our operating cash flow Adjusted profit from operations on a constant gain of 23,288 million on the deemed conversion ratio would have been 96%, ahead currency, organic basis was up 3.7%.
disposal of RAI as an associate.
Our other of 2016 93% and reflecting the Groups material associate, ITC, continued to ability to deliver cash from the operating A full reconciliation of our results under IFRS perform well.
to adjusted revenue and adjusted profit from operations is provided on pages 218 and 219.
Due to the impact of the deferred tax Delivering in a period of change credit 9.6 billion arising from the US tax All regions performed well as described on These financial results illustrate the ongoing reforms, our tax charge was a net credit of pages 42 to 47 on a constant rate basis, in strength of the Group delivering against 8,113 million, being a tax rate of 27.4% challenging conditions.
Asia Pacific delivered thefinancial objectives whilst investing for credit compared to 22.5% charge in an increase in adjusted profit from operations thechanging environment and managing 2016.
This is also affected the inclusion of whilst supporting the roll-out of NGPs in thevarious challenges that working in a associates post-tax income, in our pre-tax Japan and South Korea.
On anunderlying basis, excluding such impacts and the affect of adjusting Ben Stevens items, thetax rate was a charge of 29.7%, Finance Director amarginal decrease on 2016 29.8%.
@ denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part of BATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
14 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
