Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 27 VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors have assessed the viability ofthe Group up to 31 December 2022 The Directors have assessed the In making this statement, the Directors longer term prospects of the Group in have carried out a robust assessment of accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the the principal risks facing the Group as set UK Corporate Governance Code 2016. out in more detail on pages 25 and 26, and how the Group manages those risks, The Directors have assessed the viability including those risks that would threaten of the Group over a five year period, its strategy, business model, future taking into account the Groups current operational and financial performance, position and the potential impact of the solvency and liquidity.
principal risks facing the Group.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm On an annual basis the Directors review that they have reasonable expectation financial forecasts used for this Viability that the Group will be able to continue in Statement.
This review includes both five operation and meet its liabilities as they year business plans constructed from fall due over the period to the end of the bottom up and ten year projections 31 December 2022. from the top down.
These forecasts incorporate assumptions about the The use of a five year time horizon for timing of legal completions of new homes the purpose of assessing the viability of sold, average selling prices achieved, the Group reflects the business model profitability, working capital requirements of the Group, new land investments and cash flows, and are designed to test generally taking at least five years to the Groups ability to fulfil its strategic build and sell through, and for the objectives.
They also include the CRP.
development infrastructure to be adopted by local authorities.
The projections are subjected to Persimmon Homes, sensitivity analysis, involving the flexing Dyffryn Glas, Pontypridd.
A key feature of the Groups strategy of key assumptions reflecting severe D launched in early 2012 and documented but plausible scenarios, which includes in the Strategic Report is the Groups consideration of the cyclicality of the commitment to maintain capital discipline UK housing market being influenced by over the long term through the housing the health of the UK economy.
On launch, this commitment of scenarios are modelled to reflect was reinforced with the announcement changing circumstances with respect of the Groups Capital Return Plan to the principal risks facing the Group CRP.
The CRP initially committed to together with the likely effectiveness of return 1.9bn of surplus capital over the mitigating actions that would be executed following ten financial years to 2021, or by the Directors.
These scenarios include 6.20 per share.
After six years the Group consideration of the impact of reduced is ahead of plan and has paid 4.85 per sales rates together with lower average share, or 1.49bn back to shareholders.
selling prices resulting from an assumed On 27 February 2018 the Directors deterioration in consumer confidence, announced a further increase to the CRP reduced affordability and a contraction in to a total of 13.00 per share.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 09 Viability CR v28.
