Getting the homebuilding basics right Delivering customer service Getting the basics right means effective processes are We remain focused on and are committed to delivering an consistently applied across our regional businesses.
excellent customer service to all of our customers at every stage of their journey.
What we do What we do We work with selected subcontractors and build using carefully sourced We want to ensure that we always deliver our homes to the quality materials to ensure that the homes that we sell are of a high quality and standard to which we aspire and that our service is always proactive, are built safely, efficiently, cost-effectively and with minimal impact on positive and professional.
Our customer vision is to help our customers the environment.
make our houses their homes.
Why is it important for all our stakeholders?
There is nothing more important to us than providing a safe place in Whilst we operate in a cyclical market, we strongly believe that a which our employees and subcontractors can work.
We are also customer-centric approach is needed throughout the cycle.
We committed to high standards of environmental management.
The recognise that buying a home is a major financial and emotional building process is carefully managed by our site-based and regional investment and it is critical that we give our customers the production teams to ensure quality, minimise disruption to residents in right experience.
the surrounding areas, and to protect and enhance the value of each site.
We are in the process of embedding our new customer approach across How are we different?
the business with our focus on three main areas: our culture, structure We believe that quality objectives matter as much as financial objectives.
Heath and safety is our non-negotiable top priority.
Operating sustainably is both the right thing to do and makes good business sense.
Our KPIs Progress in 2017 Priorities for2018 Our KPIs Progress in 2017 Priorities for 2018 Health and safety on Health and safety of Having introduced a The key priority for site remains a number our people, the build number of customer 2018 will be to 152 88% one priority and we process and service initiatives in continue to enhance Annual Injury Customer satisfaction recorded a reduction customer service will recent years, such as our customer service Incidence Rate in the AIIR rate for the all continue to be of the newly created role offering, and we will Risk link to KPI year.
We were critical focus for the of Head of Customer therefore be aiming Risk link to KPI pleased to receive a Group in 2018.
We Service and the for a further increase D E F higher number of also continue to Home Quality in our customer A C D F NHBC Pride in the examine potential Inspection HQI, a satisfaction score and Job Awards and improvements to the key focus in 2017 has aim to become a five KPI link to record improved build process whilst been embedding the star housebuilder.
In remuneration customer satisfaction also always new processes and 2018, we will also Read more on scores through considering the delivering a consistent continue the rollout of pages 28 to 31. the year.
We are our customer portal impacts of pleased that during which improves the We reduced our our process.
2017 we received a information flow carbon emissions by Read more on customer satisfaction between our 38.7% from 2013, pages 32 and 33. score of 88%, an customer facing well ahead of our improvement on the teams and target of 25%.
85% of last year and homebuyers at every just short of our target stage of their contact of 90%.
Whilst we with Taylor Wimpey.
have made great strides, we know there is still moreto do.
Measuring our progress: Our KPIs are directly linked to our business model and strategy Building a sustainable business We are one of the largest residential developers in the UK, building nearly 15,000 homes in 2017.
Our business Optimising value touches manylives.
For our customers, the home they buy from us is often the We look to optimise the value of each site not only during the biggest and most important purchase they will ever make.
initial acquisition process, but throughout the planning and Its where they will spend most of their time, and where development stages so that the original value is not only many of the important events in their lives will happen.
So the way we design and build our homes and protected but enhanced.
developments can have a significant influence on our customers future happiness and wellbeing.
As a What we do responsible homebuilder we seek to design and build our Our ability to constantly increase efficiency and tightly control costs is part developments in the right way, so that they become of the Taylor Wimpey culture and remains central to delivering enhanced thriving, inclusive and sustainable communities for returns.
This extends to and encompasses all aspects of our business as generations to come.
we strive to optimise and capture value at every level from procurement We directly employ nearly 5,000 people, with many through to delivery.
We also aim to add value to the charities we support and to our wider partnerships.
thousands more on our sites and in our supply chain.
We aim to treat everyone we work with fairly and Why is it important for all our stakeholders?
provide support and development opportunities for our employees so that they can enjoy a satisfying career The discipline of continually reviewing and challenging ourselves to do more with Taylor Wimpey.
ensures we do more than simply protect the business, we enhance the value.
Reducing our impact on the environment is very important We believe that as a responsible business we must actively contribute to to us, so we consider it at every stage of our operations.
We helping others, whether financially, with our time or with our expertise.
work with our partners in the supply chain to source sustainable materials, and with our subcontractors to How are we different?
minimise the impact of our sites.
We also design homes to We have a relentless focus on value at every stage of our business model be resource efficient.
and this is ingrained into the Taylor Wimpey mindset.
We also balance our Our Legacy, Engagement and Action for the Future LEAF desire to improve quality with a focus on making our assets work harder for committee oversees our sustainability programme and us and our stakeholders.
It is chaired by Lee Bishop, our Major Developments Director and representative of the GMT.
Its members include our Head of Sustainability and senior executives from our procurement, production, and design functions and from our regional businesses.
Our KPIs Progress in 2017 Priorities for 2018 Sustainability is integrated into our values and cultural In the year, we achieved a Continue to actively review principles, particularly our commitment to a sustainable 1.7 percentage points every site and optimise 69.3k future and to build a proud legacy.
We will be doing further margin upside on new sales outlets prior to Contribution per completions from land opening.
Continue to work in 2018 to develop our sustainability strategy, legal completion acquired since 2009, focus on building a strong focusing on the issues that matter most for our customers, compared with the order book for the future.
our business and our stakeholders.
expected margin at the Continued commitment to 49.6% point of acquisition.
supporting charities and Wefurther increased local community groups in Forward order book contribution per the areas in which we as a percentage completion in 2017. operate.
View our Sustainability of completions Intotal, during 2017 we Report 2017 online from TBC donated and fundraised March 2018.
Risk link to KPI over 1 million for registered charities 2016: A B C D E F over 875k, in addition to c. 90k for other organisations, such as Read more on scout groups and other pages 34 and 35. local community causes 2016: c. 159k.
Read more about our stakeholder engagement on pages 15 and 51.
22 Strategic Report Our Business Model Our People Attracting and retaining the We aim to be the employer of choice in the best people housebuilding industry.
Our approach We want to attract and retain the best people and treat them fairly and with respect.
We continue to make a significant investment in and commitment to the recruitment of our next generation of future leaders, including extending our trainee schemes and investing in the skills and development of our employees across the business, to ensure that Taylor Wimpey attracts and retains the best people in the industry through the cycle.
We aim to be the employer of choice in the housebuilding industry, attracting and retaining the best people to establish a culture that gives all individuals the opportunity and support to develop to their full potential, regardless of market conditions or their background.
We were pleased to have been named in the top 20 places to work in the UK, by Glassdoor, as voted for by Case study employees, the only commercial housebuilder to make the list.
Ingrid Osborne was selected for the Cranfield School of Managements 100 Women to Watch During 2017 we directly employed, on average, 2017.
Ingrid joined the group as a graduate 4,999 people across the UK 2016: 4,697 trainee in 2001, and worked in various roles before andprovided opportunities for a further 13,442 being appointed Managing Director of Central operatives on our sites.
Our voluntary employee London in 2010.
Ingrid is now Divisional Managing turnover rate remained low at 14.0% Director for Central and East London and has 2016: 13.9%.
been a member of the General Management Team since 2013.
Ingrid commented: What makes us different A broad range of opinions, backgrounds and experiences are always beneficial in business.
So Our people matter the more we can encourage and embrace diversity, the better.
As one of three women on our With the ongoing challenge for skills and resources leadership team, its important that we share our in the housebuilding sector and the targets we experiences with colleagues and help mentor and have set ourselves, we have continued to focus on encourage the next generation to achieve their how we effectively attract, develop, and retain our goals.
As leaders we have a critical role to play in people so that they are fully engaged with the creating the right culture and leading by example.
I company to deliver both our short term targets want people to know that I use flexible working and longer term strategic goals.
options, so that they feel able to do the same.
By treating people as individuals and working together, we build trust and that positively impacts engagement and productivity.
% of employees who agree or strongly agree 2017 employee survey Taylor Wimpey is committed to Taylor Wimpey takes health and Response rate becoming an inclusive organisation safety in the workplace seriously.
72% 55% 98% 98% 94% 92% 2016 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 people 23 Investing in our people Q&A How is Taylor Wimpey Through our learning and development initiatives, aimed at growing talent from within, we give our addressing the construction employees the opportunities and skills to become skillsshortage?
our future business leaders and develop their We can play a part in addressing the careers with Taylor Wimpey.
skills shortage facing the housebuilding There is a significant skills shortage in our industry sector and wider construction industry.
and we are committed to playing our part in We offer a range of trainee positions to addressing this.
We have made a significant attract young people and address investment in, and commitment to, the recruitment specific skills gaps.
We now have 575 of our next generation of future leaders, including people in entry-level positions.
We are extending our trainee schemes and investing in the piloting a new approach to hiring skills and development of our employees across trades professionals increasing the the business, to ensure that Taylor Wimpey number we employ directly rather attracts and retains the best people in the industry than via subcontractors.
We also through the cycle.
During 2017, we recruited 204 partner with others through initiatives apprentices including 67 site management such as the Home Building apprentices, 28 management trainees and 31 Skills Partnership.
graduates, whilst improving our apprenticeship and trainee schemes across a number of areas 2016 total: 147.
We are also planning to relaunch our management trainee programme in summer 2018.
This will offer three-year development programmes and will also significantly increase the overall number of trainee positions.
Case study Apprentice Assistant Site Manager Jone Listening to our people DaCruz, who works at the Chobham Manor We launched and held our first National Employee development in East London, was named Forum NEF in 2017.
The main objective of the Ambassador of the Year in the Queen NEF will be to gather employee feedback on Elizabeth Olympic Park Apprenticeship Awards individual topics important to the business and in July 2017.
These awards recognise the role share it with the relevant members of senior of local young people and employers in management.
The NEF will build upon the existing delivering the legacy of the London 2012 regional Employee Consultative Committee Olympic and Paralympic Games and recognise structure so as to enhance the dialogue between more than 240 apprentices who have played the Board, Group Management Team and key roles in the new chapter of the Park, our employees.
helping transform the former Olympic Stadium into a world-class, multi-use venue.
In 2017 we undertook an employee engagement survey, Talkback, with an encouragingly high participation rate of 72%.
We were impressed with the overall results and high level of engagement across the whole business.
We were particularly Our KPIs pleased to see improved scores in customer 14.0% service, flexible working and our training and Employee turnover benefits package.
Importantly it highlighted areas 16 Objective which needed further work, including better collaboration between teams, and we will be We aim to attract and retain the best people in focusing on this in 2018. the industry and give them opportunities to develop to their full potential.
Striving to become a more 12 diversebusiness Definition We aim to be an inclusive employer and to attract, Voluntary resignations divided by number of retain and promote employees from all total employees.
Encouraging and embracing diversity is now one of our cultural principles.
We 8 Why is it key to our strategy?
have developed a Diversity and Inclusion Strategy that focuses on the impact of leadership for Our employees are one of our greatest creating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive competitive advantages and they are crucial to culture: improving how diversity and inclusion are executing the strategy.
We aim to keep this embedded into our policies and procedures, and within a range of 5-15%.
4 reflecting our commitment to this.
Human rights We support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and have policies and processes in place to ensure that we act in 0 accordance with our cultural values which encompass areas such as business conduct, equal opportunities, anti-corruption and whistleblowing.
We do not consider this a material issue in our business.
