44 CURRENT TRADING OUTLOOK We have made an encouraging start The sustainability of the UK housing to 2018 with good levels of visitors market will be achieved in part by to our development sites over the the continued vigilance of the Bank first eight weeks of the year with the of England in maintaining disciplined usual strengthening in activity being lending practices.
The level of interest on our Committees guidance and direction Persimmon and Charles Church hometo lenders together with the Banks finder websites is strong.
The market monetary policy settings and the is benefiting from higher levels of Governments fiscal policy measures, employment and resilient consumer will all contribute to influence conditions sentiment supported by interest rates in the market.
Greater sustainability and which remain low.
Our private sales stability will provide the industry with reservation rate per site for the first the confidence to continue to invest in eightweeks was 7% ahead of last year.
skills, land and new home construction to maintain the expansion in output that The encouraging start to the year together thecountry needs.
with the Groups performance through During 2018 we will concentrate on the 2017 autumn sales season has retaining flexibility to react to changes in delivered a 7.5% year on year increase market conditions with our replacement in current forward sales including legal land activity continuing to target superior completions taken in 2018 to date to returns.
The Group continues to see 2.03bn 2017: 1.89bn.
Our private sales good quality opportunities in the land reservation volumes in our forward sales market which will encourage us to invest are 5.7% ahead of last year.
at appropriate levels to support our future We believe the Groups offer of growth towards optimal sustainable scale attractively designed core house types at in our regional markets.
We are working affordable price points on developments hard in partnership with the planning that have layouts which provide a full authorities to identify opportunities for range of products to all customers with our strategic land to form part of their five an emphasis on first time buyers and year plans for meeting the housing needs first time home movers places the Group in their local communities.
The Groups in a strong position in its local markets strong balance sheet provides a great moving forwards.
platform to secure the right level of investment in support of the future growth Whilst conditions in the new build of the business.
housing market remain supportive, the negotiations associated with the As a result of the hard work and UKs exit from the EU, including both dedication of the whole Persimmon the transitional arrangements and the team the performance of the Group in terms of the longer term relationship, 2017 hasbeen excellent.
The Board is together with the nature of UKs trading confident that the Group will thrive by relationships with its other global pursuing the current strategy and seeking partners, present key uncertainties continual improvement in operational that will have a substantial influence on execution.
We are confident that this market outcomes.
However, with a long team has the skills, drive and vision to term unfulfilled demand for housing, we deliver the Groups strategic objectives believe that UK fundamentals remain and we thank all our employees strong.
We will continue to focus on and supply chain partners for their meeting this demand by opening as contribution to the Groups success.
many new development sites as promptly as possible and driving our construction programmes forward.
Jeff Fairburn Mike Killoran Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 26 February 2018 Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 11 Fin Performance v27.
