Directors Report Other Disclosures Pages 36 to 81 inclusive, together with of Nigel Turner, who will retire at the AGM.
Share capital the sections of the Annual Report and Details of the Directors service contracts At the date of this Report, 135,124,108 Accounts incorporated by reference, are given in the Directors Remuneration Ordinary Shares of 10.357143p each have constitute a Directors Report that has Report on page 72. been issued and are fully paid up and been drawn up and presented in quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Apart from the share option schemes, long accordance with applicable English At the date of this Report, the Company term incentive schemes and service company law: the liabilities of the Directors has issued and fully paid up 21,900 7.5% contracts, no Director had any beneficial in connection with that report are subject Cumulative Preference Shares, 498,434 interest in any contract to which the to the limitations and restrictions provided 6.6% Cumulative Preference Shares and Company or a subsidiary was a party by that law.
615,562 5.9% Cumulative Preference during the year.
Shares, all of 1 each the Preference A statement indicating the beneficial and Research and development Shares.
The rights and obligations non-beneficial interests of the Directors in Research and development activities are attached to the Companys Ordinary the share capital of the Company, including undertaken with the prospect of gaining Shares and Preference Shares are set share options, is shown in the Directors new scientific or technical knowledge out in the Articles, copies of which can be Remuneration Report on page 71. and understanding.
obtained from Companies House in the The Directors are responsible for managing UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Dividends the business of the Company and may There are no restrictions on the voting The Directors are recommending a final exercise all the powers of the Company rights attached to the Companys Ordinary dividend of 46p per share 2016: 41.25p.
If subject to the provisions of relevant Shares or on the transfer of securities approved by shareholders, total dividends statutes, the Companys Memorandum in the Company.
The 7.5% Cumulative for the year will amount to 81p per share and Articles and any directions given by Preference Shares do not confer on the 2016: 74p.
Details of dividends are shown special resolution.
holders any right to receive notice of or in note 8 on page 104: details of the to be present or to vote at any general Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan Directors indemnities meeting of the Company, unless the can be found on page 141.
The Company The Company maintains Directors and cumulative preferential dividend on such has established various Employee Benefit Officers liability insurance that gives shares is more than 12 calendar months Trusts EBTs in connection with the appropriate cover for any legal action in arrears.
The 6.6% and 5.9% Cumulative obligation to satisfy future share awards brought against its Directors.
The Preference Shares do not confer on the under employee share incentive schemes.
Company has also granted indemnities holders any right to receive notice of or The trustees of the EBTs have waived their to each of its Directors and the Company to be present or to vote at any general rights to receive dividends on certain Secretary, which represent qualifying third meeting of the Company, unless the Ordinary Shares of the Company held in party indemnity provisions as defined by cumulative preferential dividend on such the EBTs.
Such waivers represent less than Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, shares is more than six calendar months 1% of the total dividend payable on the in relation to certain losses and liabilities in arrears or the business of the general Companys Ordinary Shares.
Further that the Directors or Company Secretary meeting includes the consideration of a details of the EBTs can be found in note 24 may incur to third parties in the course of resolution for reducing the share capital on page 124. acting as Directors or the Company of the Company, to sell the undertaking Secretary or as employees of the Company of the Company or to alter the Articles.
Directors or of any associated company.
In addition, No person holds securities in the Company The Companys Articles of Association such indemnities have been granted to that carry special rights with regard to Articles give the Directors power to other officers of the Company who are control of the Company.
The Company appoint and replace Directors.
Under the Directors of subsidiary companies within is not aware of any agreements between terms of reference of the Nomination the Group.
The Company has also granted holders of securities that may result in Committee, any appointment must be an indemnity representing qualifying restrictions on the transfer of securities recommended by the Nomination pension scheme indemnity provisions as or on voting rights.
Committee for approval by the Board of defined by Section 235 of the Companies Directors.
The present Directors of the Act 2006 to a paid Director of the Company are shown on pages 36 and 37. corporate trustee of the Groups UK In line with the UK Corporate Governance pension scheme.
Such indemnities were Code, each Director will be standing for in place during 2017 and at the date of re-election at the AGM, with the exception approval of the Group financial statements.
Croda International Plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report Power to issue or buy back shares Employees The continuous development of all of our employees is key to meeting the future At the 2017 AGM, authority was given Diversity: We are committed to the demands of our customers, especially in to the Directors to allot unissued shares in principle of equal opportunity in relation to enhanced creativity, innovation the Company up to a maximum amount employment and to ensuring that no and customer service.
During 2017, 82.7% equivalent to approximately one third of the applicant or employee receives less of our employees received training, totalling issued share capital, excluding shares held favourable treatment on the grounds over 107,000 hours.
in treasury, for general purposes, plus up of gender, marital status, race, ethnic to a further one third of the Companys origin, religion, disability, sexuality or age, Involvement: We are committed to issued share capital, excluding shares held or is disadvantaged by conditions or ensuring that employees share in the in treasury, but only in the case of a rights requirements that cannot be shown to be success of the Group.
No such shares have been issued.
Group human resources policies in the Company is an important way are clearly communicated to all of our of strengthening involvement in the A further special resolution passed at that employees and are available through development of the Business and bringing meeting granted authority to the Directors the Company intranet.
together employees and shareholders to allot equity securities in the Company interests.
In 2017, 83.26% of our UK for cash, without regard to the pre-emption Recruitment and progression: It is employees and 56.89% of our non-UK provisions of the Companies Act 2006. established policy throughout the Business employees participated in one of our Both of these authorities expire on the date that decisions on recruitment, career all-employee share plans, indicating of the 2018 AGM, that is 25 April 2018, and development, promotion and other employees continued desire to be so the Directors propose to renew them for employment related issues are made solely involved in the Company.
on the grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
Employees are kept informed of matters At last years AGM the members renewed of concern to them in a variety of ways, the Companys authority to purchase up to We give full and fair consideration to including the Company magazine, the 10% of its Ordinary Shares.
No purchases applications for employment from people Croda Way: quarterly updates: the were made during the year.
As a result the with disabilities, having regard to their Company intranet, Connect: team briefing Company will be seeking to renew its particular aptitudes and abilities.
Should an webinars and Croda Now email messages.
authority to purchase its own shares at the employee become disabled during their These communications help achieve 2018 AGM.
Shares will only be purchased employment with the Company, they are a common awareness of the financial if the Board believes that such purchases fully supported by our Occupational Health and economic factors affecting the will improve earnings per share and be in provision.
Efforts are made to continue performance of Croda and of changes the best general interest of shareholders.
It their employment with reasonable within the Business.
We are committed is the Companys intention that any shares adjustments being made to the workplace to providing employees with opportunities purchased will be held as treasury shares.
Retraining is to share their views and provide feedback At the date of this report the Company provided if necessary.
on issues that are important to them.
All holds 3,731,314 shares in treasury.
Development and learning: regions have undertaken an employee The Company recognises that the key to survey since 2010.
More information on future success lies in the skills and abilities the 2017 Global Employee Culture Survey of its dedicated global workforce.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Directors Report | Other Disclosures Articles of Association Other disclosures All the information cross referenced above is incorporated by reference into the Unless expressly specified to the contrary Certain information that is required to Directors Report.
in the Articles, the Companys Articles may be included in the Directors Report can be amended by a special resolution of the be found elsewhere in this document References in this document to other Companys shareholders.
as referred to below, each of which is documents on the Companys website, incorporated by reference in to the such as the Sustainability Report, are Significant contracts and Directors Report: included as an aid to their location and are change of control not incorporated by reference into any Information on greenhouse gas The Group has borrowing facilities which section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
emissions p22 may require the immediate repayment of all An indication of likely future outstanding loans together with accrued Independent auditors developments in the Groups Business interest in the event of a change of control.
 LLP will sign can be found in the Strategic Report, The rules of the Companys employee the 2017 audit report and will then starting on page 02 share plans set out the consequences retire as external auditors.
Following a of a change in control of the Company An indication of the Companys comprehensive tender process, which is on participants rights under the plans.
overseas branches pp138 to 140 fully described on page 55, KPMG, with Generally, such rights will vest and become Chris Hearld as Lead Audit Partner, will be There have been no events affecting the exercisable on a change of control recommended for appointment as the Company since the financial year end to subject to the satisfaction of performance Companys external auditors at the AGM report to shareholders in accordance with conditions.
None of the Executive on 25 April 2018. the Accounts Regulations and Disclosure Directors service contracts contains and Transparency Rules.
provisions that are affected by a change of Audit Information For the purposes of Listing Rule LR control and there are no other agreements The Directors confirm that, so far 9.8.
4R, the information required to be that the Company is party to that take as they are aware, there is no relevant disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found on effect, alter or terminate in the event of a audit information of which the Companys the following pages of this Annual Report change of control of the Company, which auditors are unaware, and that they have and Accounts: are considered to be significant in terms each taken all the steps they ought to of their potential impact on the Group.
have taken as a Director in order to Section Topic Page reference make themselves aware of any relevant The Company does not have any 1 Capitalised interest Page 80 2 Publication of unaudited Not applicable audit information and to establish that contractual or other arrangements that are financial information the Companys auditors are aware essential to the business of the Group.
3 Smaller related party Not applicable of that information.
transactions Political donations 4 Details of long term Not applicable incentive schemes No donations were made for political established specifically purposes during the year 2016: nil.
to recruit or retain a Director Financial risk management 5 6 Waiver of emoluments by Not applicable a Director The Groups exposure to and management 7 8 Allotments of equity Page 79 of capital, liquidity, credit, interest rate and securities for cash foreign currency risks are contained in note 9 Participation in a placing Not applicable 19 on pages 115 to 119. of equity securities 10 Contracts of significance Page 80 Capitalised interest 11 14 Controlling shareholder Not applicable disclosures The Groups policy for capitalising 12 13 Dividend waiver Page 78 borrowing costs directly attributable to the purchase or construction of fixed assets is set out on page 98.
Croda International Plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report Statement of Directors Prepare the financial statements on Practice United Kingdom Accounting responsibilities the going concern basis unless it is Standards, comprising FRS101 inappropriate to presume that the Reduced Disclosure Framework, and The Directors are responsible for Company will continue in business.
applicable law, give a true and fair preparing the Annual Report, the view of the assets, liabilities, financial Directors Remuneration Report and the The Directors are responsible for keeping position and profit of the Company financial statements in accordance with adequate accounting records that are applicable law and regulations.
sufficient to show and explain the The Group financial statements, Companys transactions and disclose which have been prepared in Company law requires the Directors to with reasonable accuracy at any time accordance with IFRSs as adopted prepare financial statements for each the financial position of the Company and by the EU, give a true and fair view of financial year.
Under that law the the Group, and enable them to ensure the assets, liabilities, financial position Directors have prepared the Group that the financial statements and the and profit of the Group financial statements in accordance Directors Remuneration Report comply with International Financial Reporting The Directors Report and Strategic with the Companies Act 2006 and, as Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Report include a fair review of the regards the Group financial statements, European Union, and the Company development and performance of Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are financial statements in accordance with the Business and the position of the also responsible for safeguarding the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Group and Company, together with assets of the Company and the Group Accounting Practice United Kingdom a description of the principal risks and hence for taking reasonable steps Accounting Standards, comprising and uncertainties that they face.
for the prevention and detection of fraud FRS101 Reduced Disclosure In the case of each Director in office and other irregularities.
at the date the Directors Report is The Directors are responsible for Under Company law the Directors must approved: the maintenance and integrity of the not approve the financial statements So far as the Director is aware, there is Companys website.
Legislation in unless they are satisfied that they give a no relevant audit information of which the United Kingdom governing the true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Companys auditors preparation and dissemination of the Group and the Company and of the are unaware, and financial statements may differ from profit or loss of the Group and Company legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing the financial They have taken all steps that they statements, the Directors are required to: ought to have taken as a director The Directors consider that the Annual to make themselves aware of any Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Select suitable accounting policies relevant audit information and to is fair, balanced and understandable and and then apply them consistently establish that the Group and provides the information necessary for Make judgements and accounting Companys auditors are aware of shareholders to assess the Companys estimates that are reasonable and that information.
position and performance, business prudent model and strategy.
State whether applicable IFRSs as Each of the Directors, whose details are adopted by the European Union set out on pages 36 and 37, confirms and applicable UK Accounting that, to the best of his her knowledge: Standards have been followed, The Company financial statements, subject to any material departures which have been prepared in disclosed and explained in the Group accordance with the United Kingdom and Company financial statements Generally Accepted Accounting respectively The Directors Report and the Strategic Board on 27 February 2018 and is signed Report, including the sections of the on its behalf by Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference, is the management report for the purposes of the Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
It was approved by the Tom Brophy Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 27 February 2018 Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81
