19 Our Investment Case Why we are different Our strategy is differentiated by a long term focus on value and on achieving both our financial and quality objectives sustainably in a cyclical environment.
We are a value-driven business, with a long term, sustainable focus.
communities we operate in and the opportunity to work with our stakeholders to create value together.
Our focus remains on adding value and sustainable growth as we maximise efficiency through operational excellence and discipline on our sites and Since setting out our strategy in 2011, we have made significant progress throughout our business.
More information on our strategy, updated targets and performance can be found on pages 16 and 20.
We have a clear strategy and a strong focus on where we can add further value to the business.
In this way, we are confident that we can adapt to all Today we have a strong landbank of c. 75k plots underpinned by a strategic market conditions from a position of strength and perform well, underpinning pipeline of c. 117k potential plots.
our value proposition to shareholders and other stakeholders.
We will be hosting a Strategy Day in May 2018, where we will update the We believe that financial results must be achieved in the right way and as a market on our views of long term strategy.
responsible business we acknowledge both our obligations to the Strategy set to manage through the cycle The housing market is cyclical and so factors such as customer confidence and mortgage cost inevitably have a direct impact on the short term outlook.
We believe that a long term view and a proactive and flexible approach are needed to manage through the cycle.
Our strategy is built on this and so seeks to protect growth whilst mitigating future downside risk.
This applies to all areas of the business, from landbuying to our Dividend Policy.
1 High earnings quality with high margin driven by strong landbank Steady growth has created a sustainable business focused on good-quality locations where people want to live.
We believe that quality of location is a key determinant of a home purchase and that this remains true through all market conditions.
We have taken a very disciplined approach since we set out the strategy back in 2011.
This applies to all areas from the returns we expect to deliver from our sites through to the quality of those locations which we believe will differentiate us irrespective 2 ofthe cycle.
Quality business with further continuous operational improvement We have always been clear that our quality measures are as important to us as our financial objectives and are key to the way we run our business.
We believe that these areas will become more important during this cycle, and will become an area of clear differentiation for Taylor Wimpey and contribute to our long term success.
We will maintain a firm focus on health and safety, which will always be our non-negotiable top priority.
We will continue to improve the business through our investment in our people, product, processes and systems, through research and development and embedding improvements to our customer service processes.
Dual stream dividend underpins value We are confident that the quality of our short term landbank, with the underpin of our significant strategic land pipeline, combined with a high-quality balance sheet, will mean that we can continue to be cash generative through the cycle, enabling us to sustain a significant ordinary dividend to shareholders on an annual basis, including through a normal downturn.
We will also supplement this with special dividends at appropriate times in the cycle.
