Implementation and compliance responsibility 38 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Focus on risk The effective assessment and management of risk Risk management process intus Board has overall responsibility is key to the delivery of the Groups strategy for risk management.
The effectiveness of the risk management system is monitored and reviewed by the Audit Committee and through periodic external review.
All recommendations made within the 2015 external review have been intus Board has responsibility for This focus on our core strengths is implemented.
Our ongoing assessment establishing the Groups appetite for risk balanced by a more cautious approach of risk is underpinned by a formal risk based on the balance of potential risks to risk in other areas.
review process conducted for each area and returns in achieving its strategic and every level of the business including objectives, and has overall responsibility In nancing we set a target Group debt to each centre, each department, internal for identifying and managing risk.
Risk assets ratio of 40-50 per cent and require committee and the executive team.
management is embedded in our interest cover of more than 160 per cent, These reviews provide an opportunity to culture, with all employees aware of giving us significant headroom against identify risks and assess them for impact the role they play.
our loan covenants to ensure that we and likelihood.
The assessment also are in a strong position in the event of any includes how quickly the risks would Risk appetite substantial falls in property values.
We impact our business and for how long.
An assessment of the Groups risk continue to look to minimise interest appetite in 2017 showed that this rate risk with a policy of hedging at least The risk registers created through this remained broadly unchanged and is set in 75 per cent of the exposure and seek to process are subject to at least an annual the context of our focus on one sector renance debt early to reduce risk.
This review, facilitated by the risk and assurance quality shopping centres.
As experts in does not, however, prevent us looking at department.
Operational management is this sector we are able to mitigate the innovative debt structures that provide responsible for managing the risks and for risk involved in growing the business by the Group with diverse funding options.
acquisition, development, our active asset The Group also relies on insurances to management strategy and brand focus.
mitigate against other financial risks.
The Audit Committee oversees the risk management process, with the Director Risk Ri k management t framew f ork k ensure that risk is managed across the business Board define the Groups appetite for risk with the Executive Committee, assess the Groups principal risks establish tone at the top to drive risk culture across the business monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system Audit Committee and risk culture oversee and challenge the Groups overall approach to monitoring areas of risk lead the development of risk management for intu Risk and assurance collate outputs of risk management exercises including risk registers for presentation department to Audit Committee, Executive Committee and Board identify and communicate emerging risks for the business input into Boards process for setting risk appetite Executive Committee with the Board, assess the Groups principal risks endorse tone at the top set by the Board implement strategy in line with the Groups risk appetite lead operational managements approach to risk create an environment where risk management is embraced Operational management communicate the responsibility of risk management to all employees implement and maintain risk management processes produce and maintain risk registers including identication of risks, mitigating controls and actions required active in the day-to-day management of risk Employees give feedback to operational management on day-to-day risk management Monitoring and reporting responsibility Strategic report Focus on risk 39 of Risk and Assurance reporting directly We have identied principal risks and the likelihood for certain risks has to the Audit Committee Chairman, uncertainties under five key headings: increased additional risk mitigation ensuring independence and objectivity.
property market: operations: nancing: strategies have been put in place.
We There are four risk updates per year.
developments and acquisitions: and brand.
have also assessed the impact of the These are discussed in detail on the proposed transaction with Hammerson Principal risks and uncertainties following pages.
A principal risk is one on our principal risks.
Fully integrated and thorough risk analysis which has the potential to signicantly underpins the ability to achieve our affect our strategic objectives, financial The main impact from the UKs decision strategic objectives.
The Board and position or future performance and to exit the EU on the risks that the Group Executive Committee have undertaken a includes both internal and external factors.
faces is the potential negative impact on robust assessment of the principal risks We monitor movements in likelihood the macro-economic environment as a we face, including those that would impact and severity such that the risks are result of the continuing uncertainty around the business model, future performance, appropriately managed in line with the transitional and post-Brexit arrangements.
This assessment is Groups risk appetite.
specifically, the risks we face are affected not limited to purely financial metrics but by any changes in sentiment in the spans the whole business model, including The risk prole for 2017 has remained investment and occupier markets in environmental, social and employee broadly in line with 2016 with no significant which we operate, in our ability to execute matters, respect for human rights and new principal risks identied nor substantial our recycling and investment plans anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters.
changes in existing principal risks.
Where and in broader consumer confidence and expenditure.
R Ri isk sk pr prole ole Change in level of risk Increased Remained the same 1 5 Active insurance management We have been using the brand to improve our Group-wide purchasing of insurance, 2 bringing together external insurance partners brokers, insurers, solicitors and loss adjusters each year to present a 7 6 business update and show how we manage 8 new risks and reduce the overall risk prole.
This gives our insurance family a greater 9 insight into our processes, behaviour and culture.
They are able to identify the scope 3 of cover that intu actually requires, and the risk that intu are able to transfer.
4 The benets go beyond financial savings to improved coverage terms and funding to allow intu to trial risk reduction initiatives and roll out new programmes.
Recent funded trials include a virtual assistant to Likelihood provide safety messaging to customers: more security cameras and yellow comb 1 Property market macro-economic 6 Financing availability of funds plates for escalators to improve safety.
By implementing risk-reducing controls, we 2 Property market retail environment 7 Developments and show that a safe and secure environment acquisitions developments 3 Operations health and safety can lead to lower claims, reduce premium 8 Developments and rates and provide increased risk 4 Operations cybersecurity acquisitions acquisitions management funding.
5 Operations terrorism 9 Brand integrity of the brand Impact
