24 Strategic Report Selecting Land High-quality landbank We believe that the quality of our landbank isoneofthekey strengths of Taylor Wimpey.
During the year, and as previously announced, Our approach weadded a further site to our Major Developments We believe that the land market and planning portfolio of large scale land opportunities.
The land environment have significantly changed over recent acquired is a regeneration scheme at Clapham years.
Whilst the planning process remains Junction in central London and is a joint venture complex and is often slow, there is better clarity in with Wandsworth London Borough Council.
It is many local authority areas and a better supply of expected to deliver over 2,200 homes.
Furthermore, suitable land that has good planning prospects as previously announced, our Central London with reduced competition.
Our ability to buy business acquired 681 plots in 2017 from the high-quality land at the right time in the cycle and Royal Mail that forms part of the Mount Pleasant enhance it through planning, remains an important estate, some of which will be retained by the driver of value as it enables us to build and sell the Royal Mail Group.
right product, create the right community and deliver the right service to our customers.
Short term landbank We believe that quality of location is a key Our short term landbank stands at c. 75k plots, determinant of value through all market conditions.
equating to c. 5.1 years of supply at current Our landbank is broadly spread across the country completion levels as at 31 December 2017.
During in targeted quality locations, supported by strong 2017 we acquired 8,040 plots 2016: 6,355 plots demographics and economics, in the villages, at anticipated contribution margins of c. 28% and towns and cities where people want to live.
return on capital employed of c. 34%.
In the year, we achieved a 1.7 percentage points margin upside on completions from land acquired What makes us different since 2009, compared with the expected margin at the point of acquisition.
New opportunities The average cost of land as a proportion of We are highly selective with regard to the types of average selling price within the short term owned sites that we buy, focusing on the quality of the landbank remains low at 14.8% 2016: 15.4%.
land rather than the number of plots acquired.
We The average selling price in the short term owned employ dedicated land teams in each of our 24 landbank in 2017 increased by 8.1% to 280k regional businesses, who use their expertise and 2016: 259k.
local knowledge to identify potential high-quality, sustainable sites.
We have a targetted approach to our land investment.
This is focused on where we can add value as we seek to maximise the returns from our investments, while continuing to ensure that the business is optimally positioned to deliver those returns on a sustainable basis.
Case study In August 2017, the Group completed contracts topurchase part of the Mount Pleasant estate, inCentral London, from the Royal Mail Group, after enabling works by Royal Mail Group had been completed.
Thesite has a detailed development planning consent, secured by the Royal Mail Group in 2015, to create 681 residential units including affordable housing, retail and office space and public areas.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 land 25 Strategic pipeline in place for long term success Our KPIs A key strength of Taylor Wimpey is our strategic land pipeline.
Strategic land is any land which does Strategically sourced Owned and controlled plots not have any form of residential consent at the time completions with planning we take a commercial interest.
This provides an enhanced supply of land at a reduced cost.
Objective Objective Importantly, it gives us greater control over the We aim to source more than 40% of our We aim to maintain sufficient land in our planning permissions we receive.
We have one of completions from the strategic pipeline per portfolio to enable us to remain selective in the largest strategic pipelines in the sector which annum in the medium term.
stood at a record of c. 117k potential plots as at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: c. 108k Definition Definition potential plots.
During 2017, we converted a further 7,863 plots from the strategic pipeline to Number of completions which originally did not The total number of plots that we either own or the short term landbank 2016: 9,519 plots.
We have planning permission when we acquired a control, with some form of planning consent.
continue to seek new opportunities and added a commercial interest in them, expressed as a net 17.1k new potential plots to the strategic Why is it key to our strategy?
In the year, a record 53% of our completions were sourced from the Having a portfolio of land in place is key to Why is it key to our strategy?
planning the required scale of our building The strategic pipeline enhances our ability to operations for future home completions.
It increase the contribution per legal completion enables us to be selective in land purchases.
because of the inherent margin uplift from Q&A How is sustainability strategic plots.
It also allows us to take a long integrated into land selection?
Our land teams integrate sustainability into the land acquisition process from the start, looking at factors such as how well 53% 74,849 plots connected the site is to transport links, the potential impact on habitats and species, 60 90,000 the risk of flooding and whether the development will support local economic 80,000 activity.
Our Land Assessment and 50 Management Process LAMP helps us to identify and manage sustainability risks at 70,000 site-level before and during construction.
40 60,000 50,000 30 40,000 20 30,000 20,000 10 10,000 0 0 Case study In 2017, Taylor Wimpey Midlands purchased freehold land known as Flying Fields, Southam, Warwickshire.
The land was acquired with an outline planning permission for 535 new homes of which 35% is to be affordable housing.
Extensive areas of open space and a small retail store are to be accommodated as part of the development.
The 60 acre site is agricultural land which was used as an airfield during the war.
Southam is a popular market town in the district of Stratford upon Avon where demand for new homes is strong owing to its proximity to Coventry and ease of access to the M40 motorway and employment opportunities.
Taylor Wimpey has another successful scheme of 165 new homes currently under construction in Southam.
The land and planning team at Taylor Wimpey Midlands has worked closely with the District Council and Southam Town Council to implement the masterplan for the site, which incorporates extensive landscaping throughout to reflect its rural edge of town setting.
co. uk 2015 47 2016 51 2017 53 2015 75,710 2016 76,234 74,849 2017 26 Strategic Report Managing the Planning and Community Engagement Process Planning and community We aim to be the industry leader in managing the engagement planning and community engagement process.
To fully understand local views, it is important that Our approach we reach a wide range of stakeholders from Whilst we have a national presence, we are proud residents, property owners and local authorities, to to operate as a local homebuilder with 24 regional businesses, schools, residents associations and businesses across the country.
explore ways in which we can work more closely We are committed to publishing information on with local communities.
We are committed to proposed developments online so that members working with local people and other stakeholders of local communities and other interested parties throughout the planning process and seek to can easily find out what we are planning and engage, consult and work in partnership with where.
The Taylor Wimpey website includes pages communities and all interested stakeholders.
for all of our proposed developments throughout We do this by creating a tailored planning and the UK.
We would like people to register their community engagement strategy for each site interest so we can update them on progress.
which reflects the needs of the local area.
Our Above all, we want wider and more diverse groups approach goes well beyond regulatory and individuals to get involved and tell us their requirements, with engagement starting before we views, whether positive or negative.
submit a planning application and continuing throughout the development process.
Wherever possible, we use the feedback obtained as part of our community engagement to develop and improve our design proposals.
Our KPIs 7,863 plots Conversion of strategic pipeline 11,000 Objective 10,000 We aim to convert on average c. 6k plots per annum in the medium term.
9,000 Definition 8,000 Number of plots, which originally did not have 7,000 planning permission when we took a commercial interest in the land, and which we 6,000 have promoted through the planning process to achieve some form of planning.
Inthis way 5,000 we convert potential plots from the strategic pipeline to plots in the short term landbank.
4,000 Why is it key to our strategy?
3,000 The strength of our strategic pipeline plots without residential planning consent is a key 2,000 differentiator and enables us to be extremely selective in the short term land market and also 1,000 reduces the pressure on the teams.
We work with landowners, local authorities and 0 communities to promote the strategic pipeline through the planning process and achieve planning permission.
Strategic land pipeline conversions can be variable year on year and so we view an average target as the appropriate measure.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 planning 2015 8,660 2016 9,519 7,863 2017 27 Case study At our Newton Farm Phase 2 development, in our West Scotland business, Taylor Wimpey agreed with South Lanarkshire Council to contribute c. 9.4m and 7.2 net developable acres for the development of a new school as part of the Section 75 S75 agreement.
Construction of the school was the responsibility of South Lanarkshire Council.
The Council had a desire to open the new school facility by August 2017 for the new school term.
In order to facilitate the school construction programme, and meet our obligations under the S75 agreement, we installed part of the developments new spine road by December 2015, providing access and a serviced site for the Council.
South Lanarkshire Council was therefore able to commence works on site in early 2016, and deliver the school on programme, opening in August 2017.
Our West Scotland business maintains engagement with the school, providing health and safety talks, demonstrations and other initiatives.
Q&A How do you engage a wide range of local stakeholders?
We seek views from a wide range of stakeholders from neighbouring residents and property owners to local authorities, businesses, schools and other groups.
We use a variety of channels including meetings, exhibitions, workshops, newsletters and information boards.
We have also been trialling the use of social media, particularly Facebook and Twitter, to help capture and respond to feedback and to reach a wider audience.
We aim to create development proposals that are Stakeholder engagement What makes us different financially viable, benefit the local community and We introduced a comprehensive community provide the housing that is needed.
We prioritise We build much more than homes engagement framework in 2011 and have been getting outlets open efficiently and in the right way regularly improving and updating it since.
We are We work with communities and our partners to for our customers.
As at 18 February 2018, we are proud of our approach to community engagement create well designed, sustainable neighbourhoods building on 97% of sites with implementable and the way that our employees deliver it.
The where our customers want to live, grow and thrive planning.
framework applies to every stage of the and which are valued by our local communities.
development timeline, from pre-planning We believe that the land market and planning We aim to create great places to live, work and consultation to ongoing communication with environment have significantly changed over recent play: designing our developments to become existing and new residents during and after years.
Whilst the planning process remains thriving and inclusive communities with a strong construction.
We also have a Building Our complex and is often slow, there is better clarity in sense of place and character.
We have appointed Reputation toolkit that provides information and many local authority areas and a better supply of an urban designer to work with our regional practical tools to help our employees communicate suitable land that has good planning prospects businesses on placemaking and launched our honestly and openly with communities and with reduced competition.
Design Academy covering the core principles of customers throughout the development process.
urban design and how to create sustainable We believe that a positive and structured approach communities where people want to live.
to working with others is at the heart of a We make a significant contribution to the local successful scheme.
We work in partnership with communities we operate in.
In 2017, we the communities in which we build to deliver contributed 413 million to the local communities homes that meet their requirements in which we build across the UK via planning and aspirations.
obligations, providing, for example, local infrastructure, affordable homes, public transport Expertise in planning and education facilities 2016: 363 million.
We aim to be the industry leader in all aspects of Our developments create economic benefits for planning and to secure the right planning consents local communities.
As well as new housing, these that enable us to respond to a changing market, can include new jobs on site and in the supply reflect the desires of our customer base and chain, increased revenues for local businesses deliver the quality homes we want to build, whilst during construction and from new residents, and meeting our financial objectives.
benefits arising from our investment in new Planning is fundamental to the success of our infrastructure and amenities.
We use our business, and we aim to progress sites through Economic Benefits toolkit to estimate and the planning process to enable us to develop our communicate these benefits to stakeholders sites as efficiently as possible.
During 2017 we during the planning process.
worked with communities, planners and landowners to convert a further 7,863 plots from the strategic pipeline.
