20 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 The customer at the heart of everything we do Making reating the intu brand in 2013 was a bold move, putting the Ccustomer at the heart of everything we do for all our staff.
Our commitment to this strategy over the last five years has paid off with the success of the brand evident throughout the customers business.
Our reputation, awareness and consideration scores are now the highest in the industry.
The brand works equally well in Spain.
Since we launched the smile brand at intu Asturias there has been a 135 per cent rise in net promoter score NPS.
We will be rebranding both Puerto Venecia and Madrid Xanad in 2018 to repeat that success.
Bringing joy to our customers and making Using experiences to drive brand choice Research helps us understand what makes our customers smile, them smile helps retailers ourish and and we use what we discover to create unique experiences creates new business opportunities for us, to do just that.
Three big campaigns in 2017, described below, delighted millions of customers while generating international driving returns for our shareholders PR that built brand awareness both in the UK and around the world.
This publicity helps us become the top choice when customers think about where they want to spend their shopping and leisure time.
Discovering money turns out to be one of the most joyful surprises.
Cue our spring release of hundreds of origami birds worth 10 each around our centres.
Our customers love ice cream Using science we researched so during the school summer what made the happiest holidays, we created and Christmas song and then unveiled the worlds smallest had one written which was ice cream van, giving out free performed at our centres to ice cream to shoppers, to their help get our customers into great delight.
Brand awareness 71% 26% 37% prompted spontaneous consideration The intu difference Making customers smile 21 Events with a difference vents with a difference are a key element of Eour brand promise they provide compelling experiences for customers and attract people from further who stay longer.
As well as collaborating with some of the biggest names in entertainment, from Sony Pictures to Playmobil and Nickelodeon, we run a biennial touring exhibition.
We kicked off in 2014 hosting the world-renowned Elephant Parade for its first ever national touring event.
In 2016 it was the Big Birdhouse Tour with the RSPB and the 2018 tour will embrace biodiversity.
Our strategy is not just about big set pieces every centre has an events programme designed around its retailers and audiences to celebrate local, national and international events.
Events with a Spanish twist: Dancers at Puerto Venecias summer Baila Nickelodeon All Stars ne of our star turns in 2017 was the Easter campaign with Joy jar goes digital Othe Nickelodeon All Stars.
The intu tour by the PAW Patrol crew gave us a national prole through the Nickelodeon channel e have loved lighting up and brought fantastic activities for 25,000 children making intu Wchildrens faces with an the first choice for families during the school holiday period.
unexpected treat from our joy jar.
So now we are taking our random acts of kindness concept online, with the digital joy jar pilot at intu Lakeside.
Aimed at the grown-ups this time, we use social media monitoring tool Local Measure in a geofenced area to spot people who are sharing their celebrations online.
If they opted in, we can reply to their message with a positive response, offering them an intu treat.
The pilot has created such surprise and delight that we are rolling the scheme out across all our centres in 2018.
2018 Viacom International Inc. All Rights Reserved.
