STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other statutory information UK Listing Rule disclosures Information required to be disclosed pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R may be found on the following pages: Information Annual report section Page Business review Strategic report 10-34 Dividend Strategic report 15 and 37 Future developments of the Company Strategic report 13, 18, 22 and 23 Corporate responsibility Strategic report 43-55 Greenhouse gas emission Strategic report 46 Employment policies Strategic report 50,51, 59 and 63 Principal risks Strategic report 56-57 Directors in office during the year Directors report 66, 67 and 71 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors report 88-98 Directors indemnity and insurance Other statutory information 99 Structure of share capital, voting rights and major shareholders Other statutory information 99-101 Policy on derivatives and financial instruments Other statutory information 100 Information required by LR 9.2.
2AR 2 a Relationship agreements Other statutory information 100 Statement on political donations Other statutory information 100 Rules governing appointments of Directors Other statutory information 101 Rules governing changes to the Articles of Association Other statutory information 101 Disclosure of information to auditor Other statutory information 102 Statement of capitalised interest Financial statements 126 Contract for the provision of services by major shareholder Financial statements 145 Directors Share capital In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, As at 31 December 2017, the Companys issued share capital all Directors will retire and submit themselves for election or was 458,379,033 ordinary shares of 20 pence each, credited as fully re-election at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As at the date of this Directors Report, the Company holds Details of Directors contracts or letters of appointment are 11,525,503 ordinary shares in treasury and the issued share capital included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
of the Company which carries voting rights of one vote per share comprises 446,853,530 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
During the year, no Director had any interest in any shares or Further details of the Companys issued share capital are shown in debentures in the Companys subsidiaries, or any material interests note 23 commencing on page 131. in any contract with the Company or a subsidiary being a contract of significance in relation to the Companys business.
The Companys shares are listed on the London, Hong Kong and Kazakhstan stock exchanges.
Directors indemnity and insurance A list of the Groups subsidiary undertakings and their principal KAZ Minerals maintains liability insurance for its Directors and activities is given in note 36 m commencing on page 158.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of the Directors, the Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary Purchase of own shares to the extent permitted by law.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting to purchase its own shares on the market within Annual General Meeting certain limits.
In the period since the 2017 Annual General Meeting, The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.15pm the Company has not purchased any shares under this authority.
on Thursday 3 May 2018 at the offices of Linklaters LLP, One Silk The Board will seek shareholders approval to renew the authority Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, United Kingdom.
Details of the to make market purchases of the Companys shares at the meeting venue and the resolutions to be proposed, together with forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
explanatory notes, are set out in a separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
A summary of the business carried out at the Annual General Meeting will be published on the Companys website www.
com 99 Other statutory information Although Eduard Ogay stepped down from the Board with effect Major shareholdings from 31 October 2014, as he continues to be considered to be As at 21 February 2018, the Company had been notified under acting in concert with Vladimir Kim for the purposes of the Code, Rule 5.1.
2 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the details of the relationship agreement between the Company, following interests in its total voting rights: Stansbury International Limited and Eduard Ogay have Number of Percentage ordinary shares of total voting been included.
of 20 pence rights held as at Name of holder each held 21 February 2018 Political donations 1,3 Cuprum Holding Limited 135,944,325 30.42% The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the Vladislav Kim 31,570,723 7.07% United Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political 2,3 organisations or incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
Harper Finance Limited 29,706,901 6.65% BlackRock, Inc 22,354,565 5.00% Policy on derivatives and financial instruments 1 Vladimir Kim holds a 100% interest in Cuprum Holding Limited.
The Groups objectives and policies on financial risk management, 2 Oleg Novachuk holds a 100% interest in Harper Finance Limited.
and information on the Groups exposures to foreign exchange, 3 For details of the underlying Directors full beneficial shareholding, please see the counterparty credit, commodity price, liquidity and interest rate table of Directors interests in ordinary shares on page 94 of this report.
risks can be found in note 31 commencing on page 137.
Relationship agreements Legal proceedings As required by Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2 a, on 23 July 2014, the Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a defendant in Company entered into: i an amended and restated relationship any proceedings which the Directors believe will have a material agreement originally entered into on 26 September 2005 with effect on either the Companys financial position or profitability.
Cuprum Holding Limited, Perry Partners S. A. and Vladimir Kim: Commitments and contingencies are disclosed in note 32 and ii a relationship agreement with Stansbury International commencing on page 144.
In accordance with Listing Rule 6.1.
4DR, each relationship Significant agreements change of control agreement establishes that all transactions between the Company The following significant agreements contain certain termination and the controlling shareholder are undertaken on an arms length and other rights for the counterparties upon a change of control basis and on normal commercial terms, that neither the controlling of the Company.
shareholder nor its associates will cause the Company to breach Each of a $1.3 billion facility agreement and a CNY1.0 billion facility or circumvent the Listing Rules or prevent the Company from agreement dated 16 December 2011 between KAZ Minerals complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules and that Aktogay Finance Limited as borrower and China Development neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will Bank Corporation as lender, contain terms which give the lender propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution the right to cancel any of the commitments provided to KAZ which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the Minerals Aktogay Finance Limited and declare all outstanding loans, proper application of the Listing Rules.
together with accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued Under the relationship agreement with Vladimir Kim, inter alia, and outstanding immediately due and payable on 30 business there must be a majority of independent Directors on the Board days notice if the Company ceases to hold directly or indirectly and on all its standing committees, and no material transaction may more than 50 per cent of the issued share capital of KAZ Minerals be entered into without approval of the independent Directors.
Aktogay Finance Limited and or certain other named subsidiaries.
Each relationship agreement will continue as long as the ordinary The terms of a pre-export finance debt facility dated shares are listed on the premium segment of the Official List and 20 December 2012, as amended and restated on 8 June 2017, traded on the London Stock Exchange and will terminate should between KAZ Minerals Finance PLC and a syndicate of banks, the relevant shareholder cease to be a controlling shareholder provide that if any person excluding Vladimir Kim and Oleg as defined in the Listing Rules.
Novachuk or group of people acting in concert, secures control of the Company: i a lender under the facility shall not be obliged The Company has complied with the independence provisions to fund a loan: and ii if a lender or lenders whose participation in included in the relationship agreements and, so far as the Company the loan outstanding exceeds two-thirds of the total loan amount is aware, such provisions have been complied with during the period outstanding so require, the parties shall enter into negotiations for a under review by the controlling shareholders and their associates.
period of not more than 30 days with a view to agreeing alternative terms for continuing the facility.
If no alternative basis has been agreed during such period, then the lenders may cancel the commitments of the lenders to lend the facility and declare all outstanding amounts due and payable.
100 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Each of a $1.8 billion facility agreement and a $149 million facility In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 which allows multiple agreement dated 29 December 2014 between KAZ Minerals proxies appointed by a single member to vote on a show of hands, Finance PLC as borrower and China Development Bank Corporation all substantive resolutions at general meetings will normally be put as lender, contain terms which give the lender the right to cancel to a poll vote.
Employees who participate in the Companys Share any of the commitments provided to KAZ Minerals Finance PLC Incentive Plans SIP and hold shares in the SIP trusts, provide and declare all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, directions to the trustee to vote on their behalf by way of a and all other amounts accrued and outstanding immediately due form of direction.
and payable on 30 business days notice if the Company ceases to The Company is not aware of any agreements between hold directly or indirectly more than 50 per cent of the issued shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
share capital of KAZ Minerals Finance PLC and or certain other named subsidiaries.
Dividend rights Shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but the The terms of a credit facility agreement dated 14 December amount of the dividend may not exceed the amount recommended 2016 between KAZ Minerals Aktogay LLC as borrower and by the Board.
Development Bank of Kazakhstan JSC as lender, provide that if there is a change in the ownership structure of the borrower in Transfer of shares an amount of 10% or more of the participating interests of the There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares other than borrower, to a person or persons other than a member of the certain restrictions as set out in the Companys Articles of Group and without the prior written consent of the lender, it Association.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried would trigger an event of default.
out using CREST and the Board can refuse a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations Going concern governing the operation of CREST.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to The Company is not aware of any agreements between continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future which shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer is for this purpose a period of at least 12 months from the date of of shares.
approval of these financial statements.
Accordingly, they continue Powers of the Directors to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the The Directors are responsible for the management of the business consolidated financial statements.
of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company Articles of Association subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the Companys The following description summarises certain provisions of Articles of Association.
the Companys Articles of Association and applicable English law Appointment and retirement of Directors concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This summary is The Board shall have the power at any time to appoint any person qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companys Articles of who is willing to act as a Director, so long as the total number of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys Articles Directors shall not exceed the maximum number prescribed in the of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a Articles.
Any Director so appointed shall retire at the next Annual general meeting of shareholders.
General Meeting following such appointment.
Every Director shall Rights attaching to shares retire at each Annual General Meeting.
A Director who retires at The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are an Annual General Meeting whether by rotation or otherwise defined in the Companys Articles of Association.
may, if willing to act, be re-appointed.
Voting rights Members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
On a show of hands every member or his her representative who is present in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution and on a poll every member or his her representative who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote on each resolution for each share of which he she is the holder.
com 101 Other statutory information continued accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and of Audit information the parent company and enable them to ensure that the financial The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are Directors Report confirm that so far as they each are aware, responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary there is no relevant audit information being information needed to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from by the auditors in connection with preparing their audit report, of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open taken all steps that he ought to have reasonably taken as a Director to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to detect fraud and other irregularities.
establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Auditors responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Having reviewed the independence, objectivity and performance Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement of the auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the that comply with that law and those regulations.
Board that the existing auditors, KPMG, be re-appointed.
Ordinary resolutions re-appointing them as auditors and authorising the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the the corporate and financial information included on the Companys 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of in other jurisdictions.
the Annual Report and the financial statements Responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Each Director confirms to the best of his her knowledge that: the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group and parent company accounts, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in taken as a whole: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law and the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements of the development and performance of the business and the on the same basis.
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their balanced and understandable and provides the information profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: and performance, business model and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply The Strategic Report comprising pages 10 to 63 and the Directors them consistently: Report comprising pages 64 to 102, and including the sections of make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Annual Report and Accounts referred to in these pages, have state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: as adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company Susanna Freeman financial statements: Company Secretary assess the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a 21 February 2018 going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and Registered Office th use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either 6 Floor, Cardinal Place intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to 100 Victoria Street cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
London SW1E 5JL The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Registered in England and Wales No.
05180783 parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable 102 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 104 Independent Auditors report 110 Consolidated statement of total comprehensive income 111 Consolidated balance sheet 112 Consolidated statement of cash flows 113 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements www.
