Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT GOING CONCERN BUSINESS VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors have assessed the Group as a going concern, In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code havinggiven consideration to factors likely to affect its future provision C. 2.2, theDirectors have reviewed the Groups current performance and development, the Groups financial position position andcarried out a robust assessment of the principal and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, risks and uncertainties that might threaten the business model, including theGroups exposure to credit, liquidity and market future performance, solvency and liquidity of the Group, risk and the mechanisms for dealing with these risks.
including resilience to such threats, and consider that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue The Groups net debt position at the year end of 2017 was in operation andmeet its liabilities as they fall due over a period $291.1m.
It has access to a syndicated revolving credit facility of at least 3years.
of $275m and a long term loan facility of $200m which both have an expiry date of February 2022.
There is a mechanism A period of 3 years was chosen as being consistent with the in the agreement for the facility to be increased by a further Groups business and financial planning models, R&D plans, $100m subject to other terms.
a number of key supply contracts and external borrowing facilities.
In addition, 3 years is the period used for mid-term Under this principal borrowing facility, the Group performs business planning purposes.
Whilst the Directors have no covenant tests for net debt:EBITDA ratio and interest cover.
reason to believe that theGroup will not be viable over a longer No breaches in the required covenant tests were reported during period, a 3 year period allows the Directors to make the viability the year.
The Group also uses various short and medium term statement with areasonable degree of confidence whilst forecasts to monitor anticipated future compliance and these providing shareholders with an appropriate longer term outlook.
include stress testing assumptions to identify the headroom The Directors viability assessment of the Groups prospects on these covenant tests.
is based on reviews of annual operating and 3 year business plans, bank covenant compliance forecasts, including The Directors are satisfied that, after considering all of the sensitivities, the Groups strategy and strategic priorities, above, itis appropriate for the Group and the Company to principal risks and how these are managed and mitigated.
adopt the goingconcern basis of accounting in preparing these How these reviews were carried out, the principal risks and Group and the parent company financial statements, and that how they are being managed are more fully described and there are no material uncertainties to the ability of the Group explained in the risk management section on pages 32 to 36, and Company to continue to do so over a period of at least together with relevant assumptions and qualifications.
12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS VIABILITY ASSESSMENT The Strategic report was approved by the Board The basis of the assessment includes a detailed review of and signed on its behalf by: strategic and operating plans, underpinned by 1 and 3 year financial forecasts including profit and loss and cash flows.
PAUL WATERMAN Consideration is therefore given to capital expenditures, CEO investment plans, returns to shareholders and other financial 27 February 2018 commitments, as well as to the Companys debt bearing capacity, its financial resources, borrowings and the availability of finance.
No review of business plans and financial forecasts is complete without a robust assessment of the risks and opportunities in such planning models and the assumptions used.
These reviews include consideration and discussion of the materials prepared and presented to the Board by management and its advisers where appropriate, as well as additional information requested by the Board.
The Boards programme of monitoring major risks is therefore an important component of the business viability assessment Business and segment growth scenarios, rate of return on investments, assumptions on global GDP growth rates, relevant currency rates, commodity prices in business plans and financial forecasts are all considered, with stress testing on financial models where appropriate.
Finally, a review of litigation and tax reports, legal and compliance risks throughout the year and at a formal year end risk review ensures that the viability statement is made with a reasonable degree of confidence.
37 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 38 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In this section: 40 Board of Directors 42 Executive Leadership team 44 Chairmans introduction to governance 45 Corporate governance report 49 Nomination Committee report 51 Audit Committee report 55 Directors remuneration report 77 Directors report 79 Directors responsibility statement 80 Independent auditors report 39 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
