94 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Directors report The Directors present their annual amended and restated on 19 February compensation for loss of office or report and the audited financial 2010, 18 November 2011 and 30 October employment resulting from a takeover statements of the Group and Company 2014 between, among others, the except that provisions of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Company and HSBC Bank PLC as share schemes may cause options and Pages 2 to 95 inclusive of this annual Agent on a change of control, if directed awards outstanding under such schemes report comprise the Directors report by a lender, the Agent may by notice to to vest on a takeover.
Further details can that has been drawn up and presented in the Company cancel the commitment of be found in the Directors remuneration accordance with English company law that lender and declare the participation report on page 85.
The terms of and the liabilities of the Directors in of that lender in all outstanding loans, appointment of the non-executive connection with that report will be together with accrued interest and all directors currently provide that in the subject to the limitations and restrictions other amounts accrued and owing to event of change of control, these provided by such law.
that lender under the finance documents, directors will be compensated for any immediately due and payable.
additional time commitment in certain Use of financial Instruments limited circumstances, to be calculated The financial review on pages 48 to 53, Under the terms and conditions of i on a per diem basis.
accounting policies on pages 112 to 116 160.4 million of 2.5 per cent Guaranteed and note 28 on pages 137 to 143 Convertible Bonds issued on 4 October Internal control contain information on the use of 2012 by Intu Jersey Limited and ii 375 The statement on corporate governance financial instruments.
million of 2.875 per cent Guaranteed on pages 60 to 95 includes the Boards Convertible Bonds issued on 1 November assessment following a review of internal Dividends 2016 by Intu Jersey 2 Limited, each of controls and consideration of the FRC The Directors declared an interim which are guaranteed by the Company, Guidance on risk management, internal ordinary dividend of 4.6 pence 2016: 4.6 on a change of control of the Company control and related financial and pence per share on 27 July 2017, which bondholders would have a right for a business reporting.
was paid on 21 November 2017, and have limited period of 60 days to exercise their recommended a final dividend for 2017 exchange rights at an enhanced exchange Directors of 9.4 pence per share 2016: 9.4 pence.
price ie lower than the prevailing The Directors of intu who held office exchange price.
In addition, bondholders during the year were as follows: Share capital and control of would become entitled for a limited Chairman Non-Executive the Company period of 60 days to require the relevant 1 Patrick Burgess Adle Anderson Details of the Companys share capital issue to redeem their bonds at their 2 3 John Strachan Richard Gordon including changes during the year in the principal amount, together with accrued 1 Deputy Chairman Andrew Huntley issued share capital and details of the and unpaid interest.
3 John Whittaker Rakhi Goss-Custard rights attaching to the Companys Executive Louise Patten ordinary shares are set out in note 30 on Under a 351.75 million term facility David Fischel Andrew Strang pages 144 and 145. agreement dated 19 March 2013 as Matthew Roberts amended and restated on 19 June 2015 No shareholder holds securities carrying between, among others, Intu SGS Finco 1 P atrick Burgess and Andrew Huntley stepped down on 3 May 2017. special rights with regard to control of the Limited SGS Finco and HSBC Bank plc 2 John Strachan was appointed Chairman on Company.
Shares held by the Companys as Facility Agent, on a change of 3 May 2017. employee share ownership plan rank pari control of the Company, if directed by a 3 John Whittaker and Richard Gordon have appointed Steven Underwood and Raymond Fine respectively passu with the shares in issue and have no lender, the Facility Agent may by notice to as their alternates under the terms of the special rights, but voting rights and rights SGS Finco declare all outstanding loans Companys Articles of Association.
of acceptance of any offer relating to the of that lender, together with accrued shares rest with the plans Trustee and are interest and all other amounts accrued Pursuant to the Articles of Association not exercisable by the employees.
There and owing to that lender under the of the Company, the Company has are no restrictions on voting rights or finance documents, immediately due indemnified the Directors to the full any arrangements by which, with the and payable.
The Company Companys co-operation, financial rights maintains directors and officers are held by a person other than the The Company is not party to any other insurance which is reviewed annually.
shareholder, or any agreements between significant agreements that would take shareholders known to the Company effect, alter or terminate following a Additional information relating to the which may result in restrictions on the change of control of the Company.
Directors can be found in note 43 on transfer of shares or on voting rights.
pages 158 and 159 on Directors interests, The Company does not have any specic in the governance section on pages 60 to Under a 600 million revolving-facility agreements with any Executive Director 77, and in the Directors remuneration or employee that would provide agreement dated 25 February 2009 as report on pages 78 to 93.
Governance Directors remuneration report 95 The powers of the Directors are 78 to 93.
Note 40 on pages 156 to 158 of minimising the adverse impact on determined by UK legislation and the contains details of conditional awards of the environment of its operations and Articles of Association of the Company, shares under the annual bonus scheme the obligation to carefully manage together with any specic authorities and bonus shares currently outstanding.
energy and water consumption and that may be given to the Directors by waste recycling.
shareholders from time to time, such intu operates a non-discriminatory as the power to allot shares and the employment policy and full and fair The Company strives continuously to power to make market purchases of consideration is given to applications for improve its environmental performance.
the Companys shares which are employment from people with disabilities The environmental management system described in note 30 on page 145. or other protected characteristics under and associated environmental policy the Equality Act where they have the and guide are regularly reviewed to Articles of Association appropriate skills and abilities, and to ensure that the Company maintains its The rules governing the appointment and the continued employment of staff commitment to environmental matters.
replacement of Directors are contained who become disabled.
in the Companys Articles of Association.
Additional disclosures Changes to the Articles of Association intu encourages the continuous For the purpose of LR 9.8.
4CR, the only must be approved by shareholders in development and training of its information required to be disclosed by accordance with the legislation in force employees and the provision of equal LR 9.8.
4R relates to sub-section 1 from time to time.
opportunities for the training and career thereof interest capitalised where the development of disabled employees and amount is 4.9 million 2016: 2.1 million Substantial shareholdings those with protected characteristics.
All other sub-sections of LR The table at the foot of the page 9.8.
shows the holdings of major shareholders Further information relating to employees in accordance with the Disclosure is given on pages 54 to 56 and in note 7 Directors disclosure of Guidance and Transparency Rules on page 118.
The Group provides information to the auditors of the FCA at 31 December 2017 retirement benets for the majority So far as the Directors are aware, and 20 February 2018. of its employees.
Details of the Group there is no relevant audit information pension arrangements are set out in of which the auditors are unaware and Employees note 41 on page 158. each Director has taken all reasonable intu actively encourages employee steps to make himself or herself aware involvement and consultation and places The environment of any relevant audit information and emphasis on keeping its employees We have an independent corporate to establish that the auditors are aware informed of the Groups activities and responsibility CR strategy and details of that information.
financial performance by such means of our policies and the Groups aims as employee briengs and publication alongside the latest full version of our Auditors to all staff of relevant information and annual CR report are to be found on the The auditors,  corporate announcements.
Details of the Companys website.
An overview of the LLP, have indicated their willingness to intu all-employee survey are provided in Groups CR activity, which includes continue in office and a resolution seeking the Our people section on pages 54 to 56. disclosures relating to greenhouse gas to reappoint them will be proposed at emissions, is on pages 57 to 59, and a the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The annual bonus plan arrangements summary booklet is also available for help develop employees interest in the download from the website or on request Annual general meeting Companys performance: full details of from the Company Secretarys office.
The notice convening the 2018 annual these arrangements are given in the general meeting of the Company will Directors remuneration report on pages The Company recognises the importance be published separately and will be available on the Companys website and At 31 December 2017 At 20 February 2018 distributed to those shareholders who Number of % interest in Number of % interest have elected to receive hard copies of Shareholder shares notied share capital shares notied in share capital shareholder information.
