OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS SPECIALTY PRODUCTS We provide high value functional additives to the Personal Care, Coatings and Energy end markets that improve the flow characteristics and performance of our customers products and production processes.
2017 revenue 2017 revenue $179.3m $372.9m PERSONAL CARE Competition COATINGS Competition Business model Elementis is a leader in Business model Elementis is a leader in the Our Personal Care business organoclay based rheology Our Coatings business global rheology modifiers supplies rheology modifiers modifiers and antiperspirant supplies rheology modifiers and additives segment.
based on organoclay, active ingredients.
and additives to Our competitors include synthetic and natural Competitors include BYK, manufacturers of decorative BYK, Ashland, Arkema, ingredients to Personal Care Gulbrandsen and others.
Through our recently acquired Competition in these Customers Competition is based SummitReheis operations, segments is based on Our customers are on quality of service, we also supply the active formulation capabilities, manufacturers of decorative technological capabilities ingredient for the production customer service levels and industrial coatings.
Market drivers Customers Market drivers Demand for decorative Our customers include Demand for Personal Care coatings is influenced global and local Personal products is driven primarily by disposable income, Care manufacturers.
by disposable income maintenance spend, levels, product innovation housing transactions and consumer trends.
Demand for industrial coatings is driven by general macroeconomic activity levels and sector specific e. g. automotive, marine factors.
com 16 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CHROMIUM We are a leading producer of chromium chemicals.
We provide chromium chemicals to customers that make their products more durable and which are used in a wide range of sectors and applications.
2017 revenue 2017 revenue $58.8m $186.7m ENERGY Competition Business model Competition Business model Elementis is a leader in We supply a range of Elementis has approximately Our Energy business organoclay based rheology chromium chemicals a 10% share of the global supplies rheological modifiers for energy including dichromate, chromium chemicals market.
Technical chrome oxide, chromic primarily for oil and gas capability and supply acid and chrome sulphate.
Competitors range from drilling and stimulation chain footprint are top These products are used multinational companies to activities.
These products of the buyer criteria.
by customers across a privately owned businesses.
are formulated to lubricate wide range of sectors and the drill bit, control formation Competitors in this market applications to make their Market drivers pressure and remove include BYK and multiple products more corrosion Across our 3 main product cuttings in drilling fluids.
categories, the demand We are the only domestic drivers are as follows: Customers Market drivers producer of chromium Chrome oxide: Our customers are typically The oil price is the primary chemicals in the US.
construction, coatings the global and large driver of drilling rig activity and aircraft engine regional independent levels and the number of Customers demand oilfield service companies wells drilled.
However, there Our customers span a Chromic acid: who use our products in are also other important range of industries including construction and various oil and gas drivers such as well head pigments, chrome metal, infrastructure demand producing regions around breakeven cost, the number refractory, metal finishing, Chrome sulphate: the world.
of wells per rig, the length timber treatment and beef consumption.
of lateral drilling and the leather tanning.
drilled and uncompleted well count DUC.
com SURFACTANTS In December 2017, we agreed the sale of our Surfactants business to Kolb Distribution AG for 39m.
17 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
