CHAIRMAN 58 CEO 53 Andrew joined the Board as Paul was appointed Group CEO a Non-Executive Director and on 8 February 2016.
Deputy Chairman on 1 April 2014 and was appointed NonSkills, competence Executive Chairman and and experience Chairman of the Nomination Paul has a proven track record Committee on 24 April 2014. in developing markets, products and opportunities for creating Skills, competence value, business optimisation and and experience transformation.
Andrew has a demonstrable Elementis, Paul was global CEO track record in delivering value of the BP lubricants business in to customers and shareholders 2013 after having overseen the through significant boardroom BP Australia New Zealand experience gained from large downstream business.
This combined Paul was country president of BP with experience in the Australia.
Prior to this he was CEO manufacturing, energy and of BPs global aviation, industrial, utilities sectors enables Andrew marine and energy lubricants to lead the Elementis Board.
From businesses 2009 to 2010 and 2003 until 2009, he was chief CEO of BP Lubricants Americas 5.
6. executive officer of Npower, the 2007 to 2009.
He joined BP after successor entity to Innogy plc it acquired Burmah-Castrol in which in 2000 was demerged 2000, having joined the latter from, restructured and then sold in 1994 after roles at Reckitt by National Power to RWE, the Benckiser and Kraft Foods.
German electricity and gas company.
Andrew was also a Paul holds a BSc degree in member of the RWEs executive Packaging Engineering from committee.
Before this Andrew Michigan State University and an spent 16 years at BP in MBA in Finance and International downstream international Business from New York markets.
Andrew has also been University, Stern School of 7.
Wolseley plc, the international plumbing and building materials Nationality company, between 2004 and American December 2013, where he was also the senior independent director and chairman of the 3.
CFO 54 Ralph was appointed CFOAndrew holds a BSc Honours Designate and an Executive degree in Mechanical Director on 12 September 2016, Engineering and is a fellow and became Group CFO on of the Energy Institute.
Committee membership Skills, competence N and experience Ralph is an accomplished CFO External appointments who has a strong track record Non-executive chairman of in finance, strategy development Severn Trent plc from July and implementation, and mergers 2010 and a member of the and acquisitions.
During his corporate responsibility 30 year career with BP, Ralph committee, nominations held a number of significant committee and remuneration leadership positions, including committee roles in financial management, Member of the CBI Presidents sales and marketing, corporate Committee development M&A, strategy and Trustee of Macmillan Cancer planning.
In 2010, Ralph was CFO Support of BP Lubricants and served on Trustee of the Earth Trust the board of Castrol India Limited from 2010 until 2016.
Nationality British Ralph holds an MA degree in Modern History and Economics from the University of Oxford and an MBA from INSEAD.
Nationality British Key A Member of Audit Committee N Member of Nomination Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Committee 40 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information and the Bill & Melinda Gates 4.
Prior to her current SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR executive role, she was CFO and DIRECTOR 65 56 50 company secretary of BBI Nick was appointed a Steve was appointed a Sandra was appointed a Diagnostics Group Ltd and Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Director on FTSE-listed Vectura Group plc.
20 October 2014 and became 20 October 2014 and became 1 February 2017.
Previous senior finance positions Senior Independent Director Chairman of the Remuneration held include director of corporate on 16 December 2014.
Skills, competence finance at Celltech Group plc, and experience Medeva plc and KPMG.
Skills, competence Skills, competence Sandra brings strategic and experience and experience experience gained as a Anne holds a degree in Business Nick brings extensive experience Steve has international consultant to complex global Studies from Trinity College, Dubin both as a non-executive director experience in specialty chemicals companies on transformational and is a chartered accountant and as an accomplished businesses, manufacturing and change.
She was a senior partner FCA and a corporate tax adviser executive.
He has been diverse industrial markets.
Steve at McKinsey & Company from CTA AITI.
responsible for leading several was chief executive of Low & 2005 to 2014 and a partner from major restructuring projects and Bonar plc between September 2000, where she specialised in Committee membership negotiating complex acquisitions 2009 and September 2014.
Prior investment banking and risk, and A, N. and disposals.
He was chief to that role, he was managing held several senior management executive of Cookson Group plc director of its technical textiles positions in the UK and the US.
External appointments from July 2004 to December 2012 division between 2006 and 2009, At McKinsey, Sandra acted as Non-executive director of when Cookson demerged to director of new business between an adviser to global financial Clinigen Group plc from create 2 new listed companies, 2005 and 2006, and managing institutions, corporates and public January 2018 and chairman Vesuvius plc and the specialty director of its plastics division sector bodies on a wide range of of the audit committee chemicals company, Alent plc.
Prior strategic, operational and policy He was formerly executive to joining Low & Bonar, he spent issues.
Sandra has held other Nationality vice-president of Alstom S. A.
10 years with BTP plc now part of non-executive and advisory Irish and chief executive of Babcock Clariant in a variety of leadership appointments with the Institute International Group plc.
He held positions managing international of International Finance, the other senior management speciality chemicals businesses.
DOROTHEE DEURING, positions at GEC and GEC He was also non-executive director Trust and the Edith Wharton NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Alsthom and the China Light and chairman of the remuneration Restoration.
committee of Cape plc from July Dorothee was appointed 2015 to September 2017.
Sandra has a BA degree in a Non-Executive Director Nick served as a non-executive American Studies and Economics on 1 March 2017. director of United Utilities plc from Steve holds a degree in from Stanford University and an 2005 to 2014, where he was also Economics and Financial MBA degree from Harvard Skills, competence senior independent director from Management from Sheffield Business School.
He is a chartered Dorothees background is in accountant.
Committee membership corporate finance with experience Nick holds a degree in A, N, R. in the broader chemicals sector.
Mechanical Engineering and Committee membership She manages her own corporate is a fellow of the Royal Academy R, N. External appointments advisory consultancy serving a of Engineering.
External member of the number of European clients in the External appointments Bank of Englands Prudential pharma biotech sector.
She is Committee membership Non-executive chairman of Regulation Committee active in various industry bodies.
A, N, R. Zotefoams plc non-executive from September 2014 and Her previous executive roles director from October 2014 an independent member of included managing director and External appointments and chairman from April 2016 the executive committee of the head of Corporate Advisory Non-executive director of and chairman of the nomination Bank that oversees the real Group Europe at UBS in Zurich, Interserve plc from August committee and member of the time gross settlement service head of M&A chemicals and 2014 and a member of the remuneration committee and high value payment system healthcare at a private investment audit committee, nomination Non-executive director of from November 2017 bank in Germany and as a senior committee and remuneration Anglian Water Services from A non-executive director executive in the corporate finance committee April 2015 and member of the of Enstar Group Ltd from department at the Roche Group.
Independent chairman of audit committee, nomination November 2015, chairman South East Water Limited committee and remuneration of the risk committee and a Dorothee holds a masters degree from April 2015 committee member of the compensation in Chemistry from the Universit and nominating committees Louis Pasteur, Strasbourg and Nationality Nationality an MBA from INSEAD.
British British Nationality British American Committee membership A, N, R. 6.
ANNE HYLAND, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Andrew Christie stepped down External appointments 57 as a Non-Executive Director on Non-executive director of Anne was appointed a 25 April 2017. supervisory board of Bilfinger Non-Executive Director in June SE from May 2016 and 2013 and became Chairman member of audit committee of the Audit Committee on Non-executive director of 1 August 2013.
Rchling Group SE from May 2016 Skills, competence Non-executive director of AXPO and experience Holding AG from March 2017 Anne brings substantial financial expertise to the Board.
She is Nationality currently CFO of Kymab Ltd, a Austrian biopharmaceutical company funded by the Wellcome Trust 41 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
