04 Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY In the cities where we operate, we In a competitive and changing market, Unites business aim to be the partner of choice for model and future strategy are focused on leveraging a Universities seeking to optimise their accommodation strategy.
unique combination of assets and capabilities to provide homes for students in the locations where they are most Quality University needed.
We call this combination Home for Success.
It aims partnerships to drive advocacy among both students and our University Our annual survey of University decisionmakers shows that our investment in partners, as well as long term earnings and capital relationships has driven our reputation growth for our shareholders.
within the sector to a record high.
As a result, 60 per cent of our accommodation is currently allocated to students under Thanks to our long experience in Our future strategy involves using our University nominations agreements.
We the student accommodation market, insight to continue improving the design are working to increase the maturity profile Unite has unrivalled understanding of and specification of our properties to of these agreements and, in the process, what matters most to students.
We use make sure they keep in step with underpin sustainable earnings growth.
this insight to deliver buildings and changing student priorities.
Nearly 70 per cent of our nominated beds services focused on their needs.
Our are now covered by multi-year contracted R ead more about understanding of student preferences agreements with occupancy and rental Our properties on p36 represents an important competitive growth commitments.
advantage, continually refreshed by Quality investing in new research into different As Universities work to underwrite their people aspects of student living.
long-term accommodation requirements, We aim to create an environment that we are increasingly focused on identifying is supportive but allows students the Since opening our first building in 1991, opportunities for deeper partnerships independence they want.
For example, Unite has built the UKs largest portfolio of involving either the transfer of existing all our people receive training in customer student accommodation.
We continuously assets or new developments built explicitly service and active listening and work work to align this portfolio with midand based on a Universitys commitment to a closely with Universities to ensure help is upper-tier Universities, where demand for long-term nominations agreement.
We are, in addition, higher education is greatest.
Over 85 per currently rolling out a programme Read also about cent of our buildings are currently aligned of Student Ambassadors to provide Quality University partnerships on p10 with such institutions.
additional peer-to-peer support for Through the combination of the UKs our residents.
We are proud to be a A strong balance sheet, together best portfolio of student accommodation, Living Wage employer, and retain our with our investment in the Unite Student the best service platform and the strongest Investors in People Gold accreditation.
Accommodation Fund USAF and the University relationships, Unite aims to London Student Accommodation Joint reinforce its position as the strongest brand Quality service Venture LSAV give the company a in the PBSA sector.
We aim to outperform platform flexible range of options for funding our competitors and generate sustainable development, investment and futureBy combining our student insight long-term earnings growth coupled to funded property acquisitions.
with sustained investment in back capital appreciation, driving superior office systems, value-added services total returns for our shareholders.
We constantly review opportunities to and our 1,400 employees, we have enhance both the size and quality of our created a scalable operating platform property portfolio.
In 2017, for example, that drives operational efficiency, the company made acquisitions totalling ensures consistency and enhances 3,500 new beds in strategically important our customers experience.
cities, while disposing of 4,800 beds in less attractive locations.
Our rents include all household bills, contents insurance and high speed Wi-Fi.
We will continue to exploit our Digitalising routine tasks such as room understanding of the market and flexible bookings and payments has made key capital structure to continue growing the administrative processes simpler and easier size and quality of our portfolio in cities for students while simultaneously driving Read more about where the demand for PBSA is greatest.
New app-based services allow Sustainability on p48 students to meet their flatmates online Quality before arriving at University and to quickly Read more about Relationships on p06 properties report any issues once checked in.
Our buildings are located close to Read more about We will continue to differentiate University campuses and designed Principal risks and uncertainties on p24 our student proposition and brand around the priorities of mainstream by investing in value-added services Read more about students.
The majority of our buildings, for Operations review on p32 for students.
We are, in particular, example, are arranged in the preferred continuously considering how we can format of clusters of en-suite bedrooms Read more about further exploit our digital capability to with shared kitchens and living areas.
Property review on p36 make the vital transition to University as Importantly, all our buildings also have smooth as possible and make students Read more about common recreational and study spaces Up to uS on p48 day-to-day lives easier.
where students can socialise and work.
Read more about R ead more about Our service platform and people on Financial review on p42 p08 and p32 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 05 QUALITY QUALITY QUALITY SERVICE UNIVERSITY QUALITY PROPERTIES PLATFORM PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE Creating the UKs Delivering The partner Engaged, largest portfolio high levels of choice for committed, of student of customer Universities people accommodation satisfaction HOME FOR SUCCESS University Best partner of customer choice experience Earnings & NAV growth Growing Investment dividends in growth THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
