Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORS REPORT REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Directors present their report and the audited financial Ralph Hewins is in receipt of a conflict authorisation from the statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended Company inrespect of him acting as a trustee of the Elementis 31 December 2017.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE The conflict authorisation enables Ralph Hewins to continue Other information that is relevant to this report and which is also to act as a trustee notwithstanding that this role could give rise incorporated by reference can be located as follows: to a situation in which there is a conflict of interest.
The Board considers that it is appropriate for the trustees of the UK Business model Pages 18 to 19 pension scheme tobenefit from the financial expertise of the CFO and that his contribution at trustees meetings Reignite Growth strategy Pages 4 to 11 demonstrates the Boards commitment to supporting the UK Indication of future developments Page 13 pension scheme.
The Boards conflict authorisation is subject Dividend Page 24 to annual review and, under the terms of the conflict resolution, reciprocal provisions have been put in place with a view to Results Pages 22 to 25 safeguarding information that is confidential to the Group as Financial assets and liabilities Page 91 well as to the trustees.
Were a conflict of interest to arise, Ralph Hewins is required to excuse himself from reading the relevant Principal risks Pages 32 to 36 papers and absent himself from participating in relevant R&D activities Pages 8 to 9 discussions.
No other Directors were in receipt of a conflict People Pages 26 to 27 authorisation from the Board during the year.
Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 30 to 31 DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Going concern Page 37 In addition to the indemnity granted by the Company to Viability statement Page 37 Directors in respect of their liabilities incurred as a result of their office, a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy Long term incentive plans Pages 124 to 126 is maintained throughout the year.
Neither the indemnity nor the Dividend waiver Page 78 insurance provides cover in the event that a Director has proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Similar arrangements TAKEOVER DIRECTIVE DISCLOSURES also exist for Directors appointed to Group subsidiary entities.
The management report, for the purposes of the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules comprises the EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES following sections: the Strategic report, this Directors report, Elementis policies seek to create a workplace that has an the Directors responsibility statement and the biographical open atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment information on the Directors on pages 40 and 41. or discrimination of any kind based on race, colour, religion, gender, age, national origin, citizenship, mental or physical DIRECTORS AND THEIR SHARE INTERESTS disabilities, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other The current Directors and their biographical details are detailed similarly protected status is not tolerated.
This principle applies on pages 40 and 41.
Changes to the Directors and Company to all aspects of employment, including recruitment and Secretary during the year and up to the date of this report, selection, training and development, promotion and retirement.
are set out below: Employees are free to join a trade union or participate Name Title Effective date in collective bargaining arrangements.
Sandra Boss Non-Executive Appointed 1 February 2017 Director It is also Group policy for employees who have a disability to reasonably accommodate them, where practicable, Dorothee Deuring Non-Executive Appointed 1 March 2017 and to provide training, career development and promotion, Director as appropriate.
Andrew Christie Non-Executive Resigned 25 April 2017 Director It is Group policy not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful Wai Wong Company Resigned 31 January 2018 criteria and its practices include the prohibition on the use of Secretary child or forced labour.
Laura Higgins Company Appointed 31 January 2018 Elementis supports the wider fundamental human rights of its Secretary employees worldwide, as well as those of our customers and suppliers, and further details are set out in the Corporate social The interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company responsibility report.
are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors from EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATIONS AND INVOLVEMENT 31 December 2017 up until the date of this report.
The Company is committed to employee involvement throughout the business.
Employees are kept informed of DIRECTORS POWERS the performance and strategy of the Group through email.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation Telephone conference calls are held by the CEO to employees andby the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
worldwide and these serve as an informal forum for employees Rules about the appointment andreplacement of Directors to ask questions about the Group.
are also set out in the Articles.
The Company operates savings based share option schemes inthe US and UK to encourage and support employee share ownership.
77 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT The rules of the Companys various share incentive schemes The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have set out the consequences of a change of control of the adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable Company on the rights of the participants under those schemes.
future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern Under the rules of the respective schemes, participants would basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Code requires generally be able toexercise their options on a change of the Directors to assess and report on the prospects of the control, provided that the relevant performance conditions have Group over a longer period.
This longer term viability statement been satisfied and, where relevant, options are not exchanged is set out on page37.
for new options granted by anacquiring company.
SHARE CAPITAL POLITICAL DONATIONS The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares, as set The Group made no political donations during the year out in note 9 on page 108.
All of the Companys issued ordinary 2016: nil.
shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
The rights attached tothem, in addition to those conferred on their BRANCHES holders bylaw, are set out in the Companys Articles.
Other than As a global Group, Elementis interests and activities are held those specific provisions set out in the Articles, there are no or operated through subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise or associates which are established in, and subject to the laws ofvoting rights attached to them.
From time to time the ESOT and regulations of, many different jurisdictions.
holdsshares in the Company for the purposes of various share incentiveplans and the rights attaching to them are exercised AUDITORS byindependent trustees, who may take into account any Deloitte LLP were appointed the Companys auditors by recommendation by the Company.
As at 31 December 2017 shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM the ESOT held 869,207 shares in the Company 2016: 455,000. and were re-appointed at the 2017 AGM.
A resolution is Adividend waiver is in place in respect of all shares that may included in the Notice of Meeting for the 2018 AGM to become held by the Trust.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this As at 27 February 2018, the following interests in voting rights Directors report confirm that, in so far as they are each aware, over the issued share capital of the Company had been notified.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps Percentage of that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves issued ordinary aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Ordinary shares share capital Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. anditsgroup 46,395,441 10.00 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AXA Investment Managers S. A.
46,255,532 9.98 The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00 am on Thursday 26 April 2018 at the offices of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, APG Asset Management N. V. 31,251,876 6.74 Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2EG.
Details Blackrock, Inc. 27,132,773 5.85 of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in a separate circular which has been sent to shareholders FMR LLC 23,192,771 5.00 and is available on the Elementis corporate website: Aberdeen Asset Managers www.
Limited 23,056,448 4.97 OTHER INFORMATION PURCHASE OF SHARES Information about financial risk management and exposure The Board has the power conferred on it by shareholders to to financial market risks are set out in note 21 to the financial purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power statements on pages 114 to 119. atthe forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the Notice of Meeting.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE There were no significant events after the balance sheet date.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL There are few significant agreements which the Company is On behalf of the Board party to that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company.
The Company is a guarantor under LAURA HIGGINS the Groups $200m long term loan and $275m revolving credit Company Secretary facility and, in the event of a change of control, any lender among 27 February 2018 the facility syndicate, of which there are 8 with commitments ranging from $35m to $75m, may withdraw from the facility and that lenders participation in any loans drawn down are required to be repaid.
78 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
