Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 30 GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL AND STATUS PERFORMANCE AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Company is an investment company within the meaning KPIs of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
At each board meeting, the directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for The KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the year ended 31 December 2016, subject to matters that the Company over time are established industry measures may arise from any subsequent enquiry by HM Revenue & and are as follows: Customs into the Companys tax return.
In the opinion of the directors the Company has subsequently conducted its the movement in net asset value per ordinary share affairs so as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
compared to the comparative indices: the movement in the share price: OBJECTIVE the discount: and The Companys objective is described at page 2 Policy and Objective.
INVESTMENT POLICY STRATEGY A historical record of these measures is shown on pages 26 While the policy is global investment in smaller quoted and 27. companies in TMT, the approach is to construct a diversified portfolio through the identification of individual companies SHARE CAPITAL which offer long term growth potential, typically over a five At 31 December 2017 the Companys capital structure year horizon or more.
The portfolio is actively managed and consisted of 70,307,785 ordinary shares of 25p each 2016 does not seek to track any comparative index.
During the year 2,754,016 to invest in smaller companies with market capitalisation 2016 3,049,745 shares were bought back and cancelled.
generally below $3bn, there tends to be a correlation with There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer the performance of smaller companies, as well as those of of the Companys ordinary shares and there are no special the technology sector.
A degree of volatility relative to the rights attached to any of the shares.
On a winding up, after overall market should be expected.
meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion to The risk associated with the illiquidity of smaller companies their shareholdings.
is reduced by generally restricting the stake in any one company to less than 10% of the shares in issue.
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Anumber of investments are in early stage companies, The Company does not currently have any exposure to which have a higher stock specific risk but the potential derivative instruments.
In 2008, the Company entered for above average growth.
Stock specific risk is reduced into a 50m, 30-year interest rate swap with RBS to by having a diversified portfolio of over 250 holdings.
hedge the cash flow risk to the Company arising from In addition, to contain the risk of any one holding, the interest rate fluctuations.
The swap was reduced to manager generally takes profits when a holding reaches 25m in December 2014 and closed out in July 2016. more than 5% of the portfolio.
The manager actively manages the exposure within the constraint that illiquid BORROWINGS SEE NOTE 11 OF THE FINANCIAL positions cannot be traded for short term movements.
STATEMENTS The Company has a multi-currency revolving loan facility The Company has a policy not to invest more than 15% of with RBS up to 25m, maturing in December 2019, under gross assets in other UK listed investment companies.
which no drawdowns have been made to date.
The Company had a sterling term loan facility with RBS of 25m From time to time, fixed interest holdings, non-equity or which was drawn down in full for much of the year but unlisted investments may be held on an opportunistic basis.
repaid at the expiry of its term on 29 December 2017.
The Company recognises the long term advantages of REVIEW OF THE YEAR AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS gearing and has a maximum gearing limit of 50% of net A review of the year and the investment outlook is contained assets.
Borrowings are invested primarily in equity markets in the chairmans statement and the investment managers but the manager is entitled to invest in other securities in the report on pages 8 to 14. companies in the target areas when it is considered that the investment grounds merit the Company taking a geared BREXIT position.
The boards intention is to gear the portfolio when The board believes that the UKs decision to leave appropriate.
Gearing levels are monitored closely by the the EU is the right decision for the future prosperity manager and reviewed by directors at each board meeting.
and well-being of the UK and that it will not present a threat to the Companys business model, its viability The Company may use derivatives which will be principally, statement or its ability to continue producing accounts but not exclusively, for the purpose of efficient portfolio on a going concern basis.
The UK is a world leader in the management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, transferring development and delivery of in particular innovative or eliminating investment risk in its investments, including technological solutions and the board sees no reason protection against currency risk.
why this should change once the UK has left the EU.
A detailed analysis of the Companys investment portfolioisset out on pages 20 to 25 and in the investment managersreport.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 31 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES VIABILITY STATEMENT The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and The UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rules principal risks to the success of the business model are require that the Company should publish a longer-term therefore market related and include market risk comprising statement on the viability of the Company.
The directors currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity consider that three years is an appropriate forward risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks which looking time period.
This recognises the Companys have been subject to robust assessment by the directors current position, the investment strategy, which includes and how they are managed is contained in note 18 to the investment in smaller companies and start-ups where a accounts on pages 60 to 66, and a description of the internal three year horizon is a meaningful period over which to controls operated by the Company is on pages 35 and 36. judge prospects, the boards assessment of the main risks that threaten the business model and the relatively fast Other risks to the Companys model, future performance, moving nature of the sectors in which the Company invests.
solvency or liquidity include the following: The directors confirm that, based on reviews conducted Regulatory risk failure to comply with applicable legal and as part of the detailed internal controls and risk regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the management processes set out on pages 35 and 36, they Companys Stock Exchange listing, financial penalties by the have a reasonable expectation that the Company will UKLA or a qualified audit report.
Breach of the Corporation continue to maintain its status as an investment trust, to Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to tax implement its investment strategy and to operate and on capital gains.
The manager, depositary and administrator be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least provide regular reports to the audit committee on their the next three financial years.
Their consideration also monitoring programmes.
The manager monitors investment takes into account the Companys gearing and financing positions and the manager and company secretary arrangements and its projected income and expenditure.
monitor the level of forecast income and expenditure.
There are no current plans to amend the investment Major regulatory change could impose disproportionate strategy, which has delivered good investment performance compliance burdens on the Company.
In such for shareholders over many years and, the directors believe, circumstances representation would be made to seek to should continue to do so.
The investment strategy and its ensure that special circumstances of investment trusts are associated risks are kept under constant review by the board.
By definition, investment in smaller and start-up Operational financial custody risk failure of the companies carries higher risks, both in terms of stock administrators accounting systems or those of other third liquidity and longer-term business viability and this party service providers could lead to an inability to provide risk is accepted by the board.
In addition, it should be accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation of noted that under the Companys articles of association, assets.
The manager, administrator and company secretary shareholders are required to vote triennially on whether each have comprehensive business continuity plans which the Company should continue as an investment trust, facilitate continued operation of the business in the event so the longer-term viability statement is contingent of a service disruption or major disruption.
The audit upon shareholders voting to support any continuation committee receives the administrators report on internal vote falling within the relevant three year period.
The controls and the reports by other key third party providers next continuation vote will be at the AGM in 2019. are reviewed by the manager and company secretary on behalf of the audit committee.
The depositary reports EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY ISSUES, GENDER six monthly on custody matters, including the continued The Company has no employees.
Its board is made up of safe custody of the Companys assets by the custodian.
Discount volatility the discount at which the Companys As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social shares trade can widen.
The board monitors the level of or community responsibilities.
However, the Company discount and the Company has authority to buy back its believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider own shares.
environmental, social and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Details of the Gearing risk the Company may borrow money for Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be investment purposes.
If the investments fall in value, found under the section on stewardship later in this report.
any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the board and gearing levels are discussed by the board and manager at every meeting.
The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 32 GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, STRATEGY STEWARDSHIP RESPONSIBILITIES AS AN IMPLEMENTATION AND ADMINISTRATION INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER The management of the Company and the The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the implementation of its investment strategy is contracted investment manager, HIML.
The manager votes against to Herald Investment Management Limited HIML.
resolutions it considers may damage shareholders rights or HIML is authorised and regulated by the Financial economic interests.
The Company believes that it is in the Conduct Authority both for investment management shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and and as an Alternative Investment Fund Manager see governance ESG factors when selecting and retaining regulatory compliance in the directors report.
investments and has asked the manager to take these issues into account as long as the investment objectives are not The management contract is subject to 12 months notice by compromised.
The manager does not exclude companies either party.
The senior director of HIML with prime from its investment universe purely on the grounds of ESG responsibility for the management of the Companys issues but adopts a positive engagement approach whereby portfolio is Katie Potts, who is also a substantial shareholder matters are discussed with management with the aim of of HIML Holdings Limited, the parent company of HIML.
improving the relevant policies and management systems HIML is remunerated at an annual rate of 1.0% of the and enabling the manager to consider how ESG factors Companys net asset value calculated using middle market could impact long term investment returns.
Compensation fees would only be payable in respect statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can of this 12 month period if termination were to occur sooner.
be found on the managers website at www.
Careful consideration has been given by the board as to the The managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by basis on which the management fee is charged.
considers that maintaining an appropriate level of ongoing charges for a specialist trust is in the best interest of all DIVIDENDS shareholders.
The board is also of the view that calculating The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
the fee with reference to performance would be unlikely to Interim dividends are determined by the directors and final exert a positive influence over the long term performance.
dividends are subject to shareholder approval.
The directors At 31 December 2017, Katie Potts held 447,817 of the do not recommend a dividend for the period under review.
By order of the board At 31 December 2017, the Company was the beneficial owner of 15.4% of the ordinary share capital of HIML Julian Cazalet Holdings Limited.
Chairman 20 February 2018 Administration of the Company and its investments has been delegated by HIML to The Bank of New York Mellon BNYM and company secretarial duties have been delegated to Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited.
The board considers the investment management and secretarial arrangements for the Company on a continuing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
The board considers, amongst others, the following topics in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment policy and strategy: the continuity of personnel managing the assets and reporting to the board: the level of service provided in terms of the accuracy and timeliness of reports to the board and the frequency and quality of both verbal and written communications with shareholders.
Following the most recent review the board is of the opinion that the continued appointment of HIML as investment manager, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders due to the experience of the manager and the quality of information provided to the board.
