62 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Persimmons 2012 Remuneration Committee proposed the 2012 LTIP to run alongside the CRP following consultation with shareholders.
This was approved with a vote of 84.9% in favour.
Under the agreement, the top three executives are legally entitled to receive these payments and legal advice re-confirmed that the Remuneration Committee had no discretion to modify them.
The lack of a cap on payments led to our Chairman, Nicholas Wrigley, and our Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chair, Jonathan Davie, tendering their resignations from the Board in December 2017 and we would like to acknowledge their demonstration of accountability.
I became chair of the Remuneration Committee on 14 December 2017 and as a Committee we considered the options available to us with regard to The business again performed strongly during the 2012 LTIP vesting and we consulted extensively with a number of our largest the year under review and unit sales, profits and shareholders.
We also held extensive cash generation all increased.
The Executives made clear their strong In total we sold 16,043 homes This is a testament to our management commitment to the business and decided and importantly, at the same time, team but, as a result, the awards under to reduce their overall entitlement management also improved quality, the 2012 LTIP will vest earlier than to shares, cap the future value on reflected by a continuing rise in our expected.
The first 40% of the 2012 LTIP exercise to a maximum value equal HBF Would you recommend a friend?
vested on 31 December 2017 and is to 29 per share, extend the holding customer satisfaction score to 79.1%.
shown in this years Single Total Figure periods post exercise and to make of Remuneration.
these changes subject to continued Notwithstanding the strong business employment.
Jeff Fairburn and Mike performance, the end of the year was The remaining 60% will vest, and the Killoran have decided to reduce their overshadowed in remuneration terms 2012 LTIP will conclude, when the CRP overall entitlement by a number of shares by the 2012 LTIP.
This was originally meets the original target to return 1.9bn equal to 50% of the shares under their launched as a ten year scheme that to shareholders 6.20 per share.
To date second vesting and have extended their was expected to last until 2021 and to 4.85p per share has been returned employment condition to July 2021 to run together with the Capital Return as dividends and we have declared match the original timescale of the CRP.
However, due to the forthcoming dividends of 1.25 payable Dave Jenkinson decided to reduce his recovery in the housebuilding cycle on 29 March and a final dividend of 1.10 overall entitlement by a number of shares and managements determined and payable on 2 July, the latter being subject equal to 50% of the shares subject disciplined efforts to increase both to shareholder approval.
Therefore, to awards granted to him since being operating efficiency and the volume of provided shareholders approve the promoted to the Board to which he units built, the CRP targets have been final dividend at the AGM, the 1.10 would become entitled on the second achieved more quickly than originally payable in July will trigger the vesting vesting and his holding and continued expected.
The business has grown of the remaining 60% of the 2012 LTIP.
employment condition extends until 2020. significantly, we have built many homes The share price increase from 6.20 in In total 2.8m options were surrendered by and created many jobs.
At the same 2012 at the start of the scheme to 24.72 the Executives collectively and their share time the Groups very high level of cash at the date of this report has led to higher, of the total LTIP awards reduced from generation has meant that we have and earlier, than expected performance 45% to 38%.
returned more cash to shareholders pay for 133 of our senior management than expected and the share price has included in the scheme.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 13 Rem Policy v55.
indd 62 07 03 2018 11:43 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 63 The total value surrendered using the The Board is working well together share price at the date of this report is and the Committee recommends that over 50m.
No changes were made shareholders vote in favour of all related to the 2012 LTIP for below-Board resolutions.
We believe the outlook for participants.
Further details are set out on the business continues to be positive page 64. and that these changes will enable management at all levels to focus on the In the meantime we have also made business to the benefit of all stakeholders.
certain other adjustments to near-term remuneration: no Board member will I look forward to meeting shareholders at receive a salary increase for 2018 and the AGM.
no bonus awards will be made for 2018 for Jeff Fairburn, Mike Killoran or Dave Marion Sears Jenkinson.
Although there will, therefore, Chairman Remuneration Committee 26 February 2018 be no bonus paid to the Executives, we endorse their request that their 2018 bonus is still measured and that it be distributed to staff excluding those participants in the 2012 LTIP and 2017 Performance Share Plan.
We have defined performance targets in the normal way and also introduced strategic and personal objectives.
As a result, the performance targets for 2018 will be 70% financial and 30% nonfinancial, and the non-financial element will split equally between customer care and personal and strategic objectives.
The Committee believes these adjustments are an important step forward in bringing our remuneration structure into line with best practice and intends to adopt this structure going forward.
Looking to the future, these events will conclude the 2012 LTIP.
The decisions by the Executives to reduce their 2012 LTIP awards have been welcomed and fully supported by the Remuneration Committee, which has also noted Jeff Fairburns intention to donate a substantial proportion of his total reward to charity.
The Board regards these decisions as an appropriate response by the Executives.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously supports this amendment which it believes to be in the interests of the Company as a whole.
