48 DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS Nigel Mills Jeff Fairburn The stewardship and Senior Independent Director and Group Chief Executive age 51 good governance of Acting Chairman age 62 Date of appointment 1 June 2009 our Company remains Date of appointment 4 April 2016 Committee membership Chairman of the Risk Committee.
Committee membership a high priority for the Acting Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Trustee of the Persimmon Charitable Foundation.
Board Experience Experience Jeff Fairburn has been Group Chief Executive since Nigel Mills is a Senior Advisor at Citigroup Global Nigel Mills April 2013.
He joined the Group in 1989 and became Markets and was previously Chairman of Corporate Senior Independent Director North East Managing Director in 2000.
He was Broking at Citi between 2005-2015 and Chief andActing Chairman promoted to North Division Chief Executive in 2006 Executive at Hoare Govett between 1995-2005. and subsequently to Group Managing Director He has extensive experience in advising some of in 2012. theUKs largest companies.
Skills Skills Jeff has 33 years experience in the construction Nigel has sound commercial judgement drawing on industry, 29 of which have been in the housebuilding a 30 year career advising quoted companies.
He has an in depth knowledge of Persimmon broad experience of financial markets, shareholder having started as a quantity surveyor in our Yorkshire attitudes, corporate governance and compliance business.
This, together with his progressive which enable him to provide sound advice to style and strong leadership skills, enables him the Board.
to effectively direct and manage the delivery of our strategy.
Marion Sears Rachel Kentleton Non-Executive Director age 55 Non-Executive Director age 49 Date of appointment 8 January 2013 Date of appointment 24 June 2015 Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration and Corporate Chairman of the Audit Committee and member Responsibility Committees and a member of the ofthe Risk and Nomination Committees.
Experience Trustee of the Persimmon Charitable Foundation.
Rachel Kentleton, a qualified accountant, is the Finance Director at PayPoint plc.
Prior to joining Experience PayPoint in January 2017 Rachel was Group Marion Sears is a Non-Executive Director of Dunelm Director, Strategy & Implementation at easyJet.
Group Plc and of investment company WA Capital She has previously held investor relations and Limited.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of finance roles at Unilever, Natwest, Diageo investment trusts Fidelity European Values Plc and SABMiller.
and Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust PLC.
Marion previously held executive positions at Glaxo, Skills UBS, Baring Brothers and JP Morgan.
Rachels strategic, investor relations and financial experience adds to the balance of skills and Skills experience of our Non-Executive Directors and Marion has extensive retail industry knowledge greatly benefits the implementation of the Companys and customer understanding together with an allstrategy and the development of the business.
round view of the consumer markets.
Her financial background and current involvement in both the consumer and investment industries enable her to provide sound advice and judgement on the implementation of the Companys strategy.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 12 Corp Governance v54.
indd 48 07 03 2018 11:30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 49 Mike Killoran ACA Dave Jenkinson Group Finance Director age 56 Group Managing Director age 50 Date of appointment 4 January 1999 Date of appointment 13 December 2013 Committee membership Committee membership Member of the Risk Committee.
Member of the Risk Committee.
Trustee of the Persimmon Charitable Foundation.
Experience Dave Jenkinson joined the Group in 1997.
He was Experience appointed Managing Director of the North East Mike Killoran joined the Company in 1996. operating business in 2005 and was promoted A chartered accountant by profession, Mike worked to Regional Managing Director in 2007 and to in manufacturing, distribution and retail sectors North Division Chief Executive in January 2013. before joining the Group.
He took over his present He was promoted to Group Managing Director role in April 1999. on7 January 2016.
Skills Skills Mike has extensive financial and operational skills Dave has extensive experience of the housebuilding and over 20 years experience and knowledge of industry.
He has an in-depth knowledge of both the industry and our business.
These skills Persimmon, having worked for the Group for over enable Mike to make a strong contribution to 20years.
He has particular strengths in land buying strategy development.
and development and is a qualified town planner.
Simon Litherland Non-Executive Director age 53 Date of appointment 3 April 2017 Committee membership Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Experience Simon Litherland is the Chief Executive of Britvic plc.
He is a qualified accountant and has over 25 years experience in finance and leadership roles within the drinks manufacturing and distribution sector.
Prior to joining Britvic in 2011 Simon worked for global drinks manufacturer Diageo plc, spending 20 years running several of the companys international business units, ultimately becoming Managing Director of Diageo Great Britain.
Skills Simon is an accomplished Executive with proven finance, leadership and business skills in a consumer facing industry.
His strong understanding of branding and customer propositions adds to the skillset of the Board which will be valuable to the development and implementation of the Companys strategy.
