OUR FOCUSED BUSINESS MODEL WE ARE A GLOBAL SPECIALTY CHEMICALS BUSINESS SERVING CUSTOMERS IN THE AMERICAS, EUROPE AND ASIA ACROSS A WIDE RANGE OF MARKETS AND SECTORS.
Inputs: Capital, customers, innovation, people, assets, supply chain.
The way we work helps us create sustainable value Business Health conduct and safety and ethics Chromium Specialty Products: Personal Care Coatings Energy Surfactants Risk Product management stewardship Innovation and product development Value for our stakeholders: Shareholders, employees, customers, communities and the environment.
Driven by our Reignite Growth strategy: Pursue best growth opportunities, Pursue supply chain transformation, Innovate for high margins and distinctiveness and Create a culture of high performance.
18 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information INPUTS WE NEED TO CREATE VALUE HOW OUR BUSINESS CREATES VALUE Capital FOR CUSTOMERS We operate within a disciplined financial framework to invest Specialty Products in the best opportunities.
Provides functional additives that enhance customers products in applications such as cosmetics, paints and Customers oil and gas exploration.
Through our global key account management team, we build and maintain close relationships with our customers to meet Chromium their needs.
Provides chemicals to customers that make their products more durable such as aerospace alloys, timber treatment Innovation and leather production.
New product development and innovation pipeline is supported by technical service and expertise.
Our technical service Surfactants laboratories work closely with our customers to deliver Provides surface active ingredients which can be used in Enhanced Performance Through Applied Innovation.
textiles, leather, water treatment and construction chemicals.
People THE VALUE WE CREATE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS We have a committed and highly skilled workforce focused Shareholders Dividends paid in 2017 on customer collaboration.
Strong balance sheet and cash generation delivering $77.8m Assets sustainable returns to We have a distinctive and unique asset base and own the only shareholders high quality rheology grade hectorite mine in the world.
Supply Chain We have a global manufacturing footprint of 20 sites where Employees 2017 employee salaries safety is aligned to operational performance.
Our total global workforce of around 1,600 is critical for $126.9m CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE the delivery of our Reignite Risk management Growth strategy We have strong governance and risk management controls in place.
Effective risk management supports the successful delivery of our strategic objectives.
We have an established risk management framework to identify, evaluate, mitigate Customers Total revenue from and monitor the risks we face as a business.
Improving dialogue with customers our key customers ensures Health and safety we are better placed to $830.3m We are committed to providing a healthy and safe workplace deliver the best growth for employees, contractors and site visitors and minimising opportunities our impact on the environment from our operations.
Product stewardship Communities A member of Comprehensive product safety and product stewardship Acting responsibly as processes are in place which support product safety and a company better serves FTSE4Good regulatory compliance we strive to provide innovative the communities where products that create value for customers that are safe for people we operate we are rated and the environment when used for their intended purpose.
against stringent social and environmental criteria Business conduct and ethics Our Code of Conduct sets out our core values and the Environment Total recordable incident standards of conduct expected of everyone who works We place a great emphasis rate of injuries and for Elementis in any of its worldwide operations, including on protecting people illnesses excluding compliance with all applicable laws and regulation.
and operating responsibly SummitReheis Innovation and product development 0.88 We have a global R&D function focused on strengthening the pipeline of new customer focused product development Number of Tier 2 or and innovation.
Tier 3 environmental incidents Zero Total operations both continuing and discontinued.
19 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
