10 BUSINESS MODEL How we create value INPUTS WHAT WE DO These are the things we We build a wide range of new homes across the need to be able to operate UK.
We combine quality and efficiency to provide as a business.
a sustainable balance between affordable prices and a good operating margin for the business.
Land We need a good supply of high quality land in places where people want to live to build our houses.
Due to the delays in obtaining planning consent it is important that we maintain our landbank at the appropriate level.
People We need skilled people to implement ourstrategy.
We employ c. 4,600 staff and also engage many subcontractors Obtaining planning permission Buying land tobuild our homes.
An important part of our business model We obtain the land we need for our is to identify land that will be suitable for developments either through our Geographic coverage housing, obtain control of that land and Strategic Land portfolio or through land We are a national housebuilder.
To then invest to promote it through the purchased with planning consent on maximise sales potential and mitigate planning system.
This is our Strategic the open market.
We maintain a strong regional market risk, we have 30 regional Land.
We have dedicated land and landbank to give the Group continuity offices from Perth to Launceston.
planning teams across the Groups 30 ofsupply, to support the efficiency of Materials house building businesses which identify ouroperations, to maintain a strong sales A consistent supply of good quality suitable land and obtain appropriate network and to enable us to be selective materials is very important.
engage with our many suppliers through our regional businesses.
We also maintain Group supply contracts for our major supply needs, to ensure competitive prices, continuity of supply and to develop more sustainable trading.
Offsite manufacturing Our offsite manufacturing capability including our Space4 insulated timber frame build system and our Brickworks are both important contributors to our overall construction capacity.
We have also decided to manufacture our own roof tiles with a new facility at our manufacturing hub in Harworth to be developed in 2018.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 04 Business Model v34.
indd 10 07 03 2018 10:57 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 11 WHAT WE DO OUTCOMES These are the results, both financial and nonfinancial, of what we do.
New homes 16,043 Sold in 2017 of which 2,769 were delivered to housing associations Sustainable communities 64m Provided to our communities in 2017 through planning contributions Design & build Sales & customer care We build a wide range of homes We maintain a national site network Financial strength which are designed to appeal to new with agood choice of house types to home buyers nationally.
Our house maximise our sales potential.
We build designs support an efficient approach under our three housing brands, 3.2bn to construction whilst delivering Persimmon Homes, Charles Church Balance sheet net assets acompelling choice of finishes to our andWestbury Partnerships.
We offer at 31 December 2017 customers.
Our Space4 modern method arange of family homes with a particular of construction helps to support our focus on affordability.
We continueto Employment production rates by easing resourcing invest to provide excellent levels of pressures.
Our Brickworks and service and customer care.
Tileworks will underpin our construction 4,535 programmes.
We maintain tight control People employed on average in 2017 over our construction costs and work inprogress, so that we can react quickly Profit before tax to changes in housing demand.
966.1m For year ended 31 December 2017 Charitable donations 748,842 Persimmon Charitable Foundation donations during 2017 Capital returned to shareholders 4 17m In the year to 31 December 2017 Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 04 Business Model v35.
