Market overview Market overview Our asset base mainly consists of large scale, low cost copper mines.
We are well positioned to benefit from the expected tightness in the copper market, as declining global supply coincides with continued growth in demand.
China & Kazakhstan Asia & CIS & Europe Europe China Copper Gold Silver Zinc in cathode bar bar concentrate Copper concentrate China Bozshakol East Region China Copper Aktogay concentrate China & Europe Bozymchak Copper cathode Contains by-products of gold and silver in concentrate Copper cathode, gold bar and silver bar are produced under a tolling arrangement with the Balkhash smelter Our products Copper The Groups revenues are primarily derived from the sale of 2017 market performance copper with additional revenues from by-products of gold, silver Copper performed strongly during 2017, supported by a favourable and zinc.
The Groups performance is therefore highly impacted macro-economic environment, stronger than expected demand by commodity prices, which reflect global supply and demand from China and supply disruptions.
The average LME copper price fundamentals, as well as market sentiment and the activities of during 2017 was $6,163 t, a 27% increase compared with $4,860 t financial investors.
Commodity prices can be volatile and cyclical, in the prior year.
dependent upon geopolitical and macroeconomic factors, with the An improvement in market sentiment, which began in November outlook for the Chinese economy, the biggest consumer of copper 2016 extended into the first quarter of 2017 as prices continued and the main physical market for the Group, of particular significance.
to rise due to supply disruptions, including export restrictions and Copper concentrate is sold at a provisional LME copper price, labour disputes in South America.
Prices resumed their upward less TC RCs, which is adjusted to a final price, typically the second trajectory in the second half of 2017 due to positive data and month after delivery.
Copper cathode is sold to Chinese and policy measures supportive of copper from China and upgrades European customers, with typically around 80% contracted on to copper demand expectations, including widespread coverage an annual basis and 20% sold onto spot markets.
Sales are made of the potential of electric vehicles.
A weaker US dollar, combined at a provisional LME price, which is adjusted to a final price, typically with market anticipation of possible supply disruption from labour one month after delivery.
disputes contributed to strengthening copper prices in the fourth quarter.
The LME copper price ended the year at $7,157 t, 30% above the price at the end of 2016.
20 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The copper market has remained tight, and is expected to have Market outlook been broadly in balance during 2017.
For the first time since 2011, The outlook for gold and silver will be highly dependent global mine production is estimated to have fallen, a result of supply upon macroeconomic factors.
Inflationary pressures, political disruptions during the year and delays to the commissioning of or economic uncertainty may benefit prices.
Prices could also be new projects.
supported if investor demand increases, as gold and silver are a potential source of portfolio insurance, with global stock markets Average price movement in 2017 currently on a long positive run.
The outlook for zinc remains positive, due to a lack of potential supply growth from new projects.
Mine supply is now increasing, but not at the levels required to move the market into surplus.
27% 1% -1% 38% Acontinued shortage of concentrates means that treatment charges are forecast to continue to reduce.
Copper Gold Silver Zinc Market fluctuations: how we respond Market outlook We continually monitor commodity market and industry research.
Over the next few years the copper market is expected to When performing business planning or assessing investment remain tight.
Positive supply growth from new projects and opportunities, the Group considers a range of commodity brownfield expansions is expected to hit the market and broadly price cases and performs sensitivity analysis.
The Group has offset declining production from existing sources.
As a result, any cost competitive assets which can generate positive cash flow in disruption from labour disputes or other geopolitical factors is a lower commodity price environment.
The Groups operations likely to result in price volatility.
are also located in close proximity to the key Chinese market.
Demand is expected to maintain a moderate growth path, with The Group is not currently and does not normally hedge commodity China the key market.
Overall consumption is expected to increase, prices, but may enter into a hedge programme where the Board in particular from energy grid and transport sector investment, determines it is appropriate to provide greater certainty over future as well as the long-term potential consumption increase from cash flows.
In periods of lower prices the Group has successfully electric vehicles.
reduced costs and been able to defer non-critical expenditures.
In the longer term a market deficit is expected to occur, from around 2021, driven by structural supply issues.
Production Sensitivity analysis on prices growth is expected to reduce owing to declining ore grades, The approximate effect on Gross EBITDA resulting from restricted investment, a lack of new major deposits and increased a 10% movement in the average realised commodity prices environmental, political and social risks to existing and new sources on the Groups results is shown, assuming all other variables of production.
With the long lead times required to bring new remain constant: capacity to production, this could result in a period of consistent Impact of 10% supply deficit and support higher long-term copper prices.
Average price movement on realised price Gross EBITDA 2017 $m By-products Copper sales $ t 5,992 153 2017 market performance Gold sales $ oz 1,273 22 Gold and silver prices were relatively stable throughout 2017, Silver sales $ oz 17 6 trading in narrow ranges.
Average gold and silver LBMA prices were Zinc sales $ t 2,038 12 $1,257 and $17.0 per ounce respectively in 2017, both broadly in line with the prior year.
The silver market is expected to have recorded a surplus in 2017, the first time since 2012, due to weak demand factors.
Prices fell to an average of $16.2 per ounce in December.
Zinc was one of the strongest performers among the base metals during the year.
The average LME zinc price was $2,896 t in 2017, 38% above the average price in 2016.
Prices were supported by constraints in mine supply, with falling output resulting in lower inventories and a tight physical market for both concentrate and refined metal.
