Chairs statement Delivering growth in copper In 2017, the Group delivered against the key strategic goals we set out in 2014, completing our transformation into a pure-play copper company focused on large scale, low cost open pit mining in Kazakhstan.
Copper production has more than tripled from 85 kt in 2015 to 259 kt in 2017.
Our growth was delivered over a period in which the outlook for copper has improved significantly.
The Group recorded amongst the lowest cash costs of any pure-play copper miner globally in 2017, at 66 USc lb.
Having successfully ramped up production at our new operations, Bozshakol and Aktogay, we have also demonstrated our ability to deliver large scale capital projects which we will apply in the recently announced Aktogay expansion.
Health and safety Improving the Groups health and safety performance remains our highest priority and I am disappointed to report that four fatalities occurred during the year.
No fatality is acceptable to us and we continue to work towards our target of zero fatalities.
We are committed to making additional investments, adopting international best practice and driving cultural change in this critical area of the business.
In 2017, we approved a new three year strategy for improving our health and safety performance.
Delivering high growth and low costs Over the past six years the Group has successfully executed the construction of two major growth projects, Bozshakol and Aktogay and we enter 2018 with both mines in the final stages of ramping up production to design capacity.
With our project development capability now proven we are considering investment in further growth opportunities, although suitable projects are highly sought after in the current market environment given the positive outlook for copper.
I am therefore pleased to have announced the launch of the Aktogay expansion in December 2017, a low risk project to construct a duplicate of the sulphide processing facilities we have previously commissioned at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
The Group has successfully executed the construction of Bozshakol and Aktogay over a period in which the outlook for copper has improved significantly.
Oleg Novachuk Chair 14 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The expansion will deliver meaningful production growth from extensive experience to the Group and will make an important 2022 and a strong return on investment.
contribution as we enter the next stage of our development.
In recognition of the need to maintain the Groups existing high Our contribution to Kazakhstan standards of corporate governance the Board appointed Michael KAZ Minerals is the largest copper producer in Kazakhstan.
We Lynch-Bell, Senior Independent Director, to the additional role are a major contributor to the national economy, having invested of Deputy Chair.
As Deputy Chair, Michael has responsibility for approximately $4 billion into the Bozshakol and Aktogay projects matters related to Board governance including the annual review of since 2011.
Both mines are now generating economic growth, Board effectiveness, the leadership of the Nomination Committee export earnings and tax contributions.
The Group made a and acting as an intermediary between non-executive Directors total tax contribution of $365 million in Kazakhstan in 2017. and the Chair.
Our investment in Kazakhstan will continue with the $1.2 billion expansion of the Aktogay project.
The impact of the growth projects Dividends in Kazakhstan has been far more than purely financial as we have The Groups dividend policy, established at the time of Listing, created employment opportunities, invested in the training and is for the Board to consider the cash generation and financing development of thousands of local personnel and prioritised the requirements of the business and then to recommend a suitable use of local contractors where possible.
We are bringing new skills, dividend.
This maintains flexibility which is appropriate given the technology and expertise into the country, helping to maximise the underlying cyclicality of a commodity business.
potential of its natural resources.
The Group has a strong record of payments to shareholders, The Groups largely Kazakhstan based workforce has one of the with returns of $2,095 million in ordinary dividends, buy-backs highest levels of female representation of any major global mining and special dividends since its Listing in 2005. Dividend payments company, at 24% of total employees and 23% of senior managers.
were suspended from 2013 during the capital intensive stages of We are proud to offer equality of opportunity to all current the development of the Bozshakol and Aktogay projects.
This has and potential future employees, regardless of ethnicity, gender supported the pursuit of a counter-cyclical growth strategy through or background.
a period of low commodity prices and helped to deliver value for shareholders.
Governance changes Whilst the outlook for the Groups financial position is positive given Following consultation with its major shareholders, the Group the ramp up of Bozshakol and Aktogay and the improved copper announced a number of Board and management changes on market, the Group has invested heavily in these projects and it is 27 April 2017 which took effect from the start of 2018.
Simon our near-term priority to continue to reduce our gearing metrics.
Heale decided to stand down from the Board having served eleven Accordingly, the Board does not recommend a dividend in respect years as a Director including the past five as Chair.
I would like of the 2017 financial year.
The Board will continue to assess the to thank Simon for his valuable contribution over a period which Groups financial position, cash flows and growth requirements included significant change, including the Restructuring in 2014 in determining when to resume dividends in the future.
and the completion of our major growth projects.
His advice and leadership will be greatly missed.
Outlook The Board considered the most appropriate leadership and The outlook for the global copper market is improving, as supply governance structure to meet the challenges of the next stage from existing mines continues to decline and additional output from of the Groups development.
The result of the review conducted new projects has been delayed.
There is also potential for supply by the Board was that I should take on the role of Chair, including disruption in the short term which could affect a market that is responsibility for leadership on strategy, government relations tightly balanced.
In the medium term, economic growth is expected and business development.
Andrew Southam has become Chief to drive demand from traditional sources, combined with the Executive Officer and is responsible for the day to day executive potential development of new markets for copper such as the management of the Group.
Andrew has a deep understanding of increased adoption of clean energy generation and electric vehicles.
the business, its culture and stakeholders and was one of the key The cash flow generated by our low cost assets in 2017 has architects of the October 2014 Restructuring which created KAZ materially strengthened the Groups financial position and we are Minerals.
Further details on the background to these changes can be investing in a low risk project to deliver further growth through the found in the Corporate governance overview on pages 64 and 65 expansion of Aktogay.
I am proud to take on the role of Chair of of this report.
the Group at this time and I look forward to meeting the challenges In the second half of 2017, we appointed a new Chief Financial ahead as we continue with the next stage of our development.
Officer designate, John Hadfield, and an additional independent non-executive Director, Alison Baker.
Both John and Alison bring Oleg Novachuk Chair www.
