24 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 As retail evolves, the demand for space in agship destinations increases.
These locations offer a compelling mix of retail, catering and leisure for customers and deliver consistently high footfall for retailers What are our agship destinations?
ur agship destinations are the shopping centres where Oretailers aspire to be, both now and in the future.
They offer them consistently high footfall combined with a long dwell time and we know the longer people stay, the more they spend.
This is why they have their biggest and best stores in these locations and have the confidence to invest in these stores for the long term.
For the shopper, they offer a mix of retail, catering and leisure a day-out destination where they can shop, eat and be entertained.
Customers are willing to spend time travelling to these destinations and once there they know they will have easy access to all the best stores offering the retailers full ranges plus a wide variety of leisure to keep everyone happy for the day.
Their locations out-of-town, with at least 10,000 free car parking spaces, provide an appealing variety of leisure whether it is an aquarium, an indoor ski slope, zip wires, trampoline parks or theme parks such as Legoland Discovery Centre or Nickelodeon, or the already successful cinemas and bowling there is something for everyone.
And it is a constant evolution.
We have a masterplan for every centre and the expertise and insight to ensure these agship centres remain at the forefront of both retailers and customers minds for years to come.
Trends change and new disruptors emerge, but we are always working to improve our offering so we remain at the cutting edge of shopping and leisure.
Leading the way with leisure The first a aquar quari ium um i in n a UK indoor ski slope s sh hoppin opping g c ce en ntre at in a Spanish mall Nickelodeon in a i in ntu tu T Tr ra affo ffor rd d C Centre at Madrid Xanad UK shopping centre at intu Lakeside shopping resort concept at Puerto Venecia Our agship destinations The intu difference Our agship destinations 25 The numbers Our UK agship destinations: have nearly half the UKs population living within a 70-minute 70 drive time minutes transact around 2 per cent of the UKs in-store 2% non-food sales have footfall of over 20 million each, 2 with an average hours dwell time of over two hours and loyal customers who visit on average x30 30 times a year Spanish shopping resorts intu Costa del Sol n Spain, our agship destinations are n 2018, we expect to have the final Ishopping resorts.
As we compete for Iplanning consents and required peoples free time, we want to provide pre-lets to start the development something for every member of the of intu Costa del Sol, near Mlaga.
family, offering variety and surprise.
Even now, pre-construction, it is being Puerto Venecia was the first in its class talked about as a world-class centre.
and epitomises the shopping resort concept.
Madrid Xanad will join the The site is ideally located to draw club with the opening of the aquarium residents and holidaymakers from and Nickelodeon theme park and our the whole Costa del Sol region.
The development o of f in intu Co tu Cos st ta a d fide el S l So ol l design ticks all the boxes of a agship will take the fide es siig gn n destination, and more.
This shopping to the next lev five el l.. resort will deliver our signature product and showcase our expertise, taking the best of our existing centres plus adding the extra qualities that will define leading centres over the coming years.
