Strategic Report Market Drivers Maximising opportunities for growth and innovation To maximise opportunities for growth, we use the global mega trends to shape our strategy and business model, which ensures we can deliver innovations that satisfy the unmet needs of our customers.
Global mega trend Changing demographics Fragile world Consequences Consequences There is unprecedented change in world demographics.
People in The continuing accumulation of greenhouse gases in the developed economies are living longer and have more income and atmosphere is the main cause of global warming, the consequences better access to buy a wider range of products.
of which are rising sea levels and an increase in the frequency of extreme weather.
Both impair the productivity of the land to supply In the developing world, a population increase of two to three billion food and water for the growing global population and bring an is forecast between now and 2050, driven by lower mortality rates.
increased focus from international organisations on restricting global In addition, an expanding middle class is expected to attain Western warming and climate change.
levels of consumerism, generating new markets for products that make a difference to living standards.
What this means for our industry What this means for our industry Growing need for consumer products that use our ingredients A demand for increased product performance from lower levels of active ingredients Increasing demand for anti-ageing, beauty and health products as incomes rise and consumers expectations change Need to minimise environmental and social impact along the entire customer supply chain Demand for increased crop yields to support the growing population Emergence of taxes and incentives for businesses to reduce the net environmental burden Demand for energy saving materials and increased bio-based content to mitigate against carbon emissions in supply chains.
A move away from petrochemicals towards renewables and industrial biotechnology.
Our opportunities Our opportunities More growth in developing regions, and demand for new products From our unique position in the use of renewable raw materials, that contain our innovative ingredients.
we can reduce the net impact of our Business by facilitating our customers transition to more sustainable ingredients, and through our applications science, create ingredients that have a positive benefit in use.
Our response Our response Close working partnership with our customers, smart partners In house regulatory experts sitting on industry wide committees and suppliers to develop innovative ingredients with intrinsic and to inform and shape future policy extrinsic sustainability benefits across all our market sectors New product developments assessed against the globally Local market teams who are close to our customers, with the recognised 12 Principles of Green Chemistry framework, right global market sector insight and expertise to meet rapidly to ensure that they are as sustainable as they can be p21 changing market demands Investment in our North American bio-surfactant plant to Investment in local research and development laboratories in produce the bio-based ECO range of ingredients, both growing regions p13 reducing reliance on fossil fuels and eliminating the need for rail transportation of ethylene oxide p10 Capital investment in manufacturing assets in Asia and Latin America to reduce supply chain length and bring supply closer Cradle-to-gate life cycle assessment to assess the impact of our to our customers p13.
ingredients and identify where we can make further reductions in our carbon footprint p21 Report to CDP climate change, forest and water disclosures.
Croda International Plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Global mega trend Demand for transparency and trust Digitalisation and interconnectedness Consequences Consequences Consumers, empowered by digitalisation, have changing Technology advances are reshaping the world we live in, with expectations.
They want greater choice and control, demanding digitalisation transforming consumer behaviour.
Digital technologies more transparency in the products and services they use and make it easier for their voices to be heard and increase the speed anywhere, anytime access to information.
at which new trends are adopted.
They increasingly expect businesses to operate in a transparent The evolution of the internet has also enabled a significant advance and accountable way, and take greater responsibility for their supply in our ability to gather, analyse and distribute data and turn it into chains and the impact of their products, with increasing calls for information and knowledge.
improved performance, purity and cost-effective solutions.
What this means for our industry What this means for our industry Clear demonstration of transparent ethical and social Consumer demand for niche products accountability globally Increase in small independent indie customers and virtual Need for collaboration through the whole supply chain to trace communities demanding a different level of service material provenance.
Need for agile operations Increased use of data science and robotics to shorten product development life cycles.
Our opportunities Our opportunities Our extensive product claims substantiation capabilities are Opportunity to connect more dynamically with both our current supported by a wealth of technical information that assists our and future customers, and to use data and robotics to improve customers in making the right choices for their consumers.
efficiency and effectiveness from new ingredient development to site operations.
Our response Our response Maintain and enhance our reputation as a high quality ingredient Local sales and research and development teams work closely supplier by meeting and surpassing regulatory requirements with small start-ups on niche ingredient development A corporate Ethics Committee which ensures that supply chain Flexible operating assets and supply chains enable the risks are identified, prioritised and controlled production and delivery of small batch sizes to meet changing customer demands Work with specialists to characterise the physical palm oil derivative supply chains, leading to transparency of provenance Our acquisition of Cutitronics, which enables us to utilise the latest digital technology in premium skincare p14 Actively manage all risks that could affect the reliability of our service to customers: ethics, human rights, process safety, Appointment of a Chief Digital Officer to grow our digital product safety, quality assurance and business continuity strategy p13 Ensure that all manufacturing sites are certified against Creation of a process informatics group to analyse and optimise appropriate Safety, Environment, Quality and GMP standards.
plant performance Investment in our Centre of Innovation for Formulation Science at the Materials Innovation Factory at the University of Liverpool, to build a data centric approach to innovation p13.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 05
