28 Strategic Report Getting the Homebuilding Basics Right Focusing on the homebuilding Getting the basics right means effective processes are basics consistently applied across our regional businesses.
Our AIIR remains below both the HBF Home Our approach Builder Average and Health and Safety Executive The health and safety of individuals on our sites will Construction Industry Average.
always be our number one priority and continues Following the tragic fire at Grenfell Tower in to be the first item discussed at every plc and London in June 2017, we conducted an internal regional board meeting.
It remains one of the review into our current and historic developments, highest rated questions in our annual employee working, as appropriate with building owners, engagement survey with 98% of employees management companies, independent fire safety believing Taylor Wimpey takes health and safety in experts and local fire and rescue services.
On sites the workplace seriously.
where there are tall buildings with Aluminium We are committed to providing a safe place in Composite Material cladding, we have sought which our employees and subcontractors can advice from independent fire safety experts, and, work and our customers can live, and we will not where required, have put in place additional compromise on ensuring that everyone leaves our measures to ensure that the buildings are fully sites safe and well.
We have a comprehensive compliant with the Governments guidance on Health, Safety and Environmental HSE Strategy interim fire safety measures.
We welcome the and a fully integrated HSE Management System in commissioning of the independent Hackitt Review, place which is regularly reviewed at all levels.
and look forward to working positively with Government and other agencies to ensure that the Our Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR for outcomes are effective and appropriate for the reportable injuries per 100,000 employees and long term.
Our AIIR for major injuries per 100,000 employees and contractors was 54 in 2017 2016: 53.
Case study Taylor Wimpey Logistics, our supply chain business, plays an important role in our supply chain management.
Around 300 of our sites, managed by 21 of our regional businesses, are supplied with build materials from Taylor Wimpey Logistics.
Working on a plot-by-plot basis, the business sources bulk materials directly from manufacturers to prepare just in time delivery of build packs for each stage of the building process, ensuring materials arrive on sites at the appropriate times in the build process.
This reduces both work in progress on site and the potential for loss or damage of materials, thus driving build efficiency on our schemes.
During peak periods, Taylor Wimpey Logistics pick, package and dispatch up to 100,000 items in 1,500 build packs on around 60 lorriesper week.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 homebuilding 29 Case study How do you manage risks Underpinning the importance we Q&A place on the build process and the relating to climate change?
quality of our final product, we were Climate change has the potential to impact very pleased to record an increase in our business strategy in a number of ways.
Taylor Wimpeys performance in the For example, physical changes such as National House-Building Councils rising temperatures and an increase in flood NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
We risk could affect our customers and achieved a total of 62 Quality Awards influence where and how we build our 2016: 57, 24 Seals of Excellence homes.
We use our Sustainability and Awards 2016: 16 and 2 Regional Climate Change Risk and Opportunity Awards in 2017 2016: 2.
Our two Register to guide the climate change Regional Winners were Paul adaptation of our business practices and McLachlan from Taylor Wimpey the homes we build.
See our Sustainability North Yorkshire and Michael Report 2017 for more information.
Wickham from Taylor Wimpey South Thames.
Our regional winner Paul went on to achieve runner up in the large builder category of the Supreme Awards.
Paul commented: Winning the Regional Award and then being named a runner up in the Supreme Awards has been unbelievable, its been the highlight of working for the company as over the years the competition gets stronger, the quality rises and the standard increases.
HSE issues, concerns or suggestions.
During The square footage of our total completions also What makes us different 2017 we ran training sessions and team building decreased slightly to 1,013 square feet events for Site Support Team members.
We do not compromise on Following the success of our standard house type health andsafety Quality product range range, which is in place on over 70% of Taylor We not only create homes that our customers We build homes that people want to live in.
We Wimpey sites, in 2017 we introduced a specific want to live in, we want to ensure that every step are proud of the homes we build and the timber frame house type range.
We will be of the way, health and safety is at the forefront.
Our focus is on providing reviewing the wider standard house type range to high-quality, well-designed, sustainable homes Partnering with contractors on safety issues is further refine in 2018. and communities that meet the needs and critical to keeping everyone safe on site.
Before we aspirations of local residents.
Our mix of homes is agree to work with a contractor, we require details Build costs informed by the local area.
of their risk assessment process and safety Our scale affords us the benefit of strong procedures for their area of activity.
We have clear quality and finish standards for all purchasing power, and we can achieve significant Taylor Wimpey homes and during 2017 we cost savings across our regional businesses with We clearly communicate critical safety messages continued to strengthen our quality assurance national agreements with a number of suppliers.
to site operatives through our Operatives processes.
Each one of our homes should meet Journey process, which starts with our HSE site During 2017, underlying build cost per unit our quality standards and we want every customer induction.
One of the key issues to address is increased to 143.7k 2016: 137.2k, reflecting to receive excellent service.
During the year, we preventing safety sign blindness, and keeping underlying build cost inflation as well as some mix appointed a UK Head of Production, a newly safety at the front of everyones minds on site.
impact of product delivery in the year.
In the created role as we seek to ensure we consistently period, there were increases in underlying build The HSE induction is supported by regular poster achieve a high-quality build for our customers.
cost excluding house type mix impact of c. 3.5% campaigns and talks on key topics.
In 2017, we It is expected that this will increase customer year on year 2016: c. 4%, largely due to continued re-launched our toolbox talks as site safe satisfaction and save time and money for the pressure on resources to deliver the higher level briefings and made the content more engaging business in getting the home delivery right first of homebuilding.
There are also sustainability benefits Taylor Wimpey Logistics plays an important part in Our Site Support Team brings together associated with achieving high-quality standards, our supply chain management, providing us with representatives from Taylor Wimpey and our including greater durability, less waste and fewer an alternative route to delivery and aiding efficiency contractors such as trades supervisors, resources used for repairs and maintenance.
with the preparation of just in time build packs for groundworkers supervisors or site operatives to We continue to offer a wide range of homes from each stage of the building process.
Members are one-bedroom apartments to six-bedroom houses, nominated by the Site Manager and given a blue with prices ranging from under 70k to over hat to make them visible on site.
In 2017 the proportion of apartments in Teams participate in improving site safety and our private completions was 16% 2016: 14%.
operatives can talk to members of the team about taylorwimpey.
