Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 06 INVESTMENT REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW Achieving capital growth Herald invests, generally on a long term basis, using fundamental analysis.
The technology, media and telecommunications sector globally comprises over 5,000 quoted companies, and many more unquoted.
The manager, Herald Investment mosaic of information and industry Management Limited HIML, focuses knowledge combined with strong on investment within the technology, financial analysis, we endeavour media and telecoms sector.
The evolving nature of technology means there is a Focus on the sector enables a wide divergence of performance significant degree of cross-referencing between winners and losers, but across competitors, customers the winners can be spectacular.
Using this WHAT WE DO Analysis entails a prolific number of holding investments for long periods, meetings with companies, either at regularly providing further capital Heralds offices, site visits or at when needed.
conferences globally, as well as broker hosted meetings.
In addition, Herald Many of these holdings have a high WHAT WE DO relies on independent industry stock specific risk and the fund aims to research and published company offer investors a low risk way to gain filings, statements, presentations, web exposure to these exciting sites and broker research.
opportunities through broad diversification in the number of The trust has consistently invested in holdings and the maturity early stage companies, often providing of the businesses.
primary development capital, then HISTORY OF FUND The fund was established in 1994 Over the history of the fund the NAV raising 65m to invest in UK and per share, on a total return basis, has European smaller TMT companies.
In compounded at an annualised rate 1996 a further 30m was raised to of11.9%.
HISTORY globalise the fund with the recognition that TMT is a global sector and OF FUND cross-referencing across geographies is a prerequisite for investing intelligently within the sector.
Since 1996 no further capital has been raised, but share repurchases totalling 100m have been made.
