30 Strategic Report Getting the Homebuilding Basics Right continued The Company welcomes the aims and objectives Responsible procurement of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and takes its A significant proportion of our procurement, Our KPIs responsibilities under the Act very seriously.
As part particularly for materials sourcing, is through large of this we have strengthened oversight of contracts with national suppliers.
However, we Health and safety standards in our supply chain to make sure we are also work with many smaller businesses, providing selecting partners who share our commitment to labour and services, including companies that are Objective responsible business.
We published our first local to our development sites.
This can benefit the Modern Slavery Act Statement on our website in We are committed to providing a safe place business by giving us access to a more diverse March 2017.
We have been following up with in which our employees and subcontractors range of skills and experience and help support the suppliers identified as higher risk for further can work and our customers can live.
local economies in which we work.
Further information can be found on advice and help to small and medium sized our website.
Definition businesses with HSE risk assessments and other site-specific procedures that they need to prepare Reportable all reportable injury frequency in order to tender for work with us.
rate per 100,000 employees and contractors Annual Injury Incidence Rate.
Why is it key to our strategy?
Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions for period 1 January to 31 December Health and safety is our non-negotiable top priority.
As well as having a moral duty to maintain safety on site, accidents and Category total emissions tonnes CO e 2017 2016 2015 2014 2 injuries can have a detrimental impact on Emissions from combustion the business through additional costs, of fuel scope 1 18,889 17,983 17,768 16,436 delays and or reputational damage.
Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use scope 2 Annual Injury Incidence market-based method a 4,794 10,827 12,947 13,326 Rate AIIR.
Total scope1 and2 emissions market-based methodology 23,683 28,809 30,716 29,672 Emissions per 100 sqm ofcompleted homes 152 scope1 and2 1.73 2.13 2.40 2.56 240 Percentage reduction in direct carbon emissions intensity scope1 and2 since 2013 38.7% 24.5% 14.9% 9.2% Notes: Data is provided as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e for all operations.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions are from our 2 200 sites, offices, show homes and sales areas, plots before sale and car fleet.
Data on our estimated scope 3 emissions is available in our Sustainability Report 2017 categories: purchased goods and services, business travel, waste generated in operations and fuel and energy related activities.
a We are now using the market-based method of the revised version of the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance for calculating 160 our scope 2 emissions.
This allows us to reflect the carbon intensity of the electricity purchased in our carbon footprint.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition for data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the Mandatory Carbon Reporting MCR requirements, and emission factors from the Governments GHG Conversion Factors for our corporate reporting.
120 We have reported on the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 apart from the exclusions noted.
The reported sources fall within our Consolidated Financial Statements and are for emissions over which we have financial control.
We do not have responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
80 The following sources of emissions were excluded or part-excluded from this report: Fugitive emissions refrigerant gases : excluded on the basis of expected immateriality and difficulty in acquiring data Gas and electricity of part-exchange properties: excluded on the basis of immateriality due to very few completions of this type 40 Certain joint venture properties: where Taylor Wimpey was not part of the handover process.
In these cases other homebuilders have captured MCR-related data See our Carbon Reporting Methodology Statement for more detail on our calculations at www.
co. uk corporate sustainability 0 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2015 175 2016 211 2017 152 31 Our contributions to the environment Our greenhouse gas emissions GHG Sustainability reporting We strive to keep any adverse effects that our We continue to take steps to improve our activities may have on local environments and approach to climate change mitigation, adaptation recognition communities, such as pollution and ecological and transparency.
Our target was a 25% reduction We are constituents of the Dow Jones damage, to a minimum and to make a positive in scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions per Sustainability Europe Index and the contribution to the environment of the areas 100 square metres of completed homes by 2018 FTSE4Good Index series, the leading webuild in.
We have met this goal, and responsible investment indices.
exceeded the target, a year early, achieving a We acknowledge the global threat of climate We also participate in the CDP climate 38.7% reduction in carbon emissions from 2013. change and are committed to reducing our change report and in the CDP Water emissions, energy use and waste and We held a carbon workshop with the Carbon Trust benchmark.
The latter assesses companies reviewingwater use.
during 2017 to review our approach.
As a result, corporate water stewardship practices we have set a new target to achieve a 50% and performance.
We have a comprehensive Waste and Resource reduction in our direct emissions scope 1 and 2 Strategy and Action Plan for our housing In addition, we are a member of intensity over 10 years against our 2013 baseline.
operations and our supply chain.
We focus on NextGeneration, a rigorous anddetailed seeing materials as resources, using them more We are reviewing our approach to scope 3 sustainability performance benchmark of the efficiently through design and on-site recovery, and emissions and exploring whether we can set a UKs largest homebuilders.
keeping generated waste to a minimum.
target aligned with climate science.
We will be More information about our performance in doing further work in this area internally and with During 2017 our construction waste increased by the above benchmarks is available in our the Carbon Trust during 2018.
6.3% per 100 square metres of completed build.
We recycled 95% of UK construction waste.
We participate in the CDP climate change report and received a score of B in 2017 2016: B.
We Environmentally sustainable homes have achieved the Carbon Trust Standard for our overall approach to carbon management, including New homes are considerably more energyour policy, strategy and verification of our data and efficient than older housing stock, and we are processes.
We are the first homebuilder to committed to building increasingly energy-efficient achieve this.
homes in line with Government policy and DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION Building Regulations.
Our fabric first approach to energy efficiency, which concentrates on highly insulated walls and windows, helps owners to save energy and money.
Case study Taylor Wimpey received the CDP award for the most improved water management performance in the UK, with a score of Ain the leadership tier, during 2017.
The feedback stated that Taylor Wimpey plc has implemented a range of best practice actions to manage water and mitigate water risk, both in its own operations and beyond them.
CDP runs the most comprehensive collection of self-reported environmental data in the world to help companies to measure and manage their environmental impacts.
