96 Corporate governance statement DIRECTORS REPORT As at 21 February 2018, the Company had The Company is not aware of any Directors conflicts of interest received notifications from the following agreements between shareholders that The Company has procedures in companies and institutions of the voting may result in restrictions on the transfers of place for managing conflicts of interest.
interests of themselves and their clients in securities and or voting rights.
No person A Director must notify the Chairman and 3% or more of the issued ordinary share holds securities in the Company carrying the Chairman notifies the Chief Executive capital of the Company.
special rights with regard to control of the if he she become aware that he she, or Company.
Unless expressly specified to any of his her connected parties, may Percentage the contrary, the Companys articles of have an interest in an existing or proposed of Share association may be amended by special transaction with the Company or the Shareholder Capital resolution of the shareholders.
Directors have a continuing duty APG Asset Management NV 8.0 to update any changes to these conflicts.
Change of control BlackRock Inc 7.7 All of the Companys share schemes Political donations Old Mutual Plc 4.2 contain provisions relating to a change No political donations were made during Royal London Asset of control.
Outstanding rewards and the year ending 2017.
Management Ltd 4.1 options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject Other information incorporated Standard Life Aberdeen 3.7 to the satisfaction of any performance by reference The Vanguard Group Inc 3.7 conditions.
Other than certain of the The following information in the Strategic Groups banking facilities, there are no Report is incorporated into this Directors Cohen & Steers Inc 3.2 other significant agreements to which the Report by reference: State Street Global Advisors Ltd 3.1 Company is a party that affect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of Share capital the Company following a takeover Results and Dividend Page 1 At the date of this report, there are bid.
Nor are there any agreements Post-balance sheet events Page 111 240,843,551 ordinary shares of 25p each in between the Company and its Directors issue, all of which are fully paid-up and or employees providing for compensation Greenhouse Gas Emissions Page 49 quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
for loss of office or employment that occurs Financial instruments and because of a takeover bid.
financial risk management Page 31 During the year and through to the date of this report, 151,670 ordinary shares of 25p Employment of disabled The Directors have no authority to each were allotted and issued pursuant to persons Employee buy-back the Companys shares.
the exercise of options under The Unite involvement Page 47 Group plc Savings-Related Share Option Details of proposals to be put to the Scheme, 50,476 ordinary shares of 25p The Corporate Governance Statement Annual General Meeting in relation to the each were allotted and issued pursuant to on pages 52 to 95 and the Statement power of Directors to issue shares in the the exercise of options under the Approved of Directors responsibilities on page 99 Company are set out under the heading Scheme and 18,593,589 ordinary shares of are incorporated into this Directors Annual General Meeting.
25p each were allotted and issued report by reference.
following the conversion of the 2.50% Going Concern and viability statement Guaranteed Convertible Bonds due 2018.
Management Report The going concern statement and viability This Directors report together with the statement is set out on pages 67 and 27 The rights attaching to the Companys Strategic report and other sections from respectively and is incorporated into this ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the Annual report forms the Management Directors Report by reference.
the Companys Directors, are set out in the report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
8 R. Companys articles of association.
Disclosure of information to auditors Annual General Meeting The Directors who held office at the There are no restrictions on the transfer or The annual general meeting of the date of approval of the Directors voting rights of ordinary shares in the Company will be held at the Companys Report confirm that, so far as they are capital of the Company other than those registered office at South Quay, Temple each aware, there is no relevant audit which may be imposed by law from time Back, Bristol, BS1 6FL at 9.30am on 10 May information of which the Companys to time or as set out in the Companys 2018.
Formal notice the Notice of the auditor is unaware: and each Director has articles of association.
Meeting is given on pages 156 to 159. taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself In accordance with the Market Abuse herself aware of any relevant audit Regulations, certain employees are information and to establish that required to seek approval to deal in the the Companys auditor is aware of Companys shares.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 97 Resolution 4: Scrip Dividend Scheme Full details of the terms and conditions Resolution 17 additionally authorises In addition to the ordinary business of the of the Scrip Dividend Scheme and the Directors to allot new shares for cash, meeting, the Directors wish to offer instructions on how to participate will be without the shares first being offered to shareholders the option of receiving set out in a shareholder circular and guide.
existing shareholders in proportion to their ordinary shares, credited as fully paid, existing holdings, in connection with the instead of cash in respect of the whole or Resolution 15: Authority to allot shares financing or refinancing, if the authority part, as determined by the Directors of Resolution 15 will be proposed as an is to be used within six months of the any dividend declared Scrip Dividend ordinary resolution to grant the Directors original transaction of an acquisition Scheme.
Shareholders who elect to authority to allot shares in the Company, or specified capital investment which is participate in the Scrip Dividend Scheme and grant rights to subscribe for, or to announced contemporaneously with the will be able to increase their shareholding convert, any security into shares of the allotment or which has taken place in in the Company without incurring dealing Company, up to the aggregate amount the preceding six-month period and is costs or stamp duty.
The Scrip Dividend stated in the Notice which represents disclosed in the announcement of the Scheme also gives the Company greater one-third of the nominal value of the allotment.
The authority under Resolution 17 flexibility in managing its capital resources issued share capital of the Company as is limited to the aggregate amount stated by retaining cash in the business which at the date of the Notice.
In accordance in the Notice which represents 5% of the would otherwise be paid out as with guidelines issued by the Investment nominal value of the issued share capital of a dividend.
Association, this resolution also grants the the Company as at the date of the Notice.
Directors authority to allot further equity Article 142 of the Companys articles of securities up to the aggregate amount Taken together, these disapplication association permits the provision of this stated in the Notice which represents of pre-emption rights resolutions will scrip dividend alternative, as long as it is one-third of the nominal value of the allow the Directors to issue new shares authorised by an ordinary resolution of issued share capital of the Company as for cash without offering the shares first the Company, and Resolution 4 seeks at the date of the Notice.
This additional to existing shareholders in proportion this authorisation.
Under the articles of authority may only be applied to fully to their existing holdings under the association, this authorisation may be for a pre-emptive rights issues.
following circumstances: period of up to five years from the date of such authorisation, and may be in respect Resolutions 16 and 17: Disapplication of - in connection with a rights issue or of dividends declared during the period pre-emption rights resolutions other pre-emptive issue, with a nominal starting on the date of the authorisation If the Directors wish to allot new shares and value equivalent to two-thirds of the and ending at the beginning of the fifth other equity securities for cash other than issued share capital as at the date of Annual General Meeting of the Company in connection with an employee share the Notice which will allow the following such authorisation.
In line with scheme, company law requires that these Directors to make exclusions or such investor protection guidelines, the authority shares are offered first to the shareholders, other arrangements as may be contained in Resolution 4 is sought for three in proportion to their existing holdings.
The appropriate to resolve legal or years and starting on the date of the Directors consider it desirable to have the practical problems which, for example, authorisation and ending at the beginning maximum flexibility permitted by corporate might arise with overseas shareholders : of the third Annual General Meeting of the governance guidelines to respond to - for any other purpose, with a nominal Company following such authorisation.
market developments and to enable value equivalent to 5% of the issued allotments to take place to finance share capital as at the date of the In accordance with Article 142 b of the business opportunities without making a Notice: and articles of association, the entitlement of pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders.
- in connection with the financing each shareholder to receive new ordinary This cannot be done under the Companies or refinancing of an acquisition or shares under the Scrip Dividend Scheme Act 2006 unless the shareholders have first specified capital investment which is shall be such that the relevant value of waived their pre-emption rights.
The announced contemporaneously with the entitlement shall be nearly as possible purpose of Resolutions 16 and 17 together the allotment or which has taken place equal to the cash amount that such the disapplication of pre-emptions rights in the preceding six-month period and shareholder would have received by way resolutions is to enable shareholders to so is disclosed in the announcement of of dividend.
For these purposes, relevant waive their pre-emption rights.
the allotment, with a nominal value value would have the same meaning as equivalent to 5% of the issued share in the articles of association, and shall be Resolution 16 authorises the Directors to capital as at the date of the Notice, calculated by reference to the average allot new shares pursuant to the authority but subject to an overall aggregate of the middle market quotations for the given by Resolution 15 the allotment limit equivalent to two-thirds of the ordinary shares on the London Stock resolution for cash: issued share capital as at the date Exchange as derived from the Daily of the Notice.
Official List, for the day on which the a in connection with a rights issue or ordinary shares are first quoted ex the pre-emptive issue: and or relevant dividend and the four subsequent b otherwise up to the aggregate amount dealing days, or in such other manner as stated in the Notice which represents the Directors may determine on such basis 5% of the nominal value of the issued as it considers to be fair and reasonable.
share capital of the Company as at the The articles of association permit this, as date of the Notice, long as it is authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
in each case without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 98 Corporate governance statement DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Directors intend to adhere to the Resolution 18: Notice of provisions in the Pre-Emption Groups General Meetings Statement of Principles, as updated in The Companies Shareholders Rights March 2015, and not to allot shares for cash Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights on a non-pre-emptive basis pursuant to the Regulations, increased the notice period authority in Resolution 16 either in excess of for General Meetings of the Company to an amount equal to 5% of the total issued 21 days unless shareholders approve a ordinary share capital of the Company or shorter notice period, which cannot be in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the less than 14 days.
At the Annual General total issued ordinary share capital of the Meeting of the Company held in 2017, Company within a rolling three-year shareholders authorised the calling of period, without prior consultation with General Meetings, other than an Annual shareholders.
Adherence to the principles General Meeting, on not less than 14 days would not preclude issuances under the notice.
Resolution 18 seeks the approval of authority sought under Resolution 17. shareholders to renew the authority to be able to call General Meetings other than The allotment and the disapplication of an Annual General Meeting on 14 days pre-emption rights resolutions comply with notice.
The flexibility offered by Resolution the Share Capital Management Guidelines 18 will be used where, taking into account issued by the Investment Association in July the circumstances, the Directors consider it 2016 and the disapplication of pre-emption appropriate in relation to the business of rights resolutions follow the resolution the Meeting and in the interests of the templates issued by the Pre-Emption Company and shareholders as a whole.
The Company undertakes to meet the requirements for electronic voting under If the resolutions are passed, the authorities the Shareholders Rights Regulations before will expire at the end of the next Annual calling a General Meeting on 14 days General Meeting of the Company or, if notice.
If given, the approval will be earlier, 9 August 2019, this being the date effective until the Companys next Annual 15 months from the passing of the General Meeting, when it is intended that resolutions, whichever is the earlier.
a similar resolution will be proposed.
By order of the Board Christopher Szpojnarowicz Company Secretary 21 February 2018 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 99 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT ANDTHE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing Under applicable law and regulations, the Annual Report and Accounts and the the Directors are also responsible for Group and parent company financial preparing a Directors Report, Directors statements in accordance with Remuneration Report and Corporate applicable law and regulations.
Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company The Directors are responsible for the financial statements for each financial maintenance and integrity of the year.
Under that law they are required to corporate and financial information prepare the Group financial statements in included on the Companys website.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Legislation in the UK governing the EU and applicable law and have elected preparation and dissemination of financial to prepare the parent company financial statements may differ from legislation in statements on the same basis.
Under company law, the Directors must Each of the Directors, the name of whom not approve the financial statements are set out on pages 56 and 57, confirms unless they are satisfied that they give a that to the best of his or her knowledge: true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of - The annual report and accounts their profit or loss for that period.
taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the In preparing each of the Group and information necessary for shareholders parent company financial statements, the to assess the companys position and Directors are required to: performance, business model and strategy - Select suitable accounting policies - The financial statements, prepared and then apply them consistently in accordance with the applicable set - Make judgments and estimates that of accounting standards, give a true are reasonable and prudent and fair view of the assets, liabilities, - State whether they have been financial position and profit and loss prepared in accordance with IFRSs of the Company and the undertakings as adopted by the EU included in the consolidation taken - Prepare the financial statements on as a whole the going concern basis unless it is - The Directors Report includes a inappropriate to presume that the fair review of the development Group and the parent company will and performance of the business continue in business.
and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the The Directors are responsible for keeping consolidation taken as a whole, adequate accounting records that are together with a description of the sufficient to show and explain the parent principal risks and uncertainties companys transactions and disclose with that they face.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company R Smith J Lister and enable them to ensure that its Director Director financial statements comply with the 21 February 2018 Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 100 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: - the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: - the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: - the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and - the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of The Unite Group plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: - the consolidated income statement: - the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: - the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: - the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: - the consolidated and parent company statements of cash flow: and - the related sections 1 to 7.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: - Investment and development property valuation: - Accounting for Joint Ventures: and - Real Estate Investment Trust REIT compliance.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Last year our report included a key audit matter relating to the Groups REIT transition: this is no longer relevant in the current year as the Group elected to become a REIT from 1 January 2017.
In the current year, we have a new key audit matter relating to the Groups compliance with the REIT provisions as this is the first year that the Group is required to operate in accordance with the REIT regulations.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 17.5m which was determined on the basis of net assets.
However, we use a lower threshold of 3.5m for balances which impact European Public Real Estate Association EPRA earnings.
Scoping Consistent with our approach in the prior year, our Group audit scope focussed on the audit work of The Unite Group plc as well as the Joint Ventures, The Unite UK Student Accommodation Fund USAF and The London Student Accommodation Venture LSAV.
All audit work was completed by the Group audit team.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes in our audit approach in the current year, with the in our approach exception of the key audit matter changes relating to REIT as set out in the key audit matters section above.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 101 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material We have reviewed the directors statement in Section 1 to the financial statements to report, add or draw attention to in about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of respect of these matters.
accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they to report, add or draw attention to in were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, respect of these matters.
including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: - the disclosures on pages 2831 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: - the directors confirmation on page 99 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or - the directors explanation on page 27 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 102 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED Investment property and development property valuation Key audit matter description The Groups principal assets are investment properties 2017: 1,261.4m: 2016: 1,016.6m and investment properties under development 2017: 205.7m: 2016: 184.6m.
The Group also holds investments in the joint ventures, USAF and LSAV, whose principal assets are investment properties.
The investment properties are carried at fair value based on an appraisal by the Groups independent external valuers.
Valuations are carried out at six-monthly intervals for the Group in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional Standards the Red Book, taking into account transactional evidence during the year.
Management conduct a detailed exercise twice annually to assess the valuation of the Groups property portfolio.
The valuation is underpinned by a number of judgements and assumptions as it requires the estimation of property yields, rental growth, occupancy and property management costs.
A small change in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the valuation of properties and there is an associated fraud risk due to the risk of management override of controls.
With regards to the valuation of the USAF properties, small changes could also have a significant impact on a key input to the calculation of the performance fee recognised for the year ended 31 December 2017 as this is based on the net asset value of the fund.
With regards to the investment properties under development, additional judgement is required to forecast discounted cash flows with a deduction for construction costs to complete.
Refer to page 69 Audit Committee Statement and section 3.1: Wholly owned property assets and section 3.4 Investments in joint ventures.
How the scope of our We performed testing on the property valuations and critically assessed the judgements and audit responded to the estimates that had been made.
This work included: key audit matter - Understanding and documenting the underlying business process and then evaluating the design, determining implementation and testing operating effectiveness of the relevant controls: - Understanding and challenging the assumptions taken in relation to key drivers such as rental income and growth, occupancy, yields and costs with reference to the trends at the end of the year and the following years budget: - Meeting with the Groups valuers to understand the assumptions being taken and consistency of the judgements with prior year: - Working with our valuation experts within our Deloitte Real Estate team to benchmark the assumptions used against market data: and - Assessing the Groups development appraisal process through meeting with the development team and assessing the forecast cost to complete against budget and substantive testing of costs incurred to date.
Key observations We are satisfied with the approach and methodology adopted in valuing the property portfolio and consider the valuations to be suitable for inclusion in the financial statements at 31 December 2017.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 103 Accounting for Joint Ventures Key audit matter description A significant proportion of the Groups assets is held within USAF and LSAV, jointly owned entities that are accounted for under the equity method as joint ventures 2017: 793.5m: 2016: 692.9m, on the basis that Unite does not control the entities.
At 31 December 2017 Unite had a 24.6% 2016: 23.0% ownership of USAF and 50.0% 2016: 50.0% ownership of LSAV, and acts as manager of both joint venture vehicles.
Due to the complexity of the contractual arrangements, and the Groups role as manager of the joint venture vehicles, the assessment of control involves judgements around a number of significant factors, particularly with regards to USAF given that it is a multi-investor fund and the Unite ownership stake is subject to change.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRS, there is a need to assess control with regards to the ability to direct relevant activities, to have exposure to variable returns and the ability to use power to affect returns at each reporting period.
Management have assessed in line with the prior year that Unite does not have control over USAF and LSAV, but has joint control.
Consequently Management have accounted for the joint ventures under the equity method rather than consolidating them within the Groups financial statements.
Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Statement and section 3.4: Investments in joint ventures How the scope of our Our audit procedures on this area focussed on assessing the activities of the businesses, audit responded to the understanding the contractual agreements in place and identifying the methodology key audit matter applied by Management in reaching their business decisions in order to consider the appropriateness of the classification of these arrangements as joint ventures in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
With regards to both USAF and LSAV, we have: - Understood and documented the underlying business process and evaluated the design, determined implementation and tested operating effectiveness of the relevant controls: - Critically assessed the key activities and how they impact the returns to the Group from the funds and challenged Managements own consideration of these factors in their application of IFRS: - Assessed the Groups monitoring of its role and the three key factors relating to control and its exercise in accordance with the judgement required under IFRS: and - Reviewing the new fund agreements.
Given the particular focus on USAF, we have: - Assessed the role of the USAF Advisory Committee and concluded that Unite do not have sole power to direct the activities that are likely to most significantly affect the returns of USAF in the future, and therefore Unite do not have control of USAF: and - Critically evaluated the impact of the percentage ownership on a regular basis.
Key observations There has been no change to the structure and the role played by Unite as investor and asset development manager in the year.
Changes to the underlying fund agreements in the year have not significantly altered the level of control exercised by Unite, or the USAF Advisory Committee or LSAV Board.
We consider Managements conclusion that Unite does not have control of the JVs to be consistent with our conclusion.
Therefore, treatment as joint ventures is considered to be appropriate.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 104 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED REIT compliance Key audit matter description On 1 January 2017, the Group converted to a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT, with HMRC confirming that the election to REIT status has been validly made.
The primary tax consequences of conversion and ongoing maintenance of REIT status are that future UK property business profits and gains on investment properties are not subject to UK corporation or income tax.
Most notably, this means that the Group no longer recognises deferred tax in relation to the valuation gains on the investment property portfolio.
In order to maintain REIT status, the Group must comply with certain tests and other conditions to ensure its continuation under the regime.
Due to the material impact on the Groups financial results of remaining in compliance with the REIT regime requirements, we consider REIT compliance to be a key audit matter.
Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Statement and section 2.5: Tax How the scope of our Our audit procedures included: audit responded to the key audit matter - Understanding and documenting the underlying business process and then evaluating the design, determining implementation and testing operating effectiveness of the relevant controls: - Utilising tax audit specialists, including REIT specialists, to assess whether the key judgements relating to REIT compliance are understood: - Considering the clarity and presentation of the Groups disclosures of its tax balances and effective tax rate reconciliation: and - Testing the Groups current and forecast compliance with the REIT regime rules.
Key observations We are satisfied with Managements calculations and compliance with the REIT regime.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality Net Assets: 17.5m 2016: 14.8m 16.5m 2016: 14.2m EPRA Impacting Measures: 3.5m 2016: 3.0m Basis for 1% of Net Assets 1% of Net Assets determining materiality 5% of EPRA Earnings Rationale for the We determined materiality for the Group based on As the parent holding company the principal benchmark 1% of net assets 2016: 1% of net assets as the activity is to hold the investments in subsidiaries.
applied balance sheet is considered to be a key driver of a Therefore, the net assets balance is considered to property group.
be the key driver of the companys performance and the most relevant benchmark for materiality.
In addition to net assets, we consider the EPRA earnings measure to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group and we have applied a lower threshold based on 5% of EPRA earnings 2016: 5% of EPRA earnings for testing of revenue, cost of sales, operating expenses, loan interest and similar charges, finance income, share of joint venture profit and taxation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 176,250 2016: 153,000 for the Group and the Parent Company, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 105 An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The audit is performed centrally at the Bristol head office, as the books and records for each entity within the Group are maintained at this location.
The Group only operates within the United Kingdom this includes Unite as well as the two joint ventures, USAF and LSAV.
We also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical review procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
We audit all of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures which are subject to audit at statutory materiality level, which in many cases is substantially lower than Group materiality.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing to report in information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: - Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or - Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or - Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 106 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: - the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and - the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: of these matters.
- we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or - adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or - the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion of these matters.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board on 10 June 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 3 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Judith Tacon Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 21 February 2018 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 107 INTRODUCTION AND TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION AND TABLE OF CONTENTS These financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The Board of Directors also present the Groups performance on the basis recommended for real estate companies by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
The reconciliation between IFRS performance measures and EPRA performance measures can be found in Section 2.2 b for EPRA earnings and 2.3 c for EPRA net asset value NAV.
The adjustments to the IFRS results are intended to help users in the comparability of these results across other listed real estate companies in Europe and reflect how the directors monitor the business.
We have grouped the notes to the financial statements under six main headings: - Results for the year, including segmental information, EPRA earnings and EPRA NAV - Asset management - Funding - Working capital - Key management and employee benefits - Company subsidiaries and joint ventures Each section sets out the relevant accounting policies applied in these financial statements together with the key judgements and estimates used.
Primary statements Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet Company balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity Company statement of changes in shareholders equity Statements of cash flows Section 1: Basis of preparation Section 2: Results for the year 2.1 Segmental information 2.2 Earnings 2.3 Net assets 2.4 Revenue and costs 2.5 Tax 2.6 Audit fees Section 3: Asset management 3.1 Wholly owned property assets 3.2 Inventories 3.3 Other non-current assets 3.4 Investments in joint ventures 3.5 Investments in subsidiaries Section 4: Funding 4.1 Borrowings 4.2 Interest rate swaps 4.3 Net financing costs 4.4 Gearing 4.5 Financial risk factors 4.6 Operating leases 4.7 Capital management 4.8 Equity 4.9 Dividends Section 5: Working capital 5.1 Cash and cash equivalents 5.2 Trade and other receivables 5.3 Credit risk 5.4 Trade and other payables 5.5 Transactions with other group companies Section 6: Key management and employee benefits 6.1 Staff numbers and costs 6.2 Key management personnel 6.3 Share based compensation Section 7: Company subsidiaries and joint ventures THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
