26 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 The skys the limit There is always something new to see at intu Lakeside from the latest retailers to the best leisure attractions around thanks to a masterplan that, combined with our expertise, keeps the centre at the cutting edge of customers expectations ntu Lakeside was state of the art projects that bring in more retailers, iwhen we built it in 1990, one of the customers and rental income.
We created first out-of-town shopping centres in the the Boardwalk in 2007 to allow lakeside UK, and it remains one of the top retail eating, which opened fully let.
Recently destinations in the country with 20 million we enhanced it by creating a year-round visits a year and over 250 shops and external dining environment.
In 2014 we restaurants, delivering retail sales of over redeveloped the food court to create a 0.5 billion a year and dwell time which dynamic dining experience that appealed has risen to nearly 2.5 hours.
to aspirational brands and customers.
Our most recent completed project Its no wonder it stays so popular as a is the hotel which opened in 2017. company we take a long-term approach, Sited overlooking the lake, the always looking 10, 20 years into the Thurrock Lakeside Travelodge is one future to make sure our centres remain of the best performing hotels in ahead of our customers and tenants the Travelodge portfolio.
Over the years we have made astute land acquisition decisions Our 72 million leisure extension, now that now give us many options for on site, will make intu Lakeside one of expanding the range of attractions to the biggest leisure attractions in the drive dwell time and frequency.
intu Lakeside highlights southeast, with the first Nickelodeon theme park in a shopping centre in the Above all, our talented people know how Annual sales UK and a host of other leisure names to make the shopping experience special.
including Hollywood Bowl, Flip Out We have a knowledgeable local team, trampolining, Puttshack minigolf and supported by experienced national 568m leading food brands already signed up.
experts, who use their understanding We expect the 175,000 sq ft extension of the shopping centre environment in to open fully let in spring 2019. general, and our customers in particular, Total sq ft of retail, leisure to create an iconic destination, lauded and catering space Our 100 per cent ownership means we by celebrities and locals alike thousands have lots of options to continue to drive of social media mentions each month value to the southeasts pre-eminent show just how much intu Lakeside 1.4m retail and leisure destination.
already have planning permission for Annual footfall 400,000 sq ft of retail space and are What keeps pulling them in is the great looking at developing our leisure offer retail mix, with the top brands ghting further to attract the younger for space to do business with some of 20m demographic that is moving into the the countrys most loyal shoppers.
Thames Gateway area Europes largest regeneration project which will bring We keep intu Lakeside at the top of its Economic contribution many more jobs and homes to the area game great quality design, attention over the next few years.
Zipwires to detail and a constant eye on where we and hot air balloons are in the planning can improve the customers experience 379m stages.
Up, up and away intu Lakeside!
means a relentless roll-call of new The intu difference intu Lakeside 27 Building on intu Lakeside never stands still.
our success Like all our agship destinations, we nd many new ways to refresh and reinvigorate customers shopping experience 1990: opening of first out-of-town A 21st-century tenant mix shopping centre in the southeast he evolving tenant mix at intu Lakeside tells the Tstory of the changing face of shopping centres.
Over the last five years we have seen a 10 per cent increase in the number of leisure and catering outlets as a proportion of stores, as we meet customers Mid-90s: intu Lakeside fully growing expectations for experiences.
We can see reaches its extensive catchment the benets of satisfying this demand through and becomes an iconic destination increase in dwell times by eight per cent and we know that the longer customers stay the more they spend.
The space devoted to leisure and catering will double when the leisure extension opens in 2019.
2007: development of Boardwalk opens up the lake to diners 2014: new food court creates aspirational new dining experience 2017: Travelodge hotel opens on the shore of the lake But we are not nished there GoInStore goes live As the importance of leisure to our customers oInStore, one of our intu Accelerate start-ups, grows we are bringing lots of top new attractions Gpredicts live video is going to be the next big thing in omnichannel retail.
We offered them 2019: the new leisure intu Lakesides charming and knowledgeable extension heralds the personal stylist Carlene Noel to create content for a arrival of the pilot series of real-time videos that would showcase Nickelodeon theme the centres retailers and attract customers via our park, Puttshack minigolf, Shop Insider channel.
Over five days she worked with Flip Out trampolining many of our stores at intu Lakeside such as Toni & and great restaurants Guy, Debenhams and MAC, to introduce customers to new ranges and brands.
The results were impressive 30 per cent of viewers started shopping through our website, 12.5 per cent booked a stylist and the average viewing time was nearly six times Blue sky thinking: new the usual dwell on our site.
Live video proved to be leisure ideas will keep future a great way to enhance the shopping experience, generations enthralled says Carlene.
28 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Making merry We are putting our stamp on intu Merry Hill creating a thriving shopping and leisure destination and working with local people to put the centre at the heart of the local community e have owned our newest agship As a business we believe in doing what we worked with local charity the Beacon Wdestination, intu Merry Hill, for just can to improve local social issues, and we Centre to train over 60 intu staff in three years.
In that time we have prioritise good community engagement blind awareness and offered assisted refreshed the mall, attracted new brands, because it benets local people, staff and shopping sessions to make intu Merry enabled 15 million of retailer investment ultimately is good for our shopping centre Hill accessible to more people and upgraded Next to the 75,000 sq ft by bringing in new customers.
Over the helped local young people develop the site recently vacated by Sainsburys.
last year we have: skills they need to nd work, run a Jobs Fair with Dudley South MP Mike Wood, Over the next few years we are going employed a community manager taken part in Retail Matters Week to spend 100 million enhancing the to strengthen local relationships and supported Young Enterprise shopping centres leisure and retail mix.
launched the Re-Beat Campaign to raised 8,000 through all our This investment will contribute even raise over 8,500 to place 10 accessible Christmas activity for local cancer more to the 369 million gross value debrillators in Dudley and train over charity, the White House, and we currently add to the local community, 1,000 people within the community in volunteered 60 hours of staff time through employment, business their use employed local charity, Go Green, rates, capital investment and taken part in intus national campaign to sort cans collected through the charitable donations.
to make our centres autism-friendly Every Can Counts recycling campaign and provided assisted shopping guides The intu difference At the heart of communities 29 intu Merry Hill highlights 18m 484m annual footfall annual turnover One Planet Living 33% 8,248 rise in zone A rents local people employed ast year we created the Green Lab to incubate since 2014 Land roll out sustainable initiatives across the business.
We have worked with Bioregional to explore ways of applying their One Planet Living framework within the redevelopment of intu Broadmarsh.
These include introducing nature into the design, offering healthy food and sustainable travel options during construction and redesigning unused external space 105k 1,987 community donated hours to increase the health contributions and wellbeing potential at the development.
22m 369m business rates paid by value to local economy intu and our tenants Welcoming the community in Spain ur Spanish centres each have a Opermanent space dedicated solely for the use of local charities, the Espacio Solidario.
In 2017 our Spanish centres collaborated with 52 charitable projects covering everything from environmental issues to cancer information.
The Caritas he intu Merry Hill Green Gym is the fifth in the charity used the Puerto Venecia space Tportfolio but the first to be sited on intu land, over the year to collect clothes for on the UNESCO-endorsed Saltwells nature reserve.
recycling, collecting 40 tonnes of It aims to encourage people to improve both their clothes and raising 77,466. health and the environment, and has attracted 70 volunteers since it began in 2016.
The total value of our charitable support 70 volunteers in Spain, from all sources, came to 310,000 for the year.
