Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 10 INVESTMENT REPORT INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT The technology sector remains exciting KATIE POTTS FUND MANAGER 2017 has felt as if it has been the strongest year for technology this century.
We are pleased that this has been reflected insatisfactory progress in many of our holdings.
TAKEOVERS There have been positive returns in all regions of the STERLING, MILLIONS portfolio in 2017.
The UK market continued to be quite robust throughout 2017 with a healthy supply of new 100 issues and secondary offerings.
There have been a 80 handful of companies that have been anomalously strong, but on the whole, in spite of the returns of recent 60 years, it is not a frothy irrational market.
Europe has been even stronger, and some new issues remind me of the 40 Neuer Markt in 2000.
The US market has been more measured, but there have been some new issues in the 20 second half.
The Asian market has continued to grow.
0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 For the first time we have included the book cost of our top 20 holdings.
We focus on investing, and MIFIDII has focused our minds on the fact that our mandate and the PLACINGS AND IPOs way we operate is unusual.
Few professional investors STERLING, MILLIONS invest in microcaps for the long term.
100 The book cost of the top 20 holdings is 63.5m and the 80 market value is 299.9m so the average return is 370%, which demonstrates the value of our long-term approach.
60 In addition we have realised gains of 58.9m from these 20 holdings.
We are grateful to the efforts of the 40 management teams that have delivered such good returns, and we aspire to be supportive long-term shareholders.
20 Less positively, the scale of withdrawal of institutional 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 money from quoted markets in the UK and North America, which has led to takeovers persistently outnumbering new issues, is of concern.
These takeovers have often AIM HOLDINGS been made by private equity investors backed by large STERLING, MILLIONS institutions.
The scale of the issue is illustrated in the 450 following table, which also shows how many investment opportunities there are for the Companys defined remit.
360 The number of North American quoted TMT stocks in certain ICB sectors has fallen by 18% over five years, in 270 the UK by 9%, and Europe by 10%.
Only in Asia has the number grown by 18%.
The list is not the entire remit, 180 but the core sectors are useful for illustrative purposes.
Source: Bloomberg FTSE Russell Industry Classification Benchmark.
It is not clear whether this is a cyclical, or a structural has been a significant financial incentive to own companies change.
Regulation has a heavy cost in quoted markets.
with debt, because interest is tax deductible and dividends In the US, Sarbanes Oxley legislation has virtually killed are not.
For pension funds in the UK this was only relevant the market for smaller companies, and Europe is catching from 1997 when they could no longer recover tax paid on up.
I have, however, been suspicious that there is the dividends, which significantly changed allocations from potential for a great deal of value to be lost in the so called public markets to private equity.
This disadvantage is being Unicorns, which are private companies with a value reduced by lowering corporation tax rates in the UK: and in excess of $1bn.
Companies such as Uber suggest no the recently announced US tax changes including lower regulation could be worse than too much, but Softbank corporation tax and limiting the tax deductibility of interest has funded Uber for now.
A perceived negative for public to 30% of profits is very significant.
For economic stability, markets is managements frustration that investors expect it has to be a sound measure to encourage ownership of steady growth in profits, and make it difficult to invest for corporations through equity rather than debt.
We have first-hand experience of many sense says that this measure will be followed elsewhere management teams who saw their venture capital private while interest rates are so low.
Private equity has further equity owners as far from utopia as well.
Institutions used leveraged returns with cheap bank debt, albeit with higher to be patient long-term public market investors, but they risk.
This US tax change may mark a significant turning have reallocated capital.
Will institutional point for asset allocation between public and private equity, investors return to valuing the liquidity of public markets?
with the attractions of leveraged buyouts diminishing.
One of the challenges to public markets, and tailwinds to Whilst this could reduce the number of takeovers, it should private equity, has been balance sheet structures.
There also be healthier for public markets in the long run.
The total assets figure comprises assets less current liabilities before deduction of bank loan.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 12 INVESTMENT REPORT INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED The bottom line is not complicated.
Companies will be historically, we did receive written research from most funded by those that pay the highest price.
For now, of them and they accounted for a high proportion of the private equity and venture capitalists in North America research we actually read.
Much of this might be industry have the money.
There is allegedly a trillion dollars in background rather than company specific.
It was perhaps uninvested cash in private equity hands, so a reversal anomalous that we did not pay for this input, and the will take time.
I prefer investing in the cheaper asset charges we have now agreed seem relatively reasonable.
class, and unsurprisingly performance in the quoted The problem is that the brokers providing the research world has been better in the shrinking markets.
do not make markets in smaller companies and do not provide liquidity in them it is smaller brokers that do that.
The UK has not shrunk at the small end by number of I sincerely hope that the multitude of smaller brokers will companies.
In practice larger companies have gone and have a viable business model going forward.
This exercise smaller companies emerged, so it has shrunk by value.
AIM has focused our minds on how few investors attempt to is vibrant.
There is a surprising level of entrepreneurialism in invest globally in small companies as we do.
In overseas the UK relative to other countries, as well as skills.
In a world markets, we are often the only foreign investor to visit awash with cash the area of conspicuous value is small individual companies.
One outcome of the changes that companies that need cash, because debt funding is not I had not fully thought through is that salesmen and even available.
That is part of the reason why the UK continues sales traders can be considered part of research.
Nobody to be a surprisingly large element of this global fund.
would entertain paying a retainer to a car salesman for educating them as to whether they might at some stage Against the gloom of fiscal deficits, trade deficits and want to buy a car, and in the smaller company world it politics, there is one area of the economy conspicuously seems that that is what we are being expected to do.
The technology sector has been strong globally in are eager to see how the marketplace evolves over the next 2017, and it has been remarkable how much growth there year or two.
Experience says that if stocks get overlooked has been in London.
In part this reflects a bubble in San by the market they will get taken over, which provides Francisco and Silicon Valley, which has led to the big internet reassurance, but in the long run the primary capital raising companies expanding elsewhere, and London has emerged market will disappear if the secondary market falters.
as a hub that has attracted leading-edge talent, and in consequence companies.
Google, for example, has received UK planning permission for a new 1m square foot office at Kings In the UK performance has been sparkling this year with a Cross following a submission in June 2017, and Facebook total return of 35.2% IRR.
17 UK holdings have returned is allegedly negotiating to take a further 400,000 square more than 100%, as shown in the table below.
These have followed announcements from these companies delivered a total return of 104m, and Apple, who are building a new 500,000 square foot UK only one, IQE, was a top 20 holding at the start of the year.
HQ in Battersea, and Amazon who have taken 514,000 Arguably the performance of the smaller holdings reflects square feet in Shoreditch.
In addition London has become the fact that we are in the later stages of the bull market.
an important technical centre for the traditional financial sector, and is a hub for start-ups.
A concern that we have Industry pioneer eg Solutions was acquired by a NASDAQ had for a number of years is that the evaporation of larger listed company.
Although a small company it had an technology companies in the UK would leave the UK with interesting customer in Facebook.
AIM listed stocks a diminishing skill base.
I am therefore excited by the scale in aggregate delivered a total return of 123.9m.
of investment into the UK by these vast US technology companies who are training people in leading edge skills.
IQEs HQ is in South Wales, but they have operations in North America and Asia, and are now the market leader MIFID II globally for manufacturing compound semiconductor HIML is now having to pay directly for research.
Historically, the largest market has been the RF portals, it has historically received research from hundreds component from power amplifiers in mobile phones with of brokers, and received research on at least one of our Skyworks the biggest customer, but this year Lumentum holdings from amongst our 125 brokers.
However, HIML and others have emerged as customers for VCSELs, which has received research from only one broker or none at are semiconductor based laser diodes.
These are being all on 62 of our holdings.
This reflects how fragmented used in the latest mobile phones for 3D sensing, and for the smaller companies market is.
It is tempting to be connectors in datacentres as well as other applications.
dismissive and say we do not need research, but I see it as In percentage terms, Zoo Digital appreciated the most by irresponsible not to seek as much information as reasonably 550%.
The patient support that we gave to the company possible.
Research is also needed to encourage a healthy during a technical transition has been rewarded.
In the secondary market in stocks.
We are still finding our way darkest period, only Zoos chief executive and Herald under the new regime, but have currently agreed deals supported the company with cash to enable the company with over 70 brokers to receive various levels of research to survive.
Although still a small company, based in Sheffield, services.
We now have access to research from most of the it has an impressive customer list with Netflix adding to global players.
Although we have hardly dealt with them long standing customers such as Disney and Warner.
Other significant contributors to performance were Bango, BE Semiconductor Industries, Frontier Developments, Microgen, Isra Vision, Blue Prism, LoopUp and Versarien.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 13 SECTOR PERFORMANCE STERLING, MILLIONS Market value % of equity Total return Total return equity portfolio portfolio equity portfolio equity portfolio 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2017 2017 2016 Software 220.0 24.6 45.2 39.6 Semiconductors 130.8 14.6 56.9 41.1 Computer Services 117.3 13.1 38.8 11.3 Media Agencies 85.8 9.6 20.3 8.4 Internet 66.9 7.5 24.2 3.0 Telecommunications Equipment 38.7 4.3 -0.4 7.4 Publishing 34.9 3.9 3.7 5.3 Electrical Components & Equipment 28.8 3.2 4.5 2.6 Fixed Line Telecommunications 18.5 2.1 0.7 0.1 Business Support Services 17.1 1.9 -4.1 -1.1 Computer Hardware 15.4 1.7 0.3 1.2 Other 121.9 13.6 27.1 24.0 Total 896.1 100% 217.3 143.0 UK companies returning more than 100% 2017 total return % was regarded on the West coast.
Unfortunately I do not think that the Imagination board optimised the outcome, Zoo Digital 550 and were not helped by frustrated shareholders.
I am Versarien 442 interested to hear that the chief technology officer now runs Frontier Developments 342 R&D for Apple in the UK.
The other significant takeover is SQS.
We first owned the shares buying 425,000 at IPO in Bango 286 2005, and have increased the holding with 17 subsequent IQE 261 purchases to hold 2.19m shares now.
On completion the value will be c. 18m.
While I am disappointed to Spectra Systems 246 see it go, it was a worthwhile takeover premium.
LoopUp 195 Wandisco 186 Blue Prism 183 eg Solutions 177 Taptica 173 Microgen 157 XLMedia 123 Sophos 119 Cloudcall 115 The p e of the portfolio at Frontier Smart Technologies 107 XP Power 103 23 does not seem Imagination Technologies has been taken over.
It is a expensive relative to bonds rather sad end for a highly innovative company because the loss of the Apple contract led to a sale from a position and other sectors with of weakness.
Nevertheless, over the history of Herald, Imagination is one of the most profitable holdings with lower growth prospects.
realised profits of 32.9m, and marginally exceeded only by IQE and Diploma.
Imagination provided graphics and video technology to the iPhone and iPad, but is being designed KATIE POTTS, FUND MANAGER out.
I have enormous respect for Hossein Yossaie, who led the business for many years, and would like to thank him very much for his efforts, and I know how highly he Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 14 INVESTMENT REPORT INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED NORTH AMERICA The US portfolio returned 18.2% IRR, in sterling terms, which was usefully ahead of the Russell 2000 Technology Index which rose 7.6% in sterling terms.
The gains of 45.7m were offset by losses of 13.5m.
The best performer was Boingo Wireless, which supplies internet to the US military, and its Distributed Antenna Service DAS offers Wi-Fi handoff to mobile phone carriers in populated areas like airports and stadiums.
Five9 VOIP call centres, Hortonworks Hadoop database and Mellanox Technologies InfiniBand and Ethernet connectivity also contributed usefully.
In addition Adesto Technologies low power nonvolatile memory, Hydrogenics electricity to hydrogen, RingCentral VOIP telephony and Pixelworks system on a chip display solutions all appreciated more than 100%.
Partially offsetting these gains, fibre companies, Inphi Corporation and Fabrinet, ceded some of 2016s gains, and Radisys and Amber Road have disappointed.
The price earnings ratio p e of 33 on the North American portfolio is 45% higher than the UK, but the US has traditionally been more highly rated.
EMEA The EMEA return of 52.1% IRR, in sterling terms reflected outstanding returns from BE Semiconductor Industries 138%, which supplies leading semiconductor packaging equipment, and Isra Vision 120%.
We acquired Isra Vision in 2004 at 13.
It has recently caught the robotics craze, and ended the year at 212.6.
ASIA The Asian portfolio returned 24.3% IRR, in sterling terms.
In comparison, the Kosdaq IT index in Korea returned 24.3% and the TWSE Electronics index in Taiwan rose 23.3%.
Nine Asian holdings rose more than 50% in the year, with these investments spread across a range of countries and sectors.
The semiconductor industry had a cyclically strong year and a couple of semiconductor capital equipment suppliers in Korea performed particularly well, for example: Hanmi Semiconductor was up 101% and PSK was up 95%.
Two Chinese internet businesses also contributed usefully: 51Job addresses the HR and recruitment sector and BitAuto is a leading automotive website.
The worst performer in Asia was PChome Online, which fell 47.8%.
This was due to an aggressive price competitor called Shopee raising money at the group level via the IPO of SEA in the United States the funds raised are financing a price war in Taiwan to the detriment of PChome.
The forecast p e of the Asian portfolio is around 15, lower than some other areas of the portfolio, a discount that reflects additional risks of investing in the region and the relative scarcity of recurring revenue cash generative business models.
OUTLOOK The UK continued to benefit in 2017 from sterling weakness in 2016, and there is likely to be a relative headwind this year.
Nevertheless the p e of the portfolio at 23 does not seem expensive relative to bonds and other sectors with lower growth prospects.
