Strategic Report Sector Review Personal Care Formulations, which have given greater Alongside an improving trend with focus and dynamism.
Our flagship Beauty multinationals, the fastest growth continues Actives business, where Croda is the to be with regional and local customers.
global market leader, had another excellent Our investment in locally based sales, year, delivering double digit percentage marketing and technical resource sales growth in constant currency.
continues to be a key differentiator in Innovation is the key to its continued accessing smaller customers and enabling success and we launched the next us to identify and leverage exciting new generation of the award winning Matrixyl trends.
Enhanced digital capabilities and range, Matrixyl Morphomics, combining targeted marketing are delivering a growing the latest scientific technologies with pipeline of opportunities by connecting Sedermas expertise in anti-ageing faster with new Indie customers as they peptides and claim substantiation to offer bring new products rapidly to market.
Sandra Breene the best solutions in skin rejuvenation.
The breadth of our customer base drove President, Personal Care growth in all regions.
In Beauty Effects, the smallest of the three businesses, our aim is to develop fast Innovation continues to drive the sector, growth niches in hair, solar protection and with NPP sales growing faster than the In Personal Care we are targeting colour cosmetics.
We believe that these average and now representing over 40% consistent sales growth, whilst broadly technically demanding markets can drive of sales.
The ability to innovate alongside maintaining margin.
We delivered this in similar growth and profitability to Beauty customers is being enhanced through 2017, with sales growth in all regions, Actives.
With a focus on new product an expansion of research and development driven by stronger sales volume.
Sales innovation, Beauty Effects delivered at Sederma, a new centre of excellence for increased 10.9% to 466.6m 2016: sales growth in the second half year.
It hair in Japan and a new innovation centre 420.6m and by 5.3% in constant successfully launched Volarest, a novel in Brazil.
In addition to organic investment, currency, the latter driven by a 5% increase curl retention product, and Kereffect, we continue to add to our range of market in volume.
Adjusted operating profit an exciting semi-permanent hair leading technologies, including the increased by 8.7% to 155.5m 2016: straightening and curl relaxant product acquisition of a novel surfactant technology 143.1m, 3.3% ahead in constant offering a milder alternative to traditional spin-off and co-investment in Cutitronics currency.
The sectors strong margin straightening systems.
Five years ago we added delivery continued, with return on sales plant stem cell technology to Sedermas In Beauty Formulations we completed only marginally lower at 33.3% 2016: anti-ageing portfolio through the acquisition our distributor exit programme, targeted 34.0% : as expected, this reflected a of IRB, which is now delivering meaningful resource to innovation driven customers broadening in mix as sales growth returned sales.
We have recently added Nautilus, and increased differentiation of our heritage across the product portfolio.
a technology-rich marine biotechnology ingredients portfolio.
As a result, we company, which will further enhance this During 2017 we successfully reversed a returned this business to growth.
unmatched range of skin active capabilities.
decline in the more mature Specialities We also reversed a declining trend with market, whilst continuing to deliver fast multinational customers, increasing the growth in our premium Actives business.
intensity of product innovation with We created three businesses: Beauty a targeted group of customers and Actives, Beauty Effects and Beauty delivering modest sales growth.
Sales Case study 466.6m 2016: 420.6m product usage, enabling us to utilise this latest Investing in technology digital technology to gain greater insight into In 2017 we became minority shareholders in personal care regimes and the factors that Cutitronics, a technology company that has Adjusted operating profit influence these.
This information will shape our developed and patented devices for skin future product development and help us provide care product selection and application.
155.5m 2016: 143.1m better formulation support and consumer insight Targeting the premium skin care market, their to our customers.
strategy is to white label this technology, called Return on sales CutiTron, which assesses and prepares the skin for optimum delivery of the customised formulation it dispatches, providing an ongoing, 33.3% 2016: 34.0% adaptive personalised regime for the consumer.
CutiTron analyses skin needs while taking into consideration other factors that might affect its condition, such as local climate.
It also captures many data points on skin and consumer Croda International Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Meeting the unmet needs of African Consumers There is a growing consumer trend towards a natural look within the African hair care market Investing in... People Technology We commissioned and supported a number The Centre of Excellence we have opened in of focus groups with African women to South Africa uses bespoke and unique hair understand better their personal care testing methods for the African market.
regimes, which included hearing about the Using this technology, we can analyse the challenges they face in trying to maintain performance of our active ingredients to healthy hair.
This has given our research and meet consumer demands, knowing that development team new insight into the due to our high percentage of natural, problems these consumers have, enabling renewable raw materials and the sustainability them to learn more about, and invest in, new information we have, we can also minimise analytical and testing equipment to assess any environmental impacts.
Through our our ingredients on African hair.
Proudly Tested in Africa initiative, we will continue to gain direct consumer feedback Niche in order to offer a more comprehensive and The hair of most Africans grows slowly and targeted data package to our customers.
tends to be difficult to manage due to its brittle nature.
The products currently available Smart Partnering in this market are generally not meeting To focus on meeting the needs African consumer needs because they have of African consumers, we are working been developed for Afro-American hair, extensively with industry experts, local which has different properties.
This is why universities and our customers, both some consumers resort to braiding that multinationals and local manufacturers, damages the hair, which can lead to receding to ensure that we all have a greater hairlines and baldness in the long term.
understanding of the African hair Alternatively, they often apply relaxer physiology and current market landscape.
products to straighten the hair, which can harm the hair and scalp and can also have a negative impact on the environment during disposal due to their chemical profile.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 Strategic Report | Sector Review Life Sciences second half of the year saw a return to ground Seed Enhancement in one location.
We have invested in faster 2017 saw exciting sales growth for Disco innovation through closer collaboration AG Clear L-650, representing the first with our agrochemical customers and are technical development by Croda Incotec targeting faster growing geographies.
The and which provides a seed film coat pipeline of new projects has continued to formulation that outperforms in seed flow, develop, particularly leveraging our market drying time and dust control.
The new leading drift reduction technology.
We product pipeline is continuing to improve.
continued to grow with our multinational Health Care achieved modest sales customers but have also seen growth growth in 2017.
Whilst growth in amongst regional and smaller accounts.
mainstream excipients was slower, we This has been supported by investment delivered a strong performance from our in additional capacity in Latin America, investments in faster growth technologies, Nick Challoner where the medium term outlook for particularly high purity excipients which President, Life Sciences crop production is strong, together with meet increasing demand for complex drug encouraging growth in Asia, a relatively delivery systems.
The innovation pipeline new crop opportunity for Croda.
Driving strengthened, with a record level of New In Life Sciences we are creating IP rich greater innovation is key and we have and Protected Product sales.
We launched delivery systems for complex health and successfully launched the Tween L series Crodamol IPIS, an excipient with light crop applications, delivering sales and of advanced adjuvants and Atplus PFA, and easy spreading characteristics with profit growth in line with our strategic an adjuvant developed to improve the outstanding moisturisation and sensory objective of creating a business to match performance of fungicidal applications.
Innovation is also driving more our Personal Care success.
2017 saw Life The integration of our Seed Enhancement data generation, which supports wider Sciences deliver an excellent performance, business, Incotec, following acquisition uses of existing excipients, whilst new driven by strong sales growth in Crop at the end of 2015, continued to progress applications are helping to fide-risk generic Protection and margin improvement in successfully.
Reorganisation of the drug formulation.
Sales increased by geographic footprint and cost base is As expected, competition in the North 10.4% to 322.6m 2016: 292.2m and now complete, and the business is on American generic Omega-3 Active were 4.6% higher in constant currency.
track to deliver our target to double Pharmaceutical Ingredients API market Adjusted operating profit rose 18.3% to pre-acquisition profitability by the end has continued, leading to lower prices 97.0m 2016: 82.0m, 14.0% higher in of 2018.
It is focused on faster growth and, at the end of 2017, we exited our constant currency.
Volume growth of territories in North America, Europe, exclusive supply contract without cost.
6.0%, together with an improving Incotec Brazil, China and India, getting closer to This completed a profitable four year contribution, increased return on sales by customers by increasing customer-centric period of manufacture and we will 2 percentage points to 30.1% 2016: 28.1%.
We opened a new R&D facility continue to build our range of other Our Crop Protection business continued to in the Netherlands and are creating new Omega-3 API applications in selected outperform the wider agrochemical market.
centres in North America and China, the niches and countries.
After a challenging first half of 2017, which latter combining above the ground Crop saw sales unchanged year on year, the Protection R&D capability with below the Sales Case study 322.6m 2016: 292.2m We work alongside our customers to Investing in injectables demonstrate the outstanding benefits of our As pharmaceutical companies look to Super Refined excipients, which contribute to enhance drug effectiveness, nanoparticles are Adjusted operating profit the stabilisation of these sensitive, nanoparticle becoming increasingly investigated as a drug based injectable formulations, thereby helping to delivery system for injectable medications.
97.0m 2016: 82.0m maximise the performance and shelf life of APIs.
These microscopic particles help to protect and stabilise sensitive active pharmaceutical Return on sales ingredients APIs, allowing them to be used in formulations effectively.
These developments improve the treatment that patients receive and 30.1% 2016: 28.1% often make it more convenient as fewer doses are needed.
However, this type of injectable product is complex, requiring specialist formulators to ensure that they remain stable over a long shelf life and that the APIs are released at the right time.
Croda International Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Drift Reduction Technology Our unique wind tunnel facility in North America enables us to work with customers to develop new low drift crop protection products to control the spraying of crops Investing in... Technology Smart Partnering Following three years of intensive We developed the wind tunnel in development, the measurement and collaboration with academic and industry high speed imaging capabilities in our partners around the world including, bespoke wind tunnel allow us to characterise agricultural, mechanical and aerodynamic spray patterns down to the movement of engineers.
The facility offers a unique range individual droplets.
This provides the tool of support to our customers who engage us kit with which to conduct in-depth research on projects to improve spray performance.
on spray droplet size control and drift People reduction mechanisms.
Through relationships formed in the Niche design and delivery of this facility, our Our testing capability enables us to assess people continue to expand their technical agricultural spray quality and find control knowledge, links to outside experts, depth solutions that better meet customer, market of understanding on market needs and and environmental needs.
This improves insight to the challenges in meeting them.
spray delivery to the target, which minimises This enables us to help our customers focus waste and reduces the impact on animals, on developing technologies that solve the plants, water and land.
right problems and better manage risks.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 Strategic Report | Sector Review Performance Technologies progressively streamlined sales to improve a novel surface active antimicrobial the quality of business, growing by 4.3% in coatings technology with strong the second half of the year whilst increasing environmental benefits, was commercially return on sales by 120 basis points.
The Smart Materials business is well positioned to meet increased Over 2017 as a whole, sales increased by demand for products with high levels 12.6% to 456.9m 2016: 405.6m and by of renewable carbon.
Overall volume grew by 1.0%, with an improved product The Energy Technologies market is driven mix supported by progressive recovery by the search for new technologies that of increased raw material prices.
Adjusted can gain or retain energy.
Sales in Energy operating profit increased by 13.2% to Technologies in the first half of the year 75.4m 2016: 66.6m, up 10.7% in were particularly strong due to growth in constant currency, the second successive marine, wind turbine and environmentally Maarten Heybroek year of double digit constant currency acceptable lubricants, together with an President, Performance Technologies profit growth for the sector.
Return on upsurge in demand for oil and gas products, sales improved by 10 basis points to benefitting our flow assurance business.
the second half of the year, in line with our Performance Technologies markets are strategy of driving value ahead of volume, witnessing unprecedented technological Smart Materials delivered good growth we selectively demarketed less differentiated change which is creating attractive in 2017, with robust demand in the products to these markets.
Our focus is on opportunities for Crodas innovation.
In 2017, automotive and premium packaging creating greater innovation and higher value we sharpened our focus on the premium markets for polymer additives.
Our novel products, including our Priolube range of Smart Materials and Energy Technologies IncroslipSL slip additive doubled sales for friction modifiers for the automotive market.
markets, where we are seeing opportunities the third year running and there is growing for high added value innovation that interest in our anti-scratch technology.
In addition, we continue selectively to improves the performance of our However, sales from our China plant were develop our presence in Home Care customers products with a reduced adversely impacted by higher prices for and Water, by focusing on bio-based environmental profile, to deliver our domestically sourced rape seed.
We surfactants in Home Care and by improving medium term 20% return on sales target.
commenced a 27m project to expand the relatively low margin of the Water capacity in the UK and acquired IonPhasE, business by upgrading product mix.
Performance Technologies delivered a good an innovative technology provider of Sales growth in 2017 was good.
Following an exceptionally static electricity dissipation solutions for strong growth in demand at the start of the electronic and automotive applications.
year, which saw constant currency sales In the coatings market, MyCroFence, increase 9.1% in the first half, we Sales Case study 456.9m 2016: 405.6m Investing in electrostatic protection Adjusted operating profit The internet of things is an exciting and fast growing trend that is driving innovation.
The opportunities within this market are 75.4m 2016: 66.6m endless as it becomes the norm for items such as handheld devices, vehicles and Return on sales appliances to be digitally connected through embedded micro electronic components.
However, these are sensitive components 16.5% 2016: 16.4% that require higher standards of electrostatic protection to prevent damage.
Restated Note 1 p100 This was a key driver for our recent acquisition of IonPhasE, the technology leader for controlled electrostatic discharge release.
Their unique, patent protected range of anti-static additives prevents damage to electrical components, as well as dust build up in automotive parts, giving us access to this niche, high value segment of the polymers market.
Croda International Plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Marine Environment Sustainability The global marine transport industry needs lubricants that meet stringent legislation requirements, so that vessels can enter any waters in the world Investing in... Niche People Regulations demand that the lubricants Our research and development team work used in a marine environment have minimal alongside our global product safety and damage to aquatic life to protect our oceans.
regulatory experts to ensure that we offer These regulations are regional, but can have the right solution to our customers.
For example, the United fundamental in enabling our customers to States Environment Protection Agency operate without limitation in any waters Vessel General Permit VGP applies to ships across the world, as they can be called upon entering USA territorial waters, but ship to deliver products anywhere at short notice, owners and operators need the flexibility to making it an absolute requirement that our send any ship into USA waters at any time.
products are designed for global application.
Technology Smart Partnering We have a long history of producing lubricant It is critical that we work in partnership base oils that are readily biodegradable, across our entire supply chain to make sure do not bio-accumulate in the environment, that the lubricants we offer meet the highest have superior toxicity credentials and are performance and environmental requirements based on renewable raw materials.
They are of our customers products.
This in turn must designed with performance and the marine satisfy the needs of the equipment they are environment in mind, providing optimum used in both above and below the waterline.
performance in ship power transmission Through ongoing industry and customer and positioning systems, whilst meeting collaborations, we gain an early understanding the requirements of all major international of these demands, so that together we can Ecolabelling schemes.
respond quickly to new performance and regulatory requirements to protect our oceans.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 Strategic Report | Sector Review Industrial Chemicals In 2017 we continued to improve the Sales product mix in Industrial Chemicals, with a targeted reduction in low value add 127.0m 2016: 125.2m co-product and tolling business, which saw sector volume reduce by 12%.
Sales increased by 1.4% to 127.0m 2016: Adjusted operating profit 125.2m but reduced by 4.0% in constant currency.
4.3m 2016: 6.5m Industrial Chemicals continued to refine its business.
The transfer of co-product Return on sales glycerine from external sales to in-house green energy conversion resulted in a Maarten Heybroek 3.4% 2016: 5.2% further 10,000mt reduction in sales from President, Industrial Chemicals our manufacturing facility in the Netherlands but with greater value generated from Restated Note 1 p100 lower energy costs.
The sector continues to innovate selectively to develop niche NPP for new performance-based applications.
We will continue to focus on our strategy of creating a smaller, innovation orientated Industrial Chemicals business.
Investing in... Sustainability Niche Smart Partnering in the textile Global retailers are now scrutinising water We collaborate with our customers to ensure and energy usage within their supply chain that the ingredients we develop will meet and are demanding reductions from their their performance needs, whilst satisfying supply chain textile processors.
Further down the supply chain, Technology this has already seen our inclusion on the The processing of textile Our technology focuses on optimising approved supplier lists for national retailers.
enzyme activity, enabling processing materials requires many temperatures to be reduced by up to People different products in 20-25 C, whilst eliminating the need for Such complex products and processing harsher chemicals to be used in manufacturing techniques require our research and conjunction with the and also reducing the number of processing development teams, and also our sales stages.
Combined, these benefits reduce people to have a high degree of technical consumption of significant water and energy usage, and decrease knowledge.
We ensure that these teams amounts of water discharge into waste water, consequently are continually learning about the latest reducing the environmental impact of advancements in the textile industry through and energy water treatment.
the results of our own internal technical trials and market presentations.
Croda International Plc 20 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
