22 22 intu intu p pr ro op per erties ties plc plc An Annu nual al r re epor port t 2 20 01 17 7 Helping retailers ourish Unique model helps retailers ourish Jo Malone The perfumier tried a pop-up ur  LED model ensures that store at intu Lakeside in the Oretailers working in partnership with intu can reach their run-up to Christmas 2017. true potential across all intu channels.
With gold package LED support, they enjoyed such Leasing an integral part of successful retailing remains good results they have signed the store.
In taking space with us retailers know that they are a 10-year lease.
in safe hands our centres are continuously improving and developing, always destinations where customers want to be.
Experiential our tailor-made promotional services model Three is designed to help retailers and brands reach their true The mobile operators potential.
In centre, this can include pop-up space on the sponsorship of our student mall, promotional events and digital media advertising, nights gave them access to all with the aim of delivering improved recognition and 120,000 students across 11 ultimately increased sales.
intu centres and a 149 per cent rise in SIM-only sales.
Digital with a transactional website that has an annual digital audience of 26 million, we can help retailers meet their multichannel aspirations.
From volume sales through our online shop and dedicated emails to our engaged shopper community, along with brand awareness through Gourmet Burger Kitchen strong editorial content across our online and social media, Working with Gourmet Burger we actively support our retailers growth.
Kitchen we developed a multichannel campaign to Not only have we redened the customer experience, we are increase awareness and drive redening the tenant experience too.
Through our LED model, sales.
The campaign reached we offer a multichannel approach that truly supports their 350,000 people and received retail strategies.
17,000 clickthroughs, driving over 5,000 customers into their restaurants.
t T h h e e i in n tt u u d d ii ff ff er er en en c c e e Helping retailers ourish 23 23 Digital success ack in 2013 we introduced our Bnew affiliate website, intu.
co. uk, enabling retailers to promote their products to our digital audience.
It is now one of the countrys leading affiliate websites, used by over 500 retailers and generating 9 million in sales from 5.7 million visits.
Its latest functionality uses AI-powered visual search to enable shoppers to pick an item and then instantly be shown similar products from across all our retailers.
Shop Insider, our digital magazine, creates content around Improving our business every day topical shopping behaviours and rising social trends, that helps the reader eat, shop and save.
In 2017 Shop Insider t intu, if we can nd a way of doing things better we will, had 1.4 million readers and our inhouse editorial team were Aand when it comes to supporting our tenants, we harness commissioned to produce content on behalf of 37 retailers our thirst for innovation to drive cost efficiencies and make and brands, including John Lewis, MAC, Debenhams and their lives easier.
Insurance charges have been trimmed by up Marks & Spencer.
Retailers can also get access to our to 20 per cent, thanks to our proactive approach to reducing one million social media followers through bespoke paid-for risk.
We continue to cut waste costs while assuring our social content.
tenants that their waste is being treated to the highest environmental standards.
Our energy procurement strategy Just as retailers are choosing our shopping centres to buys ahead, providing greater cost certainty to our tenants.
promote their brands, they are now realising the benets of using digital content to build their brands.
And it has given us This is business as usual at intu, as is our constant search for an edge with pureplays too digital brands such as Boohoo new ways to run our business, supporting exciting start-up and ASOS are some of intu.
co. uks most prolic clients.
businesses that offer significant technological and process innovation in property and retail.
Our work with Invida to design and implement an entirely new cloud-based software 1.8m 9m 5m platform to support lifecycle management will revolutionise Shop insider retailer clicks to the facilities management industry.
We are also supporting page sales retailers start-up enModus, whose groundbreaking communications views websites technology, Wattwave, can transform any industrial, commercial or retail property into a smart building, simply by connecting all devices to the cloud via the existing power line.
intu Accelerate Through intu Accelerate we worked with some of the smartest minds to answer some of the questions facing the retail and leisure industry today y. W. We e c ch hose ose seven start-ups who ran live trials acr across oss our business to test and demonstra at te e the potential of their ideas to shape e th the e future of retail.
Four of the best we er re e: : botsandus intelligent and friendl ly y r ro ob bo ot t New collaborations assistants right to guide customer rs s a ar rou ound nd and help retailers promote their sto or re es s s we build our presence in Spain, we and our Atenants are benefiting from opportunities across GoInStore live videos to promote r e re et ta ail ile er rs s both the UK and Spain.
We have seen enhanced products to online customers collaboration for UK-based retailers in our Spanish centres with the likes of Five Guys and Quiz taking Infraspeak efficient building some of their first spaces in Spain at intu centres management using predictive sens so or rs s, and many discussions starting for intu Costa del Sol.
user-friendly apps and powerful sof ftw twa ar re e For Spanish companies looking to grow in the UK, we have enhanced our relationships.
Grupo Parques WoraPay a multiretailer app Reunidos, the Spanish entertainment operator, allowing customers to order ahead is launching its first venture in the UK, with a to beat the queues Nickelodeon theme park at intu Lakeside.
It is also constructing one at Madrid Xanad.
