18 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Understanding our markets As a leading shopping centre operator in the UK, we understand the trends that affect our industry and the impact they will have on customers and retailers Anticipating customers Innovation changing needs In the same way that retailers innovate Our customers want to be able to shop for todays market, innovation in shopping when they like through different channels.
centres delivers better ways of doing However, the store is king, and the place things, reducing costs and building a more shoppers spend the vast majority of their sustainable business.
They like the ability to see, touch intu is meeting the innovation challenge and try on the full range from all key can be found throughout this document.
retailers in one location, or as part of a day out, to confirm online research and The power of data pick up products bought online.
The ability to gather and understand data, then act quickly on the conclusions Economic uncertainty drawn, is critical in todays world where For customers there is pressure on disruptors look for gaps in the market.
disposable income from ination Owning our digital infrastructure, and outpacing wage growth, for retailers hence owning the data, means we can there are challenges from ination on maximise the power of our data to the the cost base and dealing with the benefit of our customers and retailers.
Brexit brings further uncertainty and retailers need Good corporate citizen to ensure they get their required returns Behaving responsibly and thinking long from new stores.
term about the environment and local communities around our centres are important in our future planning.
Market overview New retail anchors Retail is a dynamic industry, and retailers The retailers that attract customers to a the world over are used to dealing with an centre are changing.
Super retailers, such ever-changing environment.
Right now as Primark and Next, are increasing their they are facing economic and structural store size, while the likes of Inditex and challenges which are speeding up the H&M are taking additional stores for their rate of change of their online and portfolios of brands.
drawn to these retailers because they offer their full ranges in our The store, and its value, is still integral agship destinations.
Retailers are continuing to invest in agship stores in locations that offer a compelling mix of retail, catering, leisure and experience and deliver high footfall.
That is why we continue to be a key landlord for our retailers.
Retail trends The intu difference Understanding our markets 19 Informed by data e have many touchpoints with our Wcustomers.
Our experience and expertise allow us to critically analyse and interpret what they tell us so we can deliver days out that make them smile.
Our data covers the whole customer journey, from customers website and digital behaviour before they go to our Annual sources of data include: centres, through to what they thought of their experience while they were there.
26m Our comprehensive data consolidation website visits project is bringing this information together to enhance our understanding 873,000 of our customers.
We take a responsible social media interactions approach to our data and are using the opportunity afforded by this project to ensure all our data meets General Data 20,000 Protection Regulations requirements.
Tell intu feedback questionnaires We are piloting new ways to employ both our own data and that of third parties more effectively.
For example, 9m we are testing the use of anonymised in centre wi connections information of wi usage through our digital infrastructure, in order to understand customer ow patterns 2.7m during busy times, so we can deploy email subscribers teams more swiftly.
720,000 By segmenting our customer data gift cards according to demographics, shopping habits and location we can tailor the mix of retail, leisure and great offers, 2,000 and ensure our facilities meet their customer Shopper View panel expectations, so everyone has a compelling experience every time they come.
International Brands Leisure Despite the challenging headwinds As direct access to new customers From trampolining and minigolf to skiing facing retailers, the UK is still an attractive becomes harder, brands are considering and aquariums, brands such as Puttshack, market for international retailers who different routes, with shopping centres an Flip Out and Gravity are increasingly focus their expansion plans on high attractive option as they offer high levels taking space in our agship centres, footfall, experience-based locations.
of footfall and long dwell times.
Global to reach the leisure-hungry customer.
Demand is truly global, with Victorias brands such as Nespresso, Mercedes and Leisure and experience play a key role Secret from the US, Australian Tesla are following this route and we are in what people decide to do with their accessories brand Lovisa and Polish having conversations with fast-moving free time and they want to enjoy such cosmetics store Inglot all expanding.
attractions at a place convenient to them.
