10 Strategic report THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 QUALITY PARTNERSHIPS Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 11 Thought leadership The higher education sector values organisations that can contribute to its overall success and that truly care about students.
Our Insight series of research reports provides data-led insight into what students expect and want from their University experiences.
We also use roundtables and launch events to help share this insight with leaders in Higher Education.
Providing our partners with competitive advantage Universities benefit from nominations agreements when they do not have enough of their own beds to meet their accommodation guarantee.
They have always sought to guarantee residences to all first years, but many have not been able to as student numbers have grown.
Some also offer all international students guaranteed accommodation during Home for Success makes us an their entire stay at University, while other attractive partner for Universities.
Universities are now considering extending 60% Together we create a great University their accommodation guarantee to experience for our students.
Our properties, second and third year students.
Beds under long-term our service and our people coupled with nominations agreements our ability to continually invest in our Universities also increasingly recognise the portfolio means we are a strong strategic importance of accommodation to their partner for Universities facing the challenge overall student experience and seek 1 of long-term accommodation planning.
long-term trusted partners like Unite.
29% Our relationships provide long-term security Rise in HR Trust score in last 6 years, of income and help to build and grow Contractual agreements to secure at an all time high our business.
long-term income Under a nominations agreement, Quality relationships the University guarantees occupancy Developing strong partnerships with and rents, with a contractual rental uplift 86% Universities is about building strong on multi-year agreements that is either individual relationships with senior leaders RPI-linked or fixed, with a minimum and University relationships over five years within each institution.
maximum rental uplift achieved by way in length of caps and collars.
Read more about Around nine out of ten of our University our partnership with Aston University on p09 relationships across the UK have now The rents are either market rents or at a existed for more than five years.
This, by minimal discount to market rents, while its very nature, is hard to replicate.
It also Unite still operates the building.
For ensures we have unique insights in to multi-year deals we are increasingly Universities and their needs and remain seeing requests from Universities to ahead of our competition.
Unique insight Unite has also grown the number of We run student retention workshops beds on longer-term agreements: 69% where we share our insight and customer of our nominations agreements, by bed satisfaction data with University partners.
numbers, are now on a multi-year basis.
They also share their own survey findings Historically, we have renewed 95% of the to enable us to work together to deliver annual agreements year on year.
the best student experience, increase satisfaction and aid retention, which are The key benefits of nominations both key measures of the new Teaching agreements for Unite include: Excellence Framework TEF.
- Guaranteed rent through the Feedback from Universities through our occupancy guarantee and rent Reputation Survey also helps inform our review mechanism student experience and product - Deepening our relationships with specification.
Our approach clearly Universities as we work closely and demonstrates that we value their become a preferred partner feedback and our partnerships.
- Allowing us to identify further partnership opportunities much 1 Independent Higher Education Reputation earlier than our competitors.
Survey, Redbrick Research THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
