Business model Delivering value to our stakeholders KAZ Minerals is focused on the mining and processing of copper.
The Group benefits from a number of advantages which enable it to deliver value for its shareholders and other key stakeholders.
KEY EXPLORATION MINING INPUTS AND AND DEVELOPMENT PROCESSING Access to the key inputs required for the mining and The Group seeks to develop processing of copper is the natural resources, focusing source of our competitive oncopper assets located advantage and enables us inKazakhstan and the to generate value for surrounding region.
Natural resources We have access to 3,217 Mt of measured and indicated mineral resources at our mining assets, with an average copper grade of 0.39%.
The ore also contains by-products of gold, silver, zinc and molybdenum.
Power Our operations in Kazakhstan benefit from competitive domestic power tariffs, enabling us to operate large scale facilities at low cost.
Water We have access to readily available fresh water from groundwater and surface water sources.
Transport Our mines are connected to the existing infrastructure of the national rail network which enables us to efficiently deliver our products to customers in China and Europe.
Labour We employ approximately 13,000 people in our operations.
There is a skilled mining workforce in Kazakhstan.
Finance 0.39% 3,217 Mt 65 Mt $1.8 billion of gross liquid funds at Average grade of copper in Mineral resources Ore mined in 2017 31 December 2017, supported by long term debt facilities.
ore in mineral resources measured and indicated Low cost operations The Groups net cash cost in 2017 of 66 USc lb was amongst the lowest of any pure-play listed How we run our business copper miner.
Health and safety Environment Local communities Safety is our highest The Group seeks to minimise KAZ Minerals is a responsible strategic priority.
the impact of its activities on operator and seeks to share the the environment.
We report all benefits of the development Our aim is zero fatalities and a material impacts in our Corporate of natural resources with reduction in the rate of injuries responsibility report, see pages 43 local communities.
12 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For more information, see pages 22 Strategy 27 Operating review SALE OF DELIVERING CONCENTRATE VALUE FOR OUR The majority of the Groups copper concentrate STAKEHOLDERS issold to smelter customers in China.
Zinc concentrate from the East Region is sold to customers in Kazakhstan, China or Russia.
Shareholders We seek to deliver long-term value for our shareholders.
Customers Our customers in China and Europe rely on our supplies of metal and concentrate.
Suppliers We prioritise local content where possible and require suppliers to meet our codes of conduct.
Treatment and refining East Region and Bozymchak copper concentrate is toll processed in Kazakhstan at the Balkhash smelter.
Communities We create jobs and business opportunities for local communities.
We support local social projects.
Our people The Group operates six copper We invest in our people, helping them to concentrators with a total further their careers.
processing capacity of 60 Mt per annum.
13 Mt of oxide ore was also Kazakhstan processed via heap leaching in 2017.
We are a major economic contributor to Kazakhstan.
Our tax contributions support the Sale of finished metals Government in providing public services and infrastructure.
The Group funds social projects The Group sells finished metals produced from East at local and national level.
Region and Bozymchak concentrate at Balkhash, as well 0.71% as copper cathode produced from oxide ore at Aktogay.
Copper grade of ore processed in 2017 Employees Risk management Corporate governance KAZ Minerals respects the right We closely monitor the risks KAZ Minerals adheres to to freedom of association and associated with our activities.
the highest standards of we regularly consult with our Please see pages 56 to 63 for a corporate governance.
employees and trade unions detailed analysis of the key risks representing them.
