72 Corporate governance statement ACCOUNTABILITY: HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE REPORT Sir Tim Wilson Chairman Health and Safety Committee Alongside this fire safety work, we also Health and safety is Chairs overview embarked on a bold student safety Fire has always been identified as campaign.
This targeted student fire a cornerstone of our our biggest safety risk and the Grenfell safety, alcohol awareness and student Tower tragedy underlines the critical personal safety.
More on this student business providing importance of effective health and safety campaign below.
There are always lessons to be learnt and room for Unite Students is home to 50,000 young homes for our students.
For many, this is their first time and Safety Committee is committed to living away from home.
As such, it is It came into even ensuring this happens within our business.
crucial that health and safety is at the heart of everything we do to ensure the sharper focus in 2017 Immediately after the Grenfell Tower safety and wellbeing of all our customers, tragedy, we undertook a fire safety employees, contractors and other visitors as we responded to review of all our properties.
This identified to our properties.
the impact of the Aluminium Composite Material ACM cladding on 6 of our properties.
We worked Sir Tim Wilson Grenfell Tower tragedy.
with the DLCG, local fire services and fire Chair Health and Safety Committee safety experts to ensure the safety of these properties in light of the fast developing circumstances.
This activity was coordinated with our Primary Fire Authority, the Avon Fire & Rescue Services, to ensure we implemented an appropriate and co-ordinated response.
This resulted in us closing one of our properties Sky Plaza in Leeds, removing the ACM cladding on two other properties Waverly House, Bristol and Concept Place, Leeds and working with the local fire services and fire safety experts on the right remedial plans for the others.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 73 Committee overview Activities in 2017 Student safety campaign Composition Fire Safety During 2017, we launched a student - Sir Tim Wilson Chair Following Grenfell and the heightened safety campaign.
This focused on fire - Elizabeth McMeikan focus from regulatory authorities on fire safety, alcohol awareness and personal - Richard Smith safety, we carried out additional fire student safety.
safety inspections of our properties Role and subsequently assembled a team The campaign was targeted to run soon The role of the Health and Safety to complete actions in light of learnings from after student check in and was coCommittee is to: the Grenfell Tower tragedy.
In addition, we ordinated with local fire & rescue services are working with The British Safety Council and Police Community Service Officers.
- Ensure that the Groups Health and our safety auditor to obtain assurance of Safety policies and procedures are our end-to-end processes.
Additional fire The aim of the alcohol awareness reviewed annually and effectively safety training is being carried out across all campaign was harm reduction, with implemented to ensure legal our teams, again building on the lessons bottles of water provided to students requirements are met, as well as learned from Grenfell.
on their way out to promote safe drinking striving for best practice and destigmatising drinking soft drinks on a - Ensure that the business is aware of night out.
We ran a Student Personal Safety regulatory changes and understands Week during the week of 2 October 2017. the impact upon the business We saw a marked reduction in alcohol - Remain updated on performance and and safety-related incidents via AIMS any major health and safety incidents our Accident and Incident so as to ensure management identifies Management system.
and implements appropriate corrective actions.
External audit In addition to fire safety experts, we also work with The British Safety Council to provide independent external assurance on our health and safety effectiveness.
Student safety campaign timeline During 2017, The British Safety Council completed an Interim Review of their Student checks in Freshers week W C 24 October 2016 Five Star Occupational H&S Audit.
Information about Hydration Fire Kills fire The primary objective of this interim review planned fire drills and stations at the safety campaign was to determine the progress made by fire assembly point reception the organisation in respect of areas that required significant improvements.
The review was carried out through a desktopbased process which involved detailed discussion with the Health and Safety team and sampling of relevant documentation.
This review showed we are making steady improvements in our Health and Safety Management System and safety culture: Email with propertyW C 2 October however there are still several areas that specific Health and PCSO visit to require attention in order to see an Safety information property increase in the score for the next audit, scheduled for May 2018.
Content campaign Student Life Hub Social Media Digital screens THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 74 Corporate governance statement ACCOUNTABILITY: HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Crisis management Incidents Employee wellness During the year, we refreshed Incidents involving our employees, This year will see a focus on employee our crisis management procedures, customers or visitors: wellness including a renewed approach including our Crisis Management Plan, to DSE Display Screen Equipment training Incident Management Plan and Crisis - Five reportable injuries under RIDDOR and workplace assessments.
We have also Communications Plan to ensure they keep involving employees and customers proposed a series of employee health and up to date with emerging threats and risks.
classed as members of the public wellbeing initiatives in a joint campaign As part of this refresh, we also conducted - 310 minor non-reportable incidents - with the HR team.
some live crisis management tests, both in involving employees, customers and our head office in Bristol and in another contractors.
Asbestos and water hygiene city, to really challenge the effectiveness The Health and Safety team, alongside and resilience of our crisis management In our development activity during 2017, the Estates team, will be updating our procedures.
This provided some valuable there were four RIDDOR reportable Water Hygiene procedures, training and learnings.
We will continue to run crisis incidents and 13 minor incidents.
The Group Asbestos Register management tests with different scenarios, performance is within our Unite Students is also being reviewed and employees will to help us prepare as best as possible for internal benchmarks beating the receive training on any asbestos hazards crisis events.
We are also including our city industry standard as follows: present in their properties.
team Supervisors and ECC Emergency Incidents KPI Benchmark Contact Centre teams in the next roll-out Accident and incident reporting of training on the procedures.
We will conduct a review of our AIMS 4 RIDDOR 0.24 0.30 Accident and Incident Management 13 Minor 0.79 5.00 Mental health and wellbeing System to ensure we are using the most Mental health issues are an increasing effective system to capture accident and KPI calculated as: No.
of incidents worked x 100,000 hours hours worked concern for the Higher Education sector incident-related information required by and also to us at Unite, especially since we the business.
We will also roll-out training to 1.6 million hours worked delivering positive are home to so many young people while city teams that focuses on the accuracy results against our KPIs.
Employees receive of reporting and the importance of mental health first-aid training to look for thorough accident incident investigation.
Priorities for 2018 signs and signpost help.
The student Fire safety support services team provide support to Upskilling of City team supervisors Fire safety continues to be a priority across employees and students alike and work Our City team supervisors will receive the business.
Our existing fire training closely with University support teams.
training on our incident management offering has been improved with renewed plans and dealing with the scene of an fire safety e-learning and classroom style incident.
In addition to this, our service training for our employees.
The Health and and safety supervisors will receive conflict Safety team are working closely with the management training and counterEstates team and City teams to ensure any terrorism awareness training.
remedial work highlighted in Fire Risk Assessments and Health and Safety Sir Tim Wilson Inspections are completed within Chairman designated timescales.
21 February 2018 Total reportable incidents to date 2017 Project Man Hours Reportable Incidents Non Reportable Incidents Tara House 292,537 1 0 St Leonards 190,717 0 2 Millenium View 213,099 0 3 Chaucer House 139,581 0 0 International House 173,924 0 0 St Vincents 78,740 2 2 Skelhorne 39,729 1 4 Brunel 48,835 0 2 Beech House 107,882 0 0 Lutton Court 159,562 0 0 Newgate 95,592 0 0 Durham 58,800 0 0 Durham Hoghall 45,360 0 0 Totals 1,644,358 4 13 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
