Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 45 DIRECTORS REPORT ACTING CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Maintaining good Corporate Governance We appointed Simon Litherland as an independent Non-Executive Director on 3 April 2017.
As Chief Executive Officer of Britvic Plc, Simon has excellent experience in a consumer facing industry, which we believe adds to and complements the experience of the other members of the Board.
The Remuneration Report sets out details of the Groups Long Term-Incentive Plan which was approved by shareholders in 2012.
As is explained in more detail in the Report, the absence of a cap on potential payments led our Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chair Jonathan Davie and our Chairman Nicholas Wrigley to tender their resignations on 14 December 2017.
I was appointed Senior Independent Director on that date, becoming Acting Chairman on 26 February when Nicholas stepped down from the Board.
Having been a member of the Board since April 2015 My immediate priority is to lead the I am aware of the high standards of governance the process to appoint the next Chairman.
We continue to ensure that our strong The Board understands the importance of setting the right culture for the Group.
governance procedures are built upon and evolve as One of the ways we ensure that the the governance agenda changes.
I can confirm that Boards strategy and its requirements for excellence and good governance are the stewardship and good governance of our Company instilled into the culture of our business remains a high priority for the Board.
is through regular communications with our senior staff.
The Executive Directors and the Chairman regularly meet with operational management teams and staff across our 30 operating businesses.
The Boards standards and values for integrity and honesty are set out in our corporate policies.
The policies are approved by the Chief Executive, to highlight to all employees the importance to the Board of high levels of governance and business conduct.
There is a Managing Director and senior management team at each of our operating businesses.
The local management team have a level of autonomy, within the strategy set by the Group.
Regional managers below board level receive performance related pay directly linked to the performance of their local operating businesses.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 12 Corp Governance v54.
indd 45 07 03 2018 11:30 46 DIRECTORS REPORT ACTING CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued In this way we encourage the local The Nomination Committee reviews management teams to manage and succession planning for senior take pride in the success of their own management and the Board.
operating business, but within parameters The Nomination Committee considered and controls set by the Board.
We believe at length the potential impact of the that this approach creates a culture that vesting of the 2012 LTIP.
In June 2017 motivates and enables our employees to areview undertaken in conjunction with develop their talents and skills over long the Executive Directors included an and fulfilling careers.
individual assessment of each of the 133participants.
The Committee noted We regularly host informal Chairmans the Executive Directors opinion that a dinners for each operating businesses small number of the senior management senior management team.
The dinners team below Board level may decide are attended by the Chairman and the to leave the Group once options have Chief Executive and often include other vested in July 2018, a conclusion non-executive members of the Board.
reconfirmed with minimal adjustment This is an opportunity for the Board to when the exercise was updated and restate to the senior management teams repeated in February 2018.
These are the importance of good governance, largely members of the team who the thank them for their hard work and Executive Directors believe are at or hear their feedback.
We consider the closeto retirement.
informal setting is conducive to open The Board regularly communicates with communication between management shareholders.
As well as the regular and the Board.
scheduled meetings, we held a first We were particularly pleased when Corporate Governance Dinner in 2017 opening the Nottingham business in with the Governance representatives 2017 and the Suffolk business in January of our major shareholders.
We also 2018 that many members of the new consulted with shareholders on the teams were already employees within new remuneration policy which we put the Group.
These openings provided an to shareholders at the AGM last year.
opportunity for a number of employees We have engaged extensively with our to progress in their career and help larger shareholders in relation to the the Group to ensure that our culture is 2012 LTIP, ensuring particularly in 2018 instilled in new operating businesses that their views have been shared with, from the start.
The Executive Directors and fully discussed by, all members of integrate succession planning into their the Board.
regular visits to the operating businesses.
Finally, I am pleased to report that the This enables suitable candidates to be Company has complied with the UK identified at an early stage in order that Corporate Governance Code 2016 we have sufficient candidates for senior throughout 2017. roles.
We plan to increase our focus further on this issue in 2018.
Nigel Mills Senior Independent Director and Acting Chairman Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 12 Corp Governance v54.
indd 46 07 03 2018 11:30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 47 DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW Key sections within the governance section LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION Our Board, structure Report from the Oversight of executive andactivities AuditCommittee remuneration Since the launch of the Boards strategy During 2017 the Audit Committee: During 2017 the in 2012, the Groups performance has Remuneration Committee: evaluated the performance of the been excellent.
external auditor: finalised the revised Remuneration During 2017 the Board again placed Policy which was approved by reviewed the Groups Viability particular focus on: shareholders at the 2017 AGM: Statement, Principal Risks and review of the Companys current Risk Register: considered the vesting of awards strategy and its commitment to under the Companys 2012 Long Term assessed the significant financial issues shareholders under the Capital Incentive Plan: and facing the Group and the key risks of Return Plan: misstatement of the Groups financial made certain other adjustments to maintaining a high quality statements: and near term remuneration for Executive skilled workforce: Directors: no Board member will reviewed the annual report and receive a salary fee increase for 2018 measures to drive improvements in the half year report and related and no bonus awards will be made build quality and customercare: regulatory announcements.
for 2018. the vesting of awards under the Companys 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan: the health and safety of our employees subcontractors and visitors: and review of the Groups risk register and systems of internalfinancial control.
Read about the structure, roleandactivities of the Board Read our Audit Committee report Read our remuneration report See pages 48 53 See pages 54 58 See pages 62 79 Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 12 Corp Governance v54.
