Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 33 DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES JULIAN CAZALET KARL STERNBERG Julian Cazalet was appointed to the board in 2008 and Karl Sternberg was appointed to the board in 2015.
He was became chairman in 2009.
He was managing director afounding partner of Oxford Investment Partners Limited corporate finance at JPMorgan Cazenove until his from 2006 until 2013, when it was acquired by Towers retirement in December 2007.
Much of his earlier career was spent at Morgan joined Cazenove in 1973 and was made a partner in 1978.
Grenfell which became Deutsche Asset Manager, where From 1989 he worked in corporate finance and advised herose to become chief investment officer, Europe & Asia investment trusts in addition to his work with industrial and Pacific.
Karl is a non-executive director of Clipstone commercial companies.
He is chairman of The Lindsell Train Logistics REIT plc, Monks Investment Trust plc, Lowland Investment Trust plc and a director of Deltex Medical Group Investment Company plc, Alliance Trust plc, JP Morgan Elect plc and a number of charitable trusts.
plc, Island House Investment LLP, Jupiter Fund Management plc and Railpen Investments.
TOM BLACK Tom Black was appointed to the board in 2013.
He is JAMES WILL chairman of Thruvision Group plc formerly Digital Barriers James Will was appointed to the board in 2015.
He was until plc, and is a non-executive director of Adept4 plc.
He also 2014 chairman and a senior corporate finance partner of has advisory roles with a number of smaller unlisted law firm Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP.
He also headed the businesses and sits on the strategy advisory group of law firms financial sector practice.
Over the last 20 years Wolfson College Oxford.
He is chairman and trustee of the he has been involved in advising smaller quoted technology Black Family Charitable Trust, which is focused on companies on a range of corporate transactions, including supporting disadvantaged young people with their flotations, secondary fundraisings and mergers and educational needs.
He was previously chief executive of acquisitions.
James is chairman of The Scottish Investment Detica Plc, a leading company in the field of large-scale Trust PLC.
James is chairman of the audit committee.
information collection and analysis for intelligence and counter fraud applications.
Tom is the senior independent director.
