Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 02 INTRODUCTORY HIGHLIGHTS COMPANY SUMMARY Company data at 31 December 2017 SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS MARKET CAPITALISATION 967m 823m POLICY AND OBJECTIVE Heralds objective is to achieve capital appreciation through investments in smaller quoted companies in the areas of telecommunications, multimedia and technology TMT.
Investments may be made across the world.
The business activities of investee companies will include information technology, broadcasting, printing and publishing and the supply of equipment and services to these companies.
The Companys investment policy is contained within the strategic report on page 30.
COMPARATIVE INDICES The portfolio comparative indices are the Numis Smaller Companies Index plus AIM ex.
investment companies and the Russell 2000 small cap Technology Index in sterling terms.
Though we consider these indices to provide reasonable bases for measuring the Companys performance, the portfolio is not modelled on them and outcomes may diverge widely.
MANAGEMENT DETAILS Herald Investment Management Limited HIML is the appointed investment manager to the Company.
The management contract can be terminated at 12 months notice.
Administration of the Company and its investments is delegated to The Bank of New York Mellon and company secretarial duties to Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE The Companys share capital consisted at 31 December 2017 of 70,307,785 ordinary shares of 25p each which are issued and fully paid.
The Company has been granted authority to buy back a limited number of its own ordinary shares for cancellation.
During the year 2,754,016 ordinary shares were bought back and cancelled.
The directors are seeking to renew this authority at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
MANAGEMENT FEE HIMLs annual remuneration is 1.0% of the Companys net asset value based on middle market prices, calculated on a monthly basis payable in arrears.
CONTINUATION VOTE At the annual general meeting of the Company held in April 2016, shareholders voted in favour of the Companys continuing to operate as an investment trust.
The next continuation vote will be at the annual general meeting in April 2019 and every third year thereafter.
AIC The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
LEGAL ENTITY IDENTIFIER LEI An LEI is a 20-digit code which allows entities involved in financial transactions to be identified.
This is a global transparency measure endorsed by the G20.
The Companys LEI is: 213800U7G1ROCTJYRR70 None of the views expressed in this document should be construed as advice to buy or sell a particular investment.
Investment trusts are UK public listed companies and as such are required to comply with the listing rules of the UK Listing Authority, which is a division of the Financial Conduct Authority.
