Directors Report Our Board A strong leadership team Anita Frew, 60 Steve Foots, 49 Jez Maiden, 56 N RM E F SHEQ R E F Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointment: March 2015 and Appointment: July 2010 and Group Chief Appointment: January 2015 as Chairman since September 2015 Executive since the beginning of 2012 Group Finance Director Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Anita has been on plc boards for 20 Strong business, operational and strategic Extensive experience in financial years and has extensive leadership and leadership, and wide-ranging sales and management, acquisitions and disposals international experience, together with a marketing experience.
Steve joined Croda and of working in the speciality chemical broad knowledge of strategic management as a graduate trainee in 1990 and has held sector.
Jez has been Group Finance across a range of sectors, including a number of senior management positions Director at National Express Group and speciality chemicals.
Her prior board roles in the Group, becoming President of Croda prior to that held the same role at Northern include Chairman of Victrex Plc and Senior Europe in July 2010.
Prior to this, Steve Foods Plc.
He has been Chief Financial Independent Director of Aberdeen Asset held a number of Managing Director roles Officer at British Vita Plc and Group Management PLC.
Finance Director at Hickson International Plc.
Jez is a fellow of the CIMA.
External appointments: Anita is Deputy External appointments: Chairman of the Chairman of Lloyds Banking Group plc and Chemical Growth Partnership CGP.
External appointments: Non-Executive a Non-Executive Director of BHP Billiton Director and Audit and Risk Committee Plc and BHP Billiton Limited.
Chairman of PZ Cussons plc.
Helena Ganczakowski, 55 Nigel Turner, 68 Steve Williams, 70 A RM N RM A N Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A RM N SeniorIndependent Director Appointment: February 2014 Appointment: July 2010 Appointment: June 2009 and Senior Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Independent Director since August 2011 Wealth of experience in consumer Extensive industry, legal and board marketing and innovative product Key strengths and experience: experience.
Steve was General Counsel development.
Helena worked for Unilever Broad City experience having spent over and Chief Legal Officer of Unilever plc and for 23 years and held senior positions in 35 years as a corporate financier.
Nigel Unilever NV from 1986 until 2010.
He was brand management, consumer marketing was Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and formerly the Senior Independent Director and strategy development.
Helena has Deputy Chairman of Numis Corporation of Arriva Plc, Non-Executive Director of a PhD in Engineering from the University Plc.
Earlier, from 2000 to 2005, he had Bunzl Plc and Non-Executive Director of Cambridge.
responsibility for the Global Corporate of Whitbread PLC.
Finance and Global Equities Divisions at External appointments: Helena is a External appointments: Steve is a ABN AMRO and had been Managing Non-Executive Director of Greggs Plc.
Non-Executive Director of Eversheds LLP Director and a member of the Supervisory She runs a consulting business working and a senior adviser to Spencer Stuart Board at Lazard.
with a range of organisations, helping them LLP.
He is Deputy Chairman of the fide La to develop and implement strategies.
External appointments: Senior Warr Pavilion Charitable Trust, on the Independent Director and Chairman of the Board of Leverhulme Trust and Deputy Remuneration Committee at Genus Plc.
Chairman of Moorfields NHS Trust.
Croda International Plc 36 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report Key N | Nomination Committee E | Group Executive Committee Chairman of the Committee RM | Remuneration Committee ET | Group Ethics Committee Member of the Committee A | Audit Committee F | Group Finance Committee Secretary of the Committee R | Risk Management Committee SHEQ | Group SHEQ Committee Alan Ferguson, 60 Keith Layden, 58 Tom Brophy, 44 A RM N N ET A Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group General Counsel RM N R E &CompanySecretary Appointment: July 2011 Appointment: February 2012 and Non-Executive Director since May 2017 Appointment: December 2012 as Key strengths and experience: Board Secretary Extensive international financial Key strengths and experience: management and board experience.
Alan Deep understanding of chemical innovation Key strengths and experience: was Chief Financial Officer and a Director and broad operational and management Tom is a solicitor and has responsibility for of Lonmin Plc and, prior to that, Group experience.
Keith joined Croda in 1984, legal affairs, corporate governance, human Finance Director of The BOC Group.
Before retiring as an Executive Director in 2017. resources and insurance.
Prior to joining that he spent 22 years in a variety of roles His roles included responsibility for global Croda, Tom spent seven years at Wolseley at Inchcape Plc, including Group Finance R&D, the Technology Investment Group Plc in a number of legal and governance Director.
and President of Life Sciences.
roles, including as Deputy General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Before then he External appointments: Alan is Senior External appointments: Keith is an worked as a corporate lawyer at City law Independent Director of Johnson Matthey Honorary Professor of Chemistry and firm Hogan Lovells.
Plc and Marshall Motor Holdings Plc, NonIndustry at the University of Nottingham.
Executive Director of The Weir Group Plc He represents Croda on the chemistry and chairs the Audit Committee of each of advisory boards at the Universities of these companies.
He sits on the Business Nottingham and York and has council and To read the full biographies of Policy Panel of the Institute of Chartered committee roles at the University of our Board members please visit Accountants of Scotland.
He is a Fellow of the Royal www.
com ourboard Society of Chemistry.
Gender of the Board Board skills and experience Areas of existing strength Sector Strategy Male 75% Operational Financial experience and risk Female 25% Innovation Technical Marketing Tenure as a Non-Executive Director Areas of opportunity for new Board appointments 1 year 1 1-3 years 1 General International 3-6 years 1 Digital management CEO emerging markets experience 6 years 3 Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 37
