Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 59 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER DISCLOSURES Persimmon Plc the Company is the Results and return of cash In addition, Nicholas Wrigley and holding company of the Persimmon The Groups revenue for 2017 was Jonathan Davie were Directors Group of companies the Group and 3,422.3m and its consolidated profit of the Company during the year.
is a public company listed in the UK and before taxation was 966.1m.
Nicholas Wrigley resigned on 26 February traded on the London Stock Exchange.
2018 and Jonathan Davie resigned on The Company may by ordinary resolution 14 December 2017.
The Groups main trading companies declare dividends not exceeding the The beneficial and non-beneficial are Persimmon Homes Limited and amount recommended by Directors interests of the Directors and their Charles Church Developments Limited.
The Directors may connected persons in the shares of the The Group trades under the brand names pay interim dividends and any fixed rate Company at 31 December 2017 and as of Persimmon Homes, Charles Church, dividend whenever the financial position at the date of this report are disclosed in Westbury Partnerships and Space4.
of the Company, in the opinion of the the Remuneration Report on page 76.
The subsidiary undertakings which Details of the interests of the Executive principally affect the profits and assets All dividends and interest shall be paid Directors in share options and awards of of the Group are listed in note 31 to the subject to any lien of the Company to shares can be found on pages 75 and 76 Financial Statements.
A complete list of those members whose names are on the within the same report.
the Companys subsidiaries and residents register of members on the record date, management companies under its control notwithstanding any subsequent transfer Appointment and replacement are contained on pages 127 to 137. or transmission of shares.
ofDirectors The Directors shall be no less than Strategic Report As set out in the Acting Chairmans two and no more than 15 in number.
The management report for the Statement an interim dividend of Directors may be appointed by the purposes of the Disclosure Guidance 125pence per share will be paid on Company by ordinary resolution or by the and Transparency Rule 4.1.
R is 29 March 2018 to shareholders on Board of Directors.
A Director appointed included in the Strategic Report on the register on 9 March 2018 under by the Board of Directors holds office pages 1 to 44.
A description of the the Companys Capital Return Plan.
until the next following AGM and is then Groups future prospects, research and In addition, it is proposed to pay a final eligible for election by the shareholders.
dividend of 110 pence per share, on development, the principal risks and The Company may by special resolution 2 July 2018, to shareholders on the uncertainties facing the business and remove any Director before the expiration register on 15 June 2018 2017: return important events affecting the Group of their term of office.
of cash of 25pence and 110 pence since 31 December 2017 are contained per share.
In accordance with the UK Corporate within the Strategic Report.
Details of Governance Code 2016 the Board the financial risk management objectives Going concern has determined that all Directors will and policies of the Group and associated After completing a full review, the be subject to annual re-election by risk exposure are given in note 21 to the Directors have satisfied themselves shareholders.
The Companys Articles Financial Statements.
that the going concern basis for the of Association the Articles in any preparation of the accounts continues to event provide that at each AGM at be appropriate and there are no material least one third of the Directors shall uncertainties to the Companys ability to retire from office and shall be eligible do so over a period of 12 months.
for reappointment and therefore each Further details are provided in note 2 to Director shall retire from office and the Financial Statements.
shall be eligible for reappointment at the AGM held in the third year following Directors and Directors interests their last re-appointment.
In accordance The current Directors of the Company with the Articles and the UK Corporate and their biographical details are shown Governance Code 2016, a Non-Executive on pages 48 and 49.
Details of the Director who has been in office for more Executive Directors service contracts than nine years consecutively shall are given in the Remuneration Report on retire at each AGM and shall be eligible page 74.
All of the Directors served for the for reappointment.
whole of the year, with the exception of Simon Litherland who was appointed to the Board on 3 April 2017.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 12 Corp Governance v55.
indd 59 09 03 2018 14:09 60 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER DISCLOSURES continued Powers of the Directors There are no securities carrying entitled to vote on a resolution has one The business of the Company shall be special rights with regard to control vote.
If a proxy has been appointed by managed by the Directors who may ofthe Company.
more than one member and has been exercise all powers of the Company, given the same voting instructions by The Directors may allot, grant options subject to the Articles, the Companies those members, the proxy has one vote.
over, or otherwise dispose of shares Act 2006 and any directions given in If the proxy has been appointed by more in the Company to such persons general meetings.
In particular, the than one member and has been given including the Directors themselves at Directors may exercise all the powers conflicting instructions, or instructions such times and on such terms as the of the Company to borrow money, to vote for or against one member and Directors may think proper, subject to issue and buy back shares with the discretion by another, the proxy has one the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 authority of shareholders, appoint and vote for and one vote against a resolution.
At the AGM remove Directors and recommend and On a vote on a poll, each member on 27 April 2017 shareholders gave declare dividends.
present in person or by proxy or by duly Directors authority to allot ordinary shares authorised representative has one vote up to a maximum nominal amount of Capital structure for each share held by the member.
10,286,089, representing approximately The following description summarises one third of the Companys issued Details of employee share schemes certain provisions of the Articles share capital as at 10 March 2017 and are set out in note 29 of the Financial adopted by special resolution passed also in connection with a pre-emptive Statements.
The Trustee of the on 19 March2015 and the Companies offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary Persimmon Employee Benefit Trust Act 2006.
This is only a summary and shareholders up to a maximum nominal mayvote or abstain on shareholder the relevant provisions of the Companies amount of 20,572,178, representing resolutions as it sees fit.
Act 2006 and the Articles should approximately two thirds of the issued be consulted if further information is Transfer of shares share capital of the Company as at required.
A copy of the Articles may be There are no restrictions on the 10 March 2017.
Shareholders also gave obtained by writing to the Company transfer ofsecurities in the Company.
Directors authority to disapply preSecretary at the registered office.
Any member may transfer their shares emption rights on the issues of shares Amendments to the Articles of the in writing in any usual or common up to 10% of the issued share capital, Company may be made by way of form or in any other form acceptable being an aggregate nominal amount special resolution in accordance with the to the Directors and permitted by the of 3,085,826.
These authorities will provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Companies Act 2006 and the UK Listing expire at the conclusion of the AGM on Authority.
The Company is not aware of 25 April 2018.
Resolutions to renew these Share capital any agreements between shareholders authorities will be put to shareholders at The Company has one class of share that may result in restrictions on the the forthcoming AGM.
in issue, being ordinary shares with transfer of shares or that may result in a nominal value of 10 pence each, Votes of members restrictions on voting rights.
which carry no right to fixed income.
All issued shares in the Company are Qualifying third party indemnity During 2017 358,021 ordinary shares fully paid and there are no restrictions provisions and qualifying pension were issued with a nominal value of on voting rights.
Votes may be exercised scheme indemnity provisions 35,802.10 to employees exercising in person, by proxy, or in relation to The Company has not issued any share options for cash consideration of corporate members by a corporate qualifying third party indemnity provision 2,996,593.36.
The deadline for delivering or any qualifying pension scheme issued share capital of the Company either written or electronic proxy forms indemnity provision.
was 308,904,795 ordinary shares is not less than 48 hours before the time with a nominal value of 30,890,479. for holding the meeting.
To attend and Change of control provisions Further details are provided in note 23 vote at a meeting a shareholder must One significant agreement contains tothe Financial Statements.
be entered on the register of members provisions entitling counterparties to Shares may be issued with such at a time that is not more than 48 hours exercise termination or other rights in preferred, deferred or other rights or before the time of the meeting, calculated the event of a change of control of the restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, using business days only.
Under the 300m credit return of capital, or voting or otherwise, facility for Persimmon Plc dated 1 April On a vote on a show of hands, each as the Company may from time to time 2011 as amended disclosed in note 21 member being an individual present by ordinary resolution determine or failing of the Financial Statements, all amounts in person or a duly authorised such determination as the Directors become due and payable under the representative of a corporation has one may decide, subject to the provisions terms of the facility if any person or group vote.
Each proxy present in person who of the Companies Act 2006 and other of persons acting in concert gains control has been appointed by one member shareholders rights.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 12 Corp Governance v54.
indd 60 07 03 2018 11:30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 61 Control has the same meaning as Equal opportunities Annual General Meeting section 450 of the Corporation Tax Act The Group policy is to have equal The AGM will commence at 12 noon 2010 and acting in concert has the opportunities for training, career on Wednesday 25 April 2018 at York meaning given to it in the City Code development and promotion for all Racecourse, Knavesmire Road, York on Takeovers and Mergers.
Change of employees without discrimination and YO23 1EX.
The Notice of Meeting control is deemed to occur if at any to apply fair and equitable policies and anexplanation of the ordinary time any person, or group of persons which seek to promote entry into and specialbusiness are given in the acting in concert, acquires control of and progression within the Group.
AGM circular, which is available on the the Company.
Appointments are determined solely by Companys website and which has been application of job criteria, personal ability sent to shareholders.
The Company does not have agreements and competency regardless of race, Disclosure of information to with any employee, including Directors, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion auditors that would provide compensation for or belief, gender, sexual orientation, The Directors who held office at the date loss of office or employment resulting political beliefs, marital or civil partnership of approval of this report confirm that, from a takeover, except that provisions status, age, pregnancy or maternity or so far as they are each aware, there is of the Companys share schemes may disability.
Applications for employment no relevant audit information of which cause options and awards granted to by disabled persons are always fully the Companys auditor is unaware and employees under such schemes to vest considered, with appropriate regard to that each Director has taken all steps he on a takeover.
the aptitude and abilities of the person ought to have taken as a Director in order Emissions concerned.
In the event of any employee to make himself aware of any relevant The Groups greenhouse gas emissions becoming disabled, every effort is made audit information and to establish that are set out in the Strategic Report on to ensure that their employment with the Companys auditor is aware of that page 41. the Group continues, that appropriate information.
This confirmation is given training is arranged and any reasonable and should be interpreted in accordance Employee involvement adjustments are made to their working with the provisions of section 418 of the The Group places considerable value environment.
It is the Groups policy that Companies Act 2006. on the involvement of its employees and the training, career development and has continued to keep them informed promotion of disabled persons should, Directors responsibility on matters affecting them as employees as far as possible, be identical to that The Directors are responsible for and on various financial and economic of other employees.
The Group has preparing the Annual Report and factors affecting the performance of the achieved accreditation for its approach Financial Statements in accordance Group.
The Group regularly updates its toequality and diversity.
with applicable law and regulations.
employment policies and all employees The Directors consider that the Annual Acquisition of own shares have been issued with a staff handbook Report and Accounts taken as a whole At the AGM held on 27 April 2017 to keep them up to date with information is fair, balanced and understandable and shareholders granted the Company relating to their employment.
Each of the provides the information necessary for authority to purchase up to an aggregate Groups operating businesses maintains shareholders to assess the Companys of 30,858,267 of its own shares.
employee relations and consults position and performance, business No shares have been purchased to employees as appropriate.
Internal Group model and strategy.
The Board reached date under this authority and therefore magazines are published and distributed this conclusion after receiving advice from at 31 December 2017 the authority to all employees regularly to ensure they the Audit Committee.
Further details are remained outstanding.
This authority are kept well informed of the Groups provided on page 58. expires on 25 April 2018 and a resolution operations.
In addition, information to renew the authority will be put to By order of the Board concerning the financial performance shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
of the Group is sent to each operating business for circulation.
At 31 December 2017 the Company held Tracy Davison Company Secretary The Company makes various benefit no shares in treasury.
26 February 2018 schemes available to employees, Persimmon Plc including a savings-related share Company registration number 1818486 option scheme which encourages the awareness and involvement of employees in the Groups performance.
All employees are encouraged to participate.
