5 50 0 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 VIABILITY STATEMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE, THE DIRECTORS HAVE ASSESSED THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP OVER A PERIOD SIGNIFICANTLY LONGER THAN THE 12MONTHSREQUIRED BY THE GOING CONCERN PROVISION.
The assessment of viability was led by The risks were evaluated, where possible, The Board considers the most significant the Group Chief Executive and Interim to assess the potential impact of each of these scenarios in the assessment Chief Financial officer in conjunction with on the viability of the Group, should that period to be a significant deterioration divisional and functional management teams of commodity market prices, leading risk arise in its unmitigated form.
The and presented to the Board.
In reviewing this potential inputs were included, where to a fall in the available price for power assessment the Board has considered the appropriate, as sensitivities to the Plan and thus a fall in the margins available principal risks faced by the Group, relevant and considered by the Board as part of to the Group from power generation financial forecasts and sensitivities, the the approval process required before and supply activities.
This impact would availability of adequate funding and the the Plan was adopted by the Group.
however be partially mitigated through strength of the Groups control environment.
the earnings stability provided by the CfD In this regard, the Group has a proven and a reducing reliance on commodity ASSESSMENT PERIOD track record of adapting to changes price-dependant earnings.
Based on its The Board conducted this assessment to its environment and deploying review the Board is satisfied that in such a over a period of three years, which was innovative solutions to protect financial scenario sufficient actions could be taken selected for the following reasons: performance.
Recent developments to preserve the viability of the Group.
The Groups Business Plan, which is suggest that this will continue in the reviewed and assessed on a quarterly future as the Group invests in new plant, AVAILABILITY OF ADEQUATE FUNDING basis and is used for strategic decision equipment and systems and broadens The sources of funding available to making, includes a range of financial the business in line with the strategy.
the Group are set out in note 4.3 to the forecasts and associated sensitivity consolidated financial statements see analysis.
This Plan covers a three-year REVIEW OF FINANCIAL FORECASTS page 144.
The Board expects these period in detail.
The Plan considers the Groups financial sources, along with cash flows generated Within the three-year period liquid position, performance, cash flows, covenant by the Group from its normal operations, commodity market curves and established compliance and other key financial ratios to provide adequate levels of funding to contract positions are used in the and was most recently updated to reflect support the execution of the Groups Plan.
Liquid curves typically cover a current market and external environment one to two-year window and contracts conditions in December 2017.
It is built Renancing of the Groups debt facilities cover periods between one and ten years.
by business and segment, and includes during the year, and in particular the In particular, we benefit from the stable growth assumptions appropriate to placement of a new bond facility, has and material earnings stream available the markets each business serves.
provided the Group with enhanced from the CfD until 2027.
Selecting a facilities and the ability to access debt three-year period balances short-term The Plan includes certain assumptions, markets, should that need arise during market liquidity against our longer term the most material of which relate to the viability assessment period.
commodity market price curves and levels Within a three-year horizon there is limited of subsidy support available to the Group EXPECTATIONS certainty around markets and regulatory The directors have considered all the factors through the generation of biomass-fuelled regimes.
However, in selecting this period renewable power.
It is underpinned by in their assessment of viability over the the Board has assumed no material the stable revenues available through the next three years, including the latest Plan, changes to the Groups mid-term generation of CfD-backed electricity and scenario analysis, levels of funding, control regulatory environment and associated sales to B2B Energy Supply customers.
environment and the principal risks and support regimes.
The directors The Plan is subject to stress testing, which have also considered the availability of REVIEW OF PRINCIPAL RISKS involves the construction of reasonably actions within their control in the event of The Groups principal risks and uncertainties, foreseeable scenarios, including those plausible negative scenarios occurring.
They set out in detail on pages 51 to 57, have aligned to the principal risks, which test the have a reasonable expectation that the been considered over the period.
robustness of the Plan when key variables Group will be able to continue in operation are flexed both individually and in unison.
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over The principal risks with the potential to Where such a scenario suggests a risk the three-year period of their assessment.
exert significant influence on viability are: to viability, the availability and quantum commodity price changes, political and of mitigating actions is considered.
regulatory changes, biomass acceptability changes and plant operating failures.
Asignicant adverse change to the status of each risk has the potential to place material financial stress on the Group.
