OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY The directors present the strategic report for the Company From time to time xed interest holdings or non for the year ended 31 December 2017. equity interests may be held for yield enhancement and other purposes.
Derivative instruments are used in The strategic report is designed to help shareholders assess certain circumstances, and with the prior approval of the how the directors have performed their duty to promote the Board, for hedging purposes or to take advantage of success of the Company during the year under review.
BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC was incorporated increasing returns to shareholders.
The Companys net in England and Wales in 1926 with the registered gearing range may uctuate between 0% and 30%, based number 214601. on the current balance sheet structure, with an absolute limit of 50%.
The Company carries on business as an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been As a general rule it is the Boards intention that the portfolio approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in should be reasonably fully invested.
An investment level of accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
90% of shareholder funds is regarded as a guideline minimum investment level dependent on market conditions.
The Companys principal business activity of investment management is sub-contracted to Investec Fund Managers Risk is managed through diversi cation of holdings, Limited IFM, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager investment limits set by the Board and appropriate financial of the Company.
IFM delegates the management of the and other controls relating to the administration of assets.
Companys portfolio to Investec Asset Management INVESTMENT APPROACH Limited IAM.
The investment approach of the Manager is premised on A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Statement a contrarian view on the timing of buy and sell decisions, and the Managers Review.
The results of the Company are buying the shares of companies when sentiment towards shown on page 36. them is thought to be near its worst and selling them as fundamental pro t improvement and or re-evaluation of INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE AND POLICY their long term prospects takes place.
The Companys investment objective is to provide growth in income and capital to achieve a long term total return The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in driving greater than the benchmark FTSE All-Share Index, through down the prices of out of favour companies to below their investment primarily in UK Listed securities.
The Companys fair value will offer investment opportunities.
This will allow policy is to invest in a broad spread of securities with typically the Company to purchase shares at signi cant discounts to the majority of the portfolio selected from the constituents of their fair value and to sell them as they become more fully the FTSE 350 Index.
valued, principally as a result of predictable patterns in human psychology.
The UK equity element of the portfolio will be mostly The Managers process is designed to produce best ideas invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional to drive active fund management within a rigorous control positions may be sanctioned by the Board and up to 20% of framework.
The framework begins through narrowing down the portfolio may be held in listed international equities in the universe of stocks by passing those companies with a developed economies.
The Company may continue to hold market capitalisation above 200 million through a screening securities that cease to be quoted or listed if the Manager process which highlights the weakest performing stocks.
considers this to be appropriate.
There is an absolute This isolates opportunities with the most negative sentiment limit of 10% of the portfolio in any individual stock with a characteristics which are then in turn scrutinised in greater maximum exposure to a speci c industrial or commercial detail to identify investment opportunities.
sector of 25%, in each case irrespective of their weightings in the benchmark index.
The process is very much bottom up and can result in large It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15% of its sector positions being taken if enough stocks of suf cient gross assets in other listed investment companies including interest are found within a single sector.
However, top down listed investment trusts.
risk analysis is undertaken to identify potential concentration of risk and to factor this awareness into portfolio construction.
The Company maintains a diversi ed portfolio of investments, The portfolio comprises stocks which have been purchased typically comprising 70-80 holdings, but without restricting for different reasons and at different times.
In general, the Company from holding a more or less concentrated because of the bottom up approach to stockpicking, each of portfolio from time to time as circumstances require.
these reasons is independent of the other and the portfolio, therefore, is not excessively vulnerable to longer term macro The Companys long term investment strategy emphasises: trends.
Cash is a residual of the process and normally will not exceed 15% of the portfolio value.
Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120-140% of that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
Stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose share prices do not match the Managers assessment of their longer term value.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 10 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 10 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The approach to stock selection and portfolio construction is KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS driven by four core beliefs: The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the progress and performance of the Company over time, and 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and the which are comparable to those reported by other investment downside.
The Manager aims to be sceptical of the crowd trusts, are: and aware of investor psychology, which often causes Net asset value total return relative to the FTSE overvaluation of those stocks that are deemed to have All-Share Index and to competitors within the UK Equity good prospects and an undervaluation of those which are Income sector of investment trust companies: out of favour.
Discount premium on net asset value: 2.
There are few companies which sustain below normal Earnings and dividends per share: and pro ts over the longer term.
Weaker companies tend to leave an industry, thus improving the balance of supply Ongoing charges.
and demand, are bid for or management is changed.
Similarly, there are few companies which can sustain While some elements of performance against KPIs are supernormal pro ts over the longer term.
Such pro ts beyond management control they provide measures of tend to be competed or regulated away.
the Companys absolute and relative performance and are, therefore, monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant of share price performance over the long term.
In other words Net asset value NAV total return cheap stocks will outperform expensive stocks.
In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Companys portfolio the Board monitors the NAV in relation to the FTSE 4.
Diversi cation is an important control.
This is the most important KPI by which companies or sectors can be out of favour for a performance is judged.
During the year the net asset value considerable time.
total return of the Company was 9.7 % compared with a total return of 13.1% by t he FTSE All-Share Index.
The five year net PERFORMANCE asset value total return performance is shown below.
In the year to 31 December 2017 the net asset value total return of the Company was 9.7 % compared with a total return Net asset value total return of the Companys benchmark index of 13.1 %.
The effect of 180 removing gearing from the performance calculation is shown in the following graph of investment performance over a five year period compared with the FTSE All-Share Index.
The 160 Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 and the Managers Review on pages 5 to 8 include a review of developments during the year together with information on investment 140 activity within the Companys portfolio and an assessment of future developments.
Ungeared 5 year performance 120 180 100 160 80 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 140 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Temple Bar share price total return Temple Bar NAV total return FTSE All-Share Index total return 120 The Board also monitors Temple Bars performance relative to its peer group over various time periods and believes that 100 this is satisfactory.
80 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sources: Thomson Reuters Datastream and IAM Temple Bar gross assets, excluding effects of gearing and associated costs FTSE All-Share Index - total return TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 11 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 11 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY CONTINUED Discount on net asset value The portfolio will typically provide a yield premium to the market.
The final dividend recommended for the year is The Board monitors the premium discount at which the 17.48 p per ordinary share which brings the total for the year Companys shares trade in relation to the net assets.
During to 42.47 p per ordinary share, an increase of 5.0 % from the the year the shares traded at an average discount to NAV prior year.
This will be the 34th consecutive year in which of 4.7 %.
This compares with an average discount of 7.3% in the Company has increased the overall level of its dividend the previous year.
The Board and Manager closely monitor payment.
both movements in the Companys share price and signi cant dealings in the shares.
In order to avoid substantial overhangs or shortages of shares in the market the Board asks 140 shareholders to approve resolutions which allow for both the buy back of shares and their issuance which can assist in the management of the discount or premium.
130 Discount premium to net asset value excluding current year revenue 5% 120 4% 3% 2% 110 1% 0% -1% 100 -2% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 -3% Source: Bloomberg -4% Temple Bar Retail Prices Index -5% -6% 10 Year Comparative Dividend Growth -7% Ongoing charges -8% Ongoing charges is an expression of the Companys -9% management fees and other operating expenses as a -10% percentage of average daily net assets over the year.
The Board compares the Companys Cum income NAV, debt at market value ongoing charges with those of its peers on a regular basis.
At the present time the Company has one of the lowest ongoing charges in the UK Equity Income sector of Earnings and dividend per share investment trust companies.
It remains the directors intention to distribute, over time, by way of dividends substantially all of the Companys net revenue income after expenses and taxation, subject to preserving a prudent balance in revenue reserves to facilitate a smooth dividend progression.
The Manager aims to maximise total returns from the portfolio and attaches great importance to dividends in achieving total return.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 12 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
