STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION MANAGERS REVIEW After strong performance in 2016, relative returns were falling bond yields have caused some peculiar outcomes: weaker in 2017.
We were far from fully invested for the whole i investors keen to maintain a certain amount of income year, which did us no favours, but mainly it was poor stock have gravitated towards riskier assets: ii a signi cant amount selection in a dif cult environment that held us back.
of new bond issuance has been made at negative yields thus guaranteeing the buyers a loss if held to maturity : A decade after the onset of the Global Financial Crisis, and iii countries with less than stellar financial histories and monetary policy remains on an emergency setting with shortprobably futures have been welcomed back to the sovereign term interest rates still at historically low levels and long-term bond market with so much enthusiasm that coupons on rates re ecting the extraordinary amount of bond purchases their bonds were reduced from initial expectations despite that Central Banks have made.
With economic growth across borrowing periods of up to 100 years.
developed economies healthier than it has been for many years, policymakers are probably claiming victory.
However, As bond yields are used as a valuation tool for many other until monetary policy has been reversed we believe it would assets one must wonder how vulnerable financial markets are be premature for Central Bankers to conduct a victory lap.
in general to an increase in bond yields.
There is some of cial acknowledgement of the unknown Our concern is that markets are pricing in a perfect scenario: consequences of Quantitative Easing the printing of money one in which economic growth is buoyant, in ation remains and subsequent purchase of financial assets, normally bonds subdued and monetary policy is carefully normalised with together with other articulated concerns such as the lack minimal volatility.
However, one slip either way for example of justi cation for a continued emergency setting and the through in ation surprising on the upside or higher bond need for these policies to be available when next required.
yields choking off economic growth could very quickly This suggests that the reversal of QE is at the forefront of the affect investor sentiment.
At a time when bonds and many minds of central bankers.
equities stand at high valuations, markets could react very badly to any disappointment.
If Central Banks reduce signi cantly the amount of bonds they own, bond markets will probably react to the absence of With markets assuming that Central Banks have their the massive buyer of the last decade.
We believe that backs, asset volatility has plummeted.
Many investors have embraced the lower volatility by taking on more risk, effectively assuming high volatility is a relic of the past.
A reversal in volatility could, therefore, very quickly force investors to liquidate positions, thus adding signi cant momentum to any sell-off.
Obviously, when markets are complacent about downside risk it becomes much harder for investors to stand to one side.
However, we are convinced that patience is a vital part of our investment process and that we must not let the market bully us out of our concerns.
ALASTAIR MUNDY Alastair is head of the Value Team at Investec Asset Management having joined in 2000 from Morley Fund Management.
In addition to Temple Bar Investment Trust, Alastair manages a number of funds including the Investec Cautious Managed Fund and the Investec UK Special Situations Fund.
Alastair graduated from City University in 1988 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Actuarial Science.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 5 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 5 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 MANAGERS REVIEW CONTINUED In ation may well have been written off too easily.
Heightened bond and equity valuations are often justi ed that investors are already expecting a challenging outcome by the claim that we are in a new environment of low to Brexit.
in ation and low interest rates.
The narrative around low Before we are too easily attracted to these lower in ation the reduction in the bargaining power of labour, valuations, however, we must accept there are genuine globalisation, technology is indeed persuasive, but may risks to consider.
We are, in general, not simply analysing tell us more about where we are rather than where we are companies whose pro ts are purely cyclical: many are going.
If these drivers were so obvious, it is curious that facing structural impediments too.
For example, retailers long-term in ation forecasts made say 10 years ago proved are dealing with a signi cant percentage of sales moving so inaccurate.
One should therefore at least question on-line and banks are facing an increasing amount of new todays conventional wisdom.
For example, while there is competition and more onerous regulation.
A number of much written about robots taking human jobs this could the cheapest companies nd their actions constrained by be a very long-term trend, while in the short term skilled high levels of debt such as many pub companies or face labour shortages could prove more important.
The rise concerns over political involvement the utilities or low cost of populism worldwide could, as it has done historically, competition the food retailers.
It is easy to see why many herald a rise in protectionism, a reversal of globalisation investors would claim these stocks are cheap for a reason.
In ation may well have been written off too easily.
We would not be surprised if a switch of investment style preferences from growth to value could prove quite violent.
THE UK EQUITY MARKET As usual there is unlikely to be a catalyst for any change In the UK equity market we have found this backdrop of in style and, even if there is, most investors will nd it low yields forever dif cult.
This has been compounded by impossible to re-align their portfolios at the prices they concerns surrounding Brexit.
The market has bifurcated, hoped.
with a group of growth stocks trading at very high valuations contrasting with a basket of mainly domestically PORTFOLIO POSITIONING orientated stocks trading at low valuations.
This bifurcation The overall shape of the Temple Bar portfolio is little is a direct consequence of the growth companies expected different from a year ago.
We have no exposure to highly future pro ts being discounted at ever lower interest rates rated stocks and consequently a clear skew to cheap stocks as bond yields have fallen whilst pro t downgrades in the a majority of which are dependent on the UK economy for domestic stocks have encouraged investors to extrapolate their turnover.
However, we still believe the UK domestic any bad news.
focused stocks could become cheaper on the back of, for example, a nasty recession so we retain a signi cant cash History tells us that extrapolation of good and bad news at position.
ever more extreme valuations is rarely a sensible long-term investment strategy.
Those companies priced to do well We continue to hold exposure to gold and silver as often disappoint and those priced for failure often surprise insurance against a number of uncertainties.
The valuations of the cheap stocks currently are manifold, but the central premise is that policymakers discount a reasonable amount of negativity and our sense is PORTFOLIO DISTRIBUTION % Temple Bar FTSE portfolio All-Share Index % % 13 1 Financials 25.38 26.60 2 Consumer Services 15.41 11.08 12 3Industrials 15.12 10.79 1 11 4 Oil & Gas 11.03 12.89 10 5 Health Care 5.27 8.00 9 8 6 Basic Materials 3.87 7.59 7 7 Utilities 2.73 2.6 5 8 Physical Gold and Silver 2.72 6 9 Consumer Goods 1.77 15.61 5 10 Telecommunications 1.37 3.61 2 11Technology 1.09 1.18 Total Equities 85.76 100.00 4 3 12 Fixed Interest 13.08 13 Cash 1.16 100.00 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 6 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 6 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We would not be surprised if a switch of investment style preferences from growth to value could prove quite violent.
will be reluctant to raise interest rates too quickly believing increasingly online and new competition wins market share that in ation is not a long-term threat and will be content to these margins will come under pressure.
The company had print more money if they believe it necessary.
Precious metals also suspended its share buy-back programme, thus giving therefore act as insurance against Central Bankers either investors the impression its shares were no longer cheap.
reacting to events with slothfulness or excessive enthusiasm.
We believed these arguments were over-cooked.
Weak clothing sales are probably a cyclical issue rather than a PORTFOLIO ACTIVITY structural issue and could be corrected with a new fashion cycle.
Next is handling the changes in buying behaviour Over the year we slightly reduced our banking exposure by very well, as evidenced by a fairly stable market share and a lightening the holdings in HSBC and Lloyds Banking Group, proactive approach to changing its store pro le.
Although although we added to Barclays.
management was probably unwise to suspend its buy-back We also increased exposure to the UK residential programme, Nexts cash ow seems suf cient for it to construction market through a purchase of brick maker continue paying its dividends or to reinstate buy-backs.
Forterra and added to our holdings in builders merchant Travis Perkins and DIY retailer King sher albeit we reduced EasyJ et was a victim of the Brexit referendum as investors our two largest holdings, SIG and Grafton.
Increasingly, there worried about its customers ability to handle higher prices is acceptance from both main political parties that there is a post a fall in the value of the pound and the effects of Brexit shortage of housing in the UK.
Although we have been here on EU airline regulation.
This came at a time when both many times this has now clearly become a signi cant political EasyJet and the industry were adding to capacity in the issue and, therefore, we would expect to see some action.
European short-haul market with concerns over whether this New housebuilding must surely increase from the current would affect pricing.
We believed the market was missing the depressed levels to the bene t of Forterra whilst capacity signi cant competitive advantage EasyJet holds by virtue of can also be increased by working on the current housing its strong market share in the low-cost market, an advantage stock extensions, conversions etc thus supporting our which should grow over the medium term as less ef cient exposure to the building related stocks.
competitors struggle to generate acceptable returns for their shareholders.
We have only a small exposure to housebuilders through WHAT WORKED?
Bovis Homes believing it is safer to position the portfolio for greater housing activity in preference to continued house Grafton and SIG contributed most to our performance over price in ation.
So far this strategy has proved to be wrong.
Whilst Graftons UK business continues to perform well, particularly Selco, its xedprice non-negotiable We switched some of our gold bullion and holding in gold builders merchant, it has also bene ted from an excellent miners into silver bullion and silver miners believing the recovery in its Irish business both DIY and builders supply and demand characteristics were superior for silver.
merchants and its Benelux business.
The shares moved Silver supply grows very slowly as not much of it is recycled to a premium rating to its competitors and we therefore and at current prices there is little incentive for silver lightened our holding whilst retaining signi cant exposure miners to start new projects.
Around two thirds of silver to the company.
SIG, primarily a distributor of insulation supply comes as a consequence of miners removing other materials, appointed a new chief executive and operational commodities from the ground so any decrease in supply of performance improved very quickly.
The share price rose these commodities driven by, say a reduction in demand signi cantly re ecting con dence in the new management from China could tighten the market signi cantly.
Demand and once again we reduced our holding.
for silver comes from a reasonably stable industrial sector plus its status as a precious metal.
As a retailer specialising in fantasy games, Games Workshop has a dedicated and loyal customer base.
The company The holdings in BAT and Imperial Brands were sold the last has responded well to the challenge of meeting its remaining bond proxies the shares being highly correlated customers aspirations for interesting games and characters: to the movement in bond prices.
We believed this market consequently sales and pro tability consistently surprised the theme had reached extreme levels and left these companies market in 2017.
EasyJe t performed well as the fears voiced standing at valuations so high that they were vulnerable to by investors see above subsided and Computacenter, an IT any earnings disappointment or rise in bond yields.
services company, continued to deliver better than expected pro tability.
Following a signi cant fide-rating of its shares, we purchased Next.
The UK clothing market has been weak for some time WHAT DIDNT WORK?
and many commentators see no obvious signs of a reversal.
Following a good run in the second half of 2016, Barclays There have been worries that Nexts margins, and pro ts, underperformed the market.
Investors were particularly are unsustainably high and that as the clothing market moves frustrated at the lack of progress in turning around the TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 7 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 7 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 MANAGERS REVIEW CONTINUED We remain very defensively positioned and recognise that this has proved an expensive stance.
investment bank and an increase in capital allocated to it.
PORTFOLIO POSITIONING We still feel the companys recovery is on the right track The exposure to the bank sector remains the largest on the and that it has opportunities to cut operational costs and portfolio.
Whilst one could be dissuaded from investment reduce its nancing costs.
It would also be a signi cant by regulatory fears, we believe this overlooks a number of bene ciary of higher interest rates.
Underlying pro tability remains strong in the sector and it appears the regulators are now We have owned GlaxoSmithKline for the diversi ed stream comfortable with the amount of capital the sector holds.
of earnings it provides the portfolio.
We had also hoped We expect dividend payments to increase markedly in the that as a diverse healthcare conglomerate its earnings next few years and believe that any increases in bad debts stream would prove fairly stable.
After some years of could, to some extent, be mitigated by margin expansion.
decline, the companys fortunes have indeed improved Low interest rates and a at yield curve have created a very since the beginning of 2016.
However, the new chief dif cult backdrop for banks and any change here would be executive announced plans to increase costs with the positive.
intention of more fully backing new drug launches and also alluded to plans for an acquisition in its Consumer OUTLOOK Healthcare division.
Investors took the combination of We remain very defensively positioned and recognise that higher costs and a potentially weaker balance sheet badly.
this has proved an expensive stance.
However, we believe We believe it is right to support the new management that central bank policy has taken many assets well beyond particularly as the shares stand on a very low rating and fair value and, therefore, believe that reversal of this policy thus are sensitive to any unexpected good news.
could have the opposite effect.
In contrast, if central banks nd it dif cult to reverse policy, they may suspend such Signet Jewelers has a leading position in the US jewellery actions leading investors to conclude that we are stuck in a market and we hoped this would enable it to drive pro ts world of perpetual QE.
However, very weak customer traf c in US shopping malls along with some signi cant operational mistakes combined to produce a very poor trading performance.
Alastair Mundy Once again, and this has been a recurring theme in the For Investec Fund Managers Limited market in 2017, the pro t disappointment was so harshly dealt with that the shares have been left at depressed levels.
20 February 2018 We had hoped that Centrica would also provide a durable and defensive pro t stream.
However, it has faced a number of dif culties such as loss of UK customers to cheaper competitors at a higher rate than expected plus operational disappointment in its US business.
Reasonably new management has not endeared itself to investors with a surprise share placing, some acquisitions suggesting a lack of con dence in its core business and a lack of clarity as to the cash ow investors can expect the company to generate.
The fall in oil, gas and power prices of the last few years has not helped.
Once again, we believe the shares discount a lot of bad news so we have held on to them.
As a supplier of electricity from coalred stations many investors view Drax with great scepticism particularly as coalred plants in the UK are expected to close by 2025.
Drax has partially re-structured its activities by increasing its exposure to the business market, but it seems that Centricas woes have, unfairly we think, affected sentiment around Draxs business.
A large percentage of its pro ts now come from using biomass as a fuel and the company also holds meaningful exposure to the business energy supply market.
The company believes it could convert its remaining coal red plants to gas red at an economic cost.
The market also has very low expectations for the amount of pro ts that could be generated from coal over the next eight, or even more, years.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 8 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
