Strategic Report Market The market environment in which we operate is rapidly changing and becoming increasingly Review competitive.
Consolidation of media and telecoms companies, the increasing influence of technology and the evolution in the way viewers consume media, what they watch, when they watch it and how they watch it, bring both challenges and opportunities.
Over recent years, there has been a significant change in the availability and delivery Key market ofcontent with a substantial increase in the number of ways to watch television, with viewers able to choose a variety of platforms, both free and pay to watch live, catch up trends andbox set content.
This has led to the rapid growth of online viewing.
However, linear television viewing remains resilient and is still the most popular way to consume content forall demographics.
The proliferation of channels, platforms and new entrants has caused a significant increasein the global demand for content, with spend growing on high-quality programming.
We estimate that the global content market is growing at around 5% per annum, with somegenres such as drama rising faster than others.
This growth can be attributed to a number of factors, including: a larger international paytelevision market: the consolidation of pay providers with content companies and distributors coupled with the convergence in the television market, where telecoms and new media companies are competing with traditional media companies for content and viewers: online players such as Netflix and Amazon investing heavily in new original content: and online advertising driven platforms such as Google and Facebook creating a new market for short form and digital content.
Global content The US is by far the largest content market in the world, dominating the global production sector, with the UK the second largest market.
This represents a significant opportunity forITV Studios, which has a strong presence in both regions.
Demand for drama, particularly US drama, has increased signicantly in the last few years.
Original scripted content is brand dening for broadcasters and OTT players in an increasingly competitive global environment.
US studios continue to dominate the market for drama inthe US and internationally.
However, the rise of Netflix and Amazon, which are investing heavily in creating high-quality original scripted content, has signicantly increased competition in the market.
Suburra is the first original Italian Netflix crime drama produced by Cattleya, which was acquired by ITV Studios in 2017.
10 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Market Review This increased competition, coupled with the fact that viewers are now expecting higher quality content, has driven up the cost of production.
deficit nancing and co-productions or partnerships have therefore become increasingly important in nancing productions, where distributors are often funding the difference between what the content buyer is paying for the original broadcast and the cost of production.
This deficit is covered through global sales, our windowing strategy of making content available in different territories, ondifferent broadcast platforms and at different times, either exclusively or non-exclusively along with sales to OTT platforms.
As a distributor as well as a producer, ITV is in a strong position to deficit finance its own productions and therefore produce high-quality content and retain the rights to it as well as acquiring rights for third-party productions.
Leveraging our network relationships and international distribution network, we have expanded our global scripted business and developed a strong portfolio of international and returning drama.
We are taking advantage of the increased demand from OTT platforms and other viewing windows around the world, with our UK and US studios having a number Good Witch is a scripted format produced by oforiginal commissions confirmed or in the pipeline for international distribution in 2018 ITV America for the Hallmark channel in the US.
confirmed commissions for international rights outside of the UK include Itwill go into its fourth season in 2018.
Harlots S2 for Hulu, Vanity Fair and War of the Worlds for Amazon and Robozuna for Netflix.
IntheUK, these programmes will be broadcast on either ITV or the BBC.
The OTT deals forinternational distribution will make Netflix the biggest customer for our Global Entertainment business in 2018.
ITV America has developed several scripted programmes over the last few years and has ahealthy pipeline of content in development.
Our 2017 scripted deliveries included Good Witch, Sun Records, Somewhere Between and a pilot of Snowpiercer.
2018 deliveries and beyond are expected to include a fourth series of Good Witch and a ten-part series of Snowpiercer.
In the UK, there is stronger demand and higher viewing gures for UK content over imported series.
We are a major producer of scripted content and have further reinforced this position through our acquisition of World Productions in 2017.
Our 2017 scripted deliveries in the UK included Victoria, Cold Feet, Poldark, Unforgotten, The Loch and Fearless.
Scripted deliveries in 2018 include Vanity Fair, Next of Kin, Trauma, TheCity And The City, Poldark S4, Unforgotten S3 and The Bodyguard, all of which have international appeal.
In Europe, we have seen a resurgence in demand for local scripted content because acquired US content is not performing as well as it has historically on broadcast channels.
There is now also global demand for high-quality, foreign language scripted content.
As such, we have strengthened our position in this area through our acquisitions of Tetra Media Studio inFrance and Cattleya in Italy along with our investment in Apple Tree Productions, a Danish scripted production company.
These acquisitions produce long-running, critically acclaimed foreign-language dramas for free-to-air, pay and OTT platforms locally and internationally.
Hells Kitchen has been ahugeinternational Titles include Prolage for TF1, Gomorrah for Sky Italia and Suburra for Netflix and Rai.
success with 38 format salesworldwide over the last ten years.
While not growing as quickly as scripted content, demand for unscripted content remains strong as networks continue to require lower cost, high volume popular series.
The UK remains the dominant producer of unique unscripted formats.
Along with the established entertainment and factual entertainment genres, unscripted reality programming, where we have focused our US acquisitions, has grown quickly with formats such as Real Housewives, Four Weddings, The First 48 and Alone.
OTT platforms have also started to supplement their catalogue with unscripted titles, which provides alower cost alternative to expensive scripted titles.
In 2018, we will have multiple originalunscripted commissions in production or development including: Queer Eye fortheStraightGuy, and Girl Incarcerated with Netflix and several shows indevelopment with Facebook.
ITV is now a genuine global player in unscripted content, being a leading unscripted independent producer in the US and Europe as well as the largest commercial production company in the UK.
The large independent production companies, such as Endemol ShineGroup and Fremantle Media, continue to be ITV Studios main competitors in non-scriptedcontent.
11 Strategic Report Market Review continued Broadcast television and digital Changes in viewing habits The multiple ways in which viewers are now able to watch content has impacted viewing habits globally and we have seen a significant increase in OTT viewing as a result.
This varies by demographic with younger viewers spending proportionately more time consuming video content on non-TV devices such as smartphones, games consoles and tablets compared with older demographics who spend more time on linear television.
Digital viewing, while currently only a small proportion of total viewing, is growing fast, particularly via OTT services such as Netflix and Amazon, which have seen exponential growth over the last few years.
We continue to invest in ITVs online offering, the ITV Hub, along with rolling out our SVOD services, BritBox in the US and Canada, and Cirkus in the Nordics and Germany, to enable us to compete in this market.
Linear television viewing In the UK, linear television viewing still remains the most popular form of media entertainment.
UK average linear television viewing in 2017 was 203 minutes per day, downfrom 212 minutes in 2016.
The decline is partly driven by the absence of a major sporting event in 2017 and is similar to 2013 a no sporting year, which also saw a nine minute decline in average viewing year-on-year.
The average for 1634s was 123 minutes per day which declined by 11% 2016: 138 minutes.
The corresponding decline for 1634s across theITV family of channels was 5% and as such ITV saw share growth for this demographic year-on-year Source: BARB.
Younger viewers are more skewed to watching content outside of the seven-day BARB measurement window and often on non-TV devices and as such this viewing is not currently captured by BARB further detail below.
While it is clear that younger viewers do watch less linear television than other demographics, if the right content is delivered, they will watch it either via linear television or online.
Love Island on ITV2 was an example of this in 2017, with an average of 1.4 million 1634s viewers across the series and 0.9 million 1634s catch up requests online per day.
Linear Television viewing ITV competes for linear viewers with the BBC and commercial broadcasters including SOV by broadcaster Channel 4, Sky and Channel 5.
ITV and BBC1 continue to be the only channels consistently ITV Family 21.7% able to deliver mass audiences as well as targeted demographics, and in 2017, ITV again BBC Family 31.4% delivered 99% of all commercial audiences over five million viewers and 96% over Channel 4 Family 10.5% threemillion.
Five Family 6.5% Sky Family 8.0% In 2017, the ITV family of channels increased their SOV to 21.7% 2016: 21.3% and is second Other 21.9% only to the BBCs Family of channels at 31.4% which lost share during the year 2016: 31.9% due to the move of key entertainment shows from BBC1 to commercial broadcasters.
Source: BARB Digital viewing Digital viewing includes catch up viewing of broadcaster content via the television set or other devices, such as tablets and mobiles and video on demand VOD delivery of other long-form content such as box sets and movies via services such as Sky, Netflix and Amazon.
Non-linear viewing While digital viewing has grown fast, it still accounts for a small proportion of total viewing Long-form content viewing time.
In the UK, we estimate 75% of all viewing of legal long-form content is live excluding online simulcast viewing 2016: 79%, with a further 13% timeshifted via a Personal Video Live including simulcast 75% Recorder PVR and watched within 28 days of the original broadcast date 2016: 12%.
Timeshifted PVR Ofthe estimated 12% of content viewed on demand 2016: 9%, 4% is catch up viewing of up to 28 days 13% broadcaster content via the television set or to other devices such as tablets and mobiles VOD: Broadcaster 2016: 4%.
Theremaining 8% of content is other VOD viewing, where viewing of box sets catch up 4% viaservices such as Sky, Netflix and Amazon are replacing viewing of DVDs 2016: 5%.
VOD: Other 8% Thisisgrowing quickly, driven by accessibility of these services on smartphones, tablets andconnected televisions, which allows viewers to watch content whenever and wherever Source: 2017 BARB Thinkbox data theywant.
12 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Market Review Pay television There is currently no industry measure for online viewing in the UK.
BARB is developing a joint-industry, audited measure of online viewing across all devices used to watch content, The platform which will include viewing across PCs, tablets and smartphones.
Initial findings from this project are expected to be published during 2018. mix in the UK is roughly 50% Pay television Free-to-air television in the UK is delivered through services including Freeview, YouView free-to-air and Freesat, while linear pay television is delivered through operators such as Sky, BT, Virgin and 50% linear and TalkTalk.
The platform mix between free-to-air and linear pay television has remained constant for a number of years at around 50:50.
The market dynamics of the pay market pay TV are changing as established pay television providers such as Sky and Virgin face increasing competition from BT and OTT providers Netflix and Amazon.
Increasingly homes are supplementing their free and pay television with other forms of paidcontent including SVOD services such as Netflix, or by purchasing additional channels through no-contract providers such as Now TV or TalkTalk TV Store.
Around 30% of homes in the UK have an SVOD service and this is weighted towards those homes that have linear pay TV Source: BARB.
Including SVOD pay services, the platform mix in the UK is roughly 40% free-to-air and 60% paid viewing, which is unchanged from 2016.
ITV earns revenue from various third parties, including Sky and Virgin, through the licensing of channels and content, including our HD digital channels ITV2 HD, ITV3 HD and ITV4 HD andcatch up VOD.
ITV has also launched BritBox, a SVOD service in the US and Canada, which is a joint venture with the BBC.
The service offers a significant amount of content from both broadcasters and gives ITV access to the fast-growing SVOD market in the US.
Advertising revenue Advertising revenue Televisions share of the As an integrated producer broadcaster, ITV generates revenues from advertising through advertising market linear television, sponsorship and online, and competes with commercial broadcasters and Television 25.5% other advertising media for its advertising revenues.
Cash from these revenue streams is Press 13.1% then used to fund the creation of content in the UK and internationally.
Radio 3.3% Cinema 1.4% In the UK, television advertising including VOD, sponsorship and othertelevision revenues Outdoor 5.5% continues to hold a significant share of the overall advertising market with a 25.5% share Internet 51.2% in2017 2016: 27.5%.
The decrease year-on-year can be attributed to theongoing political and economic uncertainty in the UK with advertisers reducing spend on television as they Source: Advertising Association January 2018 try to manage margins.
Historically, we have seen that television advertising loses share inan economic downturn, however it recovers quickly when the cycle reverses.
Internet advertising search, classied and display has grown its share to 51.2% in 2017 2016: 46.6%, making the UK one of the most developed markets for online advertising.
Internet advertising has benefited in the current climate from the way it is sold when compared with television.
Online advertising is normally sold as annual volume deals rather than share deals for television, which enables advertisers to reduce their television spend quickly.
Print advertising continues to decline at 13.1% in 2017 2016: 15.6%.
While online advertising has grown rapidly, there are concerns about what some online advertising delivers, especially when compared with television, that online has no trusted measurement system, the adverts may not be seen by a human in full or at all and the content around the advertising may not be appropriate for that brand.
The ITV Hub deliversthe key demographics and a high-quality, trusted and measured environment foronline advertisers.
The UK television advertising market is extremely difficult to measure as all broadcasters have different denitions.
We estimate ITVs SOB which is based on pure linear television advertising excluding VOD, sponsorship and self-promotion to be 47.6% in 2017, up from 47.4% in 2016.
This increase is because of ITVs unique ability to deliver mass audiences across multiple regions and in key demographics.
