Strategic Report Alternative Performance Measures The Annual Report includes both statutory and adjusted measures, the latter of which, inmanagements view, reflect the  of the business and provide amore meaningful comparison of how the business is managed and measured ona day-to-day basis.
Our APMs and KPIs are aligned to our strategy and business segments and together are used to measure the performance ofourbusiness and form the basis of the performance measures for remuneration.
Adjusted results exclude certain items because, if included, these items could distort the understanding of our performance fortheyear and the comparability between periods.
Key adjustments for adjusted EBITA, profit before tax and EPS Adjusted EBITA is calculated by adding back exceptional items and high end production tax credits to EBITA.
Further adjustments, which include amortisation and impairment of assets and net nancing costs, are made to remove their effect from adjusted profit before taxand EPS.
The tax effects of all these adjustments are reflected in the adjusted tax charge.
These adjustments are detailed below.
Production The ability to access tax credits, which are rebates based on production spend, is fundamental to our Studios business tax credits when assessing the viability of investment in green-lighting decisions, especially with regards to high-end drama.
ITVreports tax credits generated in the US and other countries e. g. Ireland, Hungary, Canada and South Africa within cost of sales, whereas in the UK and Italy tax credits for high-end drama must be classied as a corporation tax item.
However, in our view all tax credits relate directly to the production of programmes.
Therefore, to align treatment, regardless of production location, and to reflect the way the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis, these are recognised in adjusted EBITA.
Our cash measures including profit to cash conversion and freecash flow are also adjusted for the impact of production tax credits.
Further detail on this is included below.
Exceptional These include acquisition-related costs, reorganisation and restructuring costs, property costs and non-routine legal items costs.
These items are excluded to reflect performance in a consistent manner and are in line with how the business ismanaged and measured on a day-to-day basis.
They are typically gains orlosses arising from events that are not considered part of the core operations of the business or are considered to be one-off in nature, though they may crossseveral accounting periods.
We also adjust forthe tax effect ofthese items.
Note 2.2 includes further detail onexceptional items.
Acquisition-related costs We structure our acquisitions with earnouts or put and call options, to allow part of the consideration to be based on thefuture performance of the business as well as to lock in and incentivise creative talent.
Where consideration paid or contingent consideration payable in the future is employment-linked, it is treated as an expense under accounting rules and therefore part of our statutory results.
However, weexclude all consideration of this type from adjusted EBITA, adjusted profit after tax and adjusted EPS as, in our view, these items arepart of the capital transaction and do not form part of the Groups core operations.
The Finance Review explains this further.
Acquisition-related costs, including legal and advisory fees on completed deals or significant deals that do not complete, are also treated as an expense under accounting rules and therefore on a statutory basis form part of our reported results.
In our view, these items also form part ofthe capital transaction and are excluded from our adjusted measures.
Restructuring and reorganisation costs These arise from Group-wide initiatives to reduce the ongoing cost base and improve efficiency in the business.
Weconsider each project individually to determine whether its size and nature warrant separate disclosure.
Where there has been a material change inthe organisational structure of a business area or a materialGroup-wide initiative, these costs are highlighted and are excluded from our adjusted measures.
Property costs In 2018, ITV will relocate to various properties on a temporary basis while its headquarters are redeveloped.
The t-out costs will be capitalised but the incremental one-off property project costs, including move costs, rental payments for these properties and accelerated depreciation for assets made redundant due to the move, will be ring-fenced as they relate to a one-off property project and are therefore excluded from our adjusted measures.
As a ring-fenced cost, rentalpayments will continue to be excluded from our adjusted measures until we move back, which is expected in 2023.
Amortisation Amortisation and impairment of assets acquired through business combinations and investments are not included and within adjusted earnings.
As these costs are acquisition-related, and in line with our treatment of other  related costs, we consider them to becapital in nature and they do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Amortisation of software licences and development is included within our adjusted results as management consider these assets to be core to supporting the operations of the business.
Net financing Net nancing costs are adjusted to reflect the underlying cash cost of interest for the business, providing a more costs meaningful comparison of how the business is managed and funded on a day-to-day basis.
The adjustments made remove the impact of mark-to-market on swaps and foreign exchange, imputed pension interest and other financial gains and losses, which do not reflect the relevant interest cash cost to the business and are not yet realised balances.
A full reconciliation between our adjusted and statutory results is provided on the following page.
34 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Alternative Performance Measures Reconciliation between statutory and adjusted results 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Twelve months to Statutory Adjustments Adjusted Statutory Adjustments Adjusted 31 December on a continuing basis m m m m m m 1 EBITA 810 32 842 857 28 885 2 Exceptional items operating 153 153 164 164 3 Amortisation and impairment 102 97 5 89 77 12 Operating profit 555 282 837 604 269 873 4 Net nancing costs 50 17 33 51 25 26 Share of losses on JVs and Associates 4 4 Gain on sale of non-current assets and subsidiaries non-operating exceptional items 1 1 profit before tax 500 300 800 553 294 847 5 Tax 87 67 154 100 60 160 profit after tax 413 233 646 453 234 687 Non-controlling interests 4 4 4 4 Loss from discontinuing operations net of tax 1 1 Earnings 409 233 642 448 235 683 Shares million, weightedaverage 4,006 4,006 4,010 4,010 EPS p 10.2p 16.0p 11.2p 17.0p Diluted EPS p 10.2p 16.0p 11.1p 17.0p 1.
32 million adjustment relates to production tax credits which we consider to be a contribution to production costs and working capital in nature rather than a corporate tax item.
E xceptional items largely relate to acquisition costs, primarily employment linked consideration, as well as restructuring and property costs and an insured trade receivable provision in relation to The Voice of China.
Further detail is included on page 42.
97 million adjustment relates to amortisation and impairment of assets acquired through business combinations and investments.
We include only amortisation on purchased intangibles such as software within adjusted PBT.
17 million adjustment is primarily for non-cash interest cost.
This provides a more meaningful comparison of how the business is managed and funded on a day-to-day basis.
Tax adjustments are the tax effects of the adjustments made to reconcile PBT and adjusted PBT.
A full reconciliation is included on page 43.
Other Alternative Performance Measures Net pension deficit Total revenue This is our dened benefit pension deficit under IAS 19 adjusted for As an integrated producer broadcaster, we look at the total other pension assets, mainly gilts, over which the pension scheme revenuegenerated in the business which includes internal revenue, holds a charge, which are held by the Group as security for future which isthe sale of ITV Studios programmes to Broadcast & Online.
unfunded pension payments of four former Granada executives.
Our broadcast channels are a significant customer for ITV Studios Afull reconciliation is included within note 3.7. and selling programmes to Broadcast & Online is an important part profit to cash conversion of our strategy as it ensures we own all the rights to the content.
This is our measure of our effectiveness of cash generation used for A reconciliation between external revenue and total revenue is working capital management.
It is calculated as our adjusted cash provided below.
flow as a proportion of adjusted EBITA.
Adjusted cash flow, which reflects thecash generation of our underlying business, is calculated 2017 2016 Twelve months to 31 December m m on our statutory cash generated from operations before exceptional items, net of capex on property, plant and equipment excluding External revenue Reported 3,132 3,064 capex relating to the redevelopment of our London headquarters Internal supply 525 463 and intangible assets, and including the cash impact of high end Total revenue Adjusted 3,657 3,527 production tax credits.
Free cash flow Adjusted net debt This is our measure of free cash flow after we have met our financial Net debt as dened in note 4.1 is adjusted for all our financial obligations.
It takes our adjusted cash flow see above and removes commitments.
This better reflects how credit rating agencies the impact of net interest, adjusted cash tax which is total tax lookat our balance sheet.
A reconciliation between net debt and paidadjusted to exclude the receipt of production tax credits and adjusted net debt is provided below.
A full reconciliation is included on pages 45 and 46.
2017 2016 Twelve months to 31 December m m Net debt 912 637 Expected contingent payments on acquisitions 292 328 Net pension deficit 83 328 Operating leases 143 344 Adjusted net debt 1,430 1,637 Adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA 1.6x 1.8x Reported net debt to adjusted EBITDA 1.0x 0.7x 2 017 excludes transponder costs, which are now treated as service contracts.
See page 128 for further detail.
The comparator has not been re-presented.
