Strategic Report Our Strategy We are focused on being an owner, producer, distributor and broadcaster of content.
and Business We are currently undertaking a strategic Model refresh to ensure that ITV has a clear strategy and well-dened priorities to establish what ITV needs to be in three andve yearstime.
Our strategy has Our sources of beento diversify and competitive advantage grow the business, reducing ourreliance Delivering unrivalled commercial on UK advertising: audiences 60% The scale of our channels and the significant Our channels reach over investment we make in quality content give 60%of the UK population ITVunique scale and reach across the key each week demographics on our main channel andmore targeted audiences on our family ofchannels andthe ITV Hub.
Broadcast & Online World-class content Building our free-to-air, At the core of ITV is our focus on creativity and online and pay business content, whether selling our unique content around 1bn theworld or investing in third-party content to We invest over 1bn broadcast across multiple platforms.
Internationally annually in content for we have built production and distribution scale ourfamily of channels inkey global creative markets through organic growthand selective acquisitions.
ITV Studios Global distribution Growing an international ITV has built relationships globally with major content and distribution networks, platform owners and local broadcasters, 45,000 business and owns the rights to a diverse portfolio of shows, hours of television and particularly drama and entertainment, lmcontent for international distribution.
Our strategic assets Our strategic assets underpin ITVs competitive advantage Creating and Our strong, trusted Our talented owning the rights brand and culture commercial and to quality content creative people 18 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Our strategy and business model Our diversied Creating revenue streams value for By developing and managing the rights to content, ITVisable to maximise the value of its programme brands across a range of revenue streams, making Advertisers ITVamore balanced business and enabling it to drive Through delivering unique value from different revenue models.
scale and breadth of demographics and new innovative ways of engaging Advertising with consumers around quality Our family of channels and the ITV Hub drive significant advertising programme brands revenues from the ability to deliver both mass audiences and more targeted demographics to advertisers, this funds our investment inthe programme budget.
Commercial partnerships Audiences We work with advertisers and advertising agencies to provide unique Through a varied, high-quality commercial partnerships and sponsorship opportunities that extend programming schedule, which they beyond pure spot advertising.
canwatch and engage with on a variety Pay & interactive of platforms We earn pay revenues from platforms in the UK primarily by licensing our HD channels and our online VOD services.
In March 2017, we launched a joint venture with the BBC, BritBox US, a SVOD service offering the best of British television.
The service launched in Canada in February 2018.
We also monetise our consumer interaction with Broadcasters ourbiggest shows through competitions and voting.
Going forward and platform owners weneed to ensure we are paid the appropriate value for our content Through delivering quality programming on allplatforms.
that they can then monetise through Original production their own business models We produce original content commissions for broadcasters and platform owners internationally from our production bases in the UK, the US, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Italy, Australia and the Nordics.
Distribution revenues We own the rights to a significant catalogue of programmes and Shareholders formats that we sell and license to broadcasters and platform Through a track record of creating .
The strong global demand for content shareholder value and delivering provides a significant opportunity for us.
significant shareholder returns 11% Our people Through investing in and developing growth in total revenue derived from sources our talent and creating a culture that otherthan spot television advertising nurtures them to become both commercial and creative 19
