8 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES MEETING THE NEEDS OFA CHANGING ENERGY LANDSCAPE AND CREATING VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Underpinned by safety, sustainability, operational excellence and expertise inourmarkets.
1 2016 EBITDA 140m 2017 EBITDA 229m 2025 EBITDA ambition 425m 1 EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and material one-off items that do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the business Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 9 PROGRESSING THE STRATEGY GROUP POWER GENERATION Progress in 2017 Our ambition EBITDA growth in all areas, for EBITDA up64%year-on-year Higher quality earnings CfD 425m contract and acquisition of by 2025 OpusEnergy New dividend policy a Our ambition sustainable and growing dividend for EBITDA Renancing completed 300m by 2025 Page 14 Progress in 2017 Improvement in EBITDA, 37% year-onyearincrease Increase in non-commodity revenues CfD, ROC and capacity payments Continued reduction in carbon emissions Development of system support services Successful completion of major planned outage programme on CfD unit Commenced planning application for coal-to-gas repowering and battery PELLET PRODUCTION storageoption Progressed and fide-risked OCGT projects Progress in 2017 Our ambition forEBITDA Now profitable at EBITDA level Page 22 Pellet production, up 35% year- 75m on-year by 2025 Acquisition of LaSalle Bioenergy B2B ENERGY SUPPLY completed, now commissioning Increased capacity at Amite and Our ambition forEBITDA Morehouse plants 80m by 2025 Page 18 Progress in 2017 Acquisition of Opus Energy, on-boarding progressing well Our strategic achievements Haven Power now profitable at EBITDA level arelinked to remuneration.
Continued growth in customer numbers Progressing IT replatforming to provide Page 81 better information and operational improvements Page 26 10 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES CONTINUED PROGRESSING OUR STRATEGY FOR 2025 During 2017 we made excellent progress in delivering our strategy for 2025 and beyond.
PELLET PRODUCTION ACQUISITION OF LASALLE BIOENERGY 50% LASALLE increase in production capacityallowing us to In April we completed the process 1.5 million tonnes acquisition of LaSalle which ofpellets per year willprovide an additional 450k tonnes of pellet capacity and PELLET PRODUCTION make a meaningful contribution to our target of self-supplying ADDITIONAL LOW-COST 30% of our pellet requirement PELLET CAPACITY AT forpower generation.
AMITEAND MOREHOUSE LaSalle was acquired for $35million and after a $27 million During 2017 we installed and commissioned 150kt of additional unloading and storage capacity at our Amite investment programme the unit is now commissioning.
and Morehouse pellet plants, which allows us to receive and process a greater amount of lower cost residues from commercial forestry and lumber mill processes.
The plant is located in close proximity to our existing assets These facilities will help reduce our overall biomass cost.
in the US Gulf region and will deliver significant operational and financial benets, once fullycommissioned.
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS LOOKING AHEAD FLEXIBLE, LOW-CARBON As the UK transitions to a low-carbon ANDRELIABLE THE LONG-TERM economy, major carbon savings will need NEED FOR BIOMASS ELECTRICITY tobedelivered across generation heating Demand for low-carbon electricity is andtransport.
setto increase with more intermittent renewables and less thermal generation If the UK is to achieve its aims it will need to available to support the system.
electrify heating and transport, which will increase power demand and require new National Grids System Needs and sources of generation.
Product Strategy report suggests that within fouryears the generation schedule We take a long-term approach, seeking to presented by the market will be identify options which can deliver valueinadequate to maintain security of accretive growth to 2025 and beyond.
supplyup to 60% of the time, without Tothat end we continue to look for some form of intervention.
opportunities through Research and Innovation R&I to support our ambitions We therefore see a long-term role for for2025, identifying additional sources of biomass in the UK generation market.
value from our core areasof activity Pellet Tohelp deliver this, our R&I team is Production, Power Generation and B2B highlyfocused on opportunities to drive Energy Supply.
efficiencies into our supply chain and reduce biomass costs.
com uk electricity balancing-services  Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 11 B2B ENERGY SUPPLY POWER GENERATION ACQUISITION OF OPEN CYCLE GAS OPUSENERGY TURBINE OCGT DEVELOPMENT During the year we progressed development offour OCGT projects which will begin construction once we have secured a 15-year capacity contract for their power.
These plants will take three years to build and commission before the delivery period forthecontract commences.
Once operational, the plants will each provide 299MW of fast, flexible gas generation to meet peak power demand and provide system support services.
In February 2017 the Group acquired Opus Energy, a leading player in the SME sector ofthe B2B energy supply market.
Opus Page 23 Energy has now been successfully integrated with the Group alongside our existing Haven Power business, positioning the Group as the fifth largest B2B energy supply operator in theUK.
POWER GENERATION COAL TO BIOMASS CONVERSION In January 2018 the UK government confirmed support for conversion of a fourthunit to biomass fuel.
The conversion of unit 4 will complete during 2018 allowing us to optimise generation across three ROC accredited units.
COAL-TO-GAS REPOWERING ACADEMIC PARTNERSHIPS FORFUTURE INNOVATION We are developing an option for up to 3.6GW of gas generation by repowering two of our remaining coal units at Drax Power Station.
We are funding postgraduate research at Shefeld Universitys This would utilise existing infrastructure to deliver a lower cost Centre for Doctoral Training in Energy Storage and its Applications.
solution for new Combined Cycle Gas Turbines CCGT and reduce Can flow batteries support the national high voltage transmission carbon emissions versus coal, with a wide operating range covering system, once dominated by thermal generators?
How will customers baseload and peaking generation, in addition to system support interact with us, using smart technology to turn their company car services.
Alongside this we are developing an option for a new fleets intomini power plants?
And how may we be able to scrub the 200MW battery storage facility through which we could provide flue gas and potentially capture or use carbon dioxide emissions?
immediate system support services as part of the UKs energy revolution.
com shefelduni These developments are progressing through a public consultation after which they could participate in a future capacity market auction and receive a 15-year capacity agreement, which would underpin the investment decision.
