REPORT OF DIRECTORS The directors present their report and accounts for the There is also a fee payable to Investec Asset Management year ended 31 December 201 7.
Limited of 45,450 pa in respect of the provision of secretarial and administrative services, adjusted annually THE ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS in line with the Retail Price Index.
DIRECTIVE AIFMD The contract terms are reviewed at least annually.
This Investec Fund Managers Limited IFM, an af liate of covers, inter alia, the performance of the Manager, its Investec Asset Management Limited IAM, is the Companys management processes, investment style, resources A lternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM or Manager.
The Board endorses the investment For the purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an A lternative approach adopted by the Manager, recognising that while I nvestment F und AIF.
IFM has delegated responsibility for the contrarian style can sometimes lead to periods of the day to day management of the Companys portfolio to underperformance it usually delivers superior investment IAM.
returns over the longer term.
In addition, the portfolio IFM is required to ensure that a depositary is appointed and has produced high and growing dividend income to accordingly IFM and the Company have appointed HSBC as shareholders.
In the opinion of the directors the continued the depositary and custodian.
HSBC is responsible for the appointment of the Manager on the terms set out above is, custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its therefore, in the best interests of shareholders.
GOING CONCERN The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available The directors have reviewed the going concern basis of to investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that accounting for the Company.
The Companys assets consist material changes to this information be disclosed in the substantially of equity shares in listed companies and in most annual report of each AIF.
An Investor Information Document, circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
The which sets out information on the Companys investment use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, because there are no material uncertainties related to events management, fees, con icts of interest and other shareholder or conditions that may cast signi cant doubt about the ability information is available on the Companys website at of the Company to continue as a going concern.
enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in There have been no material changes to this information operational existence for the foreseeable future, including requiring disclosure.
Any information requiring immediate recourse to a 7.5 million overdraft facility with HSBC Bank.
disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going London Stock Exchange through a primary information concern basis in preparing the accounts.
As an authorised AIFM, IFM will make the requisite disclosures on remuneration levels and policies to the ORDINARY DIVIDENDS Financial Conduct Authority FCA at the appropriate time.
Interim dividends of 8.33p per ordinary share were paid on 30 June 201 7, 29 September 2017 and 29 December MANAGEMENT FEES 2017 2016: 8.09p in each case and the directors are The Company has a management agreement with Investec recommending a final dividend of 17.48 p p er ordinary share Fund Managers Limited IFM for the provision of investment 2016: 16.18p, a total for the year of 42.47 p 2016: 40.45p.
The agreement is subject to one years Subject to shareholders approval, the final dividend will be notice of termination by either party.
paid on 29 March 2018 to shareholders on the register on 9 March 2018.
IFM receives an investment management fee of 0.35% per annum, payable quarterly, based on the value of the ISAs investments including cash of the Company together with The Company has conducted its investment policy so as to an additional fee of 125,000 pa, plus or minus 0.005% of remain a qualifying investment trust under the Individual the value of the investments including cash of the Company Savings Account ISA regulations.
It is the intention of the above or below 750 million, calculated and payable Board to continue to satisfy these regulations.
Investments in funds managed by IFM are wholly excluded from this charge.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 18 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 18 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was No new ordinary shares were issued during the year.
interested and which are or were signi cant in relation to the Companys business.
No director has a service contract with SECTION 992 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 the Company.
The following information is disclosed in accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company maintains insurance cover for its directors under a Directors & Of cers Liability policy, as permitted by Capital structure the Companies Act 2006.
Directors are also covered by the The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 46. indemnity provisions in the Companys Articles of Association.
Voting Rights in the Companys Shares SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS The voting rights at 31 December 2017 were: As at 31 December 2017 and 20 February 2018 the following were registered or had indicated an interest in 3% or more of Number of Voting rights Total the issued ordinary shares of the Company.
Share class shares issued per share voting rights Ordinary shares % of 25p each 66,872,765 1 66,872,765 Brewin Dolphin Ltd 10.5 As at 20 February 2018, the share capital of the Company and Alliance Trust Savings Ltd 7.8 total voting rights were 6 6,872,765.
There are no restrictions Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 7.1 on the transfer of securities in the Company and there are no special rights attached to any of the shares.
Deadlines for Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd 5.0 the exercise of voting rights and details of arrangements by Equiniti Financial Services 4.0 which someone other than the registered shareholder can exercise voting rights are provided in the Notes to the Notice AXA SA 3.1 of Meeting on page 53.
T he Companys ordinary shares have a Premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR The directors are not aware of any relevant information of which To the extent that they exist, the revenue pro ts and capital the auditor is unaware and have taken all the steps that they of the Company including accumulated revenue and realised ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves capital reserves are available for distribution by way of aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that dividends to the holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
winding-up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would be distributed to the shareholders pro AUDITOR rata to their holding of ordinary shares.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Change of control Meeting on 26 March 2018.
There are no agreements that may be altered or terminated on change of control of the Company.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company DIRECTORS to be held on 26 March 2018 is on page 51.
In addition to The directors of the Company who held of ce at the end the ordinary business the following matters are proposed of the year are detailed on page 17.
David Webster retired as special business.
No other person was a director during any part of the year.
Details of directors Authority to allot shares and disapplication bene cial shareholdings may be found in the Report on of pre-emption rights Directors Remuneration on page 21.
It is proposed that the directors be authorised to allot up to 1,671,819 of relevant securities in the Company equivalent All the directors will be retiring in compliance with the to 6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p each, representing 10.0% provisions of the AIC Code and, each being eligible, the of its ordinary shares in issue as at 20 February 2018.
In making these recommendations the Board has carefully reviewed the When shares are to be allotted for cash, the Companies composition of the Board as a whole and borne in mind the Act 2006 requires such new shares to be offered first to need for a proper balance of skills and experience.
The Board existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings does not believe that length of service of itself detracts from of ordinary shares.
However, in certain circumstances, it is the independence of a director, particularly in relation to an bene cial to allot shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to investment trust, and on that basis considers that all directors existing shareholders and the ordinary shareholders can by standing for re-election are independent.
It is con rmed that, special resolution waive their pre-emption rights.
Therefore, following formal evaluation, the performance of each director a special resolution will be proposed at the AGM which, if continues to be effective and each continues to demonstrate passed, will give the directors the power to allot for cash commitment to the role.
equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,671,819 equivalent to 6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p each or 10.0% of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 19 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 19 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 REPORT OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED The directors intend to use this authority to issue new shares to prospective purchasers whenever they believe it may be advantageous to shareholders to do so.
Any such issues would only be made at prices greater than net asset value per share, as adjusted for the market value of the Companys debt, and would, therefore, increase the assets underlying each share.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
No issues of shares will be made which would alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Directors authority to purchase the Companys own shares The directors consider it desirable to give the Company the opportunity to buy back shares in circumstances where the shares may be bought for a price which is below the net asset value per share of the Company.
The purchase of ordinary shares is intended to reduce the discount at which ordinary shares trade in the market through the Company becoming a new source of demand for such shares.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority provide that the maximum price which can be paid by the Company is 5% above the average of the market value of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
Recommendation The Board considers the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its members as a whole.
Accordingly, the directors unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, as they intend to do so in respect of their own bene cial holdings, amounting to 135,714 ordinary shares.
By order of the Board of Directors John Reeve Chairman 20 February 2018 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 20 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
