Governance Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated and parent company financial statements for the year ended 31December 2017, which they approved on 28 February 2018.
The Directors Report comprises this report and the entire Governance sectionincluding the Chairmans Governance Statement.
Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary, the Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles are available on our website.
com investors governance Auditor During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee considered the performance and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of non-audit work undertaken.
It recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG LLP for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM on 10 May 2018.
Change of control No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control ofthe Company.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions and proration for timewhere appropriate.
Certain of the Groups bonds borrowing facilities have change of control clauses whereby the issuer can require ITV to repay redeem bondsin the event of a change of control.
TheCompany is not aware of any other significant agreements to which it is party that takeeffect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
Directors Appointments: A table showing Directors who served in the year can be found on page 68.
Biographies for Directors currently in ofce canbe found on pages 62 and 63 and on ourwebsite.
com about board-of-directors Directors are appointed for an initial three year period and annually thereafter.
Inaccordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each Director, other than those due to step down post the meeting, will retire and submit themselves for election or re-election atthe AGMon 10 May 2018.
Detail on compensation for loss of ofce can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 92.
Conflicts of interest: The Board has delegated the authorisation of any conflicts to the Nomination Committee and has adopted aConflicts of Interest Policy.
The Board has considered in detail the current external appointments of the Directors that may give risetoasituational conflict and has authorised potential conflicts where appropriate.
Thisauthorisation can be reviewed at any time butwill always be subject to annual review.
The Board is confident that these procedures operate effectively.
Contracts of significance: No Director had any interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
Powers: The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles of Association.
The Articles and a schedule of Matters Reserved for theBoard can be found on our website.
com investors governance 98 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Directors Report Dividends The Board has proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Details of this and other dividends paid for the year are asfollows: 2017 2016 Interim dividend 2.52p 2.4p Final dividend 5.28p 4.8p Total ordinary dividend 7.80p 7.2p Special dividend 5.0p Total dividend payment 7.80p 12.2p The final dividend for 2017 will be paid on 24 May 2018 to shareholders on the register on 13 April 2018.
Employees Disability: ITV has been certied a Disability confident Employer by the Department for Work and Pensions.
The Company gives full and fair consideration to the employment of people with a disability or long-term health condition in accordance with the Equality Act 2010.
Our employment and recruitment policies are based on equal opportunities and non-discrimination.
ITV works with a variety of diversity partners across its apprentice, early careers and permanent and xed-term contract recruitment including Creative Access, Mencap, Remploy, Scope and Vercida.
The Company provides tailored measures to ensure colleagues are fully supported and that reasonable adjustments are made.
We are committed to ensuring that all training, career development and promotional opportunities are accessible and inclusive to all and colleagues with a disability have the same career opportunities for growth and progression.
ITVs commitment around the disability agenda extends beyond it legal obligations and partners with a variety of internal and external specialists to drive best practice.
Further information can be found on our Corporate Responsibility website.
com responsibility Diversity: ITVs goal is to reflect modern society through our programmes, channels, workforce and services, ensuring we are relevant and accessible to all.
Its integral to our business aims to reflect, represent and appeal to the breadth of communities that characterise modern society.
Working in partnership with the production community, we aim for our programmes to portray accurately the diverse makeup of modern society by the people on-screen and the editorial content.
The Company has a number of policies to support an inclusive workforce and culture, for example the Code of Conduct, Equal Opportunities Policy, Flexible Working Policy and Transitioning at Work Policy.
We also have four network groups: ITV Pride for LGBT employees, The Womens Network, ITV Balance for working parents, grandparents and carers, and ITV Embrace for BAME employees, which are open to all.
ITV is also a founding member of the Social Mobility Business Partnership to promote social mobility in business, especially in the legal and accountancy professions.
com responsibility 99 Governance Directors Report continued Engagement: It is critical for our ongoing success that we attract, develop, recognise and retain the very best talent across the whole of ITV.
To achieve this we continuously engage with our colleagues to ensure they understand our business priorities, how they help to deliver business success and the opportunities available for them to thrive and develop.
We regularly survey our employees to hear their feedback.
The last survey was completed in 2016, and the overall completion rate was 80%.
The overall engagement index is 90%.
Throughout 2017 we have been taking action on the results and plan to conduct our next engagement survey in 2018.
This year we launched our first on-air employee roadshow, which was broadcast globally to all our ITV sites.
All employees from around theworld were able to watch live interviews with our Chairman and members of the Management Board.
Employees from the UK were alsoinvited to attend in person and were able to ask questions directly.
Other employees were able to email their questions separately.
Theroadshow received great feedback and we would look to do this again in future years.
To further promote employee engagement, the Company has a network of Ambassadors who are nominated and elected by employees torepresent each part of the business.
These Ambassadors share the views of the employees they represent enabling us tounderstand ways to make ITV a better place to work.
The Ambassadors also keep employees up to date with what is going on across thebusiness.
Remuneration: When the Company reviews pay it takes a number of factors into consideration, including the need to stay competitive.
Ourfocus on cash and costs remains incredibly important for the future health of our business.
We need to balance our business and financial commitments with our continuing investment in our programming and people.
The Company continues to be committed to ensuring employees earn at least the Living Wage or greater.
Where appropriate we haveagreed additional increases.
On 1 January 2018, all eligible employees received a pay increase of 2.75% 2017: 1.5% paid to eligible employees earning less than 100,000.
In addition, a bonus arrangement extends to all our employees, providing a comprehensive incentive framework THAT rewards everybody when the Company is successful.
For 2017 the maximum bonus amount was increased from 1,500 to 1,750.
The all-employee bonus award for 2017 was paid in full at 1,750 2016: 1,300.
The Company also operates a successful and popular all-employee Save As You Earn scheme that encourages voluntary investment inITV shares and a package of voluntary benets, which provides valuable cost savings for both employees and the Company.
Information about remuneration for the Directors is included in the Remuneration Report on page 82.
Succession planning, training and development: When planning succession within the Company, consideration is given to emergency cover together with medium and long-term succession and this is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee.
There is particular emphasis on growing the internal leadership pipeline through the launch of the following key programmes: Executive Next generation potential Management Board successors, giving them an opportunity to develop their Development management potential and gain a greater understanding of the business.
Programme Developing Future Delegates selected from across the business identied as a result of the performance review process.
Leaders Programme Contentincludes understanding what it means to be a leader at ITV, how to manage performance effectively, coaching skills and change management.
There is also a comprehensive portfolio of development courses and workshops in place for all employees that address common development needs.
International training for last year was limited.
The Company ran workshops in Germany and Hong Kong and this yearworkshops, on line webinars will be put in place for our international employees.
An online training portal called My Academy will alsobelaunched to the international markets.
Spend and investment on training in 2017 can be categorised as follows: Leaders and Managers development spend was 150,000, allemployees development spend was 230,000 and the high potential development programme spend was 90,000.
The annual turnover for employees for 2017 was 10.46% UK only.
100 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Directors Report Pensions The Company pensions arrangements are overseen by the Pensions Steering Committee comprised of the COO & CFO Chairman, Directorof Group Finance, Group HR Director, Director of Treasury and Director of Reward and Pensions.
The Committee meets monthly and is supported by a range of specialist advisers.
The Company operates a number of pension arrangements which provide retirement and death benets for employees.
ITV Pension Scheme the Scheme : The Scheme comprises three sections: A, B and C. Section A includes a dened contribution DC section.
The dened benefit DB sections have been closed since 2002 to new members and, following a comprehensive consultation exercise, were closed to future accrual with effect from 28 February 2017.
Contributions to the DC section also ended with effect from thatdate.
ITV Pension Scheme Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of ITV plc is the corporate trustee and manages the DB and DC assets, which are held under trust separately from the Company.
Members of the trustee board are formally appointed as directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
There are nine directors including the chairman five appointed by the Company and four nominated by the members.
The current chairmans tenure came to an end at the end of December and a replacement is currently being recruited.
There is also a vacancy for another Company appointed director.
The trustee board has four committees: Investment, Audit and Operations, DC, and Corporate Affairs.
The Corporate Affairs Committee is convened as and when appropriate for dealing with any corporate activities that may arise.
The trustee board and each committee hold regular meetings throughout the year at which key issues and more routine business matters are dealt with.
A budget is agreed each year.
The trustee board has a risk register, a conflicts of interest policy and a register of interests policy, which are reviewed regularly.
It is the responsibility of the trustee to have in place appropriate training for its directors and effective committee structures.
The trustee directors receive regular training throughout the year and also have the support of various professional advisers.
The Group pensions department helps identify training opportunities.
Training is delivered both by attendance at external courses and with targeted training tosupport specic agenda items at the start of each trustee board meeting.
Where appropriate, longer training sessions are organised.
Comprehensive records are kept of all training completed by each trustee director.
The trustee board completes regular assessments of itsadvisers.
The chairman confirms in an annual statement that the trustee meets its legal duties in relation to the DC section as required under thePensions Regulators Code of Practice 13.
Full valuations are carried out every three years.
The latest completed actuarial valuation of all three sections of the main DB scheme wascarried out as at 1 January 2014.
The trustee of the Scheme is undertaking actuarial valuations as at 1 January 2017 and the outcome isexpected before the end of March 2018.
ITV Dened Contribution Plan the Plan : The new trust based Plan was established to accept contributions from 1 March 2017 for ex-DB members and DC members who transferred from the ITV Pension Scheme.
In addition, pure DC assets previously built up in the ITVPension Scheme were transferred to the Plan during March 2017.
ITV DC Trustee Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of ITV plc is a corporate trustee and manages the DC assets, which are held under trust separately from the Company.
Members of the trustee board are formally appointed as directors of ITV DC Trustee Limited.
There are five directors including the chairman three appointed by the Company and two nominated by the members.
There is currently a selection exercise taking place for the two member-nominated vacancies.
It is the responsibility of the trustee to have in place appropriate training for its directors.
The governance framework for managing the Plan and developing the board is in line with that in place for the ITV Pension Scheme.
Work is in progress to enable the chair to be in a position to confirm in an annual statement that the trustee meets its legal duties inrelation to the DC section as required under the Pensions Regulators Code of Practice 13.
101 Governance Directors Report continued Ulster Television Pension and Assurance Scheme the Scheme : The Scheme provides DB benets.
It closed to new members in 2002 but is still open to future accrual.
Following the UTV acquisition in 2016, responsibility for managing the Scheme has moved to the Group pensions department and it was decided to strengthen the governance of the Scheme by replacing the existing individual trustee structure with a corporate trustee UTV Pension Scheme Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of ITV plc.
The trustee manages the DB assets, which are held under trust separately from the Company.
Members of the trustee board are formally appointed as directors of UTV Pension Scheme Limited.
There are five directors including the chairman three appointed by the Company including a professional trustee as chairman and two nominated bythe members.
The governance framework for managing the Scheme and developing the board is being enhanced to be in line with that in place for the ITV Pension Scheme.
The latest completed actuarial valuation was carried out as at 1 July 2014.
The trustee of the Scheme is undertaking an actuarial valuation as at 1 July 2017 and the preliminary results were agreed in principle at the end of 2017 and the valuation is expected to be nalised before the end of March 2018.
The trustee board has adopted the Pensions Regulators integrated risk management framework taking a holistic approach and looking at how risks around the employer covenant, funding and investment strategy are all linked and interdependent.
ITV Auto-enrolment Pension Plan the Plan : Since 2013, employers within the Group have been required to enrol all eligible individuals into a pension scheme automatically.
This applies to all eligible individuals who are contracted to work for us, regardless of theircontract type or tax status i. e. it applies to workers and not simply employees.
Eligible individuals are enrolled into the ITV Auto-enrolment Pension Plan.
The plan is currently provided using a master trust arrangement run by NOW:Pensions with an independent boardof trustee directors.
This plan is currently under review.
Pension Scheme indemnities: Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as dened in Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and remain in force for the benefit of each of the directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited, ITV DC Trustee Limited and UTV Pension Scheme Limited.
These indemnity provisions cover, to the extent permitted bylaw, certain losses or liabilities incurred as a director or officer of ITV Pension Scheme Limited, ITV DC Trustee Limited and UTV Pension Scheme Limited.
Greenhouse gas emissions ITV is required to report annually on the quantity of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions in tonnes emitted as a result of activities for whichit is responsible.
All data for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 is disclosed below for direct gas, vehicle fuel, fuel oils and refrigerants consumption and indirect electricity consumption emissions.
Indicator 2017 2016 Total gross CO e emissions 22,321 tCO e 26,984 tCO e 2 2 2 Scope 1: Direct emissions 6,684 tCO e 7,793 tCO e 2 2 Scope 2: Indirect emissions 15,637 tCO e 19,191 tCO e 2 2 Total Revenue 3,657m 3,527m Emissions per unit m revenue 6.1 tCO e 7.7 tCO e 2 2 Source: Mitie Energy analysis of ITV data.
The emissions data covers our global operations for which we have operational control.
We use the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the latest conversion factors from the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy to calculate emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
33% of our data set is based on estimated data.
Estimates are calculated from previous consumption trends and published benchmarks.
In 2017, the Companys greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 17% compared to the previous year.
As 90% of our greenhouse gas emissions are generated within our UK operations, this is where we focus our efforts.
We continued to replace ageing infrastructure with more efficient plant, optimise our building management software systems and replace lighting systems with more efficient LED technology.
Theamount of diesel purchased for fleet vehicles also decreased, which was due in part to the purchase of some Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles for our fleet.
com responsibility 102 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Directors Report Health and safety The health and safety of our employees, contractors and those participating in our productions is always a high priority.
The significant lossof human life as the result of a major incident on production has been identied as a principal risk to the organisation.
The Companys professional Health and Safety team continues to develop and rene our management system to ensure it meets the specic risk prole ofthe business and embeds the ownership of risk with business owners.
The key elements of our safety management system are: Process, Compass our online presence, Education, Expertise, Monitoring andAssurance.
In 2017, we continued to build our education programme rolling out Leading Risk sessions with the leadership teams in ITV Studios UK andAmerica, supported by a research project being undertaken in collaboration with the London School of Economics to give us a greater understanding of risk-taking beliefs and behaviours within our production business.
This is the first step in aligning our training programme to the Studios Label model to ensure ownership of risk in appropriate areas.
See page 79 for more information.
We have developed and launched an online resource, Compass, to provide easily accessible production focused health and safety advice onthe most common health and safety risks managed by our productions.
To enable us to review the effectiveness of our processes and overall approach to production safety, we are using new methodology toengage with the business, building our understanding of the effectiveness of safety management, enabling us to continually improve andrene our approach.
We will build on this in 2018 across our business and will continue to underpin our health and safety management system with threekeyprinciples People are the solution Safety is about positive outcomes Safety is a moral responsibility Performance Indicators UK 2017 2016 Staff Non Staff Total Staff Non Staff Total Lost time accidents reported under RIDDOR 1 1 2 4 1 5 specified injuries reported under RIDDOR 2 7 9 2 2 4 Performance indicators international Australia France Germany Talpa USA Finland Norway Sweden Denmark Italy 2017 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 Serious Injuries sustained at work by employees orpeople directly involved inour activities 2016 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 n a Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 Insurance and indemnities The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and ofcers that is renewed on an annual basis.
The Company has also entered into deeds of indemnity with its Directors and other senior executives.
A copy of the indemnity can be found on our website.
com investors governance 103 Governance Directors Report continued Listing rule 9.8.
4 disclosures There are no disclosures to be made other than that the trustee of the Employees benefit Trust EBT waived its rights to receive dividendson shares it holds which do not relate to restricted shares held under the ITV Deferred Share Award Plan.
Political contributions It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions to any political party.
However, within the normal activities of the Companys national and regional news-gathering operations there may be occasions when an activity might fall within the broader denition of political expenditure contained within the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholder authority for such expenditure was given at the 2017 AGM.
However, during 2017 the Group made no payments falling within this denition 2016: nil.
Report and accounts disclosures Financial risk management: The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including in relation to its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
Details of our risks and associated mitigations, together with details of our approach to risk management, are set out on pages 50 to 57.
Note 4.3 to the accounts on page 166 gives details of the Groups financial risk management policies and related exposures.
This note isincorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this report.
Future developments: Our strategy is set out in the Strategic Report.
Going concern: The going concern statement is set out on page 120.
This note is incorporated by reference and deemed to form partofthis report.
Subsequent events: There are no post balance sheet events to report.
Research and development: Relevant information is set out in the Strategic Report.
Share capital Issued: At the date of this report, there were 4,025,409,194 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue, all of which are fully paid up andquoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Purchase of own shares: The Directors have the authority to purchase up to 402.5 million of the Companys ordinary shares.
The authority remains valid until the AGM in 2018 or 10 August 2018, if earlier.
Restrictions: There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those which may beimposed by law from time to time.
In accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility are required to seek approval to deal in ITV shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Rights: The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
Share schemes: Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 4.7 on page 174.
The Company has an EBT funded by loans to acquire shares forthe potential benefit of employees.
Details of shares held by the EBT at 31 December 2017 are set out on page 176.
During the year shares have been released from the EBT in respect of share schemes for employees.
The trustee of the EBT has the powerto exercise allvoting rights in relation to any investment including ordinary shares held within the EBT.
104 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Directors Report Substantial shareholders Information regarding interests in voting rights provided to the Company pursuant to the DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 28 February 2018, the information in the table below had been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notiable interests votingrights in the Companys issued share capital.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since notied totheCompany.
However, notication of any change is not required until the next applicable threshold is crossed.
Nature of Total number Nature of % interest interests of shares % of interest interest in financial in financial or interests in shares in shares instruments instruments in shares The Capital Group Companies Inc. 10.05% Indirect 404,675,342 Liberty Global Incorporated Limited Indirect 9.90% Loaned shares 398,515,510 0.05% Securities lending BlackRock Inc. 6.82% Indirect 0.72% Contract for difference 306,303,502 Amerprise Financial, Inc and its group 5.08% Indirect 0.045% Equities swap 206,179,898 The Goldman Sachs Group 0.04% Indirect 0.82% Securities Lending 843,943,939 20.11% Swap cash, Contract for difference cash, over the counter option physical or cash The number of shares is based on announcements made by each relevant shareholder using the Companys issued share capital at that date.
105 Governance Directors Report continued The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group isfair, balanced and understandable and andparent company financial statements in accordance withapplicable law and provides the information necessary for regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent shareholders to assess the Companys companynancial statements foreach financial year.
Under that law they are andthe Groups position and performance, requiredto prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as business model and strategy.
Each of the adopted bytheEUand applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company Directors, whose names and functions are financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 listed on pages 62 and 63, confirm that, Reduced Disclosure Framework.
tothe best of their knowledge: Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless the Group accounts, which have been they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view ofthe state of affairs of the Group prepared in accordance with IFRSs and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of asadopted by the EU, give a true and theGroup and parentcompany financial statements, the Directors are required: fairview of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and To select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently the Directors Report includes a fair review To make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent of the development and performance of For the Group financial statements, to state whether they have been prepared the business and the position of the Group, inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU togetherwith a description of the principal For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable risks and uncertainties that it faces.
UKAccounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements In accordance with Section 418 of the To prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is Companies Act 2006, the Directors confirm inappropriate to presume that the Group and theparentcompany will continue that, so far as they are each aware, there is inbusiness.
no relevantaudit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are Director has taken all steps that they sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with oughtto have takenas a Director in order reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and tomake themselves aware of any relevant enable them to ensurethat its financial statements comply with the Companies Act audit information and to establish that 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary theCompanys auditor isaware of toenable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material thatinformation.
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonablyopen to them to safeguard the assets of the The Board has conducted a review of Groupand to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law theeffectiveness of the Groups systems and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, ofinternal controls for the year ended Directors Report, Annual Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement 31December 2017.
Inthe opinion of the that comply with that law and those regulations.
Board, the Company has complied with theinternal control requirements of the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate UKCorporate Governance Code throughout andnancial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK theyear, maintaining an ongoing process for governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ identifying, evaluating and minimising risk.
By order of the Board Ian Grifths Chief Operating officer and Group Finance Director 28 February 2018 ITV plc Registered Number: 4967001 106 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
