Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 95 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Main structure Page Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to introduce our Directors Directors Remuneration Report for Remuneration Policy 102 the year ended 31 December 2017.
Annual Report on Remuneration 110 This is my first report as Chair of the Remuneration Committee having The Remuneration Committee 115 succeeded Melanie Gee in August 2017.
On behalf of the Board, I would like Key contents Page to thank Melanie for her significant Summary of Policy changes and contribution whilst in the role.
2018 implementation 98 Clare Chapman As committed to in our Report last Committee Chair Engaging with our investors 100 year, we have invested time during Single Figure Table 110 this past year looking at how to align our remuneration arrangements to the Weir strategy so their design best Rewarding performance in cyclical recognises the cyclical and volatile We are refocusing remuneration and volatile markets nature of the sectors in which we on long-term value creation by Given the exposure of our sectors to the using substantive equity holdings operate.
The management team commodity markets, it makes it extremely to expose executives to both upside emphasises creating long-term value challenging to set robust and stretching and downside risk.
Over the cycle, for customers in our end markets and this will best promote the value of financial targets.
As a result, we have for shareholders: behaviours and a our company for shareholders and seen all or nothing vesting outcomes culture which we also seek to reward.
the society in which we operate.
from our LTIP over the past ten years.
The current LTIP suffers from all or These outcomes are more reflective of Rewarding long-term nothing characteristics, so to move where the business is in the cycle than of value creation from this, we have considered the best the underlying performance.
The up-cycle One of the strengths of We are Weir evidence to help us evaluate alternative leads to vesting windfalls and the is that it takes our strategic framework reward constructs.
This included down-cycle penalises LTIP participants.
and identifies how we will create value considering the recommendations from The potential for a negative impact on from it for all our stakeholders.
the Investment Association Working executive pay is clear.
Incentives are Group which called for Boards to explore People Caring for our unlikely to engage executives or motivate alternative solutions in markets where colleagues, our the right behaviours if outcomes are neighbours and traditional LTIPs do not work.
Windfall outcomes the environment evidence has also indicated that simpler will rightly appear unreasonable to and inspiring pay packages, with less reliance on investors and unfair to employees and them to flourish.
short-term performance conditions other stakeholders.
Penal outcomes and requiring large shareholdings, Customers Working in can disengage executives and, when have a positive impact on investment, partnership to applicable over a number of cycles, provide distinctive innovation, long-term decision making prevent the build-up of meaningful solutions that and long-term value creation.
shareholdings, which is one of the primary deliver compelling objectives of share-based reward plans.
Based on the outcome of this review, value for money.
we are proposing changes to our Technology Driving the The Committees view is that this makes remuneration framework, notably the development of a conventional LTIP inappropriate as a replacement of our current LTIP with new technologies mechanism for incentivising, retaining and Restricted Share awards under our and capabilities engaging the executives in the long-term Share Reward Plan.
We are unanimous that lead the stewardship of the business.
as a Board that this is the right thing various alternatives, we concluded that to do for the long-term interest of Performance Delivering the best fit for the business was a the business and we lay out below excellence for all redesigned annual bonus and the our rationale and how the parameters our stakeholders implementation of a Restricted of the award have been calibrated.
leadership, Reward principles accountability and Rewarding the delivery of sustainable value over time in a cyclical business a lean mindset.
Employees as Encouraging and enabling substantial long-term share ownership The Committee realised that to reinforce shareholders for all employees the delivery of We are Weir, we needed Rewarding long-term Bringing focus to sustainable improvement in the underlying to be clear with our reward principles and value creation business via our strategic framework ensure these informed the design of the new executive reward arrangements.
These Supporting Focusing incentives on team performance to create collective principles have been refreshed and are our culture accountability and becoming an employer of choice by offering shown in the Reward principles table.
a motivating and fair package Simplifying and Simple and transparent reward linked to business success and increasing delivered in a way that reduces the impact of cyclical volatility effectiveness on reward outcomes and enables retention The Weir Group PLC 96 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Our LTIP outcomes have been all or nothing The difficulty in forecasting commodity prices % $ 100 140 Actual Projected 120 80 100 60 80 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 1 P rojected figures are based on a current forecast using public information.
TSR element Chart shows rolling 12 month average oil price blue line.
For each year, the grey based on TSR performance measured to 31 Aug 2017: EPS element based on marker plots the EIA projection from 3 years earlier i. e. a typical LTIP period.
Bloomberg consensus forecasts: ROCE element assumes the same vesting level as EPS element.
Actual outcomes may differ from these projections.
The Committee concluded that 2018 and 200% respectively.
The after five years, 25% after six years is the right time to be making the move Committee carefully considered what and the final 25% after seven years to Restricted Shares.
The expected this discount should be.
This represents one of the vesting for in-flight awards using point for the conversion was to confirm longest holding periods for Restricted publicly available market expectations that the total compensation is positioned Share plans in the UK and is in excess as we head into the up-cycle is over around median against similarly sized of the five years recommended in 80% this year and over 60% next year.
companies so it was clear we were not investor guidance.
Awards will vest as Switching to Restricted Shares at this embedding any excessive quantum.
follows 50% after three years, 25% point in the cycle is likely to be less after four years and 25% after five beneficial to management, but is To understand what a fair expectation years.
In order to address a one-off recognised as the right thing to do to for LTIP pay-outs would be, we analysed transitional risk of moving from an LTIP incent the delivery of long-term value.
vesting outcomes over a long-term period to Restricted Shares, the first tranche ten years, being more representative of awards made under the 2018 Under the Restricted Shares proposal, than just two or three recent years.
Policy will vest 25% after two years executives will receive a significantly The average outcome has been 61% rather than three.
These transition smaller award each year than under of maximum and therefore a reasonable arrangements will not apply to new the current LTIP, and these awards will expected value of the current LTIP hires.
We will also confirm in our Policy vest subject to an Underpin as outlined would have been 153% of salary statement in 2021 that we will revert in the table below.
Further details on CEO and 122% CFO current award to a three-year vest for tranche one the underpin are set out on page 99. size multiplied by 61%.
Therefore the since, by then, the transition issues Committee concluded that setting will largely be managed.
The key parameters of the Restricted the discount at 50% is more than Underpin safeguarding against Share awards are in line with best sufficient.
This is also consistent payment for failure.
Restricted practice guidance: with investor guidance.
Share awards do not have conventional performance conditions which might Significant reduction in award Extended time horizons shares apply to an LTIP, reflecting their size.
Annual Restricted Share awards released between five and seven different purpose and design.
will be 125% CEO and 100% CFO, years from grant.
For each award, However, the framework includes half the current LTIP awards 250% 50% will be released to participants safeguards which can adjust vesting in circumstances of significant under-performance, in line with Vesting and holding timeline Underpin metrics investor best practice.
The underpin Balance includes a set of key metrics with Dividend Yr 1 Yr 2 Yr 3 Yr 4 Yr 5 Yr 6 Yr 7 sheet health pre-disclosed performance thresholds.
If any of these thresholds are not met, 25% of 3 years or if an adjustment is required to better award Breaching reflect underlying performance, the covenants Committee retains discretion to reduce 25% of award 2 years the vesting outcome.
The key metrics for the underpin for 2018 awards are 25% of award 2 years Investor return as laid out in the Underpin metrics Return on Capital table with the detailed underlying Employed ROCE 25% of award thresholds disclosed on page 99 2 years and it is our current intention that this framework remains unchanged Corporate Major governance for the forthcoming policy period.
governance failure 50% of vested shares released 5 years from grant 25% released after 6 years from grant 25% released after 6 years from grant 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018E 2019E 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 97 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Enhanced shareholding guidelines, full retrospective disclosure of the Full details of achievement as well as including extending into postunderlying targets in next years report.
details of the performance of each employment.
The shareholding Payment of any strategic component will Executive Director are provided on guidelines for the CEO and CFO be subject to a discretionary underpin pages 111 and 112. will be doubled to 400% and including individual performance.
The The 2015 LTIP awards lapsed as the shareholding guidelines will also be Having listened to shareholders, the performance targets measured over the extended into a post-employment remainder of the bonus will continue three-year period to 31 December 2017 period at 50% of the normal level, to be assessed against key financial were not met.
1 tapering to 0% after two years.
PBTA will remain the primary metric with the weighting 2018 decisions In developing these proposals, we have increased from 40% to 50% for 2018.
In addition to the key policy changes engaged extensively with our major Our cash-based measure will change outlined above, I can confirm the shareholders, many of whom invest for 2018 from operating cash flow to following for 2018: in our business over the long term.
We working capital as a percentage of sales, have valued the consultation and the better reflecting our growth agenda.
With effect from April 2018, the Committees proposals on the elements The weighting will remain at 20%.
salaries for the Executive Directors such as the discount, underpin, time will increase by 2.8% in line with the horizons and shareholding requirements average increase for UK employees.
20% NPBTA 30% have been proposed to reflect the Pension contributions will remain Cash ow messages we heard.
I am conscious, at 12% of salary, in line with our 20% working capital however, that programmes based on 20% Policy.
The Committee is aware Strategic 20% Restricted Shares are not commonplace that a number of UK investors remain Order input in the UK market.
I hope that I have concerned about executive pensions Personal demonstrated in this letter why this which are significantly higher than 50% 40% programme is appropriate for the those in the wider workforce.
At business and how the design of the Weir, the pension contribution of Current Proposed awards have been calibrated to address 12% is very much at the lower end the concerns of some shareholders of market practice and aligns with who are yet to build confidence in There are no changes to bonus senior roles within the UK.
opportunities, which will remain at 150% believe strongly that our pension CEO and 125% CFO.
These changes practice is in line with good practice.
Going forward the Committee commit do not represent a policy change but to evolving these plans over time so since they are important to how the 2018 AGM they stay aligned to business strategy.
whole reward package works, I wanted To implement the proposed changes we When the Committee next reviews the to give investors full sight of them.
will be seeking shareholder approval for a incentive framework ahead of our next new Remuneration Policy and this is set Policy approval in 2021, we will undertake 2017 bonus and LTIP outcomes out in pages 102 to 107 of this report.
We a similarly thoughtful and collaborative When determining the bonus pay-outs will also be seeking approval for the new review process as described in this letter in respect of 2017, the Committee took Share Reward Plan and new All-Employee which would involve engaging early with into account the overall performance of Share Ownership Plan, the full details of our major investors.
the business as well as the Executive which are included in the Notice of Directors performance.
This is an important step Changes to bonus framework forward.
One of the principles which has We are also proposing changes to 80% of the bonus was based on guided our thinking as a Committee is a our annual bonus framework for 2018, performance against three financial commitment to a principle of employees to better align with the reward principles measures: profit, order input and cash as shareholders so we are keen to make and delivery of our strategy.
Profit increased significantly it possible for all colleagues to build up reflecting a return to growth by our Oil long-term share ownership.
The key change is the introduction of & Gas Division.
We also delivered strong strategic measures to represent 30% order growth in both our Oil & Gas and I would like to thank those who engaged of the bonus.
This replaces the 40% of Minerals divisions as demand for their extensively on the proposals over recent the bonus that was driven by order input solutions increased.
Flow Control was months and I look forward to receiving and personal objectives, so we are also impacted by tough market conditions.
As ever, simplifying the framework from four to We had a disappointing performance we remain committed to an open and three measures.
The strategic measures against the cash flow measure, with ongoing dialogue and I would be very will align to the strategic framework cash flow from operations reducing as happy to hear the views of investors People, Customers, Technology, and a result of increased investment in on our proposals.
We will set stretching working capital to support strong growth, targets aligned to a balanced scorecard and reduced profitability in Flow Control.
and use externally verified industry standard measures wherever possible, Although we failed to achieve the inparticular around core operational cash flow measure, the performance metrics and the Voice of the Customer achieved against the profit and order Clare Chapman VoC and Employees.
This will enable input measures was 98% and 76% of Chair of the Remuneration Committee benchmarking and facilitate learning.
This resulted 28 February 2018 key measures for 2018 are disclosed on in a total contribution to payout of 54% page 98 and we will continue to provide of maximum for the financial measures.
Terms of Reference are available on the Companys 1.
P BTA is defined as continuing profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional items, website at www.
weir translated at 31 January 2017 average exchange rates.
The Weir Group PLC 98 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary of policy changes and 2018 implementation The table below summarises the key components of our proposed remuneration framework, illustrating how they differ from our current policy and how we intend to operate the new policy in 2018.
Full details of the policy are set out on pages 102 to 107.
Current arrangements New policy and 2018 implementation Fixed Salary Fixed remuneration No change to Policy.
which reflects role, skills, Increases for 2018 aligned to the average increase for UK employees of 2.8%.
and responsibilities CEO 668,200 For 2017: CFO 411,200 CEO 650,000 CFO 400,000 Pension Executive Directors receive No change.
The Committee believes that executive pensions which are a cash allowance of 12% per aligned to other employees in the business is consistent with emerging annum in line with pension investor best practice in this area.
contributions for other senior UK employees Benefits Car allowance, health care No change.
and life assurance Variable Annual Bonus Maximum opportunity: No change to opportunities or deferral structure.
Greater CEO 150% of base salary Measures and weightings in 2018: alignment to CFO 125% of base salary 50% Group PBTA increased from 2017 to reflect importance of profit our strategic objectives 30% deferred into shares 20% working capital as percentage of sales changed the basis for three years of the cash measure to better reflect our growth agenda.
Measures and weightings 30% strategic measures replacing order input and personal objectives in 2017: to better incent strategic objectives for the year.
Measures will align to the strategic framework People, Customers, Technology, and 40% Group PBTA Performance and set out below are the underlying headline metrics 20% Operating cash flow to be achieved over the next three years, as well as the target priorities 20% Order input for 2018.
Targets will be stretching and aligned to a balanced scorecard.
20% Personal Externally verified industry standard measures will be used where possible.
Underlying targets will be fully disclosed in next years report.
Full retrospective target disclosure see page 111 People in respect of 2017.
Improved engagement score and increase in organisational effectiveness Develop best in class behavioural safety culture Identify and build the capabilities required to deliver the customer proposition Continue to extend the Weir culture and develop the voice of the employee Customers Increased market share Increase revenues from service centre networks Increase number of customer partnerships on technology development and trials Voice of Customer VoC development Technology Improved percentage revenue from new solutions services products Progress commercialisation of Weir digital agenda Further develop additive manufacturing capability Develop Weir innovation framework Performance Sustainably higher margins through cycle Improved VCE score Progression on IT infrastructure and systems development Begin sustainability journey Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 99 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Current arrangements New policy and 2018 implementation Long-term Long Term Incentive Plan Replacement of LTIP with Restricted Share awards, with the first awards share awards LTIP awards: to be made following the approval of the Share Reward Plan at the 2018 AGM.
Award parameters in line with best practice and investor guidance.
Replacement CEO 250% of base salary of LTIP with CFO 200% of base salary Maximum award size significantly reduced by 50% from previous LTIP Restricted award levels the rationale for this discount is discussed in more detail Shares in the next section : Vesting based on performance over three years: CEO 125% of base salary CFO 100% of base salary One third EPS One third ROCE One third TSR Vesting phased over a five-year period, with vested shares released between five and seven years from grant.
Vesting subject to the underpin.
Prior to vesting, if any of the thresholds set out below have not been met, it would trigger the Committee to consider whether a discretionary adjustment was required.
Balance sheet health Dividend Maintain average absolute dividend per share over the vesting period at least in line with the 2017 declared dividend per share.
Breaching covenants No breach of debt covenant or renegotiation of covenant terms outside of a normal refinancing cycle.
Investor returns Return on Capital Employed ROCE Maintain average ROCE over the vesting period above the average Weighted Average Cost of Capital for that period.
Corporate governance Major governance failure No material failure in governance or an illegal act resulting in significant reputational damage and or material financial loss to the Group.
Restricted Share awards will also be subject to malus and clawback provisions.
The Committee will also retain discretion to determine the grant level each year.
Other Shareholding CEO 200% of base salary Shareholding guidelines will be doubled from current levels: guidelines CFO 150% of base salary CEO 400% of base salary Significant CFO 300% of base salary enhancement In addition, shareholding requirements will continue post-employment.
NED fees Fees reflect responsibilities and Fees will increase broadly in line with the wider employee average as time commitments for the role.
follows, effective 1 April 2018: Chairmans fee by 2.8% to 306,500 Non-Executive Director base fee by 2.9% to 61,200 Chairman of Committee fee by 2.6% to 15,900 Senior Independent Director fee by 2.4% to 12,800 The Weir Group PLC 100 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Engaging with our investors In developing the proposals set out in Why are changes being The Committee believes that a this report, we engaged extensively Qmade at this time?
hybrid approach i. e. introducing with major investors and shareholder As flagged in last years report, during restricted shares whilst also maintaining bodies.
A number of common themes the course of 2017, a comprehensive a performance-based LTIP lacks a which emerged in discussion are set review of our remuneration philosophy coherent rationale and was the approach out below.
and framework was undertaken to ensure which our investors strongly rejected it continued to best support the delivery at our 2016 AGM.
How else does this proposal In the context of the difficulty Qdiffer from 2016?
Qof setting robust long-term Other key differences from 2016 are: targets, could other solutions have been considered e. g. relative TSR Significantly enhanced shareholding or a hybrid with the existing LTIP ?
guidelines including extending the It is correct that relative targets can guideline into post-employment.
be a solution to the challenge of setting This proposal has a much more absolute targets.
Most commonly, this substantial underpin.
would be done via relative TSR.
This relies Extended time horizons.
on the ability to construct a robust and relevant peer group, which for a number What is the change to of reasons, the Committee considers is Qmaximum total compensation?
not possible for Weir given our exposure As shown below, the maximum value to a range of different commodity end of the packages has been reduced by markets and an insufficient number of over 20% as a result of the change in direct UK peer companies.
could also incentivise higher leverage as a means of generating differential equity If the performance element performance against peers, which could Qis removed from long-term penalise companies looking to safeguard share awards, how will you a strong balance sheet through the cycle.
The Committee is firmly of the view that the Restricted Shares will act as a more powerful driver of performance than the LTIP.
By increasing the direct exposure to shares both during and post employment, executives have wealth atrisk.
This very visible exposure to theshare price, which is easily monitored Change in maximum total compensation by executives, is therefore far more 3,500k motivating than long-term plans based 24% reduction on relative TSR which is seen as a 3,000k lottery so has little incentive effect.
With Restricted Shares, executives are strongly incentivised to take actions that 2,500k will enhance long-term performance rather than short-term shareholder 2,000k 23% reduction valuegiven the phased vesting and release profile.
1,500k In addition, the annual bonus will Salary continue to act as a powerful tool 1,000k Pension todrive annual performance against stretching targets built around our Bonus 500k annual financial and strategic objectives.
LTIP RS k Current Proposed Current Proposed CEO CFO Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 101 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 How did you arrive at Restricted Shares which could create Malus and clawback.
These remain Qthe 50% discount from an unintended retention risk at a critical in place in line with the provisions LTIP award levels?
stage in the execution of the business which already existed in our LTIP.
We recognise that the conversion rate strategy.
Recognising the need to be Malus allows a reduction of awards between LTIP and Restricted Shares is mindful of the continuity of talent, the prior to vesting and clawback is the a key issue for investors.
Our starting Committees preferred solution was to ability to reclaim vested amounts point for the conversion was to confirm shorten the vesting of the first 25% prior to the end of the holding period.
that total compensation is positioned tranche from three to two years which Discretion on future award sizes.
around median against similarly sized would allow executives to perceive a In addition to the above, the UK companies and therefore we were greater build up in the vested value of Committee would also retain full not embedding any excessive quantum.
their awards over that critical period discretion on future award sizes.
of 2021 to 2023 as the transition from Although the maximum levels of To understand LTIP payout expectations, LTIP to Restricted Shares occurs.
award are set for the Policy period we analysed LTIP outcomes over a at 125% 100% of salary for the long-term period ten years to provide However, it should be noted that: CEO CFO, these grant levels would a robust view on the vesting outcomes not be automatic each year and the which executives might expect through This has no impact on when executives Committee retains the discretion to the cycle.
This showed that the average receive any shares from the holding make a lower award if appropriate.
vesting has been 61% over that period period, which will continue to be and therefore a reasonable expected from five to seven years from grant.
These additional provisions provide the value of the current LTIP would be It therefore does not compromise Committee with a wide range of tools 153% of salary CEO and 122% CFO the principle of long-term focus.
within the remuneration framework being the current market competitive In our 2021 Policy, we will revert to which could be applied to ensure award size multiplied by the long-term three-year vesting for tranche one.
expected vesting of 61% of maximum.
New executives in the 2018 Policy The proposed award sizes represent a period will have three-year vesting.
Under the new bonus 20% reduction to that expected value Qframework, how will you and the Committee therefore believes How will the underpin work?
ensure the strategic objectives are that 50% is a more than sufficient discount.
QDoes it provide the Committee stretching and robustly assessed?
with the necessary tools in the The strategic objectives will operate As shown in the chart on page 96, event of poor performance?
For recent vesting outcomes have been The Board considered the metrics each of the strategic priorities zero.
However, the expected vesting and the mechanics of the underpin People, Customers, Technology, and for in-flight awards using publicly at length in developing the proposal.
Performance, the Board has agreed available market expectations as we The underpin provides investors with the key underlying headline metric to now head into the up-cycle is over transparency on a number of clearly be achieved over the next three to five 80% this year and over 60% next identified failure scenarios which years, as well as the target priorities for year.
Therefore, management will be would trigger the Committee to 2018.
Targets will be stretching and more financially disadvantaged under consider, ahead of the vesting of assessed using a robust framework the Restricted Shares proposal than they each tranche of each award, whether comprising objective, measurable and, would be under an LTIP if those types a downward adjustment was required.
where possible, externally referenced of vesting levels continued through the Full disclosure would be made at the targets.
Underlying targets will be coming years.
Switching to Restricted time should the underpin beinvoked.
fullydisclosed in next years report.
Shares at this point in the cycle is likely to be less beneficial to management, A number of additional safeguards and but is recognised as the right thing to discretions also exist in circumstances do to incent delivery of long-term value.
not explicitly referenced in the underpin framework.
For example: Why does the first tranche Qvest after two years?
As included just a transitional solution?
in the Policy Table on page 104, Yes, the primary reason for this is to the Committee retains a general address a sizeable transition issue discretion to adjust vesting outcomes as we shift from LTIPs to Restricted downwards for each tranche of the Shares.
The Committee modelled the Restricted Share awards if it believes future release of shares which illustrated this will better reflect the underlying a significant potential fall-off in released performance of the Company over value in 2023 as the LTIP switches to the period.
The Weir Group PLC 102 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy The policy will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM to be held on 26 April 2018.
Subject to approval, the policy is intended to apply for three years from the AGM.
There are three major differences between the proposed and the current policy approved in 2017: i replacement of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP with the Share Reward Plan SRP, ii increased shareholding requirements and extension of the requirement post-employment, and iii implementation of an all-employee share plan.
Future policy table Base salary Purpose Maximum value To provide a salary which takes into account an individuals role, skills and While there is no stipulated maximum salary responsibilities and enables the Group to attract and retain talented leaders.
increase, increases will not normally be greater than the average salary increase for UK employees Operation or the relevant jurisdiction if an Executive Director Reviewed annually, with increases normally taking effect from 1April.
Salaries are set by reference to market practice for similar roles in companies of similar size and complexity.
The Committee also takes Different increases may be awarded at the into account personal performance, the wider employee context, Committees discretion in instances such as where: and economic and labour market conditions.
there has been a significant increase in the size, complexity or value of the Group: there has been a change in role or responsibility: the individual is relatively new in the role and the salary level has been set to reflect this: and the individual is positioned below relevant market levels.
Pension Purpose Maximum value To encourage long-term saving and planning for retirement.
12% of base salary per annum in line with other senior UK employees.
Operation A contribution into the Companys defined contribution pension plan or an equivalent cash allowance, or any other arrangement the Committee considers has the same economic benefit.
Benefits Purpose Maximum value To provide cost-effective benefits valued by individuals.
Car allowance no greater than 20,000 per annum Life assurance 5 x base salary Operation Benefits include, but are not limited to, health care, car allowance, liability The cost of providing insurance and health care insurance and death in service insurance.
benefits varies according to premium rates, so there is no formal maximum monetary value.
Other benefits may be provided from time to time if considered reasonable and appropriate, such as relocation benefits or long-term disability insurance.. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 103 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Annual bonus Purpose Maximum value To incentivise the delivery of our strategic plan and to reward the CEO 150% of base salary achievement of stretching performance on an annual basis.
CFO 125% of base salary To focus incentives on team performance to create collective accountability.
Performance assessment Annual bonuses will be subject to such targets Operation as the Committee considers appropriate each year.
Measures, targets and weightings are reviewed and determined annually at the start of each financial year to ensure they are appropriate and Financial measures will normally be used to support the Companys strategy.
calculate at least 50% of the bonus, with the remainder being based on strategic and or 30% of any bonus will be deferred into an award of Weir Group shares personal objectives.
which will normally be released after three years.
The performance targets for financial measures Malus and clawback provisions may be applied in the event of a are set in the context of the internal budget taking material misstatement in the financial statements of the Group or a into account other relevant factors such as subsidiary division, the discovery that information used to determine external forecasts.
an award was materially incorrect, mistaken or misrepresented, gross misconduct leading to termination for cause, or reputational damage All financial measures are calibrated with payment causing significant damage to the Company and clearly attributable on a straight line basis between threshold up to to the individual.
20% of maximum bonus payable and stretch.
Payment of any strategic component will be subject to a discretionary underpin including individual performance.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has discretion to alter the measures and or targets during the performance period if it believes the original measures and or targets are no longer appropriate.
The Committee has discretion in exceptional circumstances to amend the payout level if it believes this will better reflect the Companys underlying performance.
The Weir Group PLC 104 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Share Reward Plan Purpose Maximum value To encourage and enable substantial long-term share ownership.
The Committee will determine the grant level each year.
The maximum value of an award which To reward the delivery of sustainable value over time in a cyclical business.
may be granted in respect of a financial year is: Operation CEO 125% of base salary The Committee may grant awards under the SRP on an annual basis.
CFO 100% of base salary Vesting Performance assessment Vesting of awards will be phased in four equal tranches over a five-year No performance measures are associated period.
This will normally be split into four equal tranches of 25% of the with the awards.
total award which vest after two, three, four and five years following grant.
For any Executive Director appointed after the effective date of this Policy The underpin will consist of a basket of and from 2021 onwards for incumbent executives, 50% will vest after three pre-determined key metrics which will best years, 25% after four years and 25% after five years.
reflect overall business health over the vesting period.
For each metric, a clearly defined and, Vesting will be subject to continued employment and assessment where relevant, quantifiable threshold will be of the underpin.
Thresholds will be Following vesting, an additional two-year holding period will also apply disclosed on a prospective basis.
to each tranche, such that 50% of vested shares in an award are released Prior to vesting, if any of the thresholds have five years from grant, 25% are released after six years and the final 25% not been met, it would trigger the Committee is released after seven years.
to consider whether a discretionary downward Awards will normally be made in the form of conditional share awards, adjustment was required.
but may be awarded in other forms if appropriate e. g. as nil cost options.
In addition, the Committee will have general Malus and clawback applicable for three years from vesting provisions discretion to reduce vesting levels if it believes may be applied in the event of: this will better reflect the underlying performance of the Company over the period.
A discovery of a material misstatement in the audited consolidated accounts of the Group or audited accounts of any Group company: Action or conduct which can be considered as gross misconduct: Events or behaviour which have a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group company and which can be attributed to the individual award holder: The information used to determine the number of shares over which an award is granted or vests is found to be materially incorrect, mistaken or misrepresented to the advantage of the award holder.
Shareholding requirements Purpose Maximum Value To ensure Executive Directors build and hold a significant CEO 400% of base salary shareholding long term.
CFO 300% of base salary To align Executive Directors interests with shareholders.
Operation Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding in the Company over a five-year period.
All beneficially owned shares, deferred shares and unvested Restricted Share awards count towards an individuals shareholding on a net of tax basis, where relevant.
Until the shareholding requirement is met, an Executive Director must retain 50% of net Restricted Share awards, Performance Share awards and deferred bonus awards.
Shareholding requirements continue post-employment: The requirement will fall to half the normal level on leaving.
The requirement would taper down to zero after two years.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 105 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 All-employee share plans Purpose Maximum value To enable long-term share ownership for all employees, and to increase The maximum amount of shares that can be alignment with shareholders.
purchased will be 200 per month.
The maximum share match basis will be one share for every three To provide one common benefit to all employees.
Operation Employees will be awarded free shares in 2019 and 2020.
From 2021 onwards, only new employees will be eligible to receive free shares.
For all other employees, awards of free shares will be contingent on the employee purchasing shares with their own funds.
Shares purchased using employees own funds will be matched by the Company.
Shares will vest no later than three years after grant.
Executive Directors will be excluded from receiving any free shares in 2019 and 2020, but they will be eligible to purchase and receive matching shares from 2021 on the same terms as other employees.
In 2016, shareholders approved a Save As You Earn scheme for all employees but this plan is not currently operated.
Legacy arrangements Purpose Maximum value To honour payments and other remuneration related items due to In line with existing commitments and arrangements.
Operation The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office, this includes exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with this policy where the terms of payment: Came into effect before this policy was approved and implemented including where such payments are in line with a previously approved policy : Were agreed at a time when the individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment is not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director.
This will include the vesting of any awards granted under the LTIP.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees Purpose Maximum value To attract and retain experienced and skilled Non-Executive Directors Fees as prescribed in the Articles of Association.
and to reflect the responsibilities and time commitment involved.
Planned increases in fees will take into account Fees are reviewed annually by reference to companies of similar size general increases across the Group, along with and complexity, economic and labour market conditions.
Additional fees may be made available to Non-Executive Directors where appropriate to reflect any additional time commitment or duties.
The Company may reimburse Non-Executive Directors for any business related costs such as travel and accommodation costs incurred in connection with their duties and any associated tax on these costs.
Notes to the future policy table Dividends Executive Directors are entitled to receive the value of dividends payable on any deferred bonus awards under the Annual Bonus or awards under the SRP and LTIP up the point of vesting This value may be calculated assuming that the dividends were notionally reinvested in the Companys shares.
Common award terms Awards granted under the share plans may be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any demerger, special dividend or other event that may affect the current or future value of the awards.
The Weir Group PLC 106 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Recruitment policy The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of an Executive Director is to take account of all relevant factors, such as the individuals remuneration package in their prior role and the positioning of the package against the local market.
We will not pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment.
Component Policy and operation The salary level, benefits, pension, annual bonus and annual SRP participation will be in line with the policy table.
Remuneration The Committee will consider whether any buy-out awards are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment Buy-Out Awards of an Executive Director, and if there are any other compensation arrangements that would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer.
The Committee will seek to structure any buy-out award taking into account relevant factors including any performance conditions, the form in which it is to be paid and the timeframe of the award.
Buy-out awards will generally be made on a like-for-like basis and will be no more generous in quantum and timeframe than the awards being forfeited.
The Committee may agree to meet certain mobility or relocation costs including, but not limited to, Other temporary living and transportation expenses.
The Committee may also agree to meet the costs of relevant professional fees.
Reasonable expenses and associated tax incurred as part of their recruitment will be reimbursed to the Executive Director.
The Committee will honour existing remuneration arrangements made prior to and not in contemplation of Internal promotion promotion.
The arrangements will continue to pay out in accordance with the respective rules and guidelines.
to Executive Director Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office It is the Committees policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as incentive plan and pension scheme rules.
In the event that an Executive Directors service contract is terminated other than in accordance with its terms, the Committee will give full consideration to the obligation and ability of the individual to mitigate any loss they may suffer as a result of the termination of their contract.
Service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Provision Policy Unexpired term The unexpired term of Executive Directors contracts is 12 months.
Executive Directors have rolling contracts.
Change of control No provisions in service contracts relate to a change of control.
Refer to the relevant sections below for annual bonus and share plans provisions.
Notice period Current Executive Directors have 12 months notice by either the Company or the individual.
This would be the normal policy for new appointments.
Termination with contractual notice or termination by way of payment in lieu of notice PILON at the Contractual Companys discretion.
payments Neither notice nor PILON will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
The calculation of PILON will be at 1.2 x gross salary to reflect the value of salary and contractual benefits.
PILON will be made where circumstances dictate that Executive Directors services are not required for their full notice period.
Contracts also allow for phased payments on termination which provides for mitigation, including remuneration from alternative employment.
The Committee may authorise: payments for statutory entitlements in the event of termination: reasonable settlement of potential legal claims: payment of reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 107 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Provision Policy At the discretion of the Committee, a pro-rated payment payable in such proportions of cash and shares as the Annual bonus Committee may determine may be earned if employment ceases during the year.
Any payment will be subject to and deferred the assessment of bonus targets.
bonus awards Dismissal for gross misconduct all entitlements will be forfeited, including any unvested deferred bonus awards.
All other departure events existing rights are normally retained in respect of any deferred bonus awards.
Vesting will take place at the normal vesting date unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Malus and clawback provisions will continue to apply.
Change in control any bonus will normally be determined by the Committee up to the expected date of change in control taking into account both performance and the period of the financial year which has elapsed.
Deferred bonus awards will vest on change in control.
The treatment of share awards will be governed by the rules of the relevant plan.
Outstanding share plan awards Where an individual leaves as a Good Leaver which includes for reasons of death, retirement, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, the sale of employing company or business, or other circumstances that the Committee determines unvested awards will normally continue and vest on the normal vesting date, taking into account the assessment of any applicable underpins and pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the vesting period of each tranche which has elapsed.
For LTIP awards, vesting would also take into account any applicable performance conditions over the normal performance period.
The Committee may exercise its discretion to apply a different pro-rata methodology or to dis-apply time pro-rating completely.
Awards subject to a holding period will continue to be subject to that holding period as if employment had not ceased, except in the case of death, or in such other circumstances as the Committee may determine, when the holding period will end at that time.
The rules provide flexibility that in the case of the participants death or such other exceptional circumstances as the Committee considers appropriate, tranches will vest and awards in the holding period will be released at the time of death leaving.
If an individual leaves for any reason other than as a Good Leaver, any unvested awards will lapse on termination.
Leavers have a period of three months to exercise any options unless this period is extended by the Committee.
In the event of death, an option can be exercised for a period of 12 months by the deceaseds estate.
Awards will remain subject to the operation of malus and clawback provisions.
Change in control the extent to which unvested awards vest will be determined by the Committee, taking into account the performance conditions and or underpins as applicable and the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
The holding period applicable to any awards will end at the time of change in control.
All-employee plans The rules of any all-employee share plans will apply in the event of termination of employment or change in control.
Relocation The Committee may determine that share plan awards or deferred bonus awards should vest early if an Executive Director is relocated to a country where they would suffer a tax or regulatory disadvantage by holding the award.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The letters do not contain any contractual entitlement to a Chairman and termination payment and the Non-Executive Directors can be removed in accordance with the Companys Articles Non-Executive of Association.
Directors With the exception of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors appointed prior to 2011, notice periods are six months from the Company and no notice from the individual.
There are no change in control provisions in the letters of appointment.
The Weir Group PLC 108 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued The following table sets out the dates of each of the Executive Directors service agreements, the dates of the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment and the date on which the Non-Executive Director is subject to reappointment or re-election.
Directors are required to retire at each Annual General Meeting and seek re-election by shareholders.
Executive Director Contract commencement date Unexpired term months Jon Stanton 28 July 2016 12 John Heasley 3 October 2016 12 Non-Executive Director Date of appointment Date when next subject to appointment or re-election Charles Berry 1 January 2014 26 April 2018 Clare Chapman 1 August 2017 26 April 2018 Alan Ferguson 13 December 2011 Barbara Jeremiah 1 August 2017 26 April 2018 Mary Jo Jacobi 1 January 2014 26 April 2018 Sir Jim McDonald 1 January 2016 26 April 2018 Rick Menell 1 April 2009 26 April 2018 John Mogford 1 June 2008 Stephen Young 1 January 2018 26 April 2018 Application of Remuneration Policy The charts below illustrate the potential total future remuneration for the Executive Directors under the new policy.
In line with current regulations, the illustrations do not assume any share price growth or dividend equivalent payments on share awards.
Jon Stanton John Heasley Illustration of package value under new policy Illustration of package value under new policy Minimum Minimum 100% 100% 775,274 478,374 On Target On Target 35% 27% 38% 40% 26% 34% 478,374 308,400 411,200 775,274 601,380 835,250 Maximum Maximum 30% 38% 32% 34% 37% 29% 478,374 514,000 411,200 775,274 1,002,300 835,250 Fixed pay Annual bonus SRP Fixed pay Annual bonus SRP Notes to Application of Remuneration Policy charts Element of package Assumptions used Fixed pay Base salary: effective 1 April 2018 Benefits: as disclosed in single total figure of remuneration Pension: 12% cash allowance Annual bonus Minimum: no bonus is earned On target: 60% of maximum bonus is earned Maximum: 100% of maximum bonus is earned SRP Minimum: no vesting On target: 100% vesting Maximum: 100% vesting Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 109 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group As per our terms of reference, the Committee monitors the level of remuneration of employees below the Group Executive and is regularly updated on pay and conditions across the Group.
When determining remuneration for the Executive Directors, the average salary increases and performance ranges applicable to all employees are taken into account as well as economic trends.
The wider employee group was not consulted when setting the remuneration policy.
Consideration of employee engagement Meaningful engagement with customers and employees play a crucial role in both innovation and the continuous improvement of the Weir business.
The Board recognises the importance of culture and effective employee relations to the creation of good work and good workplaces.
The role of the Board therefore is to ensure that mechanisms are in place, and monitored, for effective employee engagement and that there is governance of the process for management standards and training to continue to assure ourselves of the leadership skills required to do engagement well.
Given the multi-national nature of our business, the management team also recognise that their approaches to insight-gathering and dialogue need to reflect country practices so that engagement can be led well locally and be mindful of circumstances and culture.
As a Board, we recognise the importance of a Group-wide framework for employee dialogue which is why the focus in 2018 19 as reflected earlier in the Directors Remuneration Report in the section on Strategic Objectives will be to ensure that we broaden our Group-wide practices for gathering workforce views and engaging in meaningful dialogue and for measuring and further strengthening employee engagement.
Monitoring of progress will take place at the Board.
Consideration of shareholder engagement Shareholders and their representative bodies have played a very active role in the development of the remuneration policies outlined in this Report.
An extensive consultation process has been undertaken in both the second half of 2017 and the beginning of 2018.
This began with meetings with our major shareholders to shape the proposals and then consultation was extended more broadly to other large shareholders.
As demonstrated in the Q&A earlier in the Directors Remuneration Report, shareholders asked a broad range of questions including how the underpin would work and how the Committee will avoid paying for failure.
We were also asked about how the Committee could be sure that the arrangements would aid motivation and retention.
This engagement provided valuable insight into issues of concern for shareholders and enabled the Committee to make adjustments to win support for our new reward construct.
The Committee Chair has also made it clear that she remains committed to open and transparent reporting against these new remuneration arrangements and is available for continuous dialogue.
The Weir Group PLC 110 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration This section of the Report sets out how the previous Remuneration Policy was applied for the financial year ending 31December2017.
The overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement the new Remuneration Policy for 2018 is shown in the table on pages 102 to 107.
The base salary and pension figures for Jon Stanton in 2016 reflect the increase in salary when he was appointed as CEO on 1 October 2016.
The figures for John Heasley in 2016 are in respect of the period from his appointment to the Board on 3 October 2016.
Notes to the total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited Base salary corresponds to the amount received during the year ended 31 December 2017.
Pension corresponds to the cash allowance provided to the Executive Directors during the year ended 31December 2017.
This equates to 12% of salary.
Benefits corresponds to the value of benefits received in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017, as follows: Jon John Stanton Heasley 2017 2017 Car allowance 17,000 13,970 Group healthcare 1,615 1,615 Life assurance 8,275 2,245 Total 26,890 17,830 Annual bonus corresponds to the amount earned in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017.
30% of the value shown will be delivered in Weir shares which will be released after three years.
Details of how the bonus outcome was calculated are set out below LTIP corresponds to the level of award resulting from targets achieved over the relevant performance period ending in respect of the financial year shown.
Further details are set out below.
Annual bonus plan audited Details of remuneration to be awarded to the Executive Directors as part of the 2017 annual bonus plan are set out below.
The annual bonus plan is currently based on the achievement of financial measures and personal objectives.
This plan provides a maximum bonus opportunity for Jon Stanton of 150% of salary and a maximum of 125% of salary for John Heasley.
30% of any bonus earned must be deferred into shares for three years.
The annual bonus measures and weightings will be focused and simplified in 2018 and will be PBTA 50%, working capital as percentage of sales 20% and strategic measures 30% as set out on page 98.
There will be no change to maximum opportunities or the deferral structure.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 111 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Bonus outcomes audited The following table illustrates the performance achieved against the targets.
As a result of this performance, Jon Stanton was awarded 106% of salary 70% of maximum and John Heasley was awarded 88% of salary 70% of maximum.
As a comparison, the payout range for the executive team ranged from 54% to 92% of maximum.
Weighting Entry Target Maximum Achievement Payout Payout % of maximum 20% 60% 100% Group profit before tax and amortisation 40% 194.9m 230.9m 263.7m 260.8m 39% Cash flow 20% 314.6m 353.5m 386.4m 219.9m 0% Order input 20% 2,138m 2,370m 2,583m 2,449m 15% Personal 20% 16% 100% 70% Notes The performance targets and achievements are set using January 2017 average exchange rates and are increased or decreased to reflect the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the year that are of a size requiring Board approval.
For acquisitions, targets are increased by the expected performance from the acquired business.
For disposals, the target is reduced by the expected performance from the business which was disposed.
Financial measures Our performance against our financial measures was as follows: Profit profit before tax increased significantly principally reflecting a return to growth by the Oil & Gas division.
Profitability in Minerals was impacted by investment in growth initiatives, project phasing and plant reconfigurations.
Flow Control was impacted by one-off charges in the first half.
Cash flow from operations was reduced as a result of increased investment in working capital to support strong growth, particularly in the Minerals and Oil & Gas divisions.
Flow Controls cash flow performance reflected its reduced profitability.
Order input the Group delivered strong order growth in both its Oil & Gas and Minerals divisions as demand for its solutions increased.
Flow Control orders were impacted by tough conditions in both power and downstream oil and gas markets.
Personal objectives The personal objectives were chosen as they supported and reinforced our business strategy.
The Committee assessed performance using metrics where appropriate, but it also took into account the Executive Directors overall performance in his job.
Jon Stanton Objective Performance achieved Continuous improvement Total Incident Rate 0.53 compared with 0.67 in 2016.
20 LTIs compared with 30 in 2016 with a significant in the safety and welfare reduction in severity.
of our people Implementation of global safety system Shield Execution and rollout Successful internal and external roll out of We are Weir with strong ownership and visibility at business level.
of strategy refresh Phase 2 launched in January 2018 with focus on the strategic objectives and cultural change.
Employee engagement Development of a new people strategy which will drive improved organisational effectiveness in line with the and talent development strategic objectives.
Progress in engagement agenda, specifically D&I strategy and values refresh.
Deliver operational Refresh and rollout of refreshed VCE with introduction of three-year targets.
improvement agenda Good progress made in resolving historical operational issues.
Minerals global capacity and capability assessment underway.
Drive technology agenda Recruitment of Chief Technology Officer and new technology team.
including digital Successful completion of Synertrex pilots leading into the initial ten commercial sites for delivery in 2018.
Based on the performance achieved, the Committee determined that a payment of 16% out of a maximum of 20% was appropriate.
The Weir Group PLC 112 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued John Heasley Objective Performance achieved CFO transition Establishing himself as a well-regarded and knowledgeable leader among the investor and analyst community.
Demonstrated a good balance between core finance control aspects of the role and commercial .
Corporate finance Full alignment of tax and treasury strategy across the Group including the impacts of US tax reform.
leadership Broadening of internal audit scope and utilisation of analytical tools to scope internal audit plans.
Completed a buy-in of the Executive pension plan such that all scheme obligations are now fully insured.
IS strategy Development of clear Group-wide IS strategy to provide a Group infrastructure to support future digital and leadership strategies and enhance user experience.
People development Senior divisional and corporate finance appointments transitioned seamlessly.
Improved oversight and development of high potential employees across finance functions.
Leadership of Value Revised VCE model developed and rolled out enabling businesses to deliver value-add improvements.
Chain Excellence, Group procurement team aligned with divisions and supporting the achievement of Group wide annual including procurement purchasing savings.
Based on the performance achieved, the Committee determined that a payment of 16% out of a maximum of 20% wasappropriate.
Long-term incentives vesting in 2018 actual performance audited The 2015 performance share awards were due to vest on 12 March 2018.
None of the performance conditions were met in respect of the vesting criteria of relative TSR, EPS growth and improvement in average ROCE.
Consequently, none of the awards vested and they lapsed with immediate effect.
Scheme interests awarded during 2017 audited The following table sets out awards granted to the Executive Directors in the year ending 31 December 2017.
The closing market price of the Companys ordinary shares at 29 December 2017 was 21.23, and the range during the year was 21.63 to 16.96.
Face value of award at End of maximum No of shares performance Share award Award basis Grant date vesting granted period Jon Stanton Performance conditional 250% salary 29 Mar 17 1,624,999 87,038 31 Dec 2019 Bonus deferred 30% bonus 27 Mar 17 40,362 2,190 John Heasley Performance conditional 200% salary 29 Mar 17 799,991 42,849 31 Dec 2019 Bonus deferred 30% bonus 27 Mar 17 22,319 1,211 Notes 1.
T he face value of the Performance Award is based on the average of the closing share price for the three days prior to the date of grant, being 18.67.
The value of the Bonus Share Award is calculated as the share price on the date of grant, being 18.43.
There is no performance period associated with Bonus Share Awards.
The awards vest three years after grant.
Performance conditions for performance shares granted in 2017 Vesting criteria Performance conditions over performance period 33% based on relative TSR growth against comparator group 100% vesting if ranked in upper quintile or above 25% vesting if ranked at median threshold 0% vesting if ranked below median 33% based on EPS growth p. a.
The base EPS for the award is 61.2p pershare 100% vesting if EPS growth is 15% 25% vesting if EPS growth is 5% threshold 0% vesting if EPS growth is less than 5% 33% based on 2019 ROCE.
The base ROCE for the award is 7.6% 100% if 2019 ROCE is 12.6% 25% vesting if 2019 ROCE is 8.6% threshold 0% vesting if 2019 ROCE is less than 8.6% Notes Straight line vesting will occur between threshold and maximum.
The TSR comparator group: Atlas Copco Ab, Boart Longyear, Caterpillar, Dover Corporation, Fenner Plc, FLSmidth & Co A S, FlowServe Corporation, Forum Energy Technologies Inc, Hunting, IMI Plc, ITT Corporation, John Wood Group Plc, Komatsu, Metso Corporation, National Oilwell Varco, Outotec Oyj, Petrofac, Rotork Plc, Sandvik AB, Smiths Group, SPX FLOW, Sulzer, TechnipFMC Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 113 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Single total figure of remuneration for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors audited Basic fee SID Committee Chair Taxable benefits Total Fees 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Charles Berry 296,000 290,000 1,416 1,258 297,416 291,258 Clare Chapman 24,792 6,458 31,250 Alan Ferguson 59,125 58,000 15,375 15,000 615 74,500 73,615 Melanie Gee 44,250 58,000 11,500 15,000 949 1,545 56,699 74,545 Mary Jo Jacobi 59,125 58,000 1,591 59,125 59,591 Barbara Jeremiah 24,792 24,792 Sir Jim McDonald 59,125 58,000 15,375 15,000 763 74,500 73,763 Richard Menell 59,125 58,000 12,375 12,000 610 4,207 72,110 74,207 John Mogford 59,125 58,000 577 1,403 59,702 59,403 Notes Clare Chapman and Barbara Jeremiah joined the Board on 1 August 2017.
Melanie Gee stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017.
There were no other payments made above a fide minimis threshold of 750.
Taxable benefits include travel to attend Board meetings in the UK excluding international travel from America or South Africa.
Payments to past Directors audited As disclosed in last years report, Keith Cochrane was eligible under the terms of his service contract to be considered for the Company element of bonus in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2017, pro-rated for the period to 28 July 2017.
This equates to a bonus value of 356,756 subject to mitigation which may result in a lower amount being paid.
30% will be subject to deferral into shares and held for period of three years.
No other payments have been made to past directors.
Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests audited The shareholdings of all Directors, including the shareholdings of their connected persons as at 31 December 2017, are set out below.
There have been no changes in the Directors interests from 31 December 2017 to the date of this report.
As at 31 December 2017 Scheme interests Without Current Shareholding Shares owned With performance performance Vested and shareholding Requirement 1 outright conditions conditions exercised in 2017 % of salary % of salary Jon Stanton 42,684 214,444 6,691 139% 200% John Heasley 7,834 116,479 23,088 42% 150% Charles Berry 2,116 Clare Chapman Alan Ferguson 2,730 2 Mary Jo Jacobi 2,000 Barbara Jeremiah 250 Sir Jim McDonald Richard Menell 1,024 John Mogford 12,615 Notes 1.
Current shareholding percentage is calculated using share price of 21.23 as at 29 December 2017.
Mary Jo Jacobis interest in 2,000 shares shown above is through her holding of 4,000 American Depository Receipts ADRs.
One ADR being equivalent to 0.5 ordinary shares.
The Weir Group PLC 114 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Historical performance and remuneration 000 The graph shows Weirs TSR performance against the 5,000 1,000 performance of the FTSE350 over the nine-year period 4,000 800 to 31December 2017 as well as the total and vested received remuneration for the CEO over the same period.
3,000 600 The table below shows the CEOs total remuneration 2,000 400 over the same period, as well as outcomes under the annual bonus plans and long term incentive plans.
Total single figure relates to the period Jon Stanton was CEO from 1 October 2016 2.
Total single figure relates to the period Keith Cochrane was on the Board to 30 September 2016.
Total single figure relates to the period Keith Cochrane was CEO from November 2009.
Total single figure relates to the period Mark Selway was CEO until his resignation in November 2009.
External appointments It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other companies.
Any such directorships must be formally approved by the Chairman.
During the year, John Heasley was a Non-Executive Director of Royal Scottish National Orchestra Society Ltd.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration Relative importance on spend of pay The table below shows the percentage change in elements The chart below shows the change in total staff pay of remuneration for the CEO and UK employees between between 2017 and 2016, and dividends paid out in 2016 and 2017.
The UK employee population has been respect of 2017 and 2016. chosen as it reflects a broad sample of employees which includes Head Office and other individuals located in the same country as the CEO.
UK CEO employees 2017 2016 Percentage % change % change m m Change Overall spend on Salary and fees -10.3% 8.7% pay for employees 632.4 558.7 13.2% Profit distributed Taxable benefits 19.3% 21.4% by way of dividend 96.7 94.5 2.3% Bonus 49.4% 21.3% Details of the dividends declared and paid are contained in note 10 to the Financial Statements on page 149.
Details of the overall spend on pay for employees can be found in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 143.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 115 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee in 2017 There were six Committee meetings during 2017 and all Committee members attended the meetings they were eligible to attend.
Calls were also held with members of the Committee in relation to shareholder consultation on the proposed Remuneration Policy.
Role Name Title Chairman and members Clare Chapman From August 2017 Independent Non-Executive Directors Melanie Gee To August 2017 Alan Ferguson Mary Jo Jacobi Barbara Jeremiah from August 2017 Richard Menell Internal advisors Charles Berry Chairman of the Board Jon Stanton Chief Executive Officer Pauline Lafferty until July 2017 Chief People Officer Rosemary McGinness from July 2017 Chief People Officer Christopher Morgan Company Secretary Geraldine Pamphlett Group Head of Reward and Recognition Committees External Advisor Deloitte Adviser to Committee Internal advisors provided important information to the Committee and attended meetings.
None of the individuals were involved in any decisions relating to their own remuneration.
Deloitte LLP provided services to the Committee for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Fees paid to Deloitte LLP for work that materially assisted the Committee were 233,100.
Deloitte LLP also provided other services to the Weir Group in the year including tax, global employee services, risk advisory and financial advisory services.
Deloitte is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Voluntary Code of Conduct and the Committee is satisfied that Deloittes advice was objective and independent.
Main activities Over the course of the period since the last Annual Report, the Committees work has been focused on Working with the executive team to develop the new remuneration policy and framework Consulting with investors on the proposals for the Share Reward Plan and changes to the annual bonus Assessing performance of the Executive Directors Committee performance The Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed on an annual basis and were last updated in September 2017.
A copy can be found on our website www.
weir The Committee was evaluated as part of the 2017 Board Effectiveness Review, and it was concluded that consideration should be taken as to how the wider connectivity between the Committee and the Board could be improved.
Shareholder voting The table below sets out the voting by shareholders on the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Remuneration Policy at the AGM held in April 2017.
For Against Total Votes Cast Withheld 158,523,983 767,999 Remuneration Report 99.52% 0.48% 159,291,982 44,620 150,752,869 8,525,321 Remuneration Policy 95.65% 5.35% 159,278,190 58,978 Annual General Meeting This report and our proposed remuneration policy will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2018.
Clare Chapman Chair of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2018
