Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Corporate Governance statement on pages 53 to 57 forms part of the Directors Report.
Business review Directors conflicts of interest A review of the Groups position, developments, activities in the None of the Directors had an interest in any contract to which the field of research and development and future prospects can be Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
found in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 48.
Whilst the Group The Company has undertaken to comply with the best practice operates predominantly in the UK it does have a few branches on approval of Directors' conflicts of interests in accordance with in the Isle of Man and the Republic of Ireland and its associate the Companys Articles of Association.
These provisions have company Toolstation Europe has 23 branches in The Netherlands operated effectively.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director andFrance.
must avoid a situation where he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Information to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
Listing Page The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 December 2017, rule Detail reference including holdings, if any, of spouses and of children aged under 9.8.
4R 1-2 5-11 14 Not applicable 18, are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 77.
4R 4 Long-term 66 incentive schemes Directors indemnities 9.8.
4R 12 Dividend waiver 134 Article 141 of the Company's Articles of Association permits the 9.8.
4R 13 Dividend waiver 134 Company to indemnify any person who is or was a director of the Company, or of any associated company, in respect of any Board of directors liability incurred in relation to the affairs of the Company, or any The names of the Directors at 31 December 2017, together with associated company, to the extent the law allows including in their biographical details are set out on pages 50 to 52.
All of connection with any associated company's activities as trustee these Directors held office throughout the year with the exception of an occupational pension scheme.
The Company maintains of Stuart Chambers who joined the Board as Chairman designate directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate on 1 September 2017 and replaced Robert Walker as Chairman cover for legal action brought against its directors.
The Executive Directors have rolling has granted indemnities to its directors and directors of 12month notice periods in their contracts.
The Non-executive associated companies to the extent permitted by law and these Directors do not have service contracts.
In the light of the results remained in force in the year ended 31 December 2017. of the formal evaluation of their performances described on page 56, the Chairman confirmed on behalf of the Board that all Directors continue to be effective in, and committed to, theirroles.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies are subject to re-election at the Company's Annual General Meeting each year and therefore all Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors will seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
84 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Close company status Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions can be found in The close company provisions of the Income and Corporation the Environmental Report on pages 46 to 48.
Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
Employees Results and dividends The Group results for the year ended 31 December 2017 and Statements on employee matters are contained in the section of dividends for the year ending 31 December 2017 are set out in the the annual report entitled Our People on pages 41 to 43. income statement and note 12 respectively on pages 96 and 124.
Details of the number of employees and related costs can be The final dividend will be paid on 11 May 2018 to those shareholders found in note 7 to the financial statements.
on the register at the close of business on 6 April 2018.
The Company is committed to equality of opportunity and Balance sheet and recognises the benefit of diversity within its workforce.
Its approach to the matter of diversity on company boards is set post balance sheet events out in the Nominations Committee report on page 83 and in the The balance sheet on pages 98 and 99 shows the Groups section of the annual report entitled Our People on pages financial position.
No important events have occurred since the 41 to 43.
The Company has an equal opportunities policy aimed balance sheet date.
at ensuring that employment decisions are based on ability and potential regardless of gender, race, colour, ethnic origin or Principal risks and uncertainties sexual orientation, age or disability.
In particular, applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully and A review of the Group's principal risks and uncertainties can be fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the person found in the Strategic Report on pages 33 to 39. concerned.
In the event of a member of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Financial risk management Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is Details of the Groups approach to capital management and the the policy of the Company that the training, career development alleviation of risk through the use of financial instruments are given and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be in the Financial Review on pages 23 to 31.
Specific quantitative identical to that of other employees.
information on borrowings and financial instruments is given in The Groups policies and practices have been designed to notes 22 and 23 on pages 136 to 141 of the financialstatements.
keep employees informed on matters relevant to them as employees through regular meetings and newsletters.
Employee Substantial shareholdings representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified of the matters affecting their interests.
Further details are available in following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights the section of the annual report entitled Our People on pages in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: 41 to 43.
All employees with more than three months' service are eligible to participate in the Company's Sharesave and Number % Buy As-You-Earn plans.
Details can be found in the Directors' Remuneration report on page 69.
BlackRock, Inc 12,591,774 5.00 Harris Associates L. P. Modern slavery 12,689,670 5.04 OppenheimerFunds, Inc.
The Group recognises the harmful impact that Modern Slavery 12,656,752 5.02 and human trafficking has on society and is committed to Sprucegrove Investment eliminating this criminal activity from the business and supply 12,006,659 4.76 Management Ltd chain.
The Group produces a slavery and human trafficking statement each financial year.
The latest statement is available on TIA-CREF Investment the Group's corporate website www.
co. uk Management Teachers 10,368,460 4.11 Advisors, LLC Nuveen Political donations Asset Management, LLC The Group has a policy of not making donations to political Between 31 December 2017 and 26 February 2018, the following parties.
The Group did not give any money for political purposes notifications were received by the Company: nor did it make any donations to political organisations or independent candidates or incur any political expenditure during Substantial Shareholders Number % the year.
OppenheimerFunds, Inc. 12,391,080 4.91 Auditor TIA-CREF Investment Management Teachers KPMG LLP is the Companys auditor at the date of this report, 9,874,450 3.92 Advisors, LLC Nuveen having been appointed in 2015.
Resolutions will be proposed Asset Management, LLC at the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor, and to authorise the Audit Committee to fix the auditors remuneration.
85 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration The rules governing the appointment and replacement of board Statement on disclosure of information members and changes to the Articles of Association accord to the auditor with usual English company law provisions.
The powers of the Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of Company's Directors are set out in the Company's Articles of this report confirms that: Association.
In particular, the Board has the power to issue shares and to purchase the Companys own shares and is seeking so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit renewal of these powers at the forthcoming Annual General information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Meeting in accordance with the restrictions and within the limits the Director has taken all reasonable steps that they ought to set out in the notice of that meeting.
have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware There are a number of agreements to which the Company is a of any relevant audit information and to establish that the party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Companys auditor is aware of that information.
None of these agreements is considered significant in the context of the Company as a whole.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s. 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office Share capital and change of control or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options As at 31 December 2017 the Company had an allotted and and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans fully paid share capital of 251,994,708 ordinary shares of to vest on a takeover.
10pence each, with an aggregate nominal value of 25,199,470 including shares owned by the Travis Perkins Employee The Directors' Report has been approved by the Board of Directors Share Ownership Trust.
The ordinary shares are listed on the and is signed on its behalf by: LondonStockExchange.
All the shares rank pari passu.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in Deborah Grimason the Company's Articles of Association.
Fully paid shares in the Company Secretary and General Counsel Company are freely transferable.
There are no persons that hold 27 February 2018 securities carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
Details of the structure of the Company's share capital and changes in the share capital during the year are also included in note 19 to the financial statements.
As at 31 December 2017 the Travis Perkins Employee Share Ownership Trust owned 1,216,331 shares in the Company 0.5% of issued share capital for use in connection with the Companys share schemes.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the Company's ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
