Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report DIVISIONAL STRUCTURE The Groups businesses are organised and managed through four divisions.
General Merchanting 2.1bn sales, 850 branches The General Merchanting Division supplies products for all types of repair, maintenance and improvement projects RMI as well as new residential and commercial construction.
The customer base is largely made up of professional tradesmen, ranging from sole traders to national housebuilders whose key requirements are locally stocked product ranges immediately available for collection or delivery, access to extended ranges often delivered direct to site, competitive pricing, credit accounts and problem solving expertise.
Market leading general merchant to trade customers Kitchen distributor to trade Consumer 1.6bn sales, 666 stores The Consumer Division supplies domestic building and decorative materials through its store network to DIY and trade customers.
It differentiates itself by aiming to provide the best value in each of its respective channels through operating efficient stores and delivery services, a superior online proposition, high levels of availability of the brands and products that customers demand in a modern customer shopping environment.
Toolstation has a rapidly growing European business, with 23 stores in the Netherlands and France and online businesses in Belgium and Germany.
Fully integrated multichannel retailer Fastest growing national DIY retailer Tile retailer 4 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report More than 29,000 colleagues serving trade customers and retail customers from over 2,000 trading outlets throughout the UK.
Contracts 1.4bn sales, 169 branches The customers of the three large Contracts businesses, Keyline, BSS and CCF, are typically main contractors and subcontractors in the residential, infrastructure, commercial and industrial construction sectors.
The products supplied from the three main businesses are generally used in large construction projects ranging from new road and rail infrastructure, power generation construction, public service infrastructure such as hospitals and schools, through to commercial and residential construction and refurbishment.
Leading specialist distributor of civils, heavy building materials Specialist distributor of ceilings, insulation and drywall and drainage Leading specialist distributors of pipeline and heating solutions Plumbing & Heating 1.4bn sales, 391 branches The Plumbing & Heating Division delivers a coherent and consistent proposition to installer and contract customers through an integrated branch network and online capacity, as well as being a leading wholesaler to trade distributors.
The Division has an extended category reach including its successful own brand products and leading renewable heating distributors, enabling improved customer convenience.
Digital footprint Physical network Leading wholesaler to trade distributors 5
