A As sc ce en nti tia al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 201 017 7 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES The Company aims to maximise shareholder value by optimising potential for return on capital through strategic investment and divestment, by ensuring the Companys capital structure is managed to support both strategic and operational requirements, and by delivering returns through a focus on organic growth and operational discipline.
The Board considers it helpful to provide, where practicable, performance measures that distinguish between these different factors these are also the measures that the Board uses to assess the performance of the Company, on which the strategic planning process is founded and on which management incentives are based.
Accordingly, this report presents the following non-GAAP measures alongside standard accounting terms as prescribed by IFRS and the Companies Act, in order to provide this useful additional information.
Organic growth measures To assess whether the Company is achieving its strategic goal of driving organic growth, it is helpful to compare like-for-like operational results between periods.
Income statement measures, both Adjusted and Reported, can be significantly affected by the following factors which mask like-for-like comparability: acquisitions and disposals of businesses lead to a lack of comparability between periods due to consolidation of only part of a years results for these businesses: changes in exchange rates used to record the results of non-Sterling businesses result in a lack of comparability between periods as equivalent local currency amounts are recorded at different Sterling amounts in different periods: and event timing differences between periods.
The Group has no biennial events, but when annual events are held at different times of year this can affect the comparability of half-year results.
Ascential therefore defines Organic growth measures, which are calculated with the following adjustments: results of acquired and disposed businesses are excluded where the consolidated results include only part-year results in either current or prior periods: prior year consolidated results are restated at current year exchange rates for non-Sterling businesses: and prior year results are adjusted such that comparative results of events that have been held at different times of year are included in the same period as the current year results.
Organic growth is calculated as follows: Exhibitions Information Central Continuing m & Festivals Services costs operations Revenue 2017 reported 196.9 178.9 375.8 Exclude acquisitions and disposals 51.0 51.0 2017 Organic basis 196.9 127.9 324.8 Organic revenue growth 5.7% 7.4% 6.4% 2016 reported 180.0 119.6 299.6 Exclude acquisitions and disposals 0.8 4.1 4.9 Currency adjustment 7.0 3.6 10.6 2016 Organic basis 186.2 119.1 305.3 Exhibitions Information Central Continuing m & Festivals Services costs operations Adjusted EBITDA 2017 reported 82.3 50.4 13.2 119.5 Exclude acquisitions and disposals 17.2 17.2 2017 Organic basis 82.3 33.2 13.2 102.3 Organic EBITDA growth 5.1% 0.2% 3.4% 2016 reported 73.5 35.1 12.7 95.9 Exclude acquisitions and disposals 3.1 3.1 Currency adjustment 4.7 1.2 0.1 6.0 2016 Organic basis 78.2 33.2 12.6 98.8 19 A As sc ce en nti tia al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 201 017 7 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES CONTINUED Adjusted profit measures Ascential uses Adjusted profit measures to assist readers in understanding underlying operational performance.
These measures exclude income statement items arising from portfolio investment and divestment decisions, and from changes to capital structure.
Such items arise from events which are non-recurring or intermittent, and while they may generate substantial income statement amounts, do not relate to the ongoing operational performance that underpins long-term value generation.
The income statement items that are excluded from Adjusted profit measures are referred to as Adjusting items.
Both Adjusted profit measures and Adjusting items are presented together with statutory measures on the face of the income statement.
In addition, the Company presents a non-GAAP profit measure, Adjusted EBITDA, in order to aid comparisons with peer group companies and provide a reference point for assessing operational cash generation.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as Adjusted Operating Profit before depreciation and amortisation.
The Company measures operational profit margins with reference to Adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusting items Adjusting items are not a defined term under IFRS, so may not be comparable to similar terminology used in other financial statements.
Adjusting items include exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and share based payment charges.
These items are defined and explained in more detail as follows: Exceptional items Exceptional items are recorded in accordance with the policy set out in Note 1 to the Financial Statements.
They arise from both portfolio investment and divestment decisions and from changes to the Groups capital structure, and so do not reflect current operational performance.
These items are presented within a separate column on the face of the income statement, but within their relevant income statement caption to assist in the understanding of the performance and financial results as these types of cost do not form part of the underlying business.
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business combinations Charges for amortisation of acquired intangibles arise from the purchase consideration of a number of separate acquisitions.
These acquisitions are portfolio investment decisions that took place at different times over several years, and so the associated amortisation does not reflect current operational performance.
Share based payments Following the IPO, a number of employee share schemes have been introduced, as set out in Note 33 to the Financial Statements resulting in a lack of comparability between periods in respect of share scheme costs particularly as the income statement charge builds up to a normalised level over a three year period.
As this arises from a change triggered by the IPO change in capital structure, these costs have been treated as Adjusting items.
Finance costs In 2016, certain elements of finance costs were incurred as a result of debt refinancing and are therefore a result of changes to the Companys capital structure.
In addition, part of the pre-IPO Shareholder debt was converted to equity, and as a result there is a lack of comparability between periods in respect of the interest previously incurred on this Shareholder debt.
Tax related to adjusting items The elements of the overall Company tax charge relating to the above Adjusting items are also treated as Adjusting.
These elements of the tax charge are calculated with reference to the specific tax treatment of each individual Adjusting item, taking into account its tax deductibility, the tax jurisdiction concerned, and any previously recognised tax assets or liabilities.
Adjusted cash flow measures The Company uses Adjusted cash flow measures for the same purpose as Adjusted profit measures, in order to assist readers of the accounts in understanding the ongoing operational performance of the Group.
The two measures used are Adjusted Cash Generated from Operations, and Free Cash Flow.
These are reconciled to IFRS measures as follows: m 2017 2016 Cash generated from operations 107.0 95.9 Add back: acquisition-related contingent employment cash flow 8.2 4.0 Add back: other exceptional cash flow 6.7 7.6 Adjusted cash generated from operations 121.9 107.5 m 2017 2016 Net cash from operating activities 99.1 92.4 Add back: acquisition-related contingent employment cash flow 8.2 4.0 Add back: other exceptional cash flow 6.7 7.6 Less: capital expenditure 11.8 13.1 Free cash flow 102.2 90.9 The Company monitors its operational balance sheet efficiency with reference to operational cash conversion, defined as Free Cash Flow as a percentage of Adjusted EBITDA.
20 20 A As sc ce en nti tia al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 201 017 7 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Proforma EPS Changes to the Groups capital structure affecting the number of shares in issue will affect the comparability of earnings per share between periods.
In order to present a consistent measure of earnings between periods, Ascential presents Proforma measures of EPS in which major changes to the number of shares in issue are presented as if they had occurred on the first day of the comparative period.
In presenting the 2016 financial statements, the IPO which completed on 12 February 2016 is treated as such a major change, and so accordingly Proforma EPS is calculated using a weighted average number of shares as if the IPO had occurred at the beginning of the 2016 financial year.
Details are set out in Note 26 of the Financial Statements.
Glossary of alternative performance measures Term Description Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted operating profit excluding depreciation and software amortisation Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue Adjusted effective tax rate Adjusted tax charge expressed as a percentage of Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted EPS EPS calculated with reference to Adjusted profit for the period Adjusted operating profit Operating profit excluding Adjusting items Adjusted profit before tax Profit before tax excluding Adjusting items Adjusted tax charge Tax charge excluding Adjusting items Cash conversion Free cash flow expressed as a percentage of Adjusted EBITDA Effective tax rate Tax charge expressed as a percentage of profit before tax Exceptional items Items within Operating profit separately identified in accordance with Company accounting policies Free cash flow Cash flows before exceptionals, portfolio investments and divestments, and financing Net debt leverage The ratio of Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA Organic revenue growth Revenue growth on a like-for-like basis Organic EBITDA growth Adjusted EBITDA growth on a like-for-like basis Proforma Adjusted EPS Adjusted EPS calculated using a proforma number of shares, as if the IPO had occurred at the beginning of 2016 Proforma EPS EPS calculated using a proforma number of shares, as if the IPO had occurred at the beginning of 2016 21
