Strategic Report: Price Comparison review Price Comparison review 25 years ago, I was at school, spending my days studying, horse riding and working walking dogs!.
International Elena Bets European Price Comparison Director Our original market, the UK, gives us some We believe our proven capability to organically In all countries, brand development and guidelines for the expected development of set up successful PCWs for a reasonable investment is required to attract relevant PCWs around the world: first, we expect digital investment with clean exits where needed traffic, however our core, car insurance, insurance comparison will grow substantially - Italy and China, allows us to increase our total provides us sufficient margin and potential it is still under-penetrated around the world: addressable market substantially and allows us to create relevant brands to leverage the and second, there are a limited number of to keep growing in the future while the UK faces diversification.
players that will succeed in each country.
Strategically, we hope to keep expanding and Admiral has driven organic international Being based in several locations allows us to play relevant roles in the markets we are in.
Big expansion in PCW around the world: Spain anticipate customer needs and to promote challenges and big opportunities in a business Rastreator.
Developing our own platforms model with low barriers to entry but high Chiarreza.
com, China Duobi, gives us scalability.
We believe that our world barriers to lead and succeed.
requires some disruption to improve customer experience.
France Spain Martin Coriat Fernando Summers CEO, LeLynx CEO, Rastreator In 2017, the French market became more competitive for 2017 has been a year of challenge and growth for Rastreator.
aggregators - strong competitors and a significant new entrant A major challenge was to improve price accuracy and helped grow the market.
The French economy showed signs of conversion in our core business while maintaining growth in change, growth and digitalization with insurance aggregation all business lines.
And we can proudly say we have achieved seeing double digit market growth.
Conversion is at its historical maximum while we keep on improving revenues, sales and profit.
Challenges remain: As for operational results, LeLynx had a positive year in 2017, improving customer experience, maximising profitability with both revenue and profit growing.
The business has gone and growing revenue for other business lines.
from strength to strength: the team has grown while the market dynamics have become more complex although more Focus areas for 2018 are to consolidate our core business, promising.
During 2017 we also made operational changes that as we develop our data strategy, and launch our car will support future growth.
Finally, LeLynx ranked 11th in the buying selling vertical and mortgage brokerage model.
Great Place to Work in France in its first year of participation!
We will do this by improving customer experience in our existing verticals.
Our 2018 priorities remain similar to 2017: focus on operational execution, build our brand equity to grow the market and I am proud of our Rastreator team: strong and committed in expand our product range to make the most of media our ambition and attitude.
25 years ago, I was 25 years ago, I was on my first solo summer abroad in a member of Champion Under 13 French Canterbury, UK, where I stayed with a Junior Rugby league team.
I loved that local family a summer that changed feeling of collective victory.
28 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 25 years ago, I was... playing chess for Yorkshire.
UK Louise O'Shea CEO, Confused.
com celebrated 15 years of environment shows no signs of diminishing as position as the go-to place for all things driver establishing insurance comparison in the UK, the top four price comparison websites spent in related.
This investment in our strategy has, creating a growing and profitable industry and excess of 110 million on TV advertising alone, however, impacted our 2017 results, reducing most importantly, saving millions of customers and we have seen increased acquisition costs profit to 10.1 million from 16.1 million.
Much has changed since we across most of our media channels.
com focus its attention attracted our first customer back in 2002 and 2017 has continued to be a period of change on what it does best: saving drivers money as the Groups most mature price comparison and investment, as we focus on differentiating throughout their journey from buying, insuring, business we have a lot to be proud of.
com brand by establishing our running and selling their vehicle.
Looking to The UK price comparison market is developed Drivers Win campaign and further developing 2018, we aim to turn that driving frown upside and extremely competitive, with over 70% significant projects including our car finance down by building on this strategy.
of car insurance new business originating product and car buying selling.
We believe from price comparison.
The competitive these innovative products will reinforce our 25 years ago, I was... graduating high school.
US Andrew Rose CEO, Compare.
com 2017 was a year of challenges for US auto members expanded through state additions, part of Admirals future and hope to be a insurance.
Frequency continued to be risk spectrum expansions, and the addition meaningful contributor in the years to come.
problematic with the blame laid at the feet of of the homeowners product in nearly half The key is to nudge the US comparison market miles driven and distracted driving and a series our states.
ever so slightly out of its nascent state allowing of hurricanes added to the complications for the market size to make the reward great All of the above allowed us to continue our the industry.
Insurers looked to raise prices - for Admiral.
national TV advertising campaign as well as and they did - differing amounts at different expand digital marketing into 2 3rd of the 2018 looks to be an exciting year for Compare.
While the competitive landscape com.
We remain confident, but always followed the opportunities, going into and remains largely unchanged, we are encouraged cautiously optimistic, about our opportunity out of states and specific markets, but all the to see our pseudo-competitors raising money for success.
com had the wonderful combination a mode of trying to grow comparison as a of increasing volumes while at record low category in the US before we have to directly acquisition costs in 2017.
This allowed us to compete with other comparison sites.
achieve marketing break-even early in the year 2017 delivered a much smaller-than-planned and continue it for the rest of 2017.
We added loss but, unlike 2016, it was done with overall a variety of key carriers including nationally volumes near planned levels.
This is key as we recognized Travelers and Allstates Encompass remain ever aware that we are an important brand.
Equally important, our existing panel Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 Strategic Report: Price Comparison review Price Comparison review continued 10.1m 4.1m 7.1m Confused.
com Profit LeLynx profit Loss In the US, Compare.
com exceeded its target Price Comparison financial performance of marketing break-even revenue minus m 2017 2016 2015 marketing expenses in selected states by achieving the goal nationally, and for the Revenue 143.6 129.2 108.1 year as a whole.
The business delivered Profit loss before tax 5.4 2.9 15.5 substantial improvements in its main key performance indicators, including reduced Confused.
com profit 10.1 16.1 12.5 cost per quote and sale metrics while at the International price comparison result 4.7 19.0 28.0 same time growing quote and sales volumes.
coms plans for 2018 and beyond include continuing to scale marketing 1 Groups share of profit loss before tax activity while further enhancing conversion Confused.
com profit 10.1 16.1 12.5 and improving the panel of insurers and customer journey.
The Group anticipates International price comparison result 3.0 13.4 19.7 that the Groups share of Compare.
coms 7.1 2.7 7.2 losses for 2018 will be in the range of $5$15 million.
1 Alternative Performance Measure refer to the Glossary for definition and explanation Preminen, the Groups price comparison Admiral operates four price comparison The European price comparison businesses venture with Mapfre, continues to explore businesses: in the UK Confused.
com, in reported a record profit of 4.1 million price comparison in new markets overseas Spain Rastreator, France LeLynx and the 2016: 2.7 million reflecting ongoing, and has recently launched a price comparison US Compare.
Admiral Group owns 75% strong performance from Rastreator operation in Mexico.
of Rastreator and 71% of Compare.
which continues to build on its multiproduct strategy and an improved result Admirals Price Comparison businesses have from LeLynx.
Price Comparison grown combined revenue by 11% to 143.6 regulatory environment million 2016: 129.2 million and made a Confused.
com turnover increased combined profit excluding minority interests marginally to 87.1 million 2016: 85.7 Confused.
com is regulated by the Financial shares of 7.1 million 2016: 2.7 million.
The high level of competition in Conduct Authority FCA as an insurance the price comparison market and pursuit of intermediary and is subject to all relevant The key features of the Price Comparison the new strategy of Drivers Win, required intermediation rules, including those on results are: a significant level of investment and solvency capital.
contributed to significantly lower profits A significantly reduced loss of 7.1 million The European operations are currently during 2017.
com in structured as branches of UK companies, the US Admiral Group share.
Statutory with the UK insurance intermediary The combined revenue from the European loss before tax decreased to 10.0 million permission passported into Europe.
Further operations increased by 23% to 44.4 million from 22.8 million.
The results reflect the information on the potential impact of 2016: 36.2 million, reflecting continued continued focus on efficient marketing Brexit on the European price comparison growth in traffic and quotes provided to which delivered growing sales volumes operations can be found on page 31. customers and improved conversion rates.
com in the UK continued to Both Rastreator and LeLynx continue to Compare.
com is a regulated insurance invest in its new focus on motor-related enjoy strong brand recognition in their agency domiciled in Virginia, US, and products and services, with increased respective markets.
licensed in all other US states.
marketing costs leading to a reduced profit of 10.1 million 2016: 16.1 million 30 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
