Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Scott Forbes Duncan Painter Mandy Gradden Rita Clifton Paul Harrison Judy Vezmar Gillian Kent Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Scott was appointed as an adviser Duncan joined the Group in Mandy joined the Group in Rita joined the Board in Paul joined the Board in Judy joined the Board in Gillian joined the Board in Appointment to the Board to the Board in November 2015 October 2011.
January 2016 and became Chairman in January 2016.
Scott has over 35 years Duncan previously worked as an Mandy was previously the CFO at Rita has worked with many of the Paul served as an independent Judy was Chief Executive Officer Gillian has an executive career of Experience experience in operations, finance executive at Sky plc, Experian plc, Torex, the privately held retail worlds leading companies on their non-executive director of Hays of LexisNexis International, a over 25 years in software, and mergers and acquisitions, was the founder of consumer technology firm, and was a key brand strategy.
She was Vice plc until November 2017, chairing division of Reed Elsevier plc, internet, digital media and mobile including 15 years at Cendant intelligence company ClarityBlue, member of the team that Chairman and Strategy Director its audit committee from 2007 to from 2001 until February 2014. technologies.
Previously, Gillian Corporation, which was formerly which was acquired by Experian in managed the successful at Saatchi & Saatchi, and for over 2011 and then its remuneration LexisNexis is a leading provider held various senior roles at the largest provider of travel and 2006, and Hitachi Data Systems.
turnaround and sale of that fifteen years was London CEO committee from 2011. of content enabled workflow Microsoft including Managing residential property services business.
Prior to that, she was and then Chairman at Interbrand, solutions, employing 3,200 Director of MSN UK, creating one worldwide.
Scott established CFO at the listed business and the worlds leading brand A chartered accountant, Paul people.
Judy was responsible for of the UKs largest online services Cendants international technology consultancy, Detica consultancy.
worked for PriceWaterhouse the successful expansion of online businesses.
Both at Microsoft and headquarters in London in 1999 Group plc.
Earlier, she was before joining The Sage Group services to over 100 countries.
in a range of other businesses, and led this division as group Director of Corporate Rita has also held a number of plc, where he served on its board Prior to LexisNexis she held including media, fashion and as managing director until he joined Development at Telewest and board roles in the not-forfor 13 years as CFO.
Paul also sits executive roles within the Xerox CEO of Propertyfinder.
Group Financial Controller at profit sector, including the on the advisory panel for Tech Corporation in the United States established her expertise in Dalgety.
Mandy qualified as a Governments Sustainable Citys Future Fifty Programme.
building markets and brands for chartered accountant with Development Commission and as products and services.
Trustee, then Fellow, of WWF.
She is on the Assurance and Advisory Panel for BPs Target Neutral and is a director of Henley Festival.
External appointments Scott currently serves as chairman Duncan is also a non-executive Mandy also sits as a nonRita is currently a non-executive Paul is currently the CFO of Judy was a non-executive director Gillian is also an independent of Rightmove plc, Cars.
com Inc director of Investis Limited.
executive director on the board, director of ASOS plc and of Just Eat plc, a FTSE 100 online of Rightmove plc from 2006 to non-executive director at and Innasol Group Limited, and as and is chairman of the audit Nationwide Building Society, and marketplace business.
Prior to 2015 and served on the audit, Pendragon plc, Mothercare plc, a non-executive director of committee, of SDL plc.
is a past non-executive director of this, he acted as CFO for remuneration and nomination NAHL Group plc and Coull Ltd Travelport Worldwide Limited.
She also chairs Wandisco plc, a software committees.
She was also on the and chairman of No Agent He previously served as the BrandCap, the brand consultancy company listed on the London board of Blinkx plc, the online Technologies Ltd. chairman of Orbitz Worldwide and Populus, the research Stock Exchange.
advertising business from 2014 until September 2015. consultancy.
Joined the Group January 2016 October 2011 January 2013 May 2016 January 2016 January 2016 January 2016 Yes, on appointment No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Independent Committees Nomination Committee Chair None None Audit Committee and Nomination Audit Committee Chair and Remuneration Committee Chair Audit Committee and Committee Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee 34 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Scott Forbes Duncan Painter Mandy Gradden Rita Clifton Paul Harrison Judy Vezmar Gillian Kent Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Scott was appointed as an adviser Duncan joined the Group in Mandy joined the Group in Rita joined the Board in Paul joined the Board in Judy joined the Board in Gillian joined the Board in Appointment to the Board to the Board in November 2015 October 2011.
Joined the Group January 2016 October 2011 January 2013 May 2016 January 2016 January 2016 January 2016 Yes, on appointment No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Independent Committees Nomination Committee Chair None None Audit Committee and Nomination Audit Committee Chair and Remuneration Committee Chair Audit Committee and Committee Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee 35
