The Weir Group PLC 70 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Board of Directors Committee membership key Chair The right skills and experience A Audit Committee member to deliver long-term value N Nomination Committee member R Remuneration Committee member Charles Berry Jon Stanton John Heasley Clare Chapman Alan Ferguson Mary Jo Jacobi Barbara Jeremiah Professor Richard Rick John Mogford Christopher Morgan Melanie Gee Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sir Jim McDonald Menell Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Former Non-Executive and General Counsel Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Left the Company in 2017 Secretary to the Board, Audit, Nomination and A N R N R A R N R A R A N R A N Remuneration Committees Independent?
Yes, since appointment No No Yes, since appointment Yes, since appointment Yes, since appointment Yes, since appointment Yes, since appointment Yes, since appointment Yes, since appointment n a Yes, since appointment in March 2013 inAugust 2017 inDecember 2011 inJanuary 2014 inAugust 2017 inJanuary 2015 inApril 2009 inJune 2008 inMay 2011 Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Tenure on Board Tenure on Board Tenure on Board Tenure on Board Tenure on Board Tenure on Board Tenure on Board Tenure on Board Tenure on Board Tenure on Board Tenure Tenure on Board 4 years and 10 months CEO 1 year and 3 months 1 year and 3 months 5 months 6 years 4 years 5 months 3 years 8 years and 9 months 9 years and 7 months 1 year and 8 months 6 years and 4 months FD 6 years and 5 months Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Charles was an Executive Jon joined the Board as Prior to his appointment Clare is the former Group Alan was Chief Financial Mary Jo advises companies Barbara previously spent Jim is Principal and Rick was appointed Chief John was formerly a Christopher joined the Melanie is a Senior Director of Scottish Power Finance Director in 2010 as Chief Financial Officer, People Director of BT Group Officer and a Director of on international affairs and over 30 years in a number Vice Chancellor of the Executive of Anglovaal Managing Director for Group as Deputy General Adviser at Lazard & Co. plc from 1999 to 2005 and where he helped shape John was the Divisional plc and Director General Lonmin plc, from 2007 reputation management.
of roles with Alcoa Inc. University of Strathclyde Mining in 1996, then First Reserve, a large global Counsel in 2014 and was Limited, having worked Chief Executive of its UK the Groups strategy Managing Director for of Workforce for the NHS until 2010.
Prior to this, now demerged into and has held the Rolls-Royce Executive Chairman in energy-focused private appointed as Company for them since 2008.
She was formerly a senior operations between 2000 and developed Weirs Weir Flow Control.
Clare was he was Group Finance Alcoa and Arconic Inc., the Chair in Electrical Power 2002.
In 2005, he was equity firm and an Executive Secretary and General Formerly, she spent executive of BP America, and 2005.
Prior to joining finance, treasury, tax previously a Non-Executive Director of the BOC Group global aluminium producer.
He appointed President and Vice President of BP plc.
Counsel in 2016. a number of years Prior to joining Weir in 2008, Royal Dutch Shell, Lehman Scottish Power, he was and information Director of TUI Travel plc plc.
Alan also spent 22 years Her roles in Alcoa included is also Chairman of the Chief Executive of TEAL with S. G. Warburg now he held a number of senior Brothers, HSBC Holdings He was Chairman of He is a qualified solicitor in Group Development services capability.
and Chairman of its working for Inchcape plc Executive Vice President, Institute for Energy and Exploration & Mining Inc. part of UBS and was financial, commercial and Drexel Burnham Amromco Energy LLC both Scotland and England Director of Norwest Holst, Remuneration Committee.
in a variety of roles, Corporate Development Environment.
He was formerly Chairman appointed a Managing Before joining Weir, he andoperational roles, Lambert and a Nonand White Rose Energy and a member of the Law a subsidiary of Compagnie including six years as and Chairmans Counsel.
of Avgold Ltd and Bateman Director of UBS in 1999. was a partner with Ernst includingpositions at Clare was also Group Executive Director of He is a member of the Ventures LLP and a Society of Scotland and the Gnrale des Eaux and held Group Finance Director.
Her executive career & Young, one of the worlds  HR Director of Tesco plc Tate & Lyleplc.
Barbara also previously UK Trade and Investment Non-Executive Director Law Society of England management positions has involved providing largest professional services and Scottish Power.
from 1999 to 2006 and Alan is a member of the served as the Chairwoman Energy Excellence Board.
Rick is a senior adviser of Deep Gulf Energy LP.
Mary Jo was Special within subsidiaries of corporate finance companies, where he HR Vice President of Institute of Chartered of Boart Longyear Limited.
He co-chairs the Scottish to Credit Suisse and He is a chartered accountant Assistant to President He is a fellow of the Pilkingtonplc.
advice to a broad range ledglobal board-level PepsiCos west and central Accountants of Scotland Energy Advisory Board.
Chairman of Credit Suisse and a member of the Institute Ronald Reagan, Assistant Barbara has a BA in Institution of Mechanical of clients in both the He is a former Nonrelationships with a European operations and sits on its Business He is a fellow of the Royal Securities Johannesburg of Chartered Accountants US Commerce Secretary political science and Engineers and a visiting UK and overseas.
Executive Director and numberof FTSE-100 from 1994 to 1999.
Academy of Engineering, Pty Limited.
for President George H. W. is a qualified lawyer.
Professor at the University Chairman of Eaga plc, multi-national companies.
theRoyal Society of Bush and a British Civil He is a fellow of the of Strathclyde.
John was a Drax Group plc and Thus Edinburgh, the Institution of Jon is a chartered Service Commissioner Geological Society London, Non-Executive Director of Group plc, and a former Engineering and Technology, accountant and a member from 2005 until 2010. and of both the Australasian DOF Subsea AS.
Non-Executive Director and the Institute of Physics.
of the Institute of Chartered and South African Institutes of Impax Environmental Accountants in England of Mining and Metallurgy.
Markets PLC and Securities andWales.
Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Charles is a Non-Executive None.
John is a Non-Executive Clare has been a Alan is a Senior Independent Mary Jo is a Non-Executive Barbara is currently a Jim is a Non-Executive Rick is a Non-Executive John is a Non-Executive None.
Chairman of Senior plc and Director of Royal Scottish Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Director of Mulvaney Capital Non-Executive Director Director of Scottish Director of Gold Fields Ltd Director of ERM Worldwide Non-Executive Director, a member of the steering National Orchestra of Kingfisher plc since Audit Committee Chairman Management Limited.
of Aggreko plc, Russel Power Limited.
and Sibanye Gold Limited, Group Limited and Remuneration Committee group of the HamptonSociety Limited.
December 2010 and of Johnson Matthey plc and Metals Inc and Allegheny both South African BHP Bilton Plc.
Chairman and member Mary Jo also has the position Non-Executive Director Alexander Review.
of Heidrick & Struggles Marshall Motor Holdings plc.
companies listed on the of the Risk & Capital of Advisory Board co-chair, ofUK Offshore Renewable International, Inc. since Johannesburg Stock Committee and Non-Executive Director and George Washington Energy Catapult Board, February 2016.
Exchange and the New York Investment Committee Audit Committee Chairman University Institute for Non-Executive Director of Stock Exchange.
ofStandard Life Clare is a commissioner on of Croda International plc.
Melanie the Low Pay Commission.
and Non-Executive Director isaNon-Executive of Glasgow Science Centre Director of Ridgeway Charitable Trust.
President of the Conference Melanie is also a member of European Schools for of the steering committee Advanced Engineering of the 30% Club.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 71 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Board diversity by gender Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive nationality 1 1 4 2 8 Male 3 Female 1 British 6 3 2 American 1 Board diversity by tenure 1 Chairman 1 3 3 British American 1 2 2 Executive 2 4 South African 1 American 3 Non-Executive 8 0-3 years 3-5 years 6-10 years Charles Berry Jon Stanton John Heasley Clare Chapman Alan Ferguson Mary Jo Jacobi Barbara Jeremiah Professor Richard Rick John Mogford Christopher Morgan Melanie Gee Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sir Jim McDonald Menell Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Former Non-Executive and General Counsel Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Left the Company in 2017 Secretary to the Board, Audit, Nomination and A N R N R A R N R A R A N R A N Remuneration Committees Independent?
The Weir Group PLC 72 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Group Executive The right skills and experience to deliver long-term value Jon Stanton and John Heasley are also members of the Group Executive Committee.
Their biographical information can be found on the previous pages.
Andrew Neilson held the Paul Coppinger Ricardo Garib David Paradis Rosemary Geetha Dabir position of Director of Division President Division President Division President of McGinness Chief Technology Officer Strategy and Corporate of Weir Oil & Gas of Weir Minerals WeirFlow Control Chief People Officer Affairs and was a member of the Group Executive until June 2017.
Tenure Tenure Tenure Tenure Tenure Pauline Lafferty held the 3 years 2 years 11 months 5 months 9 months position of Chief People Officer and was a member Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality of Group Executive until July 2017.
Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Paul joined the Group Ricardo joined the Group David joined the Group Rosemary joined Weir Geetha was appointed Executive in January 2015.
Executive in January 2017. as Chief People Officer as Weirs first Chief He joined Weir in 2011 as He joined Baker Hughes in Prior to this he held the in July 2017.
Technology Officer President of SPM.
Prior to 1980 and became the position of President of in March 2017.
Prior to joining Weir, joining Weir, Paul was the Operations Director of Pressure Pumping.
Before Rosemary was Group Geetha is an electrical President of the Energy Weir Chile following the joining Weir, David spent HR Director of William and software engineer.
Group for ten years at purchase ofBaker Hughes 22 years in the flow control Grant & Sons, for 12 years.
Prior to joining Weir Circor International, Inc. Minerals division in 1994 industry with Keystone Rosemary has held a she was Vice President a diversified manufacturer by the Weir Group.
In International and Tyco range of positions and General Manager of of valves and related 2001 he was promoted Valves and Controls.
covering all aspects of Internet of Things IoT products.
He has been a to Regional Managing He holds a Bachelor human resources across Applications ready director of the Petroleum Director of Weir Minerals of Science degree in the globe, including platform group at Intel Equipment & Services Latin America and MD Mechanical Engineering being based in New York Corporation, having Association since 2007 of Weir Minerals Chile.
and a Masters of Business in her role as Senior previously worked for and has served as the Ricardo is Vice President Administration from Texas Vice President of HR for Cisco Systems for associations Chairman.
of the Mining Suppliers A&M University, where document management 13years, helping Paul is presently a Association, a Director he currently serves on company Bowne lead their networking, Non-Executive Director of SOFOFA Industrial the Masters of Science in Business Solutions.
He holds a Schools Boards and an Marketing Advisory Board Geetha has been Rosemary is an Advisory Bachelor of Science elected council member in the Mays Business recognised as one of Board Member to the degree in Petroleum of the Board of the Chilean School.
Inaddition, he the 25 Powerful Women School for CEOs and an Engineering from Federation of Industry.
He is an Advisory Board Engineers in Technology Advisory Board Member Texas Tech University.
holds an MBA and is a Civil member of the Petroleum by Business Insider.
of the University of Mechanical Engineer.
Equipment & Services Strathclyde Business Association.
She is also a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
Group Executive by gender Group Executive by tenure Group Executive by nationality 1 3 2 1 British 3 5 Male 0-3 3-5 6-9 2 American 3 2 Female years years years 3 Chilean 1
