The Weir Group PLC 22 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Key Performance Indicators Measuring our progress 2018 Key 2017 Key Performance Performance Indicators Indicators 2015 2,080m 2015 220m 2015 396m 2016 1,989m 2016 170m 2016 293m 2017 2,395m 2017 250m 2017 221m KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI 1 2,3 2,3 Orders Profit before tax Cash flow Profit before tax Cash Engagement and Market share New solutions Margins effectiveness Description Description Description Description Description Description Description Description Description The Group delivered strong order Profit before tax increased significantly Cash flow from operations reduced Profit before tax.
Working capital as a Sustainable engagement and Increased market share.
Improved percentage of Sustainably higher margins growth in both its Oil & Gas and principally reflecting a return to growth as a result of increased investment percentage of sales.
Minerals divisions as demand for its by the Oil & Gas division.
Profitability in in working capital to support strong solutions increased.
Flow Control Minerals was impacted by investment growth, particularly in the Minerals orders were impacted by tough in growth initiatives, project phasing and Oil & Gas divisions.
Flow Controls market conditions in both power and and plant reconfigurations.
Flow cash flow performance reflected its downstream oil and gas markets.
Control was impacted by one-off reduced profitability.
charges in the first half.
Definition Definition Definition Definition Definition Definition Definition Definition Definition Orders represent a confirmed Profit before tax is the profit made Cash flow from operations included Profit before tax is the profit made Working capital as a Blended metric that The proportion of an New solutions are defined as Delivering sustainably higher request from a customer to buy or bythe Group before the payment of both continuing and discontinued bythe Group before the payment of percentage of sales is a captures an evaluation of addressable markets total having been commercialised operating margins through receive goods and services under corporation tax.
It is a good indicator operations.
It is an indicator of the corporation tax.
It is a good indicator good indicator of operational employee engagement and sales that are captured by a in the last three years.
process improvements and specified terms and conditions.
ofperformance, including the capital Groups ability to support its financing ofperformance, including the capital efficiency in the business.
demonstrates increased product, service or company.
When accepted, an order becomes structure of the Group, without being requirements, including payment of structure of the Group, without being organisational effectiveness.
Order influenced by the impact of different dividends to shareholders.
influenced by the impact of different trends indicate market demand for tax regimes around the world.
tax regimes around the world.
Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Order trends indicate the success Profit before tax indicates the value Positive cash flow indicates the ability Performance: delivering excellence Performance: delivering People: caring for our Customers: working in Technology: driving the Performance: delivering of the Groups customer strategy in generated by the Company in the of the Group to generate the cash to for all our stakeholders through excellence for all our colleagues, our neighbours partnership to provide development of new excellence for all our growing market share by providing year and as such is an important support investment in its strategy strong leadership, accountability stakeholders through strong and the environment and distinctive solutions technologies and capabilities stakeholders through strong distinctive solutions that deliver indicator of progress in executing and ensure it has sufficient liquidity and a lean mindset.
leadership, accountability inspiring them to flourish.
that deliver compelling that lead the market is one of leadership, accountability compelling value for money.
to meet its financial obligations.
the Groups four distinctive and a lean mindset.
Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Order performance is directly linked Profit before tax is directly linked to Cash flow is directly linked to the Profit before tax is directly linked Working capital as Employee engagement Increased market share Revenues from new solutions Sustainably increasing to the annual bonus awarded to the annual bonus awarded to Executive annual bonus awarded to Executive to the annual bonus awarded apercentage of sales isdirectly linked to the is directly linked to the is directly linked to the margins is directly linked to Executive Directors.
Further details can be found Directors.
Further details can be to Executive Directors.
isdirectlylinked to the annual bonus awarded annual bonus awarded annual bonus awarded the annual bonus awarded can be found in the Remuneration in the Remuneration report on page 95. found in the Remuneration report annual bonus awarded to Executive Directors.
report on page 95. on page 95. to Executive Directors.
Target Target Target Target 2018 Target 2018 Target 2018 Target 2018 Target 2018 Target The target for 2017 ranged from The target for 2017 ranged from The target for 2017 ranged from Financial targets will be disclosed Financial targets will be Drive a best inclass Increase revenues from Progress commercialisation Improve VCE scores.
entry level at 2,138m to a entry level at 194.9m to a entry level at 314.6m to a in the 2018 Annual Report.
disclosed in the 2018 behavioural safety culture.
Progress IT infrastructure maximum award at 2,563m.
Build organisational Increase number of Further develop advanced and systems development.
effectiveness through customer technology manufacturing technology.
Begin implementation of execution of the people partnerships.
strategy and diversity Progress Voice of framework.
2016 restated at 2017 average exchange rates.
Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
Reported operating profit and profit before tax from continuing operations were 223m 2016:90m and 181m 2016: 43m respectively.
Continuing operations excludes American Hydro Corporation and Ynfiniti Engineering Services.
Details of other non-GAAP measures are contained organisational effectiveness.
in note 2 of the financial statements.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 23 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The six 2018 KPI targets are directly linked to Executive Director remuneration.
See page 102 for more details.
We have updated our Key Performance Indicators for 2018 with a close alignment to the successful execution of our 2018 Key We are Weir strategy and they are directly linked to Executive Director remuneration.
Performance Indicators Strategic objectives KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI KPI 2,3 Profit before tax Cash Engagement and Market share New solutions Margins effectiveness Description Description Description Description Description Description Profit before tax.
Improved percentage of Sustainably higher margins percentage of sales.
Definition Definition Definition Definition Definition Definition Profit before tax is the profit made Working capital as a Blended metric that The proportion of an New solutions are defined as Delivering sustainably higher bythe Group before the payment of percentage of sales is a captures an evaluation of addressable markets total having been commercialised operating margins through corporation tax.
process improvements and ofperformance, including the capital efficiency in the business.
structure of the Group, without being organisational effectiveness.
influenced by the impact of different tax regimes around the world.
Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Performance: delivering excellence Performance: delivering People: caring for our Customers: working in Technology: driving the Performance: delivering for all our stakeholders through excellence for all our colleagues, our neighbours partnership to provide development of new excellence for all our strong leadership, accountability stakeholders through strong and the environment and distinctive solutions technologies and capabilities stakeholders through strong and a lean mindset.
that deliver compelling that lead the market is one of leadership, accountability and a lean mindset.
Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Profit before tax is directly linked Working capital as Employee engagement Increased market share Revenues from new solutions Sustainably increasing to the annual bonus awarded apercentage of sales isdirectly linked to the is directly linked to the is directly linked to the margins is directly linked to to Executive Directors.
isdirectlylinked to the annual bonus awarded annual bonus awarded annual bonus awarded the annual bonus awarded annual bonus awarded to Executive Directors.
Target 2018 Target 2018 Target 2018 Target 2018 Target 2018 Target Financial targets will be disclosed Financial targets will be Drive a best inclass Increase revenues from Progress commercialisation Improve VCE scores.
Progress IT infrastructure Annual Report.
Bui ld organisational Increase number of Further develop advanced and systems development.
Define suitable baseline measure of sustainable employee engagement and organisational effectiveness.
