The Weir Group PLC 16 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategy in Action: Customers The Group is moving from a traditional focus on selling individual products to asolutions mindset across our new andestablished markets.
This means more deeply embedding Weir into the operations of our customers to better understand their challenges and help them meet their objectives.
Increasing customer productivity Overview This approach, combined with the Part of the Groups strategy has been to divisions integrated solutions strategy to extend into adjacent markets where we focus on helping customers improve the can leverage our technology leadership productivity of their existing or brownfield and materials science expertise.
assets, has increased Weirs installed Comminution crushing, grinding and base of original equipment in markets screening is a process common to both that generate significant aftermarket mining and sand and aggregates markets.
demand for spares and services.
Since the acquisition of Trio Engineered Products in 2014, the Minerals division has developed new crusher products and globalised Trios offering, leveraging its customer relationships in markets around the world.
CNC owner Carl Crous at his plant inSouth Africa.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 17 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The challenge To support the future operations of Weir Minerals customer CNC the plant, a service agreement was Crushers Pty Ltd operates a crushing signed between Weir Minerals and and screening plant in the North West CNC Crushers.
Regular inspections province of South Africa.
The aggregates are now conducted by a Trio product plant, which has been operating since support specialist and all machines are 2006, used older model crushers and well maintained.
The service agreement screens with outdated technology.
ensures best practice is adhered to in This led to high wear on crusher operating and maintaining the equipment.
liners, increased oil consumption This helps the plant achieve maximum and costlyunplanned downtime, availability and long operational life of that allimpacted productivity.
Our solution The results The Weir Minerals team proposed Since the Weir team deployed an upgrading the secondary cone crusher integrated solutions approach: from an old technology to a new Trio TC51 standard hydraulic cone crusher.
Plant production has improved by 60% as a result of the maximum The tertiary cone crusher was also availability of equipment.
changed to a Trio TC36 standard Downtime for liner changes has hydraulic cone crusher.
technology Trio cone crushers feature Start-up procedures are quick and a hydraulically adjusted closed side simple, while adjustment of the setting and relief, allowing for quick crusher takes only 5 minutes adjustment and providing added compared to 90 minutes with the protection by preventing uncrushable oldtechnology crushers.
material from entering the crusher and Socket liner life has extended from causing damage.
In addition, three Trio two months to over 12 months due inclined screens were installed.
to the lubrication power unit system used with the Trio equipment.
The payback period for the package of solutions was just 24 months.
Crusher and screen performance are now predictable, maintenance is predictable and future planning is possible without running operations from day to day.
Working with Weir was one ofthebest things I have ever done and I should have done thisa long time ago.
