& QA with David, Cristina and Geraint Q Q Q The International Insurance businesses Admiral has recently launched its Admiral Household continues to have been part of the strategy for a personal lending business.
Can you grow and appears to be less number of years but have yet to deliver give us an update and also explain why affected by market conditions meaningful profits does it make sense you think now is a good time to enter than competitors why?
the market with uncertain economic times ahead?
A A Cristina: The UK household market is going David: Our strategy has always been A through a period of change as more and about building value over the longer term, more householders realise that they can Geraint: Its still early days for Admiral Loans, by developing sustainable profitable shop online for their home insurance.
We are though were very pleased with the way businesses, rather than delivering shorttaking advantage of that shift in customer things are going so far.
We think we have a term profits.
We believe that the combined behaviour.
We recognise, however, that the very strong team, a good system and the European insurance businesses are on the household market is very different from signs so far are really positive.
cusp of demonstrating that value.
ConTe, motor insurance, so whilst our growth has We of course recognise that an economic our Italian business delivered another profit been very strong since launch we continue downturn could adversely affect loan credit for the year a record and collectively our to adopt a test and learn approach to our losses.
Our approach to loan underwriting European insurance businesses practically underwriting.
We started with a relatively is to minimise the possible adverse impact broke even over 2017 despite growing fast.
cautious underwriting footprint and have of such a downturn in our book by focusing We continue to invest in Admiral Seguros in gradually expanded this as we have grown.
on segments which have historically Spain, Lolivier in France and Elephant in the During 2017 we have seen similar claims demonstrated better resilience in times US because we believe that there are strong experience to the market but our cautious of stress.
prospects for long-term value creation in all starting point has allowed us to absorb three markets.
The International Insurance Ultimately downturns tend to be followed this with no significant impact on the businesses now insure over one million by upturns and by building and learning now, Household result.
customers and may ultimately provide we hope to be in a position to benefit from us with an opportunity to offer those a subsequent upturn as a competent player customers more than just car insurance.
operating at an adequate scale.
Q There has been a change of CEO at your US insurance operation, Elephant Auto what does that mean for future strategy?
A David: Alberto Schiavon, our new CEO at Elephant, working alongside Henry Engelhardt, took advantage of a second set of eyes to judge what was good about what we were doing and what could be done better.
The conclusion was that we need to continue our drive towards lower loss ratios and to sharpen our focus on higher retaining customers throughout our product and process design, our pricing and underwriting rules and our marketing.
10 10 A Adm dmi ir ra al l G Gro roup up p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our strategy has always been about building value over the longer term, by developing sustainable profitable businesses I have no doubt this approach will be valuable the timescale for autonomous vehicles to in helping us through to a sustainable scale become a meaningful part of the motor car Q and an ultimately profitable operation.
parc is decades rather than sooner.
Given The UK Motor market is increasingly the continued growth in developed and competitive is Admiral at risk of developing markets in the interim period, we losing its competitive edge?
believe there continues to be an opportunity Q for growth and for some interesting Can you give us an update on the challenges where manual and autonomous A Internal Model and what this means vehicles are on the roads together.
Cristina: It is a competitive market and one for capital?
that looks significantly different from ten Ultimately, we recognise that as claims years ago or even 25 years ago when the frequency falls as a result of sophisticated A primary players were large composite multiautonomous technology, average motor Geraint: Our team continues to do a great line insurers.
We are now in an environment insurance premiums will reduce which could job building the model and putting in place where around 45% of the UK motor market have a significant impact on our revenue the numerous processes and documents that is in the hands of a small number of focused and profits.
We expect to see the impact are also needed for a successful application.
This focus, mitigated by growth in other non-life Were still on track to make our submission inevitably, leads to a superior performance insurance products and growth in personal to the regulator by the end of 2018.
At this by these players, but there is still significant lending.
We will continue to explore other point were not anticipating a significant inefficiency in the market as a whole.
Whilst products to offset potentially lower levels change in the Groups capital position under market data has become difficult to access, of motor premium in the future.
the model, though of course the outcome we believe our underwriting advantage isnt fully in our hands and so there is still against the market is still significant and that some uncertainty over what that future we continue to maintain largely the same Q position looks like.
margin on expense ratio that we did ten What was the outcome of this years years ago.
Once the model is hopefully approved and excess of loss reinsurance renewals that shouldnt be expected until well into Are others getting better?
and how was this influenced by Ogden?
2019, the Board will make an assessment of But Admiral is not standing still and waiting the capital position and work out what, A for them to catch up!
We continue to look at if anything, that means for potential returns ways in which we can improve and automate of surplus capital to shareholders.
Cristina: In late December 2016, in our internal processes to identify further anticipation of a change in the Ogden efficiencies: to explore innovative ways discount rate we increased our 2017 excess of doing business as consumer behaviours Q of loss reinsurance with no significant price change: and we continue to look for ways in increase.
During 2017 reinsurers responded How do you see the long-term which our detailed understanding of that to the change in Ogden by significantly prospect of motor insurance given customer behaviour can further enhance our increasing their prices.
For 2018, we the continuing focus on autonomous underwriting strength.
reviewed the level of cover we required and technology and driverless cars?
returned closer to historic levels but at a higher cost.
The temporary competitive A disadvantage we experienced in 2016 has been reduced and we are back on a level David: There are widely varying views on playing field.
when to expect autonomous technology but considerably less uncertainty about the impact: once we are in a world of autonomous vehicles, the requirement for motor insurance, as we currently know it, will change.
What future motor insurance looks like is up for debate.
We believe that A Ad dm mi ir ra al G l Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 11 11
