The Weir Group PLC 116 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Directors Report The Directors present their report for looking in nature.
Please refer to the Employment policy and involvement the year ending 31 December 2017. cautionary statement on page 216.
The average number of employees in the Group during the year is given in The Directors Report includes the Company number note 4 to the Group financial statements Corporate Governance reports from The Weir Group PLC is registered in on page 143. page 68 to 94, together with the Scotland under company number sections of the Annual Report SC002934.
Group companies operate within a incorporated by reference.
framework of HR policies, practices 2018 Annual General Meeting and regulations appropriate to their The Company has chosen to disclose The Annual General Meeting will be held market sector and country of operation.
the following information in the Strategic on Thursday 26 April 2018.
The Notice Policies and procedures for recruitment, Report on pages 2 to 67: of Meeting, along with an explanation training and career development promote of the proposed resolutions, are set out equality of opportunity regardless of Particulars of any important events, in a separate circular to shareholders gender, sexual orientation, age, marital if any, affecting the Company which accompanies this Annual Report status, disability, race, religion or other which have occurred since the and which can be downloaded from beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The end of the financial year.
The Company aim is to encourage a culture in which An indication of likely future conducts the voteat the AGM by poll all employees have the opportunity to developments in the business and the result of the votes, including develop fully according to their individual of the Company.
proxies, is published on the Companys abilities and the needs of the Group.
An indication of the activities of the website after themeeting.
The Group remains committed to the Company in the field of research fair treatment of people with disabilities and development.
Dividend regarding applications, training, promotion Details of employee policy and The Directors have recommended a final and career development.
involvement Our People, pages dividend of 29.0p per share for the year 14to15.
Payment of Employee involvement and feedback Information on greenhouse gas this dividend is subject to shareholder is actively encouraged.
Further details emissions Environment, pages approval at the 2018 AGM.
of the Groups employment policies 66to67.
and involvement are detailed in the Principal risks and uncertainties Substantial shareholders Our People section of the Sustainability pages 50 to 55.
The Company has been notified in Review on pages 57 to 61. accordance with the Financial Conduct The Strategic Report and the Directors Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Financial instruments Report constitute the management Transparency Rules DTR 5 that the The information required in respect of report as required under the Disclosure following held, or were beneficially financial instruments as required by and Transparency Rule 4.1.
interested in, 3% or more of the voting Schedule 7 of The Large and Mediumrights of the Companys issued share sized Companies and Groups Accounts Information to be disclosed under capital as at 31 December 2017: and Reports Regulations 2008 is given the Listing Rule 9.8.
4 is set out in in note 30 to the Group financial the table below.
Percentage of statements on pages 177 to 183.
Number of voting rights Shareholder voting rights % Page Share capital and rights attaching Subject matter reference BlackRock, Inc. 29,338,449 13.08% to the Companys shares Details of the issued share capital of Allotment of shares for cash Harbor the Company, which comprises a single LR 9.8.
4 7 170 International class of ordinary shares of 12.5p each Fund 8,747,875 4.01% Waiver of dividends are set out in note 25 to the Group LR 9.8.
4 12 117 Universities financial statements on page 170.
The Superannuation rights attaching to the shares are set out Scheme Limited 7,056,781 3.15% Paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, in the Companys Articles of Association.
10, 11, 13 and 14 of Listing Rule There are no special control rights in 9.8.
relation to the Companys shares and the Between 31 December 2017 and Company is not aware of any agreements 27 February 2018, the Company was This Annual Report has been prepared between shareholders that may result in notified of the following changes to for, and only for, the members of the restrictions on the transfer of securities the table above.
Company, as a body, and no other and or voting rights.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers, do not Percentage of accept or assume responsibility to any Number of Voting Rights Shareholder Date Voting Rights % other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may BlackRock, Inc. 6 February 2018 29,130,500 12.99% come, and any such responsibility or FMR LLC 2 February 2018 11,630,611 5.18% liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report may contain statements BlackRock, Inc. 30 January 2018 29,540,996 13.17% which are not based on current or BlackRock, Inc. 22 January 2018 29,687,082 13.24% historical fact and or which are forward Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 117 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 During the year a total of 6,249,373 during the year ended 31December 2017 Powers of Directors ordinary shares with an aggregate and at the forthcoming Annual General The business of the Company is managed nominal value of 781,171.63 were Meeting, the Board will again seek by the Directors who may exercise all the issued and allotted.
shareholder approval to renew the annual powers of the Company, subject to the authority for the Company to make provisions of the Companys Articles of The Weir Group has two Employee market purchases at the same level.
Association, any special resolution of the Benefit Trusts EBT : one with the Company and any relevant legislation.
trustees SG Kleinwort Hambros Trust Voting rights Company CI Ltd the Kleinwort EBT The Companys Articles of Association Directors indemnities and one with the trustees Estera Trust provide that on a show of hands at a The Company has granted indemnities Jersey Limited the Estera EBT.
general meeting of the Company, every to each of its Directors in respect of all holder of ordinary shares present in losses arising out of or in connection During the year, the trustees of the person and by proxy and entitled to vote with the execution of their powers, duties Kleinwort EBT transferred 1,787 ordinary shall have one vote and on a poll, every and responsibilities as Directors to the shares to satisfy a one-off conditional member present in person or by proxy extent permitted by the Companies award.
During the year, the trustees of and entitled to vote shall have one vote Act 2006 and the Companys Articles the Estera EBT transferred 246,184 for every ordinary share held.
In addition, Directors ordinary shares to employees to satisfy of the AGM specifies deadlines for and Officers of the Company and its the vesting of LTIP awards.
exercising voting rights and appointing subsidiaries and trustees of its pension a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to schemes are covered by Directors and Both EBTs have agreed to waive any resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
right to all dividend payments on shares Company conducts the vote at the AGM held by them, with the exception of by poll and the result of the poll will be Pension scheme indemnities shares held in respect of awards which released to the London Stock Exchange The Group operates two closed defined have a dividend entitlement.
Details of and posted on the Companys website benefit pension schemes in the UK the shares held by the EBTs are set out in as soon as practicable after the meeting.
which provide retirement and death note 25 to the Group financial statements benefits for employees and former on page 170.
The 42,875 shares held in The Articles of Association may only be employees of the Group.
The corporate the Estera EBT for the LTIP bonus share amended by a special resolution passed trustees of the pension schemes are awards are the shares in respect of which at a general meeting of shareholders.
The Weir Group Pension Trust Limited, dividends have not been waived.
The a subsidiary of The Weir Group PLC, Kleinwort EBT holds, through its nominee Transfer of shares and The Weir Group Senior Executives account K. B. CI Nominees Limited, There are no restrictions on the transfer Pension Trust Limited.
Qualifying pension 0.002% of the issued share capital of the of ordinary shares in the Company, scheme indemnity provisions, as defined Company, as at 31 December 2017.
The other than as contained in the Articles in section 235 of the Companies Act Estera EBT holds through its nominee of Association: 2006, were in force for the financial year account CGWL Nominees Ltd, 0.03% ended 31 December 2017 and remain of the issued share capital of the The Directors may refuse to register in force for the benefit of each of the Company as at 31 December 2017. any transfer of any certificated share directors of the corporate trustees of which is not fully paid up, provided the pension schemes.
These indemnity Of this, 0.02% is held in trust for the that this power will not be exercised provisions cover, to the extent permitted benefit of certain senior executives of so as to disturb the market in the by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred the Group, and 0.01% is held in trust on Companys shares.
as a director or officer of the corporate behalf of the Company for satisfaction of The Directors may also refuse to trustees of the pension schemes.
any future vesting of the awards granted register the transfer of a certificated under the LTIP.
With the exception of share unless it is delivered to the the shares held for the benefit of certain Registrars office, or such other place senior executives, the voting rights in as the Directors have specified, relation to these shares are exercised accompanied by a certificate for the by the trustees.
The EBTs may vote or shares to be transferred and such abstain from voting with the shares or other evidence as the Directors may accept or reject any offer relating to reasonably require to prove title of shares, in any way they see fit, without the intending transferor.
incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for their decision.
Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations, for Repurchase of shares example, insider trading laws, in relation At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, to the transfer of shares.
shareholders renewed the Companys authority to make market purchases Appointment and replacement of up to 21.7m ordinary shares of Directors representing approximately 10% of The provisions about the appointment and the issued share capital excluding re-election of Directors of the Company treasury shares.
No shares were are contained in the Articles of Association.
purchased under this authority The Weir Group PLC 118 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Directors Report continued Change of control Confirmations significant agreements So far as each of the Directors is aware, The following significant agreements there is no relevant audit information contain provisions entitling the as defined by section 481 of the counterparties to require prior approval, Companies Act 2006 of which the exercise termination, alteration or similar Companys auditors are unaware.
rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Each of the Directors has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken The Group has in place a US$800m as a Director to make themselves aware multi-currency revolving credit facility of any relevant audit information and to the Facility with a syndicate of establish that the Companys auditors 12banks due to mature in September are aware of that information.
Under the terms of the Facility, if there is a change of control of the Going concern Company, the Company has 30 days The Directors have a reasonable from the date of the change of control expectation that the Group has adequate to agree terms for continuing the resources to continue to operate for a Facility.
If at the end of the 30 days period of at least 12 months from the date no agreement is reached between of approval of the financial statements.
the Company and the banks, any For this reason, they continue to adopt lender may request, by not less than the going concern basis in preparing the 30days notice to the Company, that financial statements.
In forming this view, its commitment be cancelled and all the Directors have reviewed the Groups outstanding amounts be repaid to budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, that lender at the expiry of such including market downturn sensitivities.
Inaddition, the Directors have considered the potential impact of credit risk and The Company has in issue fixed rate liquidity risk detailed in note 30 to the private placement notes with a range Group financial statements on pages of maturities: US$70m at an interest 177to 183.
Each of these items has rate of 5.03% due on 11 January 2018: been considered in relation to the 43m at an interest rate of 5.36% Groups banking facilities described due on 11 January 2018: US$210m in note 20 onpages 160 and 161. at an interest rate of 3.69% due on 18February 2019: US$590m at an The Directors Report has been approved interest rate of 4.27% due on 16 by the Board of Directors in accordance February 2022: and US$200m at an with the Companies Act 2006. interest rate of 4.34% due on 16 February 2023.
Under the terms of the On behalf of the Board of Directors applicable note purchase agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company, the notes must be offered for prepayment by the Company within seven days of the change of control.
Christopher Morgan There are no agreements between the Company Secretary and Company and its Directors or employees GeneralCounsel providing for compensation for loss of 28 February 2018 office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
