The Weir Group PLC 20 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategy in Action: Performance Utilising Value Chain Excellence VCE todeliver improved efficiencies for our customers and drive change across theorganisation.
Continuous improvement Overview VCE is a vital component in optimising our business performance and delivering improved efficiencies to our customers.
VCE uses a structured framework and set of tools to drive change across the organisation to add value, eliminate waste and improve our bottom line.
There are five themes in our VCE process: customer, procurement, engineering, planning and lean management.
These look at ways to eliminate all types of waste or non-value added activities.
By analysing and evaluating our performance in each of these areas against key performance indicators, we are able to drive improvements for customers.
In 2017, we took steps to re-focus our VCE strategy, attempting to improve our performance in three key areas: increasing on-time delivery, improving inventory turns and reducing the cost ofpoor quality.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 21 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Adopting VCE in operations The value of VCE Weir Malaysia identified an opportunity By using VCE tools to identify and touse VCE methods to increase improve operations, the business efficiency and customer satisfaction.
has increased machine efficiency and productivity.
This has translated The business, which delivers rubber into greater velocity and ultimately sheets to customers specific improved on-time-delivery, which requirements, focused its efforts has led to greatercustomer demand.
onimproving machine performance to deliver higher output and reduce Weir Malaysia is now focusing on waste.
By adopting lean manufacturing maintaining its new standards and tools such as value stream mapping, achieving continual improvements.
kaizens and a daily war room for team TheVCE lessons of 2017 are now meetings, they identified opportunities beingshared across departments.
Key lessons include the value of The opportunities were digitally engaging a wide variety of stakeholders simulated totest the results of this to increase collaboration and deliver approach and analyse the potential improved performance for the business to reduce machine downtime and and betteroutcomes for customers.
Thebusiness constantly evaluated performance and focused on any deviation, putting corrective actions inplace quickly.
In addition, the business trained staff tohave the essential skills they need towork across a set of machines, allunderpinned by appropriate safety andrisk assessments.
Utilising a variety of Value Chain Excellence methods, Weir Malaysia has consistently managed to improve the on-time delivery rate of its rubber sheet products.
VCE relies on our people, customers and technology working together to drive improved performance at the heart of our business.
