s l o r t s n l o o r t c n o e c t n n t e s h m i e l n g i o t i r i t i s v v i n r t n e c e l a o a v r e u r o The Weir Group PLC 82 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Accountability The Audit Committee and auditors Functional and front line controls Assurance activities Details on the roles and responsibilities This includes a wide spectrum of controls We obtain a wide range of assurance of the Audit Committee, and its as seen in most organisations, including, to provide comfort to management and members can be found in the Audit for example: standard operating the Board that our controls are providing Committee Report on pages 88 to 94. procedures and policies: a comprehensive adequate protection from risk and are Information on the Companys external financial planning and reporting system, operating as we would expect.
Following auditors is contained within the Audit including quarterly forecasting: regular the Board and Committee structure set Committee Report.
performance appraisals and training for out on page 76, various internal and employees: restricted access to financial external sources of assurance report Internal control and risk systems and data: delegated authority tothe Board and management.
These management matrices for review and approval of key sources of assurance were reviewed In accordance with the Code and transactions: protective clothing and bythe Board during the year and are the accompanying Guidance on Risk equipment to protect our people from principally external audit, internal audit, Management and Internal Controls, harm: IT and data security controls: SHE audits, legal and intellectual property the Group has an ongoing process for business continuity planning: and audits, engineering audits, ValueChain identifying, evaluating and managing assessment procedures for potential Excellence and procurement audits, IT the significant risks through an internal newrecruits.
audits and production system lean audits.
This process has been in place throughout 2017.
More Monitoring and oversight controls The various audit teams plan their information on how the Group seeks There is a clearly defined organisational activities on a risk basis, ensuring to manage risk can be found on pages structure within which roles and resources are directed at the areas 46 to 49. responsibilities are articulated.
Issues and are monitoring controls at operating recommendations to enhance The Board, in seeking to achieve the company, regional, divisional and controlsarereported to management Groups business objectives, cannot Group level, including standard key to ensure timely action can be taken, offer an absolute guarantee that the performance indicators, with action with oversight provided from the application of a risk management plans to address underperforming areas.
relevant governance committees, process will overcome, eliminate or including the Audit Committee and mitigate all significant risks.
However, A compliance scorecard self-assessment the Excellence Committees.
by further developing and operating an is completed and reported by all operating annual and ongoing risk management companies twice per annum.
The Ethical and cultural environment process to identify, report and manage scorecard assesses compliance with We are committed to doing business significant risks, the Board seeks to Group policies and procedures.
at all times in an ethical and transparent provide a reasonable assurance against manner.
This is supported by the Weir material misstatement or loss.
Financial monitoring includes comparing values which are the core behaviours actual results with the forecast and prior we expect our people to live by in their The Audit Committee conducted a year position on a monthly and year-toworking lives.
The Weir Code of Conduct review of the effectiveness of the date basis.
Significant variances are also contributes to our culture, providing Groups systems of internal control highlighted to Directors on a timely basis, a high benchmark by which we expect and risk management during 2017, allowing appropriate action to be taken.
our business to be conducted.
Any as detailed on page 89. examples of unethical behaviour are dealt with robustly and promptly.
The Ethics section on page 62 within theSustainability Review provides moredetails on the Groups activities topromote ethical behaviour.
Our internal control framework has four key layers: The Groups internal control procedures described on page 89 of the Audit Committee Report do not cover joint venture interests.
We have Board representation on each of our joint venture companies where separate, albeit similar, internal control frameworks have been adopted.
