Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Stuart Chambers John Carter Tony Buffin Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Group Chief Operating Officer Nationality Nationality Nationality British British British Appointment date Appointment date Appointment date Non-executive Director 1 September 2017 Executive Director 1 July 2001 Chief Financial Officer 8 April 2013 Chairman from 7November 2017 Chief Executive from 1 January 2014 Group Chief Operating Officer from 1March 2017 Committee membership Committee membership Nomination Committee Chairman, Executive Committee Chairman and Committee membership Remuneration Committee Stay Safe Committee Executive Committee and Stay Safe Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience John joined Travis Perkins plc in 1978 Prior to joining the Group, Tony was Stuart Chambers is currently Chairman of as a Management Trainee.
With over CFO of the Coles Group, the leading Anglo American plc and a member of the 39years experience in the business, Australian grocery retailer, where he was UK Takeover Panel.
John has held various senior strategic roles accountable for finance, property, in Sales, Marketing and Operations and IT, strategy and the Group online, financial Stuart was Chairman of Rexam plc has managed sector-leading functions services and hotel businesses.
Prior to from 2012 to 2016 and ARM Holdings such as Procurement, Supply Chain, this Tony was the CFO and then CEO plc from 2014 to 2016.
He served as a International Sourcing and Category of the Loyalty Management Group and non-executive director on the Boards Management.
During his career John has held senior finance roles at The Boots of Tesco plc, Tesco Bank, Manchester headed up the integration of key strategic Group plc after qualifying as a chartered Airport Group, Smiths Group plc and acquisitions for the Group including Keyline accountant at Ernst & Young.
Tony has Associated British Ports Holdings plc.
in 1999, Wickes in 2005 and BSS Group in been a Non-executive Director on the His executive career included 10 years 2010.
John is a Non-executive Director of Dyson Shareholder Board since 2013. with Shell and 10 years with the Mars McCarthy &Stone plc.
Stuart then joined Pilkington plc in 1996, where he was appointed Group Chief Executive in 2002.
Pilkington was acquired by Nippon Sheet Glass in 2006 and Stuart became Group Chief Executive of the new combined Group until 2010.
50 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Alan Williams Ruth Anderson Coline McConville Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Nationality Nationality Nationality British British Australian Appointment date Appointment date Appointment date 3 January 2017 24 October 2011 1 February 2015 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Executive Committee Audit Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee Chair, Audit Nominations Committee and Committee and Nominations Committee Skills and experience Stay Safe Committee Prior to joining the Group, Alan served as Skills and experience CFO at Greencore Group plc for 6 years.
Skills and experience Coline is currently a non-executive Alan also previously worked at Cadbury Ruth is a non-executive director director of TUI AG, Inchcape plc and plc in a variety of financial roles in the UK, of Ocado plc, Coats Group plc, Fevertree Drinks plc and was formerly a France and the USA.
Alan is a qualified TheRoyal Parks which is a charitable non-executive director of UTV Media plc, accountant and treasurer and has a public corporation and a trustee of the Wembley National Stadium Limited, Shed strong background in leading strategic charity, The Duke of Edinburghs Award.
Media PLC and HBOS plc, and a global initiatives, mergers and acquisitions, She is a chartered accountant, and held advisor and director of Grant Thornton integration and business transformation.
a number of positions in KPMG UK International Limited.
Prior to that, Coline from 1976 to 2009, being a member of was Chief Operating Officer and Chief its Board from 1998 to 2004 and Vice Executive Officer Europe of Clear Channel Chairman from 2005 to 2009. International Limited.
She holds an MBA from Harvard Business School, where she was a Baker Scholar.
51 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Pete Redfern Christopher Rogers John Rogers Non-executive Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Nationality Nationality Nationality British British British Appointment date Appointment date Appointment date 1 November 2014 1 September 2013 1 November 2014 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Stay Safe Committee Chairman, Audit Committee, Nominations Committee Audit Committee and Nominations Committee and and Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Chris is currently Chairman of Rush Hair John Rogers is currently Chief Executive Pete is a Chartered Surveyor, as well Group Limited a business backed by Officer of Sainsburys Argos and a as a Chartered Accountant and is Lloyds Development Capital and member of the J Sainsburys plc Board currently Chief Executive of Taylor a visiting fellow at Durham University.
and Sainsburys Bank plc Board.
He was previously Chief Prior to this, Chris was Managing his appointment as CEO of Sainsburys Executive of George Wimpey plc and Director of Costa Coffee from 2012 to Argos, John was Chief Financial Officer prior to that, successively held the 2016 and a director of Whitbread PLC of J Sainsbury plc for six years and during posts of Finance Director and Chief from 2005 to 2016 where he served as his career at Sainsburys he also held the Executive of George Wimpeys UK Group Finance Director.
He was Group posts of Property Director, Director of Housing business.
Pete is also a Trustee Finance Director of Woolworth Group Group Finance and Director of Corporate of the homelessness charity Crisis and PLC and Chairman of the Woolworth Finance.
Before joining Sainsburys, John Chairman of the Youth Adventure Trust.
Entertainment businesses from 2001 to held a variety of financial, operational and 2005 and previously held senior roles in strategy roles.
both finance and commercial functions in Comet Group plc and Kingfisher plc.
Chris was also a non-executive director of HMV Group plc from 2006 to 2012.
