The Weir Group PLC 46 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Risk Review Managing risk effectively The risk agenda We operate in a complex global During the year, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of risk environment, where opportunities management and internal control and conducted a robust assessment of the come with corresponding risks.
principal risks affecting the Group in line Our objective is to allow our people with the Risk Appetite Statement.
These activities meet the Boards responsibilities to be decisive, so we can take in connection with Risk Management and Internal Control set out in the UK advantage of attractive opportunities Corporate Governance Code.
whilst ensuring we are not exposing The aim of the Risk Appetite Statement remains to highlight the risks that we the organisation to excessive risk.
should be willing to take, as well as those which are unacceptable.
The statement includes a series of risk assertions which are aligned to our strategy, together with the risk parameters within which we expect our people to work.
The risk appetite is all of the risk assertions and the parameters taken together.
The parameters can apply to more than one risk assertion, and therefore the individual risk assertions should not be read in isolation.
Compliance with the Risk Appetite Statement is monitored through the Groups functional and front line controls including oversight and reporting mechanisms.
The Board will continue to review and update the Risk Appetite Statement on an annual basis.
Details of the review of the internal control Risk management cycle and risk management systems undertaken during the year are contained in the Audit Committee Report on page 88.
Risk management Identify Quantify the risks the gross risk The management of risks is at the core of the internal control framework.
We have a risk management policy which defines how we expect risks to be identified, assessed and managed throughout the organisation.
Identify Monitor, the existing assure mitigating Risks are assessed, and quantified, and report actions and in terms of impact and likelihood of controls occurrence, both before and after control mitigation.
Assessing the gross risk before control mitigation allows the business to review the relative impact Identify if Quantify further actions and of the existing controls by comparing the net risk controls are required the gross and net risk assessment.
This also allows the business to avoid wasting resources on mitigating controls and actions which have a negligible impact on the risk assessment.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 47 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The specific risks identified Risk Appetite Statement across the business generally The Weir Group is strategically positioned in markets with good long-term growth prospects.
fall under one of the categories We will pursue ambitious growth targets, and we are willing to accept a higher level of risk within the Risk Universe as shown below.
to increase the likelihood of achieving or exceeding our strategic priorities, subject to the parameters below.
Risk universe Risk assertions Risk parameters Strategic risk 1.
O rganic growth Investment of resources will be consistent Industry and market volatility.
We will rigorously pursue divisional organic growth with divisional strategies and expected Technological advances strategies to meet our market growth objectives.
divisional compound annual growth rates or disruption.
M ergers and acquisitions M&A Post-tax returns should exceed our cost of We will actively pursue M&A opportunities that capital within three years of the acquisition.
enhance our strategic platform subject to meeting investment criteria.
Hazard risk Political and social instability.
R eturns and profitability Short term margin dilution is acceptable in We will not pursue growth at all costs, and expect gaining market entry but over the cycle we Natural disasters and other high margins, strong returns on capital and working aim for top quartile operating margins and major incidents.
capital discipline together with cash generation.
External and internal fraud and corruption.
Capital allocation Local country cash flow projections for We will encourage capital expenditure in pursuit investment appraisal purposes discounted Operational risk of our growth ambitions subject to Internal Rate at country specific rates to account for of Return IRR hurdles and capital structure targets.
Capital structure We will seek to maintain the ratio of net Quality.
We are prepared to use leverage in pursuit of our debt EBITDA below two times current Commercial.
growth agenda and will actively seek low cost debt financial covenants 3.5 times and will to fund the Group but, recognising cyclicality in our retain adequate headroom within our Communication.
end markets, will maintain significant headroom debt facilities at all times.
R eputation and brand image No tolerance for breaches of: We will avoid manage situations or actions that could Legislative statutory requirements.
have a negative impact on our reputation and brands.
We aim to be transparent with all of our stakeholders International sanctions.
unless prejudicial to our collective interests.
S afety, Health and Environment SHE No tolerance for breaches of Weir Group We will not undertake or pursue activities that Safety, Health and Environment Charter.
pose unacceptable hazard or risk to our people, Active community and environmental Financial risk the communities in which we operate, or the engagement is expected.
C ountry presence No tolerance for breaches of: Debt and interest rates.
We are prepared to enter new countries which Legislative statutory requirements.
offer opportunities for growth consistent with Weir Code of Conduct.
We will not enter, or will exit, International sanctions.
countries which present a high risk of harm to Delegated authority levels.
our people, damage to our reputation, or breach Group and divisional policies.
Not all risks are controllable or foreseeable, a key example being natural disasters.
Innovation Target research and development spend to such risks is having controls We will invest in technology, research and of2% of revenues.
which lessen the impact to our development to innovate our customer offering business should they occur.
For allowing us to maintain and expand our market share.
example, in the case of natural disasters, we have controls in place to reduce the risk of harm to our people, as well as response planning protocols, with clear accountability, to minimise disruption to operations and our customers.
Policies and decisions The Weir Group PLC 48 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Risk Review continued The impact of risks is quantified across The bottom-up risk reporting approach a range of factors including: financial: requires key risks identified, and reported, strategy: reputation: people and property: at project level to be escalated to the ability to perform services: regulation: operating company management, which safety, health and environment: and in turn may be escalated to divisional investors and funding.
The risk management, and ultimately to the management policy includes defined Risk Committee and the Board.
This is criteria for each risk impact factor, achieved through risk dashboard reports, supporting a consistent measurement which are maintained at operating approach.
Risk management takes place company, divisional and Group levels.
at the grassroots level, for example in The dashboards provide a summary of individual projects, all the way up to the major net risks at each respective Group level assessments, thereby level, as well as a summary of the key providing an integrated bottom-up and mitigating controls and actions, and top-down approach to risk management.
Ultimately, the Board is responsible for The Risk Committee monitors quarterly the Groups risk and internal control risk dashboard reports from the divisions.
It has set out the decisions, In addition, the Risk Committee has and hence the level of risk, which can oversight of the Group Risk Dashboard, be delegated to the Group Executive, along with a routine review of key controls divisional and operational company identified to manage each risk and the management without requiring sources of controls assurance, providing escalation.
This is articulated in a an update to the Board at each Board series of Group policies and delegated meeting.
The Board obtains assurance authority matrices, as well as the over risks and risk management through parameters within the approved Risk the internal control framework.
The Board and information on the internal control committee structure can be viewed framework can be found within the on page 76.
Corporate Governance Report on page 68 and within the Audit Committee Report on page 88.
Risk responsibilities and reporting Board and sub-committees Group Executive Risk Committee Divisional management Operating company management Reporting Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence The Weir Group PLC 49 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Role and responsibilities The key roles and responsibilities for risk management are set out below.
Group Risk management responsibilities Annual review and ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of the risk Board management and internal control frameworks.
Overall responsibility for the Groups risk Annual review of the Groups risk appetite.
management and internal control frameworks, Principal risks presented in every CEO report.
and strategic decisions within the Group.
On a bi-annual basis, receive a report from the Risk Committee which sets out the current assessment of each principal risk, the effect of mitigating controls on each risk, the direction of travel of each risk versus the prior year, the extent to which each could potentially impact the Groups strategic goals and any relevant findings relating to significant control failings or weaknesses which have been identified.
Functional deep dive reports on each principal risk are summarised in the biannual report.
Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal Audit Committee control frameworks.
Delegated responsibility from the Board to review Review of reports from the internal and external auditors.
the effectiveness of the Groups risk and internal Review of the results from the six-monthly self-assessment compliance control frameworks.
Group Executive Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the Groups Executive committee with overall responsibility strategic objectives.
for managing the Group to ensure it achieves Monitoring business performance, in particular key performance indicators its strategic objectives.
Taking strategic decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Escalating issues to the Board as required.
Review of the design and operation of the Group Risk Management Policy Risk Committee and Framework.
Management committee responsible for Identification and assessment of the key risks facing the Group, identification governance of the Groups Risk Management of the key controls mitigating those risks and identification of further actions Policy and Framework.
Review of the Divisional Risk Dashboards, considering the appropriateness of managements responses to identified risks and assessing whether there are any gaps.
Reporting key Group and divisional risks to the Board.
Executive Committee representation to drive improvements in our safety Chief Executives Safety Committee performance throughout the Group.
Safety Committee with responsibility to set and monitor the Groups SHE principles, priorities and actions.
Monitoring the management of key risks across the Group associated Excellence Committees with the respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
Engineering Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and Safety, Health and Environment standards related to the respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
Finance Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
HR Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Group Information Services Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Value Chain Management committees with representatives from across the Group in their respective areas of focus.
The committees govern activities and performance in the individual functional areas.
Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the divisions Divisional management strategic objectives.
Responsible for managing the businesses Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies within the divisions to ensure divisional strategic and standards within the divisions and with regard to the outputs from the objectives are achieved and there is compliance Excellence Committees.
with Group policies and standards throughout Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Operating company management Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of their companys strategic objectives.
Responsible for ensuring company objectives are Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies achieved and business activities are conducted and standards within their company.
in accordance with Group policies and standards.
Escalating issues to divisional management and Excellence Committees as required.
