Corporate Governance: Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report permanently at the outsourced operation, Managers in the Group are sensitive to and the audited financial statements for the who is responsible for ensuring that the health concerns and special needs and will year ended 31 December 2017.
Groups principles are adhered to by the not knowingly allow any employee with outsourced partner, and that the wellbeing a disabling or life threatening illness to Statutory disclosures of outsourced staff is monitored.
suffer from discrimination at work.
The Group provides staff with access to the Group results and dividends Anti-bribery EAP Care First confidential helpline which The profit for the year, after tax but before The Groups Anti-bribery Policy strictly offers advice and support on a range of dividends, amounted to 331.6 million prohibits the solicitation or the acceptance health issues.
of any bribe, whether cash or inducement, Communication The Directors declared and paid dividends to or from any person or company, wherever of 300.3 million during 2017 2016: they are situated and whether they are a There are a wide range of communication 349.8 million refer to note 11b for public official or body or private person or tools used by the Group to communicate further details.
company, by any individual employee, Board to employees which assists in the member, agent or other person or body on understanding of business goals and The Directors have proposed a final dividend the Groups behalf.
objectives including: the staff portal Atlas, of 163 million 58 pence per share payable internal newsletters, videos, team briefings, on 1 June 2018.
Gender diversity suggestion schemes, staff forums, updates The table below provides a breakdown of the on the staff share scheme and the annual Employee policies gender of Company Directors and employees Staff General Meeting SGM.
In the 2017 Detailed information on the Groups at the end of the financial year: annual staff survey, 83% of staff were happy employment practices is set out in the with the amount of information they receive Strategic Report and on the corporate about the company 2016: 84%.
The Group purchases appropriate 1 liability insurance for all staff and Directors.
Company Directors 5 3 The transparency of our communication philosophy extends to senior managers 2 Other senior managers 38 17 Diversity, ethics and human rights and Directors, who sit amongst their teams All employees 4,715 4,981 Admiral Group respects and values which encourages a dialogue between staff the individuality and diversity of every of all levels of seniority across all areas of our Notes employee.
The Groups Equality, Diversity business.
Furthermore, our Chief Executive 1 Company Directors consists of the Board of Directors, and Dignity at Work Policy ensures that Officer CEO operates an open door policy as detailed on pages 43 to 45. every employee is treated equally and fairly so if any member of our staff wants to ask 2 Other senior managers is as defined in the Companies and that all employees are aware of their him a question, they can email him directly Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report and obligations.
The Group is fully committed includes persons responsible for planning, directing through our Ask David intranet initiative.
or controlling the activities of the Company, or a to the health and safety and the human Our senior managers and Directors also strategically significant part of the Company, other rights of its employees regardless of their participate in regular online chats with staff.
Any other Directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts background.
In addition, the Group maintains that are not considered strategically significant have Contractual arrangements a number of employee codes of conduct not been included.
regarding appropriate ethical standards in The Group considers its co-insurance and the workplace.
reinsurance contracts, as described in the Disabled employees Strategic Report, to be essential to the Admiral Group gives full and fair The Groups principles of respect for human running of the Groups business.
No other consideration to applications for rights, diversity, health and safety and contractual arrangements are considered employment made by those with disabilities, workplace ethical standards not only apply to to be essential.
having regard to their particular aptitudes staff directly employed by Admiral, but also and abilities.
Admiral Groups UK businesses to staff employed by the Groups outsourced Financial instruments are Disability Confident Employers.
This partner in Bangalore, India.
To meet this The objectives and policies for managing means they are recognised as going the commitment, Admiral Group maintains risks in relation to financial instruments held extra mile to make sure disabled people regular contact with its outsourcers by the Group are set out in note 6 to the get a fair chance.
management team and the Groups senior financial statements.
managers visit the outsourcer on a regular The Group will support any employee who is basis, whilst the Group also provides training disabled or has a life threatening illness and and development to ensure that the team help them to contribute to the Group as long uphold these principles.
In addition, Admiral as their health allows.
Group has appointed a manager based 82 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors and their interests Going Concern Share capital, AGM and related matters The present Directors of the Company are Under Provision C. 1.3 of the 2016 UK shown on pages 43 to 45 of this Report, whilst Corporate Governance Code, the Board is Major shareholders Directors interests in the share capital of the required to report on whether the business Other than as stated below, as far as the Company are set out in the Remuneration is a going concern.
In considering this Company is aware, there are no persons Report on pages 62 to 81. requirement, the Directors have taken into with significant direct or indirect holdings account the following: in the Company.
Information provided to Greenhouse gas emissions the Company pursuant to the Financial The Groups projections for the next 12 The annual level of greenhouse gas emissions, Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and months and beyond, in particular the profit resulting from activities for which the Group Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a forecasts, regulatory capital surpluses and is responsible, in 2017 was 3,642 CO2e 2016: Regulatory Information Service and on the levels and sources of liquidity 3,764 CO2e, equivalent to 0.42 tonnes 2016: Companys website.
1 The risks included on the Groups risk 0.45 tonnes per employee.
In accordance register that could impact on the Groups with GHG Protocol Scope 2 guidance released At 31 January 2018, the Company had financial position and performance, levels 20 January 2015, Admiral is exempt from received notifications in accordance with of liquidity and solvency over the next reporting greenhouse gas emissions from the FCAs DTRs of the following notifiable 12 months.
electricity supply to the three largest UK interests in the voting rights in the offices which meets the GHG Protocol The risks On the Groups risk register that Companys issued share capital: Corporate Standard.
Note that 2016 has been could be a threat to the Groups business restated to exclude one of the US offices for Number of model and capital adequacy.
shares % comparability as the data is not available for The Groups business activities, together 2017 reporting.
Henry Engelhardt & with the factors likely to affect its future Diane Briere fide lIsle 30,505,472 10.6% The data has been prepared with reference development, performance and position are Munich Re 29,491,339 10.3% to the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: set out in the Strategic Report.
The Strategic A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Report also includes the Groups principal BlackRock Inc 13,817,182 4.8% Standard Revised Edition and in accordance risks and uncertainties.
In addition, the Moondance Foundation 11,200,000 3.9% with the guidance for corporate reporting governance report includes the Directors Fidelity Management issued by the Department for Environment, statement on the viability of the Group over & Research Company 11,004,699 3.8% Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
Power Corporation There are no material exclusions from this Following consideration of the above, the of Canada 9,722,787 3.4% data.
Exclusions included figures for air Directors have reasonable expectation that N. M. Rothschild conditioning from all sites because the the Group has adequate resources to continue & Sons Ltd. 9,648,210 3.4% information was not available from the in operation for the foreseeable future, a managing agents of the Groups multiple period of not less than 12 months from the The interests of Directors and Officers and office locations.
date of this report, and that it is therefore their connected persons in the issued share appropriate to adopt the going concern basis Detailed information on the Groups capital of the Company are given in the in preparing the financial statements.
environmental performance and the Remuneration Report.
methodology for the measurement of greenhouse gas emissions is available on the corporate website, www.
1 Average employee number excludes employees from offices for which data could not be collected.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Corporate Governance: Directors Report Directors Report Continued the business of the Group as a whole except themselves for election at the first Annual Additional information for for the long term co-insurance agreement in General Meeting following appointment and shareholders place with Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Details all Directors who held office at the time of Where not provided previously in this relating to this agreement are contained in the two preceding Annual General Meetings Directors Report, the following provides the Strategic Report.
to submit themselves for re-election.
the additional information required for shareholders as a result of the However, in accordance with the Power to issue shares implementation of the Takeovers Directive requirement under the UK Corporate At the last Annual General Meeting, held into UK law.
Governance Code the Code for annual on 26 April 2017, authority was given to election of Directors, all Directors will submit the Directors to allot unissued relevant At 31 December 2017, the Companys issued themselves for re-election at the Groups securities in the Company up to a maximum share capital comprised a single class of Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2018. of 93,836, equivalent to one third of the shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details issued share capital as at 20 March 2017.
This of the share capital and shares issued during Articles of Association authority expires on the date of the Annual the year can be found in note 11d.
The Articles may only be amended by special General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2018 resolution of the shareholders.
On a poll, every member present in person or and the Directors will seek to renew this by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one authority for the following year.
Power of the Directors vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice A further special resolution passed at that The Directors are responsible for managing of the general meeting specifies deadlines meeting granted authority to the Directors the business of the Company and may for exercising voting rights either by proxy to allot equity securities in the Company exercise all powers of the Company subject notice or present in person or by proxy up to a maximum of 5% of the issued share to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any in relation to resolutions to be passed at capital of the Company for cash, without directions given by special resolution and to general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted regard to the pre-emption provisions of the the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
and the numbers for, against or withheld in Companies Act 2006.
This authority also The Articles, for example, contain specific relation to each resolution are announced at expires on the date of the Annual General provisions and restrictions concerning the the Annual General Meeting and published on Meeting to be held on 26 April 2018 and the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers the Companys website after the meeting.
Directors will seek to renew this authority for relating to the issuing of new shares are also There are no restrictions on the transfer of the following year.
included in the Articles and such authorities ordinary shares in the Company other than: are renewed by shareholders at the Annual In line with the new principles published by General Meeting each year.
Certain restrictions may from time to time the Pre-Emption Group in March 2015, and be imposed by laws and regulations for their template resolutions published in May Directors indemnities and insurance example, insider trading laws.
2016, allowing a company the ability to seek Directors and Officers insurance cover is Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the authority over a further 5% of the issued in place for all Directors to provide cover FCA whereby certain employees of ordinary share capital on a non-pre-emptive against certain acts or omissions on behalf the Company require the approval basis subject to certain conditions, it is the of the Company.
A Deed Poll of Indemnity of the Company to deal in the intention of the Company, at the AGM on 26 was executed in October 2015, indemnifying Companys securities.
April 2018, to seek this additional authority each of the Directors, and Company by special resolution and will confirm in the Secretary, in relation to certain losses and The Company has not purchased any of its Notice of AGM that such additional shares liabilities that they might incur in the course own shares during the period.
are only issued in connection with a specified of acting as Directors of the Company.
The acquisition or capital investment.
There are no agreements between the Deed Poll of Indemnity is categorised as Company and its Directors or employees qualifying third party indemnity provisions Appointments of Directors providing for compensation for loss of office as defined by section 234 of the Companies The Companys Articles of Association or employment whether through resignation, Act 2006 and remains in force for all past and the Articles give the Directors power to purported redundancy or otherwise that present Directors of the Company.
Under the occurs because of a takeover bid.
Terms of Reference of the Nomination and The Board is of the view that it is in the There are a number of agreements that alter Governance Committee, any appointment best interests of the Group to attract or terminate upon a change of control of the must be recommended by the Nomination and retain the services of the most able Company following a takeover bid, such as and Governance Committee for approval and experienced Directors by offering commercial contracts.
None are considered by the Board of Directors.
The Articles competitive terms of engagement, to be significant in terms of their impact on also require Directors to retire and submit including the granting of such indemnities.
84 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Neither the Deed Poll of Indemnity nor Under company law the Directors must not Responsibility statement insurance cover would provide any coverage approve the financial statements unless they The Directors confirm that to the best of in the event that a Director is proved to are satisfied that they give a true and fair their knowledge: have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for the financial statements, prepared in Annual General Meeting AGM that period.
In preparing each of the Group accordance with the applicable set of It is proposed that the next AGM be held at and Parent Company financial statements, accounting standards, give a true and fair City Hall, Cardiff on Thursday 26 April 2018 the directors are required to: view of the assets, liabilities, financial at 2.00pm, notice of which will be sent to position and profit or loss of the Company select suitable accounting policies and shareholders with the Annual Report.
and the undertakings included in the then apply them consistently consolidation taken as a whole: and Reporting, accountability make judgements and estimates that the Strategic Report includes a fair review and audit are reasonable and prudent of the development and performance of UK Corporate Governance Code for the Group financial statements, the business and the position of the issuer state whether they have been prepared and the undertakings included in the Admiral is subject to the UK Corporate in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by consolidation taken as a whole, together Governance Code the Code, published by the EU with a description of the principal risks the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April and uncertainties that they face.
2016 and available on their website, www.
for the Parent Company financial frc.
The Companys Annual Report and statements, state whether applicable Disclosure of information to auditor Accounts, taken as a whole, addresses the UK Accounting Standards, including FRS The Directors who held office at the date of requirements of the 2016 Code.
101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, have approval of this Directors Report confirm been followed, subject to any material During the year to 31 December 2017, the that, so far as they are each aware, there departures disclosed and explained in the Company has in all respects complied with is no relevant audit information of which parent company financial statements.
the provisions of the 2016 Code except the Companys auditor is unaware: and with regard to non-compliance with the The directors are responsible for keeping each Director has taken all the steps that provisions as set out in the corporate adequate accounting records that are they ought to have taken as a Director to governance report at page 46. sufficient to show and explain the parent make themselves aware of any relevant companys transactions and disclose audit information and to establish The Directors confirm that the Annual with reasonable accuracy at any time the that the Companys auditor is aware Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, financial position of the parent company of that information.
balanced and understandable and provides and enable them to ensure that its financial the information necessary for shareholders Auditor statements comply with the Companies Act to assess the Companys position and 2006.
They have general responsibility for The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, performance, business model and strategy.
taking such steps as are reasonably open has indicated a willingness to continue to them to safeguard the assets of the in office and resolutions to reappoint it Directors responsibilities Group and to prevent and detect fraud and and to authorise the Directors to fix its The Directors are responsible for preparing other irregularities.
remuneration will be proposed at the Annual the Annual Report and the Group and parent General Meeting.
company financial statements in accordance Under applicable law and regulations, with applicable law and regulations.
the directors are also responsible for By Order of the Board, preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Company law requires the directors to Report, Directors Remuneration Report prepare Group and parent company financial and Corporate Governance Statement that statements for each financial year.
Under that complies with that law and those regulations.
law they are required to prepare the Group Mark Waters Geraint Jones financial statements in accordance with IFRSs The Directors are responsible for the Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer as adopted by the EU and applicable law and maintenance and integrity of the corporate have elected to prepare the parent company and financial information included on the 27 February 2018 27 February 2018 financial statements in accordance with UK companys website.
Legislation in the UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 governing the preparation and dissemination Reduced Disclosure Framework.
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85
