The Weir Group PLC 02 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Our Business Model Maximising value Our vision Our mission To be the most admired engineering business in To enable our customers to sustainably and our markets.
efficiently deliver the energy and resources needed by a growing world.
How we generate revenue The Group has an aftermarket-focused business model.
It starts by building a large installed base of original equipment used in highly abrasive operating environments.
This, in turn, Mission-critical solutions Comprehensive global support Highly engineered equipment Intensive aftermarket care drives demand for spares and services, providing earnings resilience in the We focus on solutions that are essential Our global service centre network is We are the technology leaders in our We provide solutions that are used diversified markets the Group serves.
In to our customers operations and where the most extensive in our main markets, main markets, supported by almost in some of the worlds most 2017, 69% of revenues were generated our engineering expertise enables them delivering rapid support to customers in 150years of innovative engineering extreme operating environments.
from aftermarket activity, with 31% to achieve their business objectives the need-it-now industries we serve.
with leading brands that are known These harsh conditions generate from original equipment.
39% were safely, efficiently and sustainably.
for their reliability and performance.
continuing demand for aftermarket generated in emerging economies.
spares and services that in turn provide earnings resilience.
Our distinctive competencies The Group is committed to building long-term value for all our stakeholders.
We rely on a range of resources and relationships to be successful.
Developing and enhancing these are People Customers Technology Performance at the heart of the Groups strategy, as expressed in our four distinctive Caring for our colleagues, our Working in partnership to provide Driving the development of new Delivering excellence for all our competencies.
neighbours and the environment distinctive solutions that deliver technologies and capabilities that stakeholders through strong and inspiring them to flourish.
leadership, accountability and a lean mindset.
The value we create Investors Employees Customers and suppliers Communities Governments and regulators Strong returns from growth ahead of A safe and engaged workplace that A solutions mindset that is innovative, Supporting employment, education, Engaging with key stakeholders our end markets enabled by a clearly supports innovation, high performance collaborative and fosters enduring training and playing an active role openly and transparently and ensuring defined and well-executed strategy.
in the communities we operate in we always do business the right way, around the world.
guided by our Code of Conduct.
Dividends paid to Amount paid in wages Amount paid to suppliers of Donations made to 60.5m paid in shareholders: 96.7m.
Read more in Read more in our Read more in our Read more in our Read more in CEOs Review People section Sustainability section Communities section Our Ethics section on page 8. on page 14. on page 57. on page 64. on page 62.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 03 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Our three operating divisions Weir Minerals Weir Minerals is a global leader in the provision of mill circuit technology and services as well as the market leader in slurry handling equipment and associated aftermarket support for abrasive high wear applications.
How we generate revenue Its differentiated technology is used in mining, oil and gas and general The Group has an aftermarket-focused industrial markets around the world.
It starts by building a large installed base of original equipment used in highly abrasive See more in the Minerals operating environments.
This, in turn, Mission-critical solutions Comprehensive global support Highly engineered equipment Intensive aftermarket care Operational Review on page 28. drives demand for spares and services, providing earnings resilience in the We focus on solutions that are essential Our global service centre network is We are the technology leaders in our We provide solutions that are used diversified markets the Group serves.
Weir Oil & Gas Weir Oil & Gas provides highly Our distinctive competencies engineered and mission-critical solutions to upstream markets.
The Group is committed to building Products include pressure pumping long-term value for all our stakeholders.
We rely on a range of resources and pressure control equipment and and relationships to be successful.
Developing and enhancing these are Internationally, we provide equipment People Customers Technology Performance at the heart of the Groups strategy, repairs, upgrades, certification and as expressed in our four distinctive Caring for our colleagues, our Working in partnership to provide Driving the development of new Delivering excellence for all our asset management, and field services.
See more in the Oil & Gas Operational Review on page 34.
in the communities we operate in we always do business the right way, Weir Flow Control around the world.
Weir Flow Control designs and Dividends paid to Amount paid in wages Amount paid to suppliers of Donations made to 60.5m paid in manufactures valves and pumps.
It also provides specialist support services to the global power generation, industrial, oil and gas and other  process industries.
See more in the Flow Control Read more in Read more in our Read more in our Read more in our Read more in Operational Review on page 40.
CEOs Review People section Sustainability section Communities section Our Ethics section on page 8. on page 14. on page 57. on page 64. on page 62.
The Weir Group PLC 04 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Our Market Drivers Responding to a changing environment The Groups diverse markets, including leadership positions in mining and shale energy, mean it is positioned to benefit from some of the major structural changes taking place in the global economy.
Global population and migration trends Climate-driven change Socio-economic environment Technology acceleration The worlds population was estimated to be 7.4 billion Concerns over climate change has led a number of countries The global policy environment is evolving with increased The digitisation of industrial products and services is a people in 2017, with the latest analysis from the United to set long-term targets to ban the sale of cars powered only political uncertainty in some regions as the benefits of major technology trend.
It includes the so-called Internet 1 Nations suggesting it could grow to 8.3 billion by 2030 by fossil fuels.
The UK and France have said any ban would globalisation are questioned and trade pacts are renegotiated.
of Things IoT that combines sensors, cloud computing agrowth rate of 83 million people annually.
take place after 2040, while China has not set a specific date.
and big data analysis to offer opportunities to increase Global economic growth continues to increase with emerging productivity and create new solutions.
While the pace of growth has slowed in recent years, Moves to reduce emissions and increase the use of electric economies such as India and China experiencing the largest the upward trend continues.
As a result, and supported vehicles is likely to have a long-term impact on commodities percentage increases.
Meanwhile, many governments have At the same time, advanced manufacturing techniques, by increased urbanisation, demand for natural resources such as oil, while also increasing demand on other sources made infrastructure investment, both domestically and including 3D printing, continue to improve offering and energy, which drives the Groups primary markets, of energy, from natural gas to wind and solar.
opportunities for factories and other industrial facilities is expected to continue to rise.
to become more efficient in the future.
Innovation in materials science also offers the potential to provide alternative production methods.
Our response Our response Our response Our response As the global population grows, and more people move The Group operates in a diverse range of markets that The Group operates in more than 70countries allowing The Group has developed a new technology strategy that from the countryside to cities, demand increases for the have the potential to be impacted in different ways by it to pursue opportunities on a global scale.
We have an incorporates how we will adapt and succeed using these commodities produced by our mining, oil and gas and the growth in electric transportation and efforts to tackle established presence in many of the fastest-growing emerging technologies.
Working in partnership with fellow power customers.
economies, such as China and India, and are actively technology leaders Microsoft and Dell, we have developed engaged with key stakeholders in these countries to our own IoT platform that utilises sensor technology, cloud As infrastructure investment increases, there will be While there is uncertainty about when demand for oil may understand the opportunities ahead.
The diversity of computing and machine learning.
Trials of Synertrex are additional demand for commodities processed by Weirs peak, it is likely to play a major role in the global energy our operations also mitigates political risk more widely.
currently underway in a number of global markets.
The Group has also expanded into adjacent mix for decades to come.
Meanwhile, natural gas, which markets, such as sand and aggregates, that have a more produces significantly lower emissions of carbon dioxide We are also committed to extending our capabilities in direct relationship to infrastructure-led demand.
than coal, is becoming an increasingly popular source of advanced manufacturing, materials science and increasing energy in both advanced and emerging markets.
Increased the sustainability of our markets through improving energy As consumption increases in emerging economies, there use of solar energy and electric vehicle adoption will also and water efficiency.
More details on our technology will also be additional demand for commodities supported increase demand for metals such as copper, with solar strategy can be found on page 18. by the Groups equipment.
energy and electric vehicles requiring significantly more copper, lithium and cobalt than traditional alternatives.
org unpd wpp Publications Files WPP2017 KeyFindings.
pdf You can read more in Also see Principal Risks Also see Our Strategy Operating Review on page 28. and Uncertainties.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 05 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Global population and migration trends Climate-driven change Socio-economic environment Technology acceleration The worlds population was estimated to be 7.4 billion Concerns over climate change has led a number of countries The global policy environment is evolving with increased The digitisation of industrial products and services is a people in 2017, with the latest analysis from the United to set long-term targets to ban the sale of cars powered only political uncertainty in some regions as the benefits of major technology trend.
