The Weir Group PLC 18 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategy in Action: Technology The Groups technology leadership in its main markets is a significant competitive advantage.
As our markets evolve, we are committed to leading the technology change in our industries.
Our new technology roadmap Overview In 2017, the Group developed a new technology roadmap aimed at ensuring we continue to maintain and enhance our market leadership positions to takefull advantage of emerging technology trends.
These include improving customers digital experience and the increasing digitisation of industrial products through the so-called Internet of Things IoT.
IoT deploys sensors on machines and extracts and transmits the data using cloud software.
It also involves the use of machine learning to analyse the vast amount of big data produced by industrial products.
The strategy includes opportunities to develop and deploy software platforms that enhance Weirs own operations enabling the Group to achieve future efficiencies.
These include smart factories and advanced manufacturing, where we have already seen initial benefits from the 3D printing of some component parts.
And to enhance the sustainability of ourmain markets such as mining, we are examining how we can help our customers reduce their energy and water consumption using our engineering and materials science expertise.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 19 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Synertrex is designed to provide better insight into our products to help reduce downtime, enhance performance and improve the safety of our customers operations.
Synertrex, Weirs IoT platform Helping optimise assets The Groups Synertrex IoT solution Synertrex will enhance our product was deployed to customer sites in 2017 and service offering, enabling our following a significant development customers to better understand how stage of the technology thatinvolved our products operate in real-time.
partnerships with Microsoft and Dell.
From the datacollected, we can advise our customers on how they Synertrex is designed to provide can make betteruse of our products.
betterinsight into our products to helpreduce downtime, enhance Readings and critical extracts of the performance and improve the safety real-time data are sent to the cloud ofour customers operations.
where it can be displayed on our customers performance dashboard, Synertrex uses expertly placed sensors sent as an alert to their mobile device tocapture data to identify ways to ensure or stored for further analysis using our equipment achieves its optimal analytical tools.
For example, by capturing into our customers existing operational vibration data on amining screen, we can systems ensures ease of access anytime, gain detailed insights into the equipments anywhere for operators, maintenance behaviour.
This data can be captured by teams and process engineers, to optimise computers placed in close proximity to operational performance and reliability.
The Groups new technology strategy our equipment and analysed to determine builds on Weirs leadership positions whether an alarm should be raised.
alarm will notify one of our local engineers who can go to the site and solve the issue at hand, in many casespreventing unplanned and expensive downtime.
