Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 85 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to introduce our Nomination Committee report for 2017.
It has been another busy year for the Nomination Committee, with the appointment of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
You can find details of the recruitment process undertaken for the Non-Executive Directors on page 86.
This report explains the Committees focus and activities during the year, and also highlights the Committees key priorities for 2018.
I continue to ensure that the Committee focuses on diversity and inclusion, succession planning and on ensuring that the size, composition and structure of the Board is appropriate for the delivery of the Groups strategy and that all relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code continue to be met.
Charles Berry Committee Chairman Role of the Nomination Committee Chair Committee meetings when the Committee membership in 2017 The Nomination Committee has matters under consideration relate to Charles Berry, Committee Chairman responsibility for considering the me or my position.
Similarly, should a Melanie Gee size, structure and composition of matter under discussion relate to any the Board, for reviewing Director and of the other Committee members, Rick Menell senior management succession plans, they would excuse themselves John Mogford retirements and appointments of from the meeting.
additional or replacement Directors: and Mary Jo Jacobi for making appropriate recommendations Main activities of the of candidates to the Board so as to Committee during 2017 Other attendees by invitation maintain an appropriate balance of skills, Board and Committee changes Jon Stanton, Chief Executive Officer experience and diversity on the Board.
appointment of threeNon-Executive Directors and appointment ofMary Jo Christopher Morgan, Secretary Membership and attendance Jacobi to the Nomination Committee Mary Jo Jacobi, Non-Executive Director The Nomination Committee is entirely Reviewed Board composition and Mary Jo Jacobi attended by invitation made up of independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director rotation priorto her appointment as member Directors and myself as Chairman.
Undertook Board skills assessment oftheNomination Committee The members of the Committee are and gap analysis set out in the table to the left and on Considered Hampton-Alexander pages 70 and 71.
Senior members of Review update management and advisors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The Areas of focus for 2018 Company Secretary acts as Secretary Further developing our approach to the Committee.
to diversity and inclusion across the wider Group There were five Committee meetings Further developing the leadership held during the year of which two were and talent framework and pipeline unscheduled.
Details of the attendance Continuing our focus on ensuring of the members of the Committee for Board and senior management the year ended 31 December 2017 are succession planning are aligned contained in the table below.
I do not to our strategy and culture Attendance table Percentage of eligible Committee attendance in 2017 meetings attended Member since 21 February 22 June 21 July 23 October 12 December Charles Berry 1 January 2014 100% Melanie Gee 18 June 2015 100% Rick Menell 14 June 2012 100% John Mogford 21 January 2014 100% Mary Jo Jacobi 1 August 2017 100% Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website at www.
weir The Weir Group PLC 86 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee continued Board composition and skills The considerations to be taken into Group Executive members, and their The Nomination Committee considers account in each appointment to the direct reports are female by 2020.
The that the Board consists of individuals Board are stipulated in the Terms of current levels are 27%, 29% and 20% with the right balance of skills, diversity, Reference of the Nomination Committee.
I continue to be a member experience and knowledge to provide Specifically, the Nomination Committee of the steering group of the Hamptonstrong and effective leadership of must consider candidates on merit Alexander Review.
During the year the Board against objective criteria, and with due consisted of the Chairman, up to eight regard for the benefits of diversity on the Details of the recruitment process Non-Executive Directors and two Board, including gender, in identifying are below.
Executive Directors, who together and recommending candidates.
The bring a diverse and complementary Nomination Committee recommends Appointment of Non-Executive range of backgrounds, personal appointments to the Board based on Directors Barbara Jeremiah, attributes and experience.
the existing balance of skills, knowledge ClareChapman and Stephen Young 1 and experience on the Board, on the External search advisers JCA Group The Committee reviews the tenure of merits and capabilities of the nominee were engaged in the recruitment process individual Non-Executive Directors on and on the time they are able to devote and assisted the Nomination Committee a regular basis in the context of length to the role in order to promote the in its search for suitable candidates.
of service, experience, independence, success of the Company.
This is not only The Committee was informed of possible from a current strategy perspective but The Board acknowledges the benefits candidates, put forward by JCA Group.
also takes into account potential future that a diverse pool of talent can bring The selected candidates met with myself, strategic needs.
Among other things, a the Chief Executive Officer and two diverse board encompasses diversity of Non-Executive Directors.
Feedback was The Board skills and experience experience, social background, education provided to the Committee and it was matrix, based primarily on professional and training, life skills, personal attributes, agreed that the preferred candidates background and executive roles held, as well as differences in age, nationality, should proceed to the next stage.
preferred candidates then met with the can be found on pages 70 and 71. remaining Directors.
The recent focus on Board diversity Board appointments has centred on gender following the Following the satisfactory conclusion of The Committee was responsible 2016 report of the Hampton-Alexander the process, the Committee recommended for leading the process in appointing Review on improving gender balance in to the Board that Barbara Jeremiah and three new independent Non-Executive FTSE companies.
We have committed Clare Chapman be appointed to the Board Directors in 2017. to ensure that a third of the Board, on 1August2017.
Board skills and experience Banking and Director Independence finance Governance International Leadership Engineering Mining Oil and gas Power Charles Berry Jon Stanton John Heasley 1 Clare Chapman Alan Ferguson 2 Barbara Jeremiah Mary Jo Jacobi Sir Jim McDonald Rick Menell John Mogford 3 Melanie Gee 4 Stephen Young Notes 1.
Clare Chapman was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2017.
Barbara Jeremiah was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2017.
Melanie Gee stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017.
Stephen Young was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 87 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Subsequently the Nomination Committee Jeremiah, Clare Chapman and Stephen Diversity and Inclusion recommended that Stephen Young be Young, and for the re-election of all other We recognise that Diversity and appointed to the Board on 1 January members of the Board, at the Companys Inclusion is a key element of our 2018.
Stephen Young will be appointed forthcoming 2018 AGM.
To remain to the Chair of the Audit Committee in biographies can be found on pages 70 competitive we need to further April2018.
and 71 and in the Notice of Meeting.
develop a diverse and inclusive workplace including the development 1.
J CA Group have no other connection with the Company Processes are in place to identify of our approach to increasing ethnic and have signed up to the voluntary code of conduct on anybusiness relationships held by minority representation at leadership matters such as diversity for executive search firms.
Non-Executive Directors or additional level in line with recommendations During2017, JCA Group provided no other services to theCompany.
directorships or significant links with of the Parker Review.
othercompanies or bodies which may Independence and re-election beof relevance in determining their Our objective is to diversify thought to the Board independence.
The Board still considered in The Weir Group and provide an The Nomination Committee reviewed all of its Non-Executive Directors to be environment where values-based and confirmed the independence of all independent in character and judgement.
You can read more Non-Executive Directors.
The continued about Diversity and Inclusion and the service as Directors of both Rick Menell Committee effectiveness details of the initiatives that the Company and John Mogford was specifically The Committees areas of responsibility has been involved in on pages 58 to 61. reviewed in light of their respective were reviewed during the year through lengths of service.
During 2016, the anexternal Board Effectiveness Review, Committee invited John Mogford to undertaken by Independent Audit continue for a further year through Limited.
Their report was presented in 2017, given the nature of his sector and December2017.
I am pleased to confirm management experience.
He will step it concluded that the areas of responsibility Charles Berry down after the 2018 AGM.
Rick Menells of the Nomination Committee continued Chairman of the experience is of particular importance tobe performed well.
Nomination Committee to the Company at this time of change 28 February 2018 and it was therefore recommended that You will find more information on the his term should be extended for a further Board Effectiveness Review cycle and year subject to re-election by shareholders process on page 78. at the 2018 AGM.
This years review also enabled the Committee to confirm its support for the election of Barbara Board appointment and tenure Length of tenure at 31 December 2017 Date of next 10 Date of election or 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Director year years years years years years years years years years appointment re-election Charles Berry 1 Mar 2013 26 Apr 2018 1 Jon Stanton 1 April 2010 26 Apr 2018 John Heasley 3 Oct 2016 26 Apr 2018 Clare Chapman 1 Aug 2017 26 Apr 2018 Alan Ferguson 13 Dec 2011 Barbara Jeremiah 1 Aug 2017 26 Apr 2018 Mary Jo Jacobi 1 Jan 2014 26 Apr 2018 Sir Jim McDonald 1 Jan 2015 26 Apr 2018 Rick Menell 1 Apr 2009 26 Apr 2018 John Mogford 1 Jun 2008 2 Melanie Gee 4 May 2011 1.
John Stanton was Finance Director from April 2010 to September 2016.
