Corporate Governance: The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee A Statement to Shareholders from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This year we will be asking shareholders to approve a new Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Dear Shareholder, The Committee also agreed that the current Proposed changes to suite of incentives remains effective in Remuneration Policy I am pleased to introduce the Directors incentivising key performance categories for This year we will be asking shareholders Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 the business.
However, a closer review of the to approve a new Remuneration Policy for December 2017, which has been prepared CFOs remuneration package showed that his Executive Directors at the 2018 Annual by the Remuneration Committee the salary is significantly behind market, and his General Meeting.
By way of background, Committee and approved by the Board.
remuneration is out of line with other senior Admiral has a remuneration structure, which This is the first report I have prepared since Admiral executives in terms of pay mix and we believe reinforces our culture and creates being proposed as new Committee Chairman, structure.
The Committee also concluded strong alignment with our shareholders.
Base to replace Annette Court.
I am currently that a couple of areas in our previous salaries are targeted at the lower end of our undertaking the role of asking Chairman, Remuneration Policy should be updated peer group, and executives are encouraged whilst my permanent appointment remains to align with evolving best practice and to build up significant shareholdings in the subject to regulatory approval.
To address these Group to maximise shareholder alignment.
points, the Committee is proposing a number 2017 has been another strong year for the Our main incentive plan is the Discretionary of changes to the Policy: Admiral Group, Earnings per Share in the Free Share Scheme DFSS, which incentivises year were 117.2 pence 2016: 78.7 pence and Earnings per Share growth, Return on Equity CFO salary shares: To bring the CFOs Return on Equity was 55% 2016: 37%.
Total and Total Shareholder Return vs. the FTSE salary closer to market in a way that is dividends for the financial year including the 350 excluding investment companies over a fair to the individual and aligned with proposed final dividend of 58.0 pence per three-year period.
We do not pay annual cash shareholder interests, we propose share will be 114.0 pence per share.
bonuses and instead have in place a simple supplementing his current cash salary bonus structure that is directly linked to of 245,000 with an annual award of the number of DFSS awards held and actual salary shares.
For 2018, the CFOs cash dividends paid out to shareholders.
This salary will remain unchanged and an structure contributes to a culture of focusing award of 5,000 salary shares equivalent on collective, rather than individual, success, to circa 95,000 is proposed, bringing and is aligned with our philosophy around the total salary to 340,000.
The salary share efficient use of capital and distribution of award will vest after three years subject surplus profits.
An additional two-year holding period will apply, during The Remuneration Policy was last reviewed which time shares may not be sold, save to in 2014, and approved by shareholders at meet income tax, NI or other regulatory the 2015 AGM.
The 2014 review took into obligations.
Malus and clawback provisions account the changes to the business in will apply during the vesting and holding both size and geography since the previous periods.
The salary share award is not review in 2004, and prevailing trends in FTSE included in base salary when calculating incentive design and pay levels, particularly the CFOs pension benefit, DFSS award in the context of the Group maintaining base opportunity or achieved against the salary levels for most senior management shareholding guideline.
positions at the lower end of our peer group.
DFSS post-vesting holding period: It is against a similar backdrop that the Extension of the overall DFSS time horizon Committee revisited the Remuneration Policy with the introduction of a mandatory in 2017.
The Committee continues to support two-year holding period on vested awards, the view that share ownership amongst effective from awards made in 2018 staff is important, as it drives outstanding Remuneration Committee discretion performance, promotes long-term success, to adjust DFSS outcome: Committee reinforces a long-term focus on the customer, discretion to adjust the formulaic vesting encourages appropriate risk management, outcome to ensure the final outcome is and maintains shareholder alignment.
a fair and true reflection of underlying 62 62 A Adm dmi ir ra al l G Gro roup up p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 business performance Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk adjustment to DFSS bonus: DFSS bonus salary and modest benefits.
The Committee Reviewing the Committees Terms to include a 20% adjustment based on continues to hold the view that this is of Reference and recommending performance against a set of risk metrics, appropriate, as his significant shareholding amendments to the Board for approval effective from awards made in 2018 provides a sufficient alignment of his Considering and approval of the Groups interest with those of other shareholders.
Shareholding guideline: Increase to the Material Risk Takers in accordance guideline from 200% to 300% of base salary.
with the requirements of Solvency II The Committee also reviewed the Companys regime and reviewed the Solvency II fixed pay arrangements during 2017.
It is The Committee believes that structuring Remuneration Policy proposed that the pension provision of 6% the CFOs salary increase as an award of Considering the Groups regulatory of salary should remain unchanged, but that shares, rather than cash, is better aligned Remuneration Policy Statement the internal cap on pension will increase from with shareholders, is consistent with our 9,000 to 15,000 p. a. and the Company will Reviewed the impact of the Living Wage on philosophy of low cash awards balanced by offer individuals a choice between pension the Groups current remuneration structure the award of shares, and more effectively contributions and cash in lieu.
No other supports the CFOs retention.
The proposed Considering and approval of the Groups changes to Remuneration Policy in respect of change will bring the CFOs package closer to Expense Policy fixed pay are proposed.
market though it will remain in the bottom Considered the terms of engagement with quartile.
It also reflects a move towards During the early part of 2018, we consulted the Groups Remuneration Consultants: improving internal consistency between the with our largest shareholders on the Reviewing the Gender Pay reporting CFOs remuneration structure and that of the proposed revisions to the Remuneration requirements broader Admiral executive team below the Policy.
Feedback has been positive and we Evaluating the performance of the Board, for whom a proportion of their share hope to receive your support for the revised Committee.
awards are subject to continued employment Policy at the upcoming AGM.
Subject to but not subject to the DFSS vesting criteria.
shareholder approval, the proposed Policy In September 2017, Geraint Jones was will take effect from the date of the AGM, granted an award under the DFSS of 50,000 The Board undertakes a regular and being 26 April 2018.
The first DFSS award shares, equivalent to 905,000 or 369% of robust assessment of the principal risks under the revised Policy will be made in salary.
Consistent with the approach for to the business, and is keen to ensure September 2018.
2016, the award will vest on three-year EPS that the Groups Remuneration Policy and growth vs. LIBOR, TSR vs. FTSE 350 excluding practices promote sound and effective Remuneration in 2017 investment companies, and ROE, weighted risk management and excellent customer In addition to consideration of the proposed equally.
David Stevens again declined to be outcomes.
It is in this context that the Policy changes set out above and oversight included given his significant shareholding.
Committee proposes making a change to of the associated shareholder consultation, the DFSS bonus made to Executive Directors Based on performance to 31 December 2017, the activities of the Committee during the and other senior staff to include a 20% 74.3% of the DFSS award made in 2015 will year ended 31 December 2017 included: adjustment based on risk performance.
The EPS condition was partially achieved, scorecard of risk performance measures Reviewing the salary arrangements and vesting at 41.0% of this element: and the ROE will be set by the Committee each year for fee proposals for the Executive Directors, condition was also partially achieved, vesting all significant areas of the business with the former and current Chairman and at 81.9% of the element.
The TSR condition specified targets to determine the amount of senior management vested at 100% of the element.
It is anticipated Reviewing the appropriateness of the that many of these measures will be directly Resolutions to approve the proposed performance conditions for the DFSS and related to customer outcomes to reinforce Remuneration Policy subject to a Free Share Incentive Plan SIP awards the Groups focus on delivering a great binding vote and the Annual Report on Reviewing the Companys performance customer experience.
Whilst the bonus may Remuneration subject to an advisory vote against the performance conditions be adjusted upwards or downwards by up to will be put to our shareholders at the AGM in applicable to the DFSS and SIP awards and 20% in any given year, it is not anticipated April 2018.
I am available to meet and discuss where appropriate authorising the vesting that the adjustment will increase the CFOs our Remuneration Policy with shareholders.
of awards remuneration on average over the longterm.
The Committee believes that this Considering the appropriate performance change will help to reinforce our focus on conditions to attach to the DFSS awards for risk management and our customers, whilst the Groups European insurance operations Owen Clarke also more clearly demonstrating alignment Considering the appropriate application of Acting Chairman of the Remuneration of Group remuneration practices with the withholding provisions Committee requirements of Solvency II.
Reviewing and authorising the grant of 27 February 2018 One of the two Executive Directors, the CEO awards under both the DFSS and SIP David Stevens, is a founding Director and receives remuneration that comprises only Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63
