The Weir Group PLC 78 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Effectiveness External Board Effectiveness Review When a new Director is appointed Groups operational sites, occasions The Board Effectiveness Review to the Board, they are provided with which include presentations from key operates on a three-year cycle.
2017s information on the Groups structure, senior employees and the opportunity review will be followed by two years of operations, policies and other relevant to meet employees.
internal evaluation carried out using an documentation.
The induction process on-line confidential online questionnaire.
also includes meetings with senior The Chairman regularly reviews and Executives in the Company, a formal agrees with each Director their training This year, the external Board briefing on legal and governance and development needs.
Additional Effectiveness Review was undertaken matters from the Company Secretary induction and training is also available by Independent Audit Limited, who and visits to the Companys operations.
to new committee members as haveno other connection with the required.
Training is also built into Company.
The process is detailed Directors are informed of important the Board meetings, with relevant inthetable below.
changes to laws and regulations affecting topics being covered.
the Groups business and their duties as The Company Secretary is responsible Directors.
The Company Secretary advises for ensuring all new Directors the Board on governance matters and is receive a comprehensive tailored available to all Directors for advice as induction programme.
In addition, the Board meets once a year or more at one of the External Board Effectiveness Review cycle The Effectiveness Review operates on a three-year cycle.
2017s externally led review will be followed by two years of internal review carried out using an on-line questionnaire facilitated by an external provider.
Year One Year Two Year Three Internal Evaluation Internal Evaluation External Evaluation Circulate findings report Circulate findings report Interviews fromprevious year fromprevious year Observation Online confidential questionnaire Online confidential questionnaire Analysis and discussion at Analysis and discussion at Analysis and discussion at Boardmeeting Board meeting Boardmeeting Individual meetings with Chairman and Directors post evaluation The External Effectiveness Review Process: this year the process was divided into four stages Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Review of Board and Interviews held with 22 individuals, namely: Observation of the Dedicated discussion analysing what Committee papers.
the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Board meeting held was learned and sharing of results at Chief Financial Officer, Senior Independent in September 2017. the Board meeting in December 2017 Director, all Non-Executive Directors, with the reviewer present.
Followed Company Secretary and General Counsel, Review of the by one-to-one discussions between all members of the Group Executive Chairman carried the Chairman and Directors.
Committee, Group Financial Controller, out by the Senior Head of Internal Audit, PwC Audit Partner, Independent Director.
Remuneration Advisers EY and Deloitte.
The areas that were covered in the interviews included: Board composition.
Non-Executive Directors interaction with the business.
Findings Outcomes It was noted from the observation of the Board meeting Further enhancement of Non-Executive Directors held in September that the Board is functioning well and engagement with various levels of the business and the composition sets the Board up well for good meeting amorestructured schedule of informal site visits.
Overall, the atmosphere is collegiate Continued increased focus of the Board on people and collaborative.
and culture, as the new Chief People Officer works Succession planning for the Board is a well established with the Executive team on succession planning, talent process and a strength of the Company.
management and employee engagement as well as There is a thorough induction process for Directors.
enhanced reporting to the Board in these areas.
A review and possible refinement of the annual calendar and schedule of meetings.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 79 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Inductions in action Clare Chapman and Barbara Jeremiah Induction programme As part of their inductions, both During 2017, tailored induction Clare and Barbara attended a briefing programmes were designed for our two session with external legal counsel newly appointed Non-Executive Directors, on Directors Duties.
Clare Chapman and Barbara Jeremiah.
Site visits are arranged to ensure that The Company Secretary delivered newly appointed Directors have an the induction programme which was understanding of our business as early designed to reflect the Non-Executive as possible following appointment.
Directors background, experience, knowledge and their appointment Barbara visited our operation in Fort Clare Chapman to the relevant Committee.
Worth, USA, and will undertake further Non-Executive Director visits in 2018, including to Dubai.
The inductions covered the Companys history, culture, strategy, structure and Clare has a planned visit for Todmorden operations, as well as Corporate with further site visits during the year.
Governance framework and policies, Board and Committee process, calendars, Following the delivery of the induction Code of Conduct and Directors Duties programme, the Company Secretary seeks feedback on the programme to It also included meetings with the continually improve its benefit.
Chairman, Executive Directors, NonExecutive Directors, Group Executive Barbara Jeremiah Members, Groups operation and Non-Executive Director functional leaders, advisers and brokers.
Training and professional development Following on from the induction period, 1 there are other training and development opportunities at regular intervals Deep dives throughout the year as indicated here.
2 5 Site visits, Management Board dinners and one-to-one and breakfast meetings on meetings key topics 4 3 Briefing material Training and on Board portal information sessions The Weir Group PLC 80 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report: Effectiveness continued The Board considers that it has the Directors in the share capital of the right combination of skills, experience, Company and options to subscribe for independence and knowledge to be shares in the Company are also disclosed effective in meeting the needs of in the Directors Remuneration Report.
More than half of the Board are Non-Executive Directors Directors and their other interests who are considered by the Board to be Under the Companies Act 2006, a independent in character and judgement.
Director of a company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, or This combination of individuals and can have, a direct or indirect interest skills ensures that the Board is that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, sufficiently balanced and that no with the interests of the Company.
The individual or group of individuals can Company has a formal procedure in place dominate the decision-making process.
to manage the disclosure, consideration It also allows for an effective division and, if appropriate, the authorisation of of responsibilities within the Board any such possible conflict.
Each Director and its Committees.
The positions of is aware of the requirement to notify Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the Board, via the Company Secretary, are held separately and are clearly as soon as they become aware of any defined in writing.
Each Director devotes possible conflict or a material change to sufficient time and attention in order an existing authorisation.
Upon receipt to perform their duties effectively.
of any such notification, the Board, in accordance with the Companys Articles The Board is supplied in a timely manner of Association, will consider the situation with the appropriate information to enable before deciding whether to approve the it to discharge its duties.
At the outset of every ensures that Non-Executive Directors Board meeting, the Chairman checks that are properly briefed on any issues arising no new conflicts have arisen.
Only those at Board meetings and Non-Executive Directors who have no interest in the Directors have the ability to communicate matter being considered are able to take with the Chairman at any time.
part in the relevant decision and Directors are able to impose limits or conditions Re-election when giving authorisation if they think In accordance with the Companys this is appropriate.
The Director in Articles of Association and good question will then be notified of the practice, Barbara Jeremiah and Clare outcome.
Overall, the Board is satisfied Chapman will offer themselves for that there are appropriate procedures election at the Companys AGM on in place to deal with conflicts of interest 26April 2018.
As previously announced, and that they have operated effectively.
John Mogford and Alan Ferguson will step down from the Board in April 2018 None of the Non-Executive Directors after the AGM.
All other Directors on have any material business or other theBoard will seek re-election at the relationship with the Company or its Companys AGM in compliance with management.
Sir Jim McDonald is the theCode.
Stephen Young joined the Principal and Vice Chancellor of the Board as a Non-Executive Director and University of Strathclyde, but he has member of the Audit Committee from no direct involvement on a day-to-day 1January 2018.
Stephen will succeed basis in relation to the Weir Advanced Alan as Audit Committee Chairman Research Centre WARC which is from 26 April 2018. operated by the Company in conjunction with the University of Strathclyde.
The Executive Directors have contracts Nevertheless, he will offer to recuse of service with one years notice, whilst himself from any discussions regarding Non-Executive Directors appointments the relationship between the Group and can be terminated with six months the University of Strathclyde, whether notice.
The letters of appointment of in relation to WARC or otherwise.
the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and set out the required commitment to the Company.
Further details can also be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 95 to 115.
Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 81 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance in action Board visit to South Africa As part of its regular programme of Africa is home to some of the worlds In addition to serving its customers, site visits to get first-hand experience finest ore grades and consequently has Weir Minerals Africa has made a positive of the Groups operations, the Board a vibrant mining market that is supported contribution to both developing its people visited Weir Minerals Africa, which is by Weir from our regional headquarters in and improving safety and has taken a based in Johannesburg.
The business is also using very active role inits local communities.
visit, the Board received presentations its technology to expand into adjacent This includes programmes to encourage on the business and its prospects markets, such as sand and aggregates, more young women in South Africa to from local management and met, and and the Board met and toureda customer consider engineering as a future career.
listened to views from, employees at site to get direct input on the challenges You can read more about this initiative its manufacturing facilities in Isando and being faced by the industry and the on page 59.
This included officially opening opportunities for Weir tohelp customers a new moulding carousel at our foundry meet their objectives.
which will support future growth.
