Governance Directors Report Directors Report The Directors of the Company are pleased to present their Annual Share rights Report to shareholders, together with the financial statements for the The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares are set out year ended 31 December 2017 with comparatives for the year ended in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from 31 December 2016.
Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
The following sections of the Annual Report are incorporated into this Directors No shareholder shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting, either in person or Report by reference: by proxy, in respect of any share held by him or her unless all monies presently payable by him or her in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition, no The information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic Report including shareholder shall be entitled to vote, either in person or by proxy, if he or she the Financial Review can be found on pages 253 has been served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 Board of Directors on pages 5455 concerning interests in those shares and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information.
Results The Group made a profit before taxation from continuing operations, before Other than restrictions considered to be standard for a UK listed company there amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items for the are no limitations on the holding or transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, year, of 750 million 2016: 623 million.
After taking into account amortisation both of which are governed and regulated by the Companys Articles of of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items, the profit of the Group Association and applicable legislation and regulation.
The Company is not aware before taxation for the year from continuing operations was 564 million 2016: of any agreements between holders of shares that may result in restrictions on 364 million.
Profit after taxation from continuing operations for the year was the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Corporate Governance Statement During the year the Group classified certain of its businesses as discontinued The Companys Corporate Governance Report and the reports of the Audit, operations.
The discontinued profit before taxation, before amortisation of Nomination and Risk Committees are set out on pages 5671 and are, together purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items for the year, was nil with the information on share rights set out above, incorporated into this 2016: 28 million.
After taking into account amortisation of purchased intangible Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
assets and non-underlying items, the profit of the discontinued operations for the year was 23 million 2016: 104 million.
Loss after taxation from discontinued Articles of Association operations for the year was 25 million 2016: 70 million loss.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association Dividends contain provisions relating to the appointment and removal of Directors.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 37.2 pence 2016: 31.2 pence per share which is expected to be paid on 30 May 2018 to Substantial Shareholders shareholders on the register on 4 May 2018.
Together with the interim dividend As at 2 March 2018 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 14.4 pence 2016:12.0 pence per share paid in September 2017, this produces amounting to more than 3% in the issued share capital of the Company in a total dividend for the period of 51.6 pence 2016: 43.2 pence per share accordance with DTR 5 of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules: estimated to amount to 179 million 2016: 151 million.
Qatar Investment Authority 10.31% BlackRock, Inc 6.91% Share capital TCI Fund Management Limited 5.05% As at 31 December 2017, the Company had 350,531,339 ordinary shares in issue Lindsell Train Limited 5.00% 79 86 with a nominal value of 6 pence each, representing 100% of the total issued Invesco Limited 4.97% share capital.
Veritas Asset Management LLP 3.98% The Company holds 3,794,585 of its ordinary shares in Treasury.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the company is 346,736,754.
The figure Authority to Purchase Shares 346,736,754 may be used by shareholders as the denominator for the calculations The authority for the Company to purchase in the market up to 35,040,453 of its by which they will determine if they are required to notify their interest in, or a ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as change to their interest in, the company under the FCAs Disclosure Guidance at the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the Companys and Transparency Rules.
last AGM granted at the Companys last AGM, expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
This authority was used by the Company during the year for its During the year, the Company issued 224,965 new ordinary shares and transferred buyback programme and the Company repurchased 5,552,359 of its own shares 1,757,774 ordinary shares out of treasury, to settle employee share scheme awards.
Shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority to purchase shares at the forthcoming AGM.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 95 Directors Report continued Purchase of Companys shares during the year Employees The Company has a capital management framework previously disclosed that Information on the Companys wider responsibilities in relation to employees takes account of balance position, investment for growth and distributions to including the Companys approach to human rights and diversity is given on page shareholders through ordinary dividends and other possible returns of capital.
35 and information on the Groups share schemes is provided in the Directors Share buybacks are a means of returning capital when the Board expects to hold Remuneration Report on pages 78, 85-86 and 88..
The Company provides an surplus cash for a prolonged period.
Accordingly, the Company undertook its induction programme for new employees, including training employees on health buyback programme to return surplus cash to shareholders in a manner that and safety and a range of development programmes for all employees to develop increased total earnings per share and net asset value per share.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from persons with a disability where the candidates particular The Company purchased 5,552,359 of its ordinary shares for an aggregate aptitudes and abilities are consistent with and adequately meet the requirements consideration of 199 million excluding costs at an average price per share of of the role.
The Group encourages and assists employees with a disability with 35.84 excluding costs.
These shares were ordinary shares with a nominal value training, career development and promotion opportunities, and where existing of 6 79 86 pence each, and represented 1.6% of the Companys ordinary shares in employees become disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment and issue at the start of the year.
Of these shares, the Company transferred 1,757,774 training wherever possible.
Where changes to working practices or structure affect shares representing 0.5% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the start staff, staff are consulted and given the appropriate support.
All employees are of the year out of treasury to settle employee share scheme awards.
provided with information on matters of concern to them in their work, through regular briefing meetings and internal publications.
To inform employees of the Authority to Issue Shares economic and financial factors affecting our business, regular updates are posted Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without prejudice to any on our intranet and engagement events are hosted, such as Townhall style rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued meetings with members of our Executive Committee, providing a briefing of with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution specific areas of the business.
determine or, subject to and in default of such determination, as the Board shall determine.
Environment As a group, we recognise that we must use resources in ways that deliver the Authority to Allot Shares long-term sustainability and profitability of the business and have a positive The authority conferred on the Directors at last years AGM to allot shares in the impact on the environment.
We are taking such factors into account in developing Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 8,081,035 representing 33.3% products and services that support these aims through companies listed on our of the issued share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date before markets.
The Groups primary greenhouse gas GHG emissions arise from energy, publication of the Notice of the Companys last AGM or, in connection with a waste and water in our offices and data centres around the world, from staff travel, pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders by way of a rights issue, up to a and indirectly from our supply chain.
maximum nominal amount of 16,162,069 representing 66.6% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date before publication During the reporting period, we achieved a 31% reduction in our absolute carbon of the Notice of the Companys last AGM, expires on the date of the forthcoming emissions and a 42% reduction in Carbon Emissions per Full Time Employee AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority to allot shares at the FTE, accelerating our progress from previous years This significant reduction is forthcoming AGM.
primarily attributed to our move to over 64% of the Groups electricity now being provided by 100% natural renewable energy.
Directors interests Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2017, We are taking an active approach to emissions management, with our global according to the register maintained under the Companies Act 2006, are set Environmental Management Group measuring GHG impacts across our property out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 91.
No company in portfolio, including managed offices where possible.
We report beyond the the Group was, during or at the end of the year, party to any contract of mandatory reporting guidelines to include Scope 3 emissions.
Performance is significance in which any Director was materially interested.
reported quarterly via our intranet, and we annually disclose to the Carbon Disclosure Project, DJSI, FTSE4Good and on our website www.
Directors indemnity Details of qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 In June 2017, the Financial Stability Boards Task Force on Climate-related of the Companies Act 2006 in force during the course of the year ended 31 Financial Disclosures TCFD released its reporting recommendations.
The Group December 2017 can be found on page 60.
Such qualifying third party indemnity signed the TCFD statement of support, affirming its commitment to support the provisions remain in force as at the date of approving this Directors Report.
recommendations, and sees them as an important step in driving improved global consistency in voluntary global reporting standards.
As the Group, and FTSE Russell in particular, intends to play a critical role in enabling the flow of information envisioned by the TCFD, the recommendations were incorporated into FTSE Russells climate-related indicators and in the Group ESG Reporting Guidance.
Going forward, the Group will continue to review the recommendations.
96 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Directors Report Global 2017 GHG Emissions support is not considered to be a political donation or expenditure under US law.
As the PAC was a new programme, no political contributions were made during tCO e Tonnes of carbon 2 1 the reporting period.
In accordance with the applicable law the PAC will be funded dioxide equivalent 2017 2016 % Change 2 entirely by voluntary contributions from eligible employees.
All decisions on the Total Group Carbon Footprint 21,902 31,688 30.9 amounts and recipients of contributions are directed by a steering committee 2 per m 0.236 0.351 32.8 comprising employees eligible to contribute to the PAC.
per FTE 3.99 6.91 42.3 per m Revenue 11.21 19.1 41.3 All LSEG US Holdco, Inc contributions will be reviewed for legal compliance and will 3 Scope 1 1,918 1,583 21.2 be publicly reported in accordance with US election laws.
4 Scope 2 11,749 21,738 46.0 Scope 3 7,320 6,572 11.4 Significant agreements Scope 3 Electricity Transmission The following are significant agreements to which the Company is a party that and Distribution 915 1,795 49.0 take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following 1.
2016 figures have been updated on receipt of annual emissions factor guidance and a takeover bid.
All Group totals and electricity breakdowns use market-based Scope 2 emissions factors 3.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities includes Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG, Fugitive SwapClear Emissions and Fleet Vehicles LCH, along with a number of investment banks, is party to an agreement for the 4.
Purchase of electricity by the Group for its own use the Group does not purchase heat, clearing of OTC interest rate swaps in relation to the SwapClear business.
Such steam or cooling arrangements contain certain provisions that entitle the banks to terminate the agreement on a change of control of the Company.
In addition to monitoring our environmental impact, we have set environmental Facility Agreement targets for the next financial year and long-term science based targets that The Company has entered into 2 syndicated, committed, revolving facility include energy, water, waste and travel.
More information on these as well as full agreements dated 9 November 2015 and 11 December 2017: which provide an details of emissions and reporting methodology can be found in our CS report.
aggregate 1.2 billion of flexible financing capacity.
The facilities are partially drawn and sized to provide comfortable headroom to the Group.
The terms of Political Donations and Expenditure the above agreements are consistent and appropriate for an investment grade During the year the Group did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU borrower including change of control provisions which, if triggered, allow the organisations, or incur any political expenditure.
Facility Agent, upon instructions from the majority lenders, to cancel the facility and declare all outstanding loans under the agreement, together with accrued It remains the Companys policy not to make political donations or to incur interest and all other amounts accrued, due and payable.
political expenditure: however, the application of the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 is potentially very broad in nature and, as last year, the Board Notes is seeking shareholder authority to ensure that the Group does not inadvertently The Company has issued to the wholesale fixed income market 250 million of breach these provisions as a result of the breadth of its business activities, Sterling notes due in 2019, and under its Euro Medium Term Note Programme although the Board has no intention of using this authority.
As with previous years the value of which the Company increased from 1 billion to 2 billion during the Board is proposing that shareholders pass a resolution at the forthcoming the course of 2017, two 500 million tranches of euro notes due in 2024 and AGM to authorise the Group to: 2029.
The notes contain a redemption upon change of control provision which, if triggered by the combination of a change of control and, within 120 days make political donations to political parties and independent election thereafter, a credit rating downgrade to non-investment grade, allows note candidates not exceeding 100,000 in total: holders to exercise their option to require the Company to redeem the notes make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not and pay any accrued and unpaid interest due.
exceeding 100,000 in total: and Retail Bond Issue incur political expenditure not exceeding 100,000 in total, The Company has issued 300 million in Sterling denominated retail bonds, under the Euro Medium Term Note Programme referred to above, which are due provided that in any event the aggregate amount of any such donations and in 2021.
The retail bonds contain change of control provisions which, if triggered, expenditure made or incurred by the Group shall not exceed 100,000. by the combination of a change of control and, within 120 days thereafter, a credit rating downgrade to non-investment grade, allow the holder of these Notwithstanding the Companys policy not to make political donations, we bonds to have the option to require the Company to repay early or to purchase recognise the rights of our employees to participate in the political process.
Their the bonds of that holder at their face value together with the accrued interest.
rights to do so are governed by the applicable laws in the countries in which we operate.
For example in the US under the Federal Election Campaign Act, US Employee Share Plans employees can establish non-partisan political action committees known as The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the consequences PACs that encourage voluntary employee participation in the political process.
of a change of control of the Company on employees rights under the plans.
PACs are a common feature of the US political system and operate independently Generally such rights will vest on a change of control and participants will of any political party or candidate.
become entitled to acquire shares in the Company although in certain circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to defer vesting Following the divestment of the Russell Investment Management Business on and to require rights to be exchanged for equivalent rights over the acquiring 1 June 2016, a new PAC was established during the year by one of the Groups companys shares.
other US entities, LSEG US Holdco, Inc..
Consistent with US law, LSEG US Holdco, Inc. paid for the PACs establishment and administrative expenses: providing such London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 97 Directors Report continued Events since the balance sheet date The business plan makes certain assumptions about the performance of the core Acquisition revenue streams and segments, using existing product lines as well as On 23 February 2018, the Group became committed to acquiring an additional assumptions on take up of new product lines, assumptions on appropriate levels 2.04% interest in LCH Group Holdings Limited from certain minority shareholders.
of investment to support expected performance, known inorganic activity, the This acquisition will increase the Groups total stake in LCH Group Holdings Limited ability to refinance debt as required, and expected returns to shareholders.
The transaction is expected to complete in early March 2018.
Further details are provided in Note 34 to the Financial Statements on page 157.
The plan is stress tested using a selected group of severe but plausible downside scenarios as determined relevant by the Group Risk Committee, over the full 3 Disposal of business year plan period.
Impacts on the performance of core revenue streams and On 17 January 2018, the Group completed the sale of Exactpro Systems Limited segments are modelled through business inputs, with appropriate mitigating and its subsidiaries Exactpro.
The Exactpro business was part of the Technology factors also considered.
Services segment and was contained within a stand alone cash generating unit.
The impact on the Groups cash-flows, liquidity headroom, and debt covenants are detailed throughout the 3 year period in each scenario.
No scenario over the Employee Benefit Trust 3 year period leads to a breach in Group covenants or an inability to meet the As at 31 December 2017, the trustee of the London Stock Exchange Employee Groups obligations through insufficient headroom.
Further, a reverse stress test Benefit Trust, which is an independent trustee, held 944,495 shares under the has been completed, to evaluate the financial impacts required to breach the terms of the trust for the benefit of employees and former employees of the Group Risk Committees risk appetite.
The trust is a discretionary trust and the shares are held to meet employees entitlements under the Companys share plans.
FURTHER INFORMATION Employees have no voting rights in relation to the unencumbered shares while Stress testing capabilities are detailed in the Risk they are held in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to exercise the voting rights Management oversight section on page 44. attaching to the unencumbered shares or to abstain from voting.
Shares acquired by employees through the Companys employee share plans rank equally with Going concern the ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position and its objectives and policies in Branches outside the UK managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital are set out in the Certain of the Companys subsidiaries have established branches in a number of Strategic Report on pages 253.
The Directors statement in relation to going different countries in which they operate.
concern is set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 99.
Financial Risk Management Future developments The use of financial instruments by the Group and the Groups Financial Risk The Executive Management team monitors future development and market Management have been specifically considered by the Directors, and relevant trends affecting the Group and its subsidiaries on an ongoing basis.
Details of disclosures appear in Principal Risks and Uncertainties, on pages 4653 of this these developments and trends and the potential implications for the Group can Annual Report, and in the Notes to the Financial Statements, on pages 115161 be found in the Market trends and our response section of the Annual Report of this Annual Report, and in each case are incorporated by reference into this pages 1215.
Auditors Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors proposed at the AGM.
confirm, in the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors Report is approved as listed on pages 5455, that: Strategic Report so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which The Strategic Report pages 253 was approved by the Board on 1 March 2018 the Companys auditors are unaware and signed on its behalf.
he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in By Order of the Board order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information Financial viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet Lisa Condron its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next 3 years.
A period of 3 years has been Group Company Secretary chosen for the purpose of this viability statement, in line with the Groups business 2 March 2018 plan.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the Groups current position and prospects, the Groups 3 year business plan, the Groups risk appetite and the expected impact of a selected group of severe but plausible downside scenarios.
98 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017
