14 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Progress against strategy PORTFOLIO Advances in thermal management technology are a key enabler of unlocking the step change performance improvements required to justify a new generation of aerospace engines.
As a pioneer in aerospace heat exchanger design, Meggitt is well placed to enable customers to overcome this critical challenge.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 15 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Thermal systems In 2017, Meggitt secured a 3.7m grant from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, for research into next generation thermal systems.
This award will enable us to design and develop a series of novel technologies which will enable the design of increasingly lighter, more compact thermal management solutions able to manage far greater thermal loads than currently possible.
16 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Progress against strategy CUSTOMERS Success in bidding on the new generation of commercial aircraft has enabled Meggitt to increase the value of content per aircraft by 20 to 250%.
Further contract wins, such as the award of high performance actuators for the Airbus A320neo, secured in 2017, further expand this market share.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 17 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Expanding market share United Technologies Aerospace Systems UTAS has selected Meggitt to design, develop and supply high performance actuators and position sensors for the Airbus A320 fly-by-wire pilot control system.
Meggitts compact electromechanical actuator controls the rudder trim in response to inputs from the pilot while our Rotary Variable Differential Transformers RVDTs sense the position of the pilots rudder pedals.
With Meggitts extensive expertise in power electronics and motion control, UTAS will receive a complete solution, including both the individual sensors and a fully optimised electronically controlled actuator.
18 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Progress against strategy COMPETITIVENESS Reducing the number of sites we operate is a key enabler of our competitiveness priority.
Rationalising many small sites into fewer, large centres of excellence and expanding our capacity in low cost regions has the potential to reduce costs and more rapidly deliver ambitious improvements in operational performance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 19 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION A factory fit for the future In 2017, we have made good progress, most notably with the announcement of a multimillion pound facility in the West Midlands, UK which will aim to consolidate a range of operations - Aircraft Braking Systems, Control Systems, Customer Services & Support and Corporate Shared Services within a world-class aerospace engineering and technology environment.
Bringing world-class innovation and operational delivery together on one site will accelerate our ability to meet the current and future needs of customers worldwide and will mark a major advance in the development of our global manufacturing footprint.
ft. facility will provide a base for up to 1,000 employees, positioning the business for future growth and will serve as a hub for next-generation aerospace innovation and R&D and as a catalyst for world-class operational performance.
Meggitt plans to invest a total of 130m, in conjunction with partners, at this greenfield site including the costs of construction, extensive fit out with state of the art equipment and transition to the new site which is expected to open in late 2019.
20 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Progress against strategy CULTURE As we continue the transition from a holding company to an integrated business we are focused on increasing alignment and employee engagement through a structured approach to developing a high performance culture.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 21 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION High Performance Culture Aligned with our vision, Enabling the Extraordinary: to fly, to power, to live, we will drive superior performance by nurturing a culture which sets the bar higher for everyone.
This expects us to be the best place to work, the best in the business and one which seeks out, attracts, reinforces and develops high performance.
To achieve this goal, we are in the process of rolling out a series of tools and frameworks designed to support a shift in the value we place not just on what we do but why and how we do it.
This approach to culture has proven to be highly successful at other world-class businesses and over 800 of our leaders have already participated in the programme.
One example of such tools is the results cone, a framework designed to enable more effective problem solving and teamwork.
This is achieved by highlighting and addressing implicit thought habits which drive behaviours that inhibit successful outcomes in the workplace.
A team of Meggitt trained facilitators will continue to deploy this programme across the organisation in 2018, with the aim of incorporating all front line leaders by the end of the year.
