O U R P E O P L E S T N E I L Strategic report OUR BUSINESS MODEL INVESTMENT CAPABILITY AND OUR BUSINESS CAPACITY Primary focus: our clients Jupiters business has six essential At all times, we look to act in the best building blocks.
Together, they interests of our clients, by helping them The essential part of acting in clients allow us to balance and align meet their longterm savings objectives best interests is the delivery of the interests of our three core and acting as stewards of their assets, value through longterm investment stakeholder groups our clients, as outlined in our corporate values.
Our our shareholders and our people.
people and positive culture are central In addition to our core stakeholders, we to this.
As an active fund manager, While each building block addresses have a number of interested parties such we believe that talented investment the interests of all our stakeholders, as our regulators, business partners, the professionals, who are free to pursue some have a primary focus on one Government and society.
Our approach their own investment styles within a particular stakeholder group.
to engaging with these parties is covered collegiate environment, can make a in the Corporate Responsibility section.
This allows us to combine the best aspects of boutique fund managers with the systems, processes and risk management framework that our scale provides.
With no house view to constrain them, INVESTMENT our fund managers actively seek the CAPABILITY best investment opportunities through AND CAPACITY fundamental analysis and clear investment processes for their specific strategies, with a focus on good stewardship.
We organise our investment professionals DISTRIBUTION GOVERNANCE, into strategy teams, so they can share PARTNERS, RISK AND CHANNELS, ideas and information, while remaining CONTROL CLIENTS AND individually accountable for the GEOGRAPHIES performance of their funds.
The need for a track record can be a barrier to entry in the active fund JUPITER management market, since it generally takes three years to build a track record that is attractive to certain clients or distribution partners.
This is especially true of larger institutional clients and distribution partners.
As a group, Jupiter TALENT AND FINANCIAL has a reputation for delivering a strong CULTURE RESOURCES investment track record, which helps us to attract and retain client assets.
Clients also benefit from our clear focus on active asset management: we have OPERATING no distractions from this core purpose.
MODEL AND INFRASTRUCTURE Principal risks Our ability to attract and retain critical staff, sustained market decline and sustained fund underperformance.
10 C R U O O U R S H A R E H O L D E R S STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DISTRIBUTION PARTNERS, CHANNELS, CLIENTS AND GEOGRAPHIES Primary focus: our clients Our mutual fund clients are typically them.
Due to this change in distribution fund distribution partners, such as individual investors who require investment trends, our direct retail book now makes international banks, to gain a foothold products to meet their savings and up only 8% of our overall assets.
Our relationships with retirement needs and for whom the these distribution partners enhance There are also influential organisations in active returns we offer are key to our credibility with other intermediaries, the mutual fund market, such as research achieving the income and growth which helping us to grow in each market consultants and rating agencies.
Their they are looking for.
recommendations affect the demand these individuals also need financial for our products.
Jupiter works with Successful distribution requires products planning advice, which is not part of them to ensure they fully understand that appeal to clients in multiple Jupiters business model.
Therefore, our investment capabilities and related countries and that can deliver superior we do not engage with these investors products and can make appropriate returns over the mediumtolong term.
Instead, we access them through recommendations.
We only look to launch products where our distribution partners such as financial we can differentiate ourselves as a form advisers and wealth managers.
This Institutions access our investment expertise of competitive advantage.
The breadth intermediated approach, which is a through mutual funds, investment trusts of our product range means that clients feature of all the markets we operate in, and segregated mandates.
The route can choose products which meet their is significantly more efficient for us than to accessing and attracting institutions needs and suit current market conditions.
It allows us to our investment products is generally to target our marketing and brand and through investment advisers, who play an By providing value and strong service develop strong relationships with our increasingly major role in helping their to our clients over the long term, we distribution partners, while maintaining a clients to select which fund managers to retain the assets entrusted to us and straightforward client service model.
attract new assets, underpinning our revenue growth.
Platforms are an important form of We continue to deepen our distribution intermediation.
These online services in the UK, focusing on financial advisers Principal risk enable advisers and individuals to invest and wealth managers.
The Jupiter Ineffective product, client and in selected funds from different providers, brand is highly recognised, giving us a geographic diversification.
and to access consolidated reporting competitive advantage in the UK market.
In the UK, around 67% of our annual gross flows into Our strong UK position provides a base mutual funds are through platforms, up for further growth.
In overseas markets, from 37% in 2010.
We focus on building we adopt a follow the client approach, our relationships with the biggest platforms using our strong relationships with large and making our funds available through WHO WE SERVE Asset manager fees JUPITER CLIENTS Investment strategies Individuals including Direct retail book delivered via: ISAs, personal pensions, general Mutual funds: accounts Fee and Platform, Unit Trusts commission advisory SICAVs DISTRIBUTION Institutional investors expenses fees etc PARTNERS including pension Segregated mandates Fund of funds, funds, sovereign wealth Platforms, funds etc Investment trusts Global financial institutions, Advisers, Wealth managers, Key Life companies Flow of product Flow of fees 11 Strategic report OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED FINANCIAL RESOURCES Primary focus: our shareholders and people Maintaining a resilient balance sheet Available profit Model for available profit helps ensure a sustainable business Deducting operating expenses from net distribution model for the benefit of all our revenue leaves us with available profit stakeholders.
Allied to the highly cash for distribution to our people and our generative nature of our profits, shareholders.
Our high conversion rate this gives us the financial resources and of available profits to cash ensures we liquidity we need to invest for growth, have sufficient liquidity to do so, while take advantage of market opportunities maintaining our resilient and sustainable and reward our people and shareholders.
Maintaining the right balance between Remuneration is one tool we use to these competing demands on our attract, retain and motivate the high financial resources ensures we are performing staff we need.
Paying equipped with the tools we need for variable compensation out of available value creation and business growth.
profits aligns their interests with those We consistently apply the following of our shareholders.
model to guide the balance of distribution The rewards of profitability and growth between staff and shareholders.
Variable sta compensation 30% are shared with our investors through Corporation tax 13%-15% We generate profit and cash as follows: ordinary dividends, supplemented by Dividend payments to shareholders 50% special dividends which vary as our Capital retention 10% Net revenue earnings vary.
We ensure Net revenues are the fees we earn, the sustainability of our delivery to less payments to our distribution partners shareholders of the ordinary dividends Balance sheet and seed investment for their services to clients.
Fees are by running a sustainable balance The Group actively manages its balance typically based on a percentage of sheet over the cycle.
This balance sheet positions to maintain appropriate assets, although some funds earn sheet approach is designed to provide levels of liquidity.
A high percentage performance fees for abovetarget investors with progressive returns from of earnings from the Groups operations returns.
By attracting inflows across the the ordinary dividend as well as result in cash inflows, enabling us to cycle and outperforming against the giving us a comfortable surplus over meet our liabilities as they fall due market, we are wellpositioned for net and above our legal or regulatory and seed investments in our own funds.
management fee growth year on year.
Our liquidity position also gives us the ability to pay out the majority of our Operating expenses Around half of available profit is paid posttax earnings to our shareholders Operating expenses comprise salaries to shareholders as ordinary and as dividends whilst retaining a and the costs of running our operating special dividends.
Under our progressive comfortable regulatory capital surplus.
platform and support infrastructure, dividend policy, we target an ordinary including the costs of outsourced service payout ratio of 50% of underlying In 2017, we expanded our seed providers.
Such costs include IT systems, earnings per share.
We pay special investment programme, extending its size, rent, administration and brand dividends out of available profits after scope and making it more dynamic.
a modest retention for capital purposes.
programme assists new fund launches As we continue to grow, we will continue and existing funds to enable them to Taking into account the amounts due to to invest in and maintain our operating reach scale and increase their tax authorities and the amounts retained model, as well as acquiring new talent marketability.
There are rigorous internal for capital purposes, the relative share of across the business.
As a people controls for the allocation, placing and available profit between staff and business, these investments are generally redemption of seed investment.
shareholders is guided by the recognised as expenses in the profit and proportions depicted in this graphic.
Failure to deliver strategy, sustained market decline and sustained fund underperformance.
We analyse our financial resources using Alternative Performance Measures see page 31 for the relevant definitions of terms used 12 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OPERATING TALENT GOVERNANCE, MODEL AND AND RISK AND INFRASTRUCTURE CULTURE CONTROL Primary focus: our clients, shareholders Primary focus: our clients and people Primary focus: our clients, shareholders and people and people Our operating model aims to ensure that Jupiter has an established reputation for Our governance, risk and control GRC as much of our growth in revenues as attracting talented individuals in all areas framework is critical to our success.
It possible drops through to available profit of the business.
ensures we protect the interests of our and operating cash flow.
clients, people and shareholders, and We nurture our fund management talent that we meet their expectations of us.
It Operating an efficient platform is to develop their capabilities and ensure also ensures that we are proactive in critical to this.
In addition to providing we have succession plans to advance meeting all new regulatory requirements.
operational leverage, our platform talented managers.
We balance this with enables us to expand distribution, allows bringing in new people with specialist We have invested significantly in our fund managers to work effectively and skills, giving us strength and depth GRC environment in recent years, so it supports the addition of new products as well as enabling us to expand the remains fit for purpose as the business and investment strategies.
breadth of investment strategies we offer.
grows and new regulations are introduced.
We continue to enhance our governance, We continually invest in our platform We invest in all our people through process and controls, and to evolve the to ensure it meets the needs of our training and development, and look management information and reporting business as it grows and supports our to maintain high levels of engagement that supports our decisionmaking.
Our significant and strong communication.
We value investment in 2017 will, over time, deliver the differences between people, Principal risks efficiencies and more operating scale, which promote different viewpoints Operational control environment, cyber facilitating further growth through a and diversity of thought, helping us crime and regulatory change.
standardised approach to running the to innovate and make better decisions platform.
We have also invested to for our clients.
ensure we comply with new regulations, Our culture is underpinned by a set notably MiFID II.
Investment in our of values, which help our people to platform to support our growth and understand how to drive change through diversification strategies will continue their behaviour.
Principal risk Principal risks Ability to attract and retain critical staff.
Failure to enhance operating platform to support future business requirements, failure of critical outsource partner.
