Market trends and our response Through its 3 core business activities: 1.
Globalisation and growing global wealth 2.
Changing investment behaviours Intellectual Property: Risk and Balance Sheet Global wealth continues to grow, with total AUM While the market is starting to observe an uptick in 3 Management: and Capital Formation, the expected to almost double from US$84.9 trillion in global economic growth, there remains elevated 1 Group supports global economic growth by 2016 to US$145.4 trillion by 2025.
The distribution geopolitical uncertainty and low volatility.
providing financial markets infrastructure of wealth has also continued to evolve through 2017, Accordingly, investor needs and services required to facilitate safe, effective and transparent both regionally and across market participant types.
from infrastructure providers are evolving.
Investors global capital allocation, trading and Developing markets continue to increase their share are utilising products that facilitate low cost investment decisions, and associated of the worlds assets between 2000 and 2017 their investment, driving the observed trends in movement risk and capital management.
share of global wealth increased from 11% to 19%, of AUM from active to passive management through 2 and by 2022 this is expected to reach 22%.
The pace tracking vehicles such as ETPs.
The global ETP market Our customers are global and range from the worlds of growth in these economies is expected to continue has seen a five-fold rise in AUM over the last decade largest financial institutions to retail investors to outpace that of developed markets, indicating the and is expected to continue to increase through 2018, and SMEs: all participants share exposure to the importance of maintaining a global presence as with portfolio managers seeing the potential for dynamically evolving financial markets landscape customers themselves become more global, and assets in passive management to almost double from 4 which shapes customers needs and influences the serve a geographically wider range of clients.
The importance of data, products and services that the Group provides.
technology and the innovations and efficiencies that We observe a number of high level trends that Implications for LSEG can be provided with new tools is increasingly continue to impact the industry and shape our The Group is a global financial markets infrastructure understood by customers, who are requiring new strategy and plans: provider and continues to expand its presence and servicing and commercial models to maximise the establish partnerships in strategically important opportunities presented.
Globalisation and growing global wealth regions to serve customers.
Changing investment behaviours the US and Asia, as emphasised by the acquisitions Alongside this, the Environmental, Social and of Mergent and The Yield Book, and numerous Governance ESG space has received significant 3.
Customer balance sheet and operational capital strategic partnerships within China and India which attention, reflecting both investor appetite to constraints facilitate access to emerging markets through incorporate aspects of Sustainable Investment into 4.
Innovative and consolidating competitive our hubs.
strategies, and political support from legislation and landscape initiatives such as the UN Principles for Responsible We are building a global, inter-connected relationship Investment and 2015 Paris Agreement.
Regulatory change management approach with commonality across businesses and customer segments.
This is reflected Implications for LSEG in both our operations, with offices in 19 countries, LSEG is well positioned for the anticipated further and the distribution of our income by currency, growth in assets within passive investment through which is increasingly diversified.
our FTSE Russell businesss low cost, scalable model, as well as its global presence and sales.
Our acquisitions of Mergent and The Yield Book Credit Suisse Global Wealth expanded our ability to provide customer solutions reports 20132017 in additional asset classes, with The Yield Book Total wealth by region US$ tn increasing the AUM benchmarked to our indexes to c. US$15 trillion.
280 263 256 250 241 Additionally, the Groups Sustainable Investment models have helped numerous customers launch ESG products and raise capital through Green Bonds, a product whose profile continues to increase.
Asset & Wealth Management Revolution: Embracing 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Exponential Change, PWC, 2017 2.
Global Wealth Report 2017, Credit Suisse, 2017 3.
I MF World Economic Outlook Report, October 2017 Seeking Equity Fixed Income Other Sustainable Growth: Short-Term Recovery, Long-Term Challenges Source: BlackRock Global ETP Landscape, Monthly Snapshot, 4.
BlackRock Global ETP Landscape, BlackRock 2017 : December 2017, BlackRock, 2018 Greenwich Associates: 2018 Market Structure Trends report 12 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Strategic Report Market trends and our response 3.
Customer balance sheet and operational 4.
Regulatory change capital constraints competitive landscape During 2017, significant regulatory initiatives that the Recent regulation such as MiFID II, Fundamental Regulation remains a key driver of client needs Group has highlighted in previous reports, impacting Review of the Trading Book FRTB and EMIR has and service provision, while developments in new various businesses, continued to take shape.
Other iteratively developed, and now captures a wider technologies are facilitating a reordering of regulatory initiatives increased in prominence during universe of entities: these customers are facing traditional industry boundaries.
Combined with the past year and are now a significant focus for us, significant regulatory change, creating cost, capital, the increasing client need for integrated access in particular cyber security rules and standards, the risk and conduct challenges alongside difficult points to various fragmented services, these trends evolution of sustainable investment rules and market conditions.
Costs and operational challenges are widening the definition of the financial markets products, and regulatory scrutiny of emerging are increasing as a result, and customers are evolving infrastructure industry, and thereby driving financial technology.
All these initiatives evolve in their operating models and seeking methods of consolidation of providers within the competitive the context of the uncertainty caused by the UK reducing inefficiencies in processes.
landscape and encouraging new entrants.
referendum decision to leave the European Union Brexit and the potential for significant changes in Implications for LSEG Throughout 2017, there have been ongoing US policy.
On the following pages we provide our The Group understands that efficiency is key for acquisitions and partnerships across trading, assessment of likely regulatory changes and their customers, for both operational processes and information services, post trade and technology impacts on the Group.
capital efficiency, so that their efforts can be services as the industry evolves.
We expect this directed to value-creating activities through growth, to continue through 2018, in particular within Brexit update investment decisions and intelligent use of capital.
the high-growth areas of data, analytics and risk In December 2017, the European Commission EC Reduced fragmentation and consolidated, management, with innovation and collaboration recommended to the European Council that it begin standardised information greatly help customers driving the development of new solutions and discussions on the next phase of orderly withdrawal and the Group is focused on providing solutions that delivering benefits to customers.
This followed the joint report solve these issues, such as LCH SwapAgent, LCH publication by the EU and UK on the key issues relating Spider and Turquoises block trading functionality.
Implications for LSEG to the Withdrawal Agreement.
It was made clear that LSEG has been active within the industry in 2017, the institutions position on transitional arrangements Our partnership approach leaves us well positioned acting upon our strategic pillars through was that they must be time limited and consist of the to play a leading role in addressing customer partnerships and inorganic opportunities such as prolongation of the whole EU acquis.
Uncertainty challenges across the industry, and various services the acquisitions of The Yield Book and Mergent, continues and could impact market sentiment and within the Group are solely focused on assisting to enhance our positioning as a global financial levels of activity including IPOs.
customers in areas aligned with regulation.
As our product low trading volumes may adversely affect our Capital diversity and geographic presence has increased, Implications for LSEG Markets businesses, there is potential for increased so has our capability for understanding client needs As part of a structured Brexit programme formed demand for risk management and capital efficiency across the value chain and our ability to respond by the Group, we are engaging with UK and EU solutions.
As customers continue to seek services to to them.
For instance we have facilitated access to Brexit policy leads to advise on financial market help manage capital and operational constraints, an expanded set of asset classes, supported SME infrastructure considerations.
Our key objectives are there are opportunities for collaborative and capital-raising through our ELITE programme and maintaining Londons position as a global financial innovative solutions, and for LSEG to be central to provided services to further client segments, such hub, providing continuity of cross-border financial the future shape of financial markets infrastructure.
as LCHs Sponsored Clearing model.
Through 2018 services and protecting against policies which may the Group expects to continue to identify, assess result in fragmentation of financial markets.
Both and execute organic and inorganic opportunities EU and UK authorities have approached LSEG and Coalition Index revenues by business that enhance our existing business, or create new requested contingency plans for several businesses.
US$ bn opportunities in complementary areas.
167 165 160 156 SUMMARY OF REGULATORY CHANGE: 150 40 43 40 37 Key legislation EMIR 2.1 and 2.2 41 45 45 CCP Recovery and Resolution 50 43 42 Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 82 77 76 70 68 Regulation MiFID II European Supervisory Authorities ESA Review 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Capital Markets Union CMU Green Finance EU Benchmark Regulations and IOSCO Principles FICC Equities IBD Source: Coalition IB Index Report FY17 2018 Technology Note: Coalition Index tracks the performance of the 12 largest investment banks globally.
North America London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 13 Market trends and our response continued Key legislation CCP Recovery and Resolution Open Access European Market Infrastructure Authorities in Europe, North America and other major Open Access underpins provisions within MiFID II Regulation EMIR 2.1 REFIT jurisdictions, as well as International Standard that change the way some clearing houses, trading The EC has proposed a review of EMIR transaction-level Setters, are working on frameworks for the recovery venues and index benchmark providers will need requirements.
In particular, it is introducing thresholds and resolution of CCPs.
In the unlikely scenario where to provide their products.
The changes, which will for the application of the clearing obligation to CCPs face severe distress or failure, this framework apply when MiFID II comes into effect, require financial counterparties, extending the exemption will ensure that the critical functions of CCPs are access to be provided to all potential users of trading, for pension scheme arrangements and introducing preserved while maintaining financial stability.
At clearing and indexes, on a non-discriminatory basis.
an obligation for clearing members to provide the international level, CPMI-IOSCO is leading a work clearing services under Fair, Reasonable And Non stream on CCP resiliency and recovery, while the Implications for LSEG Discriminatory FRAND commercial terms.
It has also Financial Stability Board FSB is conducting the Open Access remains a key principle that underpins proposed streamlining trade repositories reporting analysis on CCP resolution.
Final guidance from these our strategy and business model and is fully aligned requirements.
The Commission Proposal still needs to work streams was published in July 2017.
In the EU, with the way we currently operate.
Our clearing be discussed with the other co-legislators Council and the EC published on 28 November 2016 its legislative services already accept trades for clearing that Parliament before final adoption.
proposal for CCP recovery and resolution.
This originate from venues outside of the Group: some proposal is currently being reviewed and discussed of our trading venues already provide choice of EMIR 2.2 EU and third country CCP supervision by the European Parliament and the Council of the clearing through alternative CCPs outside the The EC is proposing to review the supervisory EU.
In the US there continues to be increased focus Group: and FTSE Russell provides index licences framework applicable to EU and third country CCPs.
by lawmakers and regulators on the systemic to a number of exchange businesses that are Concerning EU CCPs, it will provide ESMA with new importance of CCPs and regulation of CCP resiliency, competitors to our trading venues.
competences allowing it to review national competent recovery and resolution.
authorities decisions and potentially amend or reject Open Access increases competition across a them.
Similar powers are attributed to EU central Implications for LSEG range of services, to the benefit of investors and banks of issue.
Concerning third country CCPs, the Harmonisation of the requirements for CCPs market participants, and potentially provides the text proposes to distinguish non-systemic CCPs Tier recovery plans, and the introduction of resolution Groups relevant businesses with opportunities to 1 that can be recognised according to the current EU plans prepared by the authorities responsible for launch new products and attract new trading and regime from systemically important CCPs that have resolving CCPs i. e. resolution authorities should clearing flows.
to directly comply with EMIR and are subject to direct provide clarity on the impact on CCPs and identify supervision of ESMA.
In addition, CCPs considered the critical functions they must maintain in the European Supervisory Authorities substantially too important to be recognised would unlikely event of their failure.
LSEG will continue ESA Review therefore need to be established in the EU to be able to assist the authorities and provide input for the The EC has made proposals to significantly transform to provide services to EU customers.
LSEG has development of this framework.
ESA, principally by empowering ESMA to be the responded to the Commission Proposal, which still central supervisor for a range of new financial needs to be discussed with the other co-legislators Markets in Financial Instruments Directive entities including third country CCPs, third country Council and Parliament before final adoption.
Regulation MiFID II benchmark administrators, and data service MiFID II is the widest ranging of the EU legislative reporting providers, and also the approval authority Implications for LSEG initiatives, in terms of its impact on the Group and for certain types of prospectus.
ESMA would also LSEG and its customers have raised concerns its customers.
Scope in relation to LSEG includes be able to levy fees directly on financial institutions that the mechanism allows the Commission to rules relating to market transparency and trading even where they are not directly supervised.
However potentially deny the recognition of third country structures, market data provision and publication, the prospects for final political agreement on the CCPs of substantial systemic importance, which trading market microstructure, transaction reporting, proposal are highly uncertain as there are strong would penalise EU market participants through less the new SME Growth Market regime, Open Access objections across the EU member states.
choice of services and face higher risks and costs.
provisions, clearing houses and benchmark providers.
In line with our key objectives to provide continuity Implications for LSEG of cross-border financial services and protect Implications for LSEG Transformational change to the supervisory against policies which may result in fragmentation Since MiFID II entered into force in January 2018, architecture in the EU presents fewer uncertainties of financial markets, we consider that a set of the Group believes that the long term impacts have for LSEG than other international financial alternative requirements would provide EU been broadly either neutral or positive for the Capital institutions.
As a global financial market authorities with the tools to appropriately monitor Markets businesses, with Open Access potentially infrastructure provider, LSEG is experienced at the risks third country CCPs manage in the EU providing opportunities across all Group segments serving customers around the world and working market, without having recourse to denial of see section following on Open Access.
In our closely with multiple regulators across borders.
LSEG is engaging with the industry and Information Services segment, UnaVista should We therefore see much potential for introducing policy makers to ensure the right calibration of EMIR start to benefit from increased transaction reporting efficiencies and a more level playing field for requirements as well as a smooth and efficient opportunities while provisions relating to regulatory implementation across the Single Market supervision of both EU and third country CCPs.
distribution of some real time data may lead to through the ESA review.
At the same time LSEG will some change in our business and revenue model in need to remain engaged in the policy debate in due course.
The extra-territorial impact of MiFID II order to ensure that decision makers are properly on Asian members of LSEG trading venues is likely informed of market structures and impacts and that to become clearer in 2018. the design of the new regulatory system is calibrated to achieve an appropriate balance between pan-European and national supervision.
14 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Strategic Report Market trends and our response Capital Markets Union CMU Green Finance Technology recommendations for Congress and relevant financial CMU is a plan by the EC that aims to create deeper The EC proposed a regulation on a framework for services agencies to begin implementing some of the and more integrated European capital markets.
The the free flow of non-personal data in the EU and a US Treasurys recommendations in line with the CMU Action Plan sets out work streams designed to regulation on European Union Agency for Network Administrations goals.
unlock investment from the EU and the rest of the and Information Security and Information and world, improve financing for EU companies and Communication Technology cybersecurity Implications for LSEG investment projects, make the financial system more certification.
LSEG has responded to the Commission Although the timing and substantive provisions stable, deepen market integration and enhance Proposals, which still need to be discussed with the remain in development, it is expected that final competition.
LSEG is closely following development other co-legislators Council and Parliament in view provisions could involve areas that directly or of the EU Prospectus Regulation level II, reviews on of final adoption.
indirectly impact our post trade, information the functioning of the corporate bond market, as well services and capital markets businesses as well as the Commissions proposal for a prudential regime For the financial services industry, regulators in as participants in our markets.
We do not anticipate for investment firms including market makers, for a major jurisdictions are closely monitoring and any major efforts to restrict the mandates for pan-European Personal Pension, and for initiatives to considering regulatory frameworks on emerging central clearing of certain swaps.
The Commission aims financial technology FinTech, in particular the to implement measures resulting from all Action Plan potential uses of distributed ledger technology, Canada initiatives by 2019. cloud computing and artificial intelligence.
The Capital Markets Stability Act CMSA, a package of reforms to address systemic risks in the financial The Commission also aims to increase retail Implications For LSEG system, including benchmarks and CCPs, remains participation in capital markets through CMU Cybersecurity, data protection and flow, and under review in the Parliament.
At the regulatory initiatives to remove barriers to retail investment.
emerging technology related regulatory initiatives, level, the Canadian Securities Administrators apply in various degrees to all Group functions, implemented a mandate to clear certain classes Regarding green finance and ESG reporting, LSEG either as compliance obligations or constituents of of interest rate swaps in 2017.
Although the initial and FTSE Russell continue to actively contribute the services that we provide to our customers.
We impact has not substantially increased cleared to this global debate, in particular through the continue to invest to ensure cyber resiliency and volumes from Canada, we are closely following EU High Level Expert Group and the UK Green compliance with regulations.
In addition to the review of these provisions.
complying with current cyber and data protection requirements, LSEG complies with significant data Implications for LSEG Implications for LSEG and cyber operational controls and standards Although the timing and substantive provisions These initiatives may increase activity across required under financial services legislation.
of the CMSA are not certain, further development our Primary and Secondary Markets, and may and passage of these provisions could directly or lead to more activity in our post trade businesses.
Regarding the proposal on the free flow of indirectly impact our post trade and information Additionally, green finance initiatives present non-personal data, there may be potential benefits businesses as well as participants in our markets.
enhanced commercial opportunities for FTSE to the Group by removing data localisation Russell ESG indexes.
requirements and facilitating data portability.
FURTHER INFORMATION More detail is provided in the table at the back Benchmarks LSEG continues to monitor and engage with of this report pages 166167 that shows a range The EU Benchmarks Regulation was proposed to help regulators and leading industry working groups of regulatory developments by business area.
restore confidence in the integrity of benchmarks, in on these issues for the development of regulatory the aftermath of the LIBOR scandal, and came into frameworks.
Building on the principles agreed by IOSCO, the regulation will impact North America benchmark users, contributors and administrators.
United States Apart from interest rate benchmarks, it also covers all Certain financial services reforms put in place benchmarks used to reference financial instruments under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and admitted to trading or traded on a regulated venue, Consumer Protection Act of 2010 will continue such as energy and currency derivatives, those that to be reviewed by Congress and the relevant are used in financial contracts, such as mortgages, Federal agencies.
There are several legislative and those that are used to measure the performance proposals that, if passed, could impact our business of investment funds.
The regulation enshrines the operations in the US, particularly our post IOSCO Principles and we view the new rule set trade and capital markets businesses.
positively as it raises standards across the industry.
We remain closely engaged with the CFTCs own Implications for LSEG initiative to review the agency rules and regulations to FTSE Russell is a key global benchmarks improve the effectiveness of their application.
A related administrator: as such FTSE international Limited CFTC report with recommendations is expected this submitted a draft application at the end of 2017 year.
The US Treasury report entitled A Financial to the FCA to be authorised as an EU based System That Creates Economic Opportunities: Capital administrator of benchmarks.
Markets published in October 2017 provides London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 15
