JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Charles Rice Nick Henry Stuart Kilpatrick Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Nominations Committee Appointment: Charles was appointed Appointment: Nick joined the Group in Appointment: Stuart joined the Group to the Board in April 2004 and became February 2003 and was appointed Chief in July 2010 and was appointed to the Non-Executive Chairman on 1 August Executive Officer in December 2004.
Board as Group Finance Director in 2012.
Skills and experience: Nick worked Skills and experience: Charles has for 20 years for P&O Containers and Skills and experience: Stuart is a wide experience in commercial shipping P&O Ports, of which 10 years were member of the Institute of Chartered having held a number of commercial in senior management positions Accountants of England and Wales and operational roles with Overseas based in Singapore, Hong Kong, and qualified with BDO Binder Hamlyn.
During the 1990s Australia, Netherlands and the Indian Stuart was formerly Group Finance he was responsible for the development Sub-Continent.
Nicks experience Director of Empresaria Group plc, and of P&Os Trans European logistics and encompasses a wide range of he previously held senior finance roles services division and was appointed as commercial and operational roles, with Vodafone Group plc, Charles a main board Director of The Peninsular including fleet management and Baynes plc and Elementis Group plc.
and Oriental Steam Navigation information technology.
External appointments: Trustee of the Company P&O in 2001.
External appointments: Member Groups Shore Staff Pension Scheme.
External appointments: Charles is of the Supervisory Board of the UK currently Chairman of the Transport Chamber of Shipping: Non-Executive Research Foundation.
Director of Britannias Gold Limited.
26 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Non-Executive Directors Malcolm Paul Senior Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees # Appointment: Malcolm was appointed to the Board in February 2011.
Skills and experience: Malcolm is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and was a founder and former Finance Director of WSP Group plc between 1987 and 2009.
Prior to that Malcolm was a principal at the corporate finance boutique Financial Decisions and an equity partner at Longcrofts, Chartered Accountants.
External appointments: Chairman of Anthesis Consulting Group, a private equity backed global sustainability consultancy.
Aedamar Comiskey Non-Executive Director # Appointment: Aedamar was appointed to the Board in November 2014.
Skills and experience: Aedamar has been a partner at Linklaters LLP since 2001 and is a member of the firms International Board.
Aedamar specialises in international and domestic mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures and fundraisings and is very involved in expanding Linklaters business in Latin America.
Before joining Linklaters, Aedamar worked for two years as a consultant with Accenture in Dublin, Chicago and Belfast.
David Moorhouse CBE Non-Executive Director # Appointment: David was appointed to the Board in August 2013.
Skills and experience: David was formerly Executive Chairman of Lloyds Register and earlier in his career, CEO of John Brown plc, a director of Trafalgar House plc and Executive Vice President of Kvaerner where he had particular responsibility for their engineering and process businesses.
External appointments: Chairman of Braemer Shipping plc: Non-Executive Director of OAO Sovcomflot: Life member of the UKs Foundation for Science and Technology.
Michael Salter Non-Executive Director # Appointment: Michael was appointed to the Board in August 2013.
Skills and experience: Michael was formerly Chief Operating Officer at Abbot Group plc and earlier in his career, CEO of Smedvig Limited and General Manager of Bawden Drilling UK Ltd.
External appointments: Non-Executive Director of SAR Gruppen AS.
Justin Atkinson Non-Executive Director # Appointed: Justin was appointed to the Board in February 2018.
Skills and experience: Justin was formerly Chief Executive Officer of Keller Group plc between April 2004 and May 2015, having previously held the position of Group Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer.
Justin trained and qualified as an accountant and spent the early part of his career with Reuters plc.
External appointments: Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Kier Group plc: Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Forterra plc: Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Sirius Real Estate Ltd and a member of the Audit Committee of the National Trust.
Audit Committee # Remuneration 27 Committee Nominations Committee FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
