12 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Our strategy DESIGNED TO DELIVER BREAKTHROUGH PERFORMANCE Our strategy is designed to deliver our 2021 targets.
OUR STRATEGY Working closely with our customers, we deliver technologically differentiated systems and products which have to meet high certification requirements in aerospace, defence Portfolio Customers and selected energy markets.
Attractive markets OE Aftermarket growth Through focusing on engineering Strong positions Performance and operational excellence, we build Investing in attractive growth broad installed bases of equipment Technology opportunities in our core business: for which we provide support targeting value enhancing Delivery of high quality, timely service throughout their lifecycle.
acquisitions and selling non-core and support to increase customer businesses.
satisfaction while maximising the Our ambitious and diverse teams through life value of our products act with integrity to create superior which are installed on over 69,000 value for all of our stakeholders.
Strategic priorities We have outlined four strategic priorities that will enable us to accelerate revenue growth and return on capital employed.
Growth Our strategy is designed to achieve competitive advantage at every & ROCE stage of our business model see pages 12 to 21.
Competitiveness Culture Productivity Collaborative Purchasing High performance Footprint Build and nurture a high performance culture, where high Inventory levels of employee engagement Investing in our people, property and enable us to accelerate strategy plant to make operational performance execution.
Reducing fragmentation to increase economies of scale.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 13 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CUMULATIVE CASH FLOW The industry business model requires significant cash investment in the development phase of programmes.
We deliver strong positive cash flow within our civil aerospace and military end-markets during the in-service phase, breaking even on cumulative cash between years 11 and 18 typically, and around five years earlier in the energy market where upfront 0 investments are lower.
Wheels and brakes Military Development Development In production In production Mature Mature 05 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Civil Energy Typical product lifecycle years Development Development In production In production Mature Mature INVESTMENT CYCLE 01 DEVELOPMENT Investing in our customers competitiveness As our products require significant cashinvestments during the technology development phases of new programmes, we only commit to those offering visible, worthwhile returns.
These are typically characterised by sole-source contracts forthe life of programmes and platforms backed by established original equipment manufacturers targeting clear, addressable markets and with ambitious investment plans of their own.
02 PRODUCTION Revenues start Revenue is usually generated when a programme moves into production.
For civil aircraft, production of any one platform can last for up to ten years before it is replaced.
Military and industrial equipment is manufactured over much longer periods.
03 MATURITY Revenues gain momentum As our products age, they require maintenance or replacement at varyingintervals based on condition.
This drives demand for spare parts and repair services over product lifecycles that can extend to over thirty years.
Spare parts are priced to reflect the investment made during the development phase and as such, the maturity phase is typified by strong positive cash flows.
