Our wider responsibility The Group fulfils vital economic and social roles in enabling Our CS strategy is executed through 4 pillars: our markets: our services: our companies to access funds for growth and development.
As people: and our communities, using 6 impact areas that direct the Groups such, integrity and trust remain at the core of what we do.
focus in all CS activities and initiatives.
Executive Committee members lead working groups composed of cross-Group colleagues, focused on developing Below, we summarise our approach to Corporate Sustainability CS, specific targets and action plans in each of the 4 pillars.
As part of a materiality including non-financial reporting disclosures, and highlight some of assessment, we have applied this framework to direct our CS approach to identify the developments over the past year.
We have also produced a separate, the most relevant and important issues for the Group.
detailed 2017 CS report, which can be viewed at www.
We have seen good progress in our CS performance with our external CS ratings remaining in the top quartile when ranked against peers.
As our business expands Our Approach and diversifies, we continue to review our approach to sustainability.
Our Our CS strategy underlies our business strategy, and has 2 core objectives: objectives for each of our 6 impact areas are set out in the Looking Ahead section of our CS Report.
To play an essential role in enabling sustainable global economic growth: and To ensure our CS behaviour and actions are consistent with good practice while generating long-term value creation CS Impact Framework Pillars Our Markets Our Services Our People Our Communities Supporting the sustainable growth Enabling informed investment Recruiting and developing Empowering people, of companies for long-term decisions and transparent diversified talent to fulfil enriching communities economic prosperity markets operations their potential Impact Areas Convene Grow Disclose Transition Develop Sustain We leverage our We will help small We will provide We work with issuers We will employ and We will help the position at the centre and medium-sized investors with and investors to invest in the less advantaged of capital markets to enterprises SMEs information and tools provide solutions that development of a in communities facilitate dialogue raise capital and fund to assess the ESG accelerate and highly diverse worldwide to develop and catalyse action investments to create performance of manage the transition global workforce business skills and towards the employment companies to enable to a low carbon and to deliver on our to support the development of worldwide incorporation into sustainable economy sustainable vision environment sustainable finance engagement and investment Environment consistency in voluntary global reporting standards.
As the Group, and FTSE As a Group, we recognise that we must use resources in ways that deliver the Russell in particular, intends to play a critical role in enabling the flow of long-term sustainability and profitability of the business and have a positive information envisioned by the TCFD, the recommendations were incorporated impact on the environment.
We are taking such factors into account in developing into FTSE Russells climate-related indicators and in the Group ESG Reporting products and services that support these aims through companies listed on our Guidance.
Going forward, the Group will continue to review the recommendations.
The Groups primary greenhouse gas GHG emissions arise from energy, waste and water in our offices and data centres around the world, from staff travel, Global 2017 GHG Emissions and indirectly from our supply chain.
tCO e Tonnes of carbon 2 1 dioxide equivalent 2017 2016 % Change During the reporting period, we achieved a 31% reduction in our absolute carbon 2 Total Group Carbon Footprint 21,902 31,688 30.9 emissions and a 42% reduction in carbon emissions per Full Time Employee FTE, 2 per m 0.236 0.351 32.8 accelerating our progress from previous years.
This significant reduction is per FTE 3.99 6.91 42.3 primarily attributed to our move to over 64% of the Groups electricity now being per m Revenue 11.21 19.1 41.3 provided by 100% natural renewable energy.
3 Scope 1 1,918 1,583 21.2 4 Scope 2 11,749 21,738 46.0 We take an active approach to emissions management, with our global Scope 3 7,320 6,572 11.4 Environmental Management Group measuring GHG impacts across our property portfolio, including managed offices where possible.
We report beyond the Scope 3 Electricity Transmission and Distribution 915 1,795 49.0 mandatory guidelines to include Scope 3 emissions.
2016 figures have been updated on receipt of annual emissions factor guidance and actual quarterly via our Intranet, and we annually disclose to the CDP, Dow Jones figures from suppliers Sustainability Indices DJSI, FTSE4Good and on our website: www.
All Group totals and electricity breakdowns use market-based Scope 2 emissions factors 3.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities includes Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG, Fugitive Emissions and Fleet Vehicles In June 2017, the Financial Stability Boards Task Force on Climate-related 4.
Purchase of electricity by the Group for its own use the Group does not purchase heat, steam Financial Disclosures TCFD released its reporting recommendations.
The Group or cooling signed the TCFD statement of support, affirming its commitment to support the recommendations, and sees them as an important step in driving improved global 34 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Strategic Report Our wider responsibility In addition to monitoring our environmental impact, we have set environmental and abolish forced labour and child labour.
Human rights considerations targets for the next financial year including energy, water, waste and travel, as are also included in our Supplier Code of Conduct and Group Corporate well as long-term science-based targets out to 2030.
More information on these Responsibility Policy.
as well as full details of emissions and reporting methodology can be found in our CS report.
The Group has a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery.
Our Slavery and Human trafficking statement published on our website describes the steps Social taken during 2017 to improve our supply chain management and procurement People processes and procedures.
Suppliers that make up the top 75% of spend have Attracting, developing and retaining the skills we need to deliver on our strategy been reviewed for modern slavery risks.
We are unifying our growing company through a number of processes and we are dedicated to supporting our employees development Community in an environment built on core values of partnership, integrity, innovation We work to ensure that our activities benefit the communities where we and excellence.
We have an active engagement programme with governments, inter-governmental agencies and regulators to promote ESG disclosure and Employee engagement is of high importance to the continued growth of the sustainable practices.
We work to support local communities and the Group, and in 2017 this was reflected in our response to the findings of the prior environment where we have a significant presence.
3 key areas on which our employees felt we could improve were communication around change, career satisfaction London Stock Exchange Group Foundation, set up in 2010, provides a primary and cross-Group collaboration.
To address these, we invested in a Group Change channel for the Groups charitable giving and a focal point for staff engagement Framework, designed to help us drive greater consistency and transparency in with local charities.
In 2017, the Group donated 1,122,000 to the Foundation, how we manage change.
In addition, we developed the Group Career Framework and 107,000 directly to a number of charities.
The Foundations approach and for launch in 2018, enabling colleagues to explore opportunities.
In 2017, we positioning is aligned with the overall Group CS strategy, while recognising the launched a focus on wellbeing in the UK, covering 5 areas: physical, mental, global reach of LSEGs business model.
UNICEF remains a global charity partner, social purpose, financial and work-life balance.
The Mentor Exchange is also and we continue to support the community investment programme.
A new UK fostering collaboration and career development by uniting mentors and charity partner, School Home Support, was chosen in 2017.
The charity provides mentees from across the Group.
We plan to host our next Group-wide access to education and life skills for young people with the aim of enabling them employee engagement survey in 2018. to live secure adult lives.
Diversity Equal Opportunities Governance We value diversity as a driver for development and innovation.
Our operations span The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and the globe, with offices in Australia, Canada, France, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, business integrity, and in the past year we have again complied with all of the UK Malaysia, Mexico, Taiwan, China, Sri Lanka, UAE, the UK and the US.
We have Corporate Governance Codes provisions.
The Board will continue to ensure that employees of 72 different nationalities, reflecting both the international scale it provides effective leadership and promotes uncompromising standards.
For of our business and the diversity of our customer base.
In 2017, we provided further information on governance see pages 6263. unconscious bias training to all colleagues and diversity awareness workshops to line managers.
We are working to increase diversity and inclusion such as flexible We face a wide and evolving universe of risks.
Our presence in post trade services working and the disability confident employer scheme.
By 2020, we aim to achieve provides exposure to financial market volatility.
In addition, we face technology a stretch target of 40% female representation for senior management and our risks such as cyber threats, systems resilience and technological innovation, overall staff numbers.
and political, regulatory and macro-economic risks, which include the impact of our competitors actions.
Achieving on our growth strategy in this dynamic Gender Diversity environment requires strong risk management.
Our governance and risk management structures continue to develop to meet this need see pages Female Male 42 and 56 for further details.
LSEG plc Board 2 9 1,3 LSEG Subsidiary Boards 23 142 Anti-bribery and corruption 2,3 Executive Committee and Leadership Teams 146 303 We have assessed the various risks that the Group faces with regards to employee All other staff 1,458 3,001 conduct and behaviour.
A range of policies are in place, tailored to the needs of the Total 1,604 3,304 Group and regularly reviewed and approved by the Board, including anti-bribery 1.
Mix of employees and Non-Executive Directors and corruption and conflict of interest policies, as part of our wider conduct 2.
Executive Committee and Leadership Teams in LSEG initiatives.
New joiners along with existing staff have, throughout the course of 3.
The LSEG Subsidiary Board members and the members of the Executive Committee and Leadership Teams together comprise the Senior Managers for the purposes of section 414C 18 2017, undertaken mandatory compliance testing on these subjects, with 100% c 11 of the Companies Act 2006 successful completion across the Groups operations.
The relevance and spirit of Note: Figures as of year ended 31 December 2017. these policies, along with their communication to staff, is regularly reviewed to ensure confidence in meeting expectations and ensuring understanding.
A report on gender pay gap was published in March 2018.
The report can be found here: www.
com  corporateCapital Market Days responsibility We are supporting the implementation of our ESG reporting guidance through ESG-focused Capital Market Days.
The guidance was published in February 2017 Human Rights and sets out recommendations for ESG reporting.
The first Sustainability Day, As part of our approach to social responsibility, we adhere to the UN Guiding organised by Borsa Italiana, was held in Italy and welcomed over 250 attendees Principles on Business and Human Rights, together with the International and 30 ESG investors.
UK Sustainability Day, hosted by LSE, is expected to take Labour Organization Conventions and Recommendations, within our working place in 2018. environment in each location where we operate.
The Group strongly supports these conventions, which aim to promote freedom of association and equality, London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 35
