Complying with the provisions of the Code The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate Chief Executive governance and business integrity in all of its activities.
Throughout formulates the strategic direction of the Group and periodically agrees this with the year, the Company has complied with all principles of the Code.
the Board The Code sets out guidance in the form of main principles and more ensures proper financial and business control is exercised within the Group specific provisions for good governance in relation to Board leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with chairs the Group Executive Committee shareholders.
Further information on the Code, its applicability, the ensures there is a clear management structure with appropriately delegated principles and their provisions can be found on the Financial Reporting responsibilities, staffed by suitably experienced and qualified staff Councils website, at www.
This table forms part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 95 of the Directors Report.
ensures appropriate reporting and communication systems are established across the Group ensures key performance objectives are set for all operational departments: action plans and budgetary controls are established: and, where necessary, A Leadership corrective action is taken to maximise the performance of the Group A.
1 Role of the Board ensures the Groups strategy and values are effectively understood and applied The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group and is responsible by management and staff to shareholders for achieving the Groups strategic objectives and delivering sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Directors act in a way they consider will ensures an appropriate Risk Management framework is in operation promote the long-term success of the Company, by constructively challenging and supporting the development of the Groups strategy, for the benefit of A.
3 Chairman shareholders as a whole, with regard to the interests of the Groups employees, the chairs the Board of the Company impact of the business on the community and environment and the interests of forges an effective Board based on experience, diversity, skills and competencies other stakeholders.
The Board manages the overall control of the Groups affairs with reference to the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
This ensures, in collaboration with the Chief Executive, that the Board considers the schedule is available on the Companys website at www.
com aboutstrategic issues facing the Group in a timely manner and is presented with sound    and analysis appropriate to the decisions that it is asked to make governance.
The Board views the brands and reputations of its subsidiaries as acts as a sounding board for the Chief Executive and provides general advice important assets of the Group.
Accordingly, protection of the brand and reputation relating to the management and development of the Groups business of the Group, including ensuring that subsidiaries continue to meet local legal requirements, is also a key part of the Boards role.
The matters considered by supports the commercial activities of the Group by, inter alia, maintaining the Board in 2017 are summarised on page 57. contact with the Groups key stakeholders and other industry participants Board Committees A.
4 Non-Executive Directors The Company ensures that all committees are provided with sufficient resources Non-Executive Directors are urged to challenge constructively and help develop to undertake their duties.
All committees have written terms of reference which proposals on strategy, scrutinise the performance of management in meeting are available from the corporate responsibility section on the Companys website agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
com  corporateshould satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that responsibility or on request from the Group Company Secretary.
The matters financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
considered by the Remuneration, Audit, Risk and Nomination Committees are Non-Executive Directors are responsible for determining appropriate levels of summarised in the reports of those committees.
remuneration for executive directors and have a principal role in appointing and, where necessary, removing executive directors, and in succession planning.
2 Division of Responsibilities Board should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and separate with a Senior Independent Director Mr Paul Heiden is the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman is responsible for the running The responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director include meeting major and leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive shareholders as an alternative contact to the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief has delegated authority from, and is responsible to, the Board for managing the Financial Officer.
Groups business with the power for further delegation in respect of matters which are necessary for the effective running and management of the business.
Effectiveness current key responsibilities of both the Chairman and Chief Executives are set B.
1 The Composition of the Board out on this page: There is a strong non-executive element on the Board, and the Non-Executive Directors provide deep corporate experience and knowledge which they apply to their understanding of the Group and its strategy.
The Board has 7 Independent Non-Executive Directors.
In assessing each Directors independence, the Board considered whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
In evaluating Directors independence, the Board has taken into consideration the guidance provided by the Code.
The experience and other appointments of directors is set out on page 5455.
62 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Complying with the provisions of the Code B.
2 Appointments to the Board C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control The Board has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment The Board has overall responsibility for the sponsorship of a strong risk culture of new Directors to the Board.
The Board has established a Nomination Committee across the Group and for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it which leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It approves the Risk Appetite the Board.
The Report from the Nomination Committee on page 64, outlines the each year as part of the strategic business objectives, and ensures there is an changes to the Board that took place during the year.
The Board normally uses an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, and managing the principal risks external search consultancy for appointments.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Risk Committee including oversight of internal Risk Management processes.
3 Commitment The report from the Risk Committee can be found on pages 7071.
In accordance The other significant commitments of the Chairman and the Board are set out at with paragraph C. 2.2 of the Code an explanation of how the Directors have pages 5455.
The Board is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties and assessed the prospects of the Company is included in the section headed time commitments as Directors of the Company.
Financial viability statement on page 98.
4 Development C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors Directors are encouraged to continually update their skills and knowledge of the The Audit Committee Report on pages 6569 sets out details of the composition business, and briefings are regularly given at Board meetings on particular parts of the Committee, including the expertise of members, and outlines how the of the business.
The Board also continued its practice of undertaking formal visits Committee has discharged its responsibilities during 2017.
The Board has delegated to its overseas businesses so that the Directors can experience key aspects of the a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee, including oversight of the Groups operations first hand.
Groups financial reporting processes and management of the external auditor.
Each new Director joining the Board is offered an induction programme covering D. Remuneration the key business areas of the Group and including meetings with members of the D. 1 The Level and Components of Remuneration Executive Committee, other senior managers and external advisers.
Directors are The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 7294 outlines the activities encouraged to meet with executives on an ongoing basis to better understand of the Remuneration Committee during 2017 and the implementation of the each of the business areas together with the Groups governance, financial and Remuneration Policy during 2017 including salary, bonus and share awards and legal framework.
As set out on page 58 Board training and engagement with the payments for loss of office paid to Directors.
The Remuneration Policy was subject business outside of meetings is an area of focus for the Board in 2018. to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM and was passed with over 98% support.
It is available on the Groups website at: www.
5 Information and Support relations shareholder-services agm-information.
There have been no The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the Group Company changes to the policy during the financial year.
Under Schedule 8 of The Large Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment matters.
Directors also have access to independent professional advice if they Regulations 2013, the Remuneration Policy Report must be approved by a binding judge it necessary to fulfil their responsibilities as Directors.
shareholder vote at least once every 3 years.
6 Evaluation D. 2 Procedure The Board conducts an annual evaluation of its effectiveness and acts on the results The Board has delegated responsibilities to the Remuneration Committee of the review.
During the year, the Board carried out an externally facilitated review including the remuneration of the Chairman and Executive Directors.
of its own effectiveness and that of its Committees and Directors together with actions taken following the 2016 effectiveness review and the results of that review are detailed on page 59 of the Corporate Governance Report.
E. Relations with Shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders B.
7 Re-Election The Company maintains an active shareholder engagement programme, Each Director is subject to election at the first AGM following their appointment.
managed through the Groups IR function.
The IR programme provides regular In line with the Code, all Directors are subject to annual re-election.
opportunity for contact with existing and potential shareholders, as well as sell-side analysts that produce investment research relating to the Group.
IR activities include meetings, calls, presentations and information releases on a C. Accountability regular basis throughout the year, based around the Groups financial reporting C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting calendar and following major corporate events and news flow.
For more detail on A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the financial statements, the Groups IR activities, please see page 59 of the Corporate Governance Report.
including the status of the Group and Company as a going concern is set out on page 99.
An explanation of the Groups strategy and business model, together E. 2 Constructive Use of General Meetings with relevant risks and performance risks and performance metrics are set out The Groups AGM provides the opportunity for all shareholders to meet the on pages 815.
A further statement is provided on page 99 confirming that the Directors and to put questions to the Board.
Procedures for the AGM and any Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, General Meeting are compliant with the Code, with voting by way of a poll to balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for ensure all shareholders views are taken into account.
shareholders to assess the Group and Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 63
