JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Directors report The Directors submit their report together with the audited Share capital financial statements of the Group for the year ended Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the 31 December 2017.
Company and the shares held by the Companys Employee The Strategic report together with Board of Directors Share Trust are set out in note 27 on page 96.
As at the date biographies, Corporate governance report, the Audit of this report, 50,200,541 ordinary shares of 25p each have Committee report, the Nominations Committee report and the been issued, are fully paid up and are listed on the London Directors remuneration report all form part of the Directors Stock Exchange.
The Directors report and Strategic report comprises The 3.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each carry a the management report for the purposes of the Financial fixed cumulative dividend of 3.5% per annum, payable in Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
priority to any dividend on the ordinary shares and payable half yearly in arrears on 30 June and 31 December.
The holders Principal activities, development and of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as performance declared from time to time by the Directors.
A review of the Groups principal activities and description of The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out the factors that might affect the Groups development and in the Companys Articles of Association Articles.
Copies of performance in the future is set out in the Strategic report on the Articles may be obtained from the Company Secretary, pages 1 to 25.
The Strategic report also details the principal risks and are available for inspection at the Companys registered and uncertainties facing the Company and the Groups approach office during normal business hours.
Subject to rights attaching to mitigating such risks.
The Group is committed to continue to existing shares, any share may be issued with such rights investing in research and development and details of the Groups or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution expenditure is set out in notes 4 and 13, on pages 72 and 77. determine, or if the Company has not so determined, as the Directors may determine.
Other than those specific provisions Results and dividends set out in the Articles, there are no restrictions on the transfer The Groups profit after tax for the financial year was 40.7m of ordinary shares in the Company or on the exercise of voting 2016: 38.1m.
The results are shown fully in the consolidated rights attached to them except that: financial statements on pages 64 to 67 and summarised in the certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by Financial review on pages 14 to 17.
The Directors recommend laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and a final dividend of 19.30p per share 2016: 17.60p making a market requirements relating to close periods : and total dividend of 28.70p per share for the year 2016: 26.15p.
Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General pursuant to the Listing Rules, whereby certain employees Meeting, to be held at 11.00am on Thursday 3 May 2018 at the of the Company require the approval of the Company to Abbey House Hotel, Abbey Road, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, deal in the Companys shares.
LA13 0PA AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 11 May 2018 to ordinary shareholders who are on the register on 6 April Deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy 2018.
The Notice of AGM is set out on pages 111 to 117. or proxies to vote on the resolutions to be considered at the Companys forthcoming AGM are specified in the notes to the Post balance sheet events Notice of AGM on pages 111 to 117.
On 19 February 2018 the Group acquired Cowan The Company is not aware of any agreements between Manufacturing Pty Limited, based in New South Wales, shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Australia, which designs and sells portable hyperbaric securities or on voting rights.
chambers for consideration of AUD$2.6m 1.5m in cash.
54 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Substantial shareholders At 23 February 2018 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its issued ordinary shares: Shareholder Number % Rowland Frederick Hart Jackson non-beneficial 8,703,093 17.34 Schroder Investment Management 4,666,066 9.29 Therapia Investments Limited 3,853,541 7.68 Standard Life Aberdeen plc 3,122,509 6.22 Baillie Gifford & Co Limited 2,414,695 4.81 Montanaro Asset Management 1,983,703 3.95 BlackRock Investment Mgt 1,744,522 3.48 Fidelity Worldwide Investment 1,623,280 3.23 28,111,409 56.00 Total number of ordinary shares in issue 50,200,541 100.00 Purchase of own shares Powers of Directors At the 2017 AGM, the Company was given authority to The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companys purchase up to 2,508,627 of its ordinary shares until the date Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and the directions given by of its next AGM.
No purchases were made during the year by the Company in general meeting.
The Directors will be seeking the Company.
to renew the authorities granted to them in prior years at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors are authorised to issue and Directors allot ordinary shares, to disapply statutory pre-emption rights The biographies of the Board of Directors are set out on and to make market purchases of the Companys shares.
There were no changes to the Board shares purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
during the financial year ending 31 December 2017.
Appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors interests Directors The beneficial interests of the Directors in the share capital of A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the the Company are: shareholders in general meeting following nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such meeting, Holdings of ordinary shares of 25p each or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek At 31 December At 31 December 2017 2016 re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the Directors may Number Number appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, 2017 provided that the individual retires or is elected at the next Charles Rice 28,188 24,310 AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company in certain circumstances set out in the Articles for example bankruptcy Nick Henry 198,669 191,022 or resignation, or by an ordinary resolution of the Company in Stuart Kilpatrick 36,503 38,045 general meeting.
The Articles provide that any Director who has held office for more than three years since his last appointment Malcolm Paul 5,000 5,000 must offer himself or herself up for re-election at the AGM and 1 Between 31 December 2017 and 26 February 2018, there were no changes that at least one-third of the Board is subject to re-election at to the Directors shareholdings: each AGM.
Charles Rice is standing down from the Board at 2 No Director has an interest in the preference shares of the Company, or in the the AGM and therefore will not be seeking re-election.
Justin shares of any subsidiary or associated undertaking: and Atkinson and Fergus Graham have been appointed to the 3 The Directors interests stated above include any shares held by their Board since the last AGM and are therefore seeking election connected persons.
With respect to the other Directors, having regard to the recommendation contained in the Code that all Directors should be subject to annual election by shareholders they will all retire at the AGM and stand for re-election.
55 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Directors and officers liability insurance Financial instruments The Company maintains an appropriate level of directors and Information on the Groups financial risk management officers liability insurance whereby the Directors and officers objectives and policies, along with its exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk can be found in of the Company and its subsidiaries are indemnified against liability to third parties and, to the extent permitted by section note 26 on page 90.
236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors may be granted Information required by UK listing rule 9.8.
4 indemnity by the Company pursuant to the Companys Articles.
There are no disclosures to be made under listing rule 9.8.
Directors conflict of interest Going concern Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely situation where a direct or indirect conflict of interest may to affect its future development, the financial position of the occur.
The Board has adopted established procedures to Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties address the management of any potential and actual conflicts are set out in the Strategic report on pages 19 to 21.
A review of conflicts which have been authorised Groups primary sources of funding are bilateral facilities with a has been undertaken by the Board, which concluded that any core group of banks.
These bilateral facilities totalled 225m at conflicts had been appropriately authorised, no circumstances 31 December 2017 2016: 175m.
Compliance with banking existed which would necessitate that any prior authorisation covenants is tested half yearly for the ratio of net debt: be revoked or amended, and the authorisation process earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation continued to operate effectively.
Ebitda, interest cover and fixed charge cover.
No breaches in covenants occurred during the year.
Additional information for shareholders The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a through operating cash flows, with borrowings in place to general meeting of the shareholders.
fund acquisitions and capital expenditure.
The Group had In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, certain 71.8m 2016: 49.7m of undrawn committed facilities as at information has been included in the Corporate responsibility 31 December 2017.
The Groups forecasts and projections, report on pages 22 to 25, which would otherwise be required taking account of reasonable changes in trading performance, to be disclosed in the Directors report.
These are as follows: confirm that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current banking facilities.
- Greenhouse gas emissions reporting The Group uses cash flow forecasts derived from budgets, - Employment of disabled persons forecasts and medium-term planning to identify headroom - Employee involvement under the covenant tests.
After making enquiries and No political or charitable donations were made during the year.
having evaluated the on-going trading of the businesses, Details of branches of Group subsidiaries can be found on the Directors have reasonable expectation that the Group pages 107 to 109. has adequate resources to continue to operate for a period considered to be at least 12 months from the date of this Significant agreements change of control report.
Accordingly, the Directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in The Company is a guarantor of all of the Groups bilateral bank preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
facilities which upon a change of control could be withdrawn.
The Singapore Submarine Rescue Service Agreement Viability statement made between James Fisher Singapore PTE Ltd. and First The Directors have assessed the Groups viability over a three Response Marine PTE Ltd. dated 17 October 2008 may year period ending 31 December 2020. terminate upon a change of control of the Company or James The Directors have determined that this is most relevant time Fisher Singapore PTE Ltd. period because it is consistent with the Groups planning The rules of the Companys LTIP, ESOS and Sharesave process whereby the Board reviews the Groups strategy and schemes set out the consequences of a change of control on its detailed three year plan.
This is reviewed and considered the rights of participants under those schemes.
Participants in light of the Groups current position and prospects together are generally able to exercise their options on a change of with factors that might affect the three year plan.
The Board control, provided that the relevant performance conditions carefully assesses the performance and prospects of each have been satisfied.
business regarding entering new markets and geographies, current and expected growth rates, prospective new projects There are no agreements between the Company and its and the timing of such projects and the robustness of Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of individual business performance.
office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that arise in the event of a change of control of the Company.
56 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The Groups three year plan overlays a number of assumptions assess the Group and parent Companys ability to and sensitivities which are reviewed by the Board: this continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, includes a review of whether additional bank facilities will be matters related to going concern: and required and available in the plan period.
use the going concern basis of accounting unless they The review also includes a robust assessment of the principal either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company risks facing the Group as set out on pages 20 and 21, and the or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but potential impact on its business model, future performance, to do so.
solvency and liquidity over the period.
The potential The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate consequence of Brexit and continued global economic accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain uncertainty and the Groups ability to mitigate the impact of the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable any of these risks continued to be considered in 2017. accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company The Directors have also taken account of the diverse markets and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply and geographies in which the Groups businesses operate, with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such and their ability to react quickly to change, to help minimise internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the the effect of the principal risks affecting the Group.
preparation of financial statement that are free from material Based on their assessment of the Groups prospects and misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general viability, the Directors confirm they have a reasonable responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to expectation that the Group will be able to continue to operate them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and and to meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the period to 31 detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Disclosure of information to the Auditor integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Each Director in office at the date of approval of this Directors preparation and dissemination of financial statements may report confirms that: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information Directors responsibility statement in respect of which the Companys auditors is unaware: and of the annual financial report he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: information and to establish that the Companys auditor is the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the aware of that information.
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Directors responsibility statement loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report consolidation taken as a whole: and and the Group and parent Company financial statements each the Strategic report and the Directors report include financial year in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
a fair review of the development and performance of Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and the business and the position of the Company and the parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial whole, together with a description of the principal risks and statements in accordance with IFRS standards as adopted uncertainties that they face.
by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements on the same basis.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Under company law, the Directors must not approve the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give position and performance, business model and strategy.
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial N P Henry S C Kilpatrick statements, the Directors are required to: Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: On behalf of the Board of Directors make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, 26 February 2018 relevant and reliable: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS standards as adopted by the EU: 57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
