Governance DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and LR 9.8.
4R the Groups audited financial statements The following table is disclosed pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
The information for the year ended 31 December 2017. required to be disclosed, where applicable to the Company, can be located in the Annual Report and Accounts at the references set out below: PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS Information Location The Companys principal activity is to act Interest capitalised Not applicable as a holding company for a group of Shareholder waiver of dividends Notes to Accounts 4.3 investment management companies.
Our Shareholder waiver of future dividends Notes to Accounts 4.3 business model is based on investment Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable performance, growing value and Provision of services by a controlling effective distribution and is explained in shareholder Not applicable the Strategic report.
The Group operates Details of longterm incentive schemes Remuneration report and notes principally in the United Kingdom and to the Accounts 1.5 has branches of Jupiter Asset Management Limited operating overseas, Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable together with three overseas trading Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable subsidiaries.
Significant contracts Governance report Nonpreemptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable The Company is incorporated with Nonpreemptive issues of equity for cash Company Number 6150195 and is in relation to major subsidiary Not applicable domiciled in England and Wales.
Participation by parent of a placing by a Other information, which forms part of listed subsidiary Not applicable this Directors report, can be found in the Publication of unaudited financial following sections of the Annual Report information Other Information and is deemed to form part of this report: All the information crossreferenced above is incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
ll Commentary on the development and performance in the year ended 31 December 2017, and likely future COMPLIANCE STATEMENT regarding the exercise of voting rights in developments in the Groups business, DTR 7.2 respect of the resolutions to be is included in the Strategic report.
This statement has been provided by the considered at the AGM to be held on Chairman in her introduction to the 16 May 2018 are set out in the Notice of ll Descriptions of the Groups financial Governance section and is deemed to Annual General Meeting.
To be valid, the risk management objectives and form part of this Directors report.
appointment of a proxy to vote at a policies, and its exposure to risks general meeting must be received not arising from its use of financial INTERNAL CONTROL AND less than 48 hours before the time instruments, are set out in Note 5.3 to RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS appointed for holding the meeting.
5 ll Information concerning Directors A description of the Companys financial None of the ordinary shares carries any contractual arrangements and reporting processes and the main special rights with regard to control of entitlements under sharebased features of its internal control and risk the Company.
remuneration arrangements is given in management processes can be found in the Remuneration report.
SHARES HELD IN EMPLOYEE the Governance report.
ll The Groups environmental BENEFIT TRUSTS performance data, including the STRUCTURE OF CAPITAL AND Under the rules of the Jupiter Share absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions for VOTING RIGHTS DTR 7.2.
6 Incentive Plan the SIP, which was 2017, can be found in the Corporate As at 31 December 2017 and introduced in 2013, eligible employees Responsibility section of the Strategic 26 February 2018, there were 457,699,916 are entitled to acquire ordinary shares in report.
fully paid ordinary shares of 2p, the Company.
The SIP shares are held in amounting to 9,153,998.
Each share in trust for participants by Yorkshire ll Information concerning the involvement issue is listed on the Official List Building Society the SIP Trustee.
of employees in the business is also maintained by the FCA in its capacity as Voting rights are exercised by the SIP given in the Performance Review the UK Listing Authority.
There were no Trustee on receipt of participants section of the Strategic report.
changes to the share capital during the instructions.
If a participant does not year.
The Company has one class of submit an instruction to the SIP Trustee, DISCLOSURE REQUIRED UNDER ordinary shares which carry the right to no vote is registered.
In addition, the SIP THE LISTING RULES AND THE attend, speak and vote at general Trustees do not vote on any unallocated DISCLOSURE GUIDANCE AND meetings of the Company.
The holders of shares held in trust.
As at 26 February TRANSPARENCY RULES DTR ordinary shares have the right to 2018, the SIP Trustee held 0.15% of the 4.1.
11R participate in dividends and other Companys issued share capital.
Information which is the required content distributions according to their respective of the Management report can be found rights and interests in the profits of the in the Strategic report and in this Company and a return of capital on a Directors report.
Full details 92 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RBC cees Trustee Limited, as trustee of APPOINTMENT AND appoint by ordinary resolution another the Jupiter Employee Benefit Trust the REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS person who is willing to be a Director in EBT Trustee, holds ordinary shares in The Companys Articles of Association his or her place.
The Companys Articles trust for the benefit of the Groups provide that Directors may be appointed of Association may be amended by employees.
Where the EBT Trustee has by the Company by ordinary resolution special resolution of the shareholders.
allocated shares held in the trust in or by the Board.
If appointed by the The Directors are advised of their respect of specific awards granted under Board, a Director holds office only until statutory duty to avoid conflicts of the Jupiter Employee Share Plan, the the next AGM.
interest with those of the Company.
All holders of such awards may recommend In accordance with the Companys actual and potential conflicts are to the EBT Trustee as to how it should Articles of Association and the Codes brought to the attention of the Board.
exercise voting rights relating to such requirements, all serving Directors with The operation of the Companys policy shares.
To the extent that a participant the exception of Lorraine Trainer offer on conflicts of interest is described in the does not make such recommendations, themselves for election or reelection at Governance section.
In addition, the EBT the AGM in 2018.
Trustee does not vote on any The rights and obligations attaching to unallocated shares held in the trust.
As In addition to any powers under the the Companys ordinary shares, as well at 26 February 2018, the EBT Trustee Companies Act 2006 the Act to as the powers of the Companys held 2.13% of the Companys issued remove Directors from office, the Directors, are set out in detail in the share capital.
Company may, by passing an ordinary Companys Articles of Association, which resolution, remove any Director from the are made available for inspection by the BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board before the expiration of his or her Companys shareholders at the AGM.
During the year, Roger Yates joined the period in office.
The Company may, Board as a NonExecutive Director.
subject to the Articles of Association, The Directors who served during the year are as follows: SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS As at 31 December 2017, the Company had received notifications from the following Liz Airey shareholders of their direct or indirect shareholding of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital.
This information is disclosed pursuant to the Disclosure Edward Bonham Carter Guidance and Transparency Rules and in response to disclosures requested by the Jonathon Bond Company.
No notifications have been disclosed to the Company in accordance with Charlotte Jones DTR 5 during the period 1 January 2018 to 26 February 2018.
Bridget Macaskill Maarten Slendebroek Number of shares as at Karl Sternberg 31 December Percentage Name 2017 Interest % Lorraine Trainer Silchester International Investors LLP 45,400,170 9.92 Polly Williams Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 38,488,102 8.41 Roger Yates from 10 October Invesco Ltd 21,337,513 4.67 DIRECTORS INTERESTS Standard Life Aberdeen 19,285,109 4.22 The Directors interests in the Companys M&G Investment Management Ltd 19,275,553 4.21 shares are set out in the Remuneration BlackRock Inc 19,115,342 4.18 report.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract other than a service contract or contract for services with the Company at any time during the year.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES This statement, which is included later in this section, is deemed to form part of this Directors report.
93 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CREST POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS GOING CONCERN The Companys ordinary shares are in The Directors manage the Company The Strategic report discusses the CREST, the settlement system for stocks under the powers set out in the Groups business activities, together with and shares traded on the London Stock Companys Articles of Association.
These the factors likely to affect its future Exchange.
powers include the Directors ability to development, performance and position.
An ordinary In addition, it sets out the Groups RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER resolution was passed at the AGM on financial position, cash flows, liquidity OF SHARES 17 May 2017, authorising the Directors to position and borrowing facilities.
The There are no restrictions on voting rights allot new ordinary shares up to an financial risk management note to the or the transfer of shares in the Company aggregate nominal amount of Financial Statements sets out the Groups and the Company is not aware of any 3,051,332, representing approximately objectives, policies and processes for agreements between holders of shares onethird of the Companys issued share managing capital and its financial risk that result in such restrictions.
The Directors intend to seek management objectives, together with shareholders approval for the renewal details of financial instruments and EMPLOYEES of this authority at the AGM, to allot and exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
The Group gives full and fair grant rights to subscribe for ordinary consideration to applications for The Group has access to the financial shares up to an aggregate nominal employment from disabled persons, resources required to run the business amount of 3,051,332, representing where a disabled person can adequately efficiently and has a strong gross cash approximately onethird of the Companys fulfil the jobs requirements.
The Groups forecasts and issued share capital as at 26 February existing employees become disabled, the projections, which are subject to rigorous 2018.
If approved, this authority will expire Groups policy, wherever practicable, is sensitivity analysis, show that the Group on 30 June 2019 or, if earlier, at the to provide continuing employment under will be able to operate within its conclusion of the AGM in 2019. normal terms and conditions and make available resources.
As a consequence, any required changes to their working At the AGM in 2017, shareholders the Directors consider it appropriate to environment.
The Group provides approved a resolution authorising the prepare the annual Financial Statements training, career development and Company to make purchases of its own on a going concern basis of accounting.
As at 26 February 2018, the STATEMENT OF VIABILITY Directors have not used this authority.
A Further details of the Companys In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the special resolution will be proposed at the employment procedures and practices Code, the Directors have assessed the AGM to renew the Companys limited are set out in the Performance Review prospects of the Group over a longer authority to purchase its own ordinary section of the Strategic report.
period than the 12 months required by shares.
The authority will be limited to a the Going Concern provision.
Details of maximum of 45,769,950 ordinary shares DIVIDENDS the assessment can be found in the approximately 10% of the Companys Effective from 2015, the Board changed Financial Review section of the Strategic issued share capital as at 26 February its approach to dividends to enable report.
2018 and will set out the minimum and prompt payment alongside potential maximum prices which the Company future special dividends, with the CHANGE OF CONTROL may pay for any such purchase.
If expectation that payment of dividends The Company does not have approved, this authority will expire on can be made in early April.
Accordingly, agreements with any Director or 30 June 2019, or, if earlier, at the the Directors have not recommended a employee that would provide conclusion of the AGM in 2019. final dividend but have approved a full compensation for loss of office or year dividend in respect of 2017 of employment resulting from a change of INDEPENDENT AUDITORS AND 10.3 pence per ordinary share 2016: control following a takeover bid, except AUDIT INFORMATION 10.2 pence per ordinary share.
Payment that provisions of the Companys share PwC were reappointed as external of this dividend is not subject to schemes may cause options and awards auditors following a tender conducted in approval by shareholders at the AGM.
granted under such schemes to vest in 2014.
In accordance with the FRCs The Directors have also declared a those circumstances.
recommendations as set out in the Code, special dividend of 15.5 pence per the Audit will be retendered within 10 ordinary share 2016: 12.5 pence per years of that appointment.
Both dividends will be paid on 6 April 2018, to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 March 2018.
94 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES COMPENSATION FOR LOSS The Companys Articles of Association OF OFFICE permit the provision of indemnities to the With reference to Schedule 7 of the Directors.
In accordance with the Articles Large and Mediumsized Companies and of Association, the Company has Groups Accounts and Reports entered into a deed of indemnity in Regulations 2008 paragraph 13 2 k, favour of each Director which is a there are no agreements in place qualifying thirdparty indemnity provision between the Company and any director under the Act pursuant to which the or employee for loss of office in the Director has been granted the right to event of a takeover.
indemnification as permitted under the POLITICAL DONATIONS Act.
These arrangements were in place The Group made no political donations or throughout the year and up to the date contributions during the year 2016: nil.
of approval of this report and applied to the current and previous Directors.
In ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING addition, during the year the Company The AGM will take place on 16 May 2018. has maintained Directors and Officers All shareholders are invited to attend liability insurance cover for Directors.
and will have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
The Notice of DIRECTORS SERVICE the AGM will be circulated to all AGREEMENTS shareholders at least 20 working days Each Executive Director has a written before the meeting and the details of the service agreement, which may be resolutions to be proposed will be set terminated by either party on not less out in that Notice.
This document will be than six months notice in writing.
available on the Companys website at NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS www.
LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT By order of the Board The letters of appointment of the NonExecutive Directors are issued for an initial period of three years, which may be renewed for further terms as ADAM WESTLEY appropriate.
All appointments are Company Secretary subject to a review by the Nomination 26 February 2018 Committee upon the third anniversary and on extension a further review is undertaken at the sixth anniversary at which the Boards succession plans and the need to refresh the Boards skills and experiences are carefully considered.
The role and responsibilities of each Director are clearly set out and include the duties of a Director provided in the Act.
It is made clear that these duties do not include any management function but an indication that the Director is expected to support and challenge management and help in the development of the Groups strategy.
Three months notice in writing is required to be served by either party to terminate the appointment.
The NonExecutive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the Meeting.
