Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 25 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Divisional review Capabilities Wheels and brakes Control systemsbrake, nose wheel steering and landing gear Monitoring systems MEGGITT AIRCRAFT BRAKING SYSTEMS Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems provides wheels, brakes and brake control systems for around 35,000 in-service aircraft.
Revenue m 387 Underlying operating profit m 148 Operational performance Growth in civil aftermarket was offset by a Markets 21% organic decline in civil OE, reflecting Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS lower demand for brake control units provides wheels, brakes and brake control across a range of regional and business jet systems for around 35,000 in-service programmes and for torque tubes on the aircraft.
aerospace It continues to develop innovative MABS military revenue declined by 11% technology for new programmes enabling organically, with significant declines on the business to retain its leading position in Eurofighter brakes only partly offset by Fixed wing its target markets, underscored by the military aircraft strong market share gains in recent years, growth on F-35.
Military orders grew 7% organically in 2017, which underpins an notably on super mid-size and long range improving outlook for military revenues business jets: and expansion in large jets, into 2018. where in 2017 it has secured a dual source contract to provide an alternative braking Rotary wing system for the A321neo.
Operating margins increased from 36.3% military aircraft to 38.2% in 2017, driven by the positive mix effect of a decline in the divisions military The division represents 19% of Group business during the year.
revenue, generating 90% of its revenue from the aftermarket and 10% from OE sales.
MABS civil revenue was flat organically, with 2% growth in civil aftermarket driven by good growth in business jets, particularly Gulfstream platforms, and a steady recovery during the year in regional jet spares, where strong growth on Embraer E170 and E190 offset some fide-stocking on Bombardier CRJ aircraft in the first half and lower demand on smaller aircraft.
26 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Divisional review continued Capabilities Control valves and sub-systems Aircraft fire protection and control systems MEGGITT Thermal management Electro-mechanical controls Environmental control CONTROL SYSTEMS Fuel handling A leading supplier of pneumatic, fluid control, thermal management and electro-mechanical equipment and sub-systems and complete fire protection solutions.
Revenue m 526 Underlying operating profit m 123 Operational performance Military revenue declined by 14% driven by Markets declines on fighter jets, particularly F-15 Meggitt Control Systems MCS designs and F-16.
Energy revenues increased by 2% and manufactures products which manage driven by modest growth in demand for the flow of liquids and gases around aero Civil small frame industrial gas turbine valves.
and industrial turbines, and control the aerospace temperature of oil, fuel and air in aircraft Operating margins declined from 24.5% to 23.5%, reflecting unfavourable revenue engines.
The division, which also provides mix and continued investment to drive fire protection equipment to engines and growth in our CSS organisation.
airframes, represents 26% of Group Fixed wing revenue, generating 41% of its revenue military aircraft from OE and 59% from the aftermarket.
In January 2018, we sold Aviation Mobility to Smart Carte Inc. Aviation Mobility provides a range of repair and overhaul Revenue was up by 4% organically.
Civil services for wheelchairs and associated aerospace grew by 9%, with good growth in Military ground airport safety equipment and generated OE, driven by particularly strong growth on vehicles Airbus A320neo, and aftermarket, which 3.5m of revenue in 2017. benefitted from strong demand for spares and repairs on Boeing 787, 737 and Airbus A340 aircraft.
Energy and industrial Marine Ground fuelling Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 27 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Capabilities Complex, high-temperature composite structures andsub-assemblies Flexible fuel tanks for military and civil aircraft andmilitaryground vehicles MEGGITT POLYMERS Smart electro-thermal ice protection Airframe, engine and oil and gas sealing & COMPOSITES solutions A leading specialist in fuel containment and systems, sealing solutions and advanced composites.
Revenue m 337 Underlying operating profit m 24 Operational performance dual source engine programmes.
Military Markets orders grew by 23%, reflecting particularly Meggitt Polymers & Composites MPC strong demand for aftermarket including a supplies flexible bladder fuel tanks, complex 52m multi-year contract to provide composites and seals packages for a broad Fixed wing replacement fuel tanks for the F A-18.
range of civil and military platforms.
These military aircraft products are linked by their dependence on Operating margins decreased from 12.0% to similar materials technology and 7.1% reflecting an increase in new product manufacturing processes.
It supplies over introduction costs on new programmes, 80% of the US military requirements for fuel Rotary wing military aircraft where we have significant composites bladders and  and crashworthy fuel tanks.
MPC represents 17% content on new engines and where lower growth in civil OE than anticipated, of Group revenue and generated 65% of its compromised our ability to fully industrialise revenue from OE and 35% from the a broad volume of new parts.
Civil aerospace On an organic basis, MPC revenues were flat To address these operational challenges we have implemented a series of management in 2017.
Civil revenues grew by 9%, with good changes, increased our investment in critical growth on narrowbody large jets including capabilities such as programme Airbus A320neo and Boeing 737 offset by management and taken steps to increase lower demand for widebodies including Military ground Airbus A350XWB and A380, Boeing 787 and capacity in our low cost facilities in Mexico to vehicles enable the transfer of manufacturing when 777. parts are fully industrialised.
Increasing build rates and the changes we have made in 2017, In contrast, military revenues declined by will enable us to improve margin 2%, with declining revenue on KC-135, Military systems and UAVs Typhoon and Apache, only partly offset by performance in 2018. good growth on F-35, V-22 and F A-18.
The outlook for MPC remains strong given the extensive capability we have acquired, Growth in orders was strong across all major Automotive and strong platform positions and potential for market segments in MPC.
In civil aerospace, industrial orders grew by 11% organically, reflecting significant market growth, particularly for composite components on new engine strong competitive positions on high volume programmes.
28 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Divisional review continued Capabilities High-performance sensing in extreme environments Condition and health monitoring for air MEGGITT and land-based machinery Power generation, conversion and storage SENSING SYSTEMS Aircraft surveillance and security systems Situational awareness systems A leading provider of high-performance sensing, Wireless control and monitoring monitoring, power and motion systems, specialising in systems products designed to operate in demanding conditions Avionics and air data systems across a diverse range of applications.
Revenue m 515 Underlying operating profit m 71 MSS represents 25% of Group revenue and Operational performance Markets Meggitt Sensing Systems MSS designs generated 76% of its revenue from OE and 24% from the aftermarket.
and manufactures highly engineered sensors to measure a variety of parameters MSS revenue declined by 1% organically, such as vibration, temperature, pressure, Civil with 2% growth in civil aerospace driven by fluid level and flow as well as power aerospace storage, conversion and distribution growth in aftermarket revenues, as a result of increased demand for Boeing 747 and systems and avionics suites for aerospace 787 spares.
Military revenue declined by 1%, with MSS products are designed to operate Military aircraft, effectively in the extreme conditions of growth in spares for fighter and trainer ships, ground aircraft offset by declining OE revenues on temperature, vibration and contamination vehicles and fighter jets, particularly Typhoon and that exist in an aircraft or ground-based missiles F A-18.
Sensors are combined into broader electronics packages, providing condition data to operators and In energy and other markets including test and measurement, industrial and medical, maintainers of engines, contributing to MSS revenues decreased organically by improved safety and lower operating costs.
industrial MSS has migrated these products into other specialist markets requiring similar Operating margins increased from 13.7% to 13.9% reflecting favourable mix.
capabilities, such as test and Test and measurement, automotive crash test and In June 2017, we completed the sale of measurement medical.
Combining its capabilities with three non-core industrial businesses, Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, it has a number of civil aerospace tyre pressure including two MSS units, Meggitt Maryland and Piezo Technologies.
In aggregate, monitoring systems already in service and these two units generated 13.4m of further systems under development, Medical revenue during the six months prior to the having secured positions for this sale to Amphenol Corporation.
technology on ten aircraft platforms.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 29 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Capabilities Combat support ammunition handling, military electronics cooling and countermeasure launch and recovery systems MEGGITT Live-fire and virtual training systems Heat transfer equipment for offshore oil and gas EQUIPMENT GROUP Created to enable a set of strong,  businesses to market their offerings to specialist customers, while benefiting from the wider Meggitt Groups investment in shared services and common processes.
Revenue m 262 Underlying operating profit m 22 Operating margins increased from 3.5% to Operational performance Markets Meggitt Equipment Group MEG 8.2% driven by improving profitability in Training Systems as a result of the good comprises principally our non-engine growth and a breakeven performance at actuation capability and dedicated military Fixed wing businesses and Heatric.
military aircraft represents 13% of Group revenue and generates 79% of its revenue from OE and In June 2017, we completed the sale of three non-core industrial businesses, 21% from the aftermarket.
In the six Rotary wing MEG revenue grew by 12% organically, months prior to the sale to Amphenol military aircraft Corporation, Piher generated 11.4m of reflecting good growth in military as a result of strong demand for its system of revenue.
record, small arms training systems.
In We have also agreed the sale of Thomson energy, revenues decreased by 22%, Defence and driven by Heatric which in 2016 completed Aerospace and Defence Thomson to security Umbra Cuscinetti S. p. A. which is due to the last of its significant contracts to support large capital projects in offshore complete in March 2018.
In 2017, Thomson generated revenue of 24.8m.
This was partly offset by good growth in demand in other adjacent markets.
Energy Heatric, as expected, grew strongly in the final quarter and orders grew by 80% during the year, supporting the expectation of a continued recovery in its core, oil and Industrial gas market.
