All regions except Africa will have Individuals continue to look for As a high conviction a quarter or more of their population positive returns on their investments active asset manager, over 60 by 2050.
Alongside the need to build up capital for the long term, individuals and their Jupiter operates within Developing economies are advisors are also having to consider the getting richer the wider long-term returns on their assets.
Persistently low In addition to ageing populations, interest rates in many countries mean savings markets in developing economies are enjoying that traditional savings accounts offer rising wealth.
As their incomes grow both the UK and negative real returns.
As a result, and demand for savings products pre and postretirement savers are internationally.
increases, individuals in these countries turning to investment products such as are increasingly demanding foreign those offered by Jupiter which offer the investments to help them diversify their MARKET DRIVERS prospect of positive returns on their holdings and to give them access to a savings.
In particular, the ability to In the markets where we choose to wider range of assets.
Mutual fund operate, a number of powerful longterm increase the value of savings during providers, pension funds and insurance the postretirement phase, as well as trends are driving demand for investment companies are providing more products that deliver attractive returns, generating income over and above that opportunities for these individuals to provided by the state, is changing the have transparent fees and create value achieve their investment goals.
Individuals are having to save Populations are growing and ageing Clients are demanding a range of for retirement different products Populations around the world are These population trends mean that increasing and people are living longer.
Flows into mutual funds continue to many more people need to fund longer polarise.
At one end of the spectrum, According to the United Nations, 13% retirements than previously expected.
of the global population was aged 60 there is growing demand for lowcost However, governments and companies exchangetraded and index funds, where or over in 2017, equating to 962m people.
are limiting pension provision, due to the Europe has the largest proportion of over returns track an underlying market index.
cost of funding this provision.
Individuals These offerings are generically known 60s at 25%, while Asia is in line with the are therefore increasingly required to global average at 12%.
provide for retirement themselves, using Worldwide, the population aged 60 or defined contribution pension schemes At the other end, there are significant and other forms of longterm savings, inflows into highperformance, outcome over is growing faster than all younger age groups, at about 3% per annum.
to build up enough capital to provide orientated active strategies, capable of the income they will need.
This is the The number of older people is projected to reach 1.4bn by 2030 and 2.1bn by area in which Jupiter operates.
WHAT THESE TRENDS MEAN FOR JUPITER The trends in our markets have important implications for our strategy and operations: ll There is substantial demand for ll Demand for different product ll Attractive longterm demographics investment products that offer strong types alongside shortening product are increasing demand for mutual outperformance after fees.
Jupiter lifecycles means we will need to funds in the UK and in our must meet this challenge in order to further innovate and diversify our international markets.
This gives us retain clients, attract greater inflows active range.
We will continue to the opportunity to further expand and grow revenues.
Investment develop and launch new investment our distribution, as we continue to outperformance after all fees, products, where we have the ability diversify geographically and broaden delivered through active asset to differentiate our active offering, our client base.
management, is therefore our and look to attract and retain the number one priority.
6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 In the middle of the spectrum are of its market study, which looked at management.
Technology may also traditional funds, such as longonly, competition in the UK fund management have an increasing role in distribution singlegeography equity and fixed industry.
We welcome the FCAs drive and client services, for example by income funds.
These have seen sizeable towards transparency in fee charges enabling precisely targeted marketing outflows, especially from funds which and the focus on value to clients of and messages to specific intermediaries, stick closely to the benchmark and the investment service provided.
and providing digital services that allow which are therefore competing with Demonstrating that they offer value advisers to selfserve and find answers lowcost passive alternatives.
This is a for money will be increasingly important to their common questions.
result of investors looking for funds that for active managers.
consistently deliver value for money Uncertainties facing our markets and through outperformance after fees.
investors These dynamics mean that active In addition to the trends outlined above, asset managers must be able to there are some uncertainties which clearly differentiate their products and could affect how our market operates demonstrate that they deliver positive or influence which market participants returns after all fees, so they continue to are successful.
There is political uncertainty in a number Clients are demanding fee of the countries in which we operate, transparency and value for money including the outcome of the Brexit Fees can have a significant impact process.
These uncertainties could result in on returns to clients over time, which unforeseen changes in government policy is why Jupiter targets investment or the regulatory and legal framework for outperformance after all fees.
The the fund management industry.
These importance of fees means that clients could also impact clients wealth and want a clear understanding of how subsequent attitude towards savings and much they are paying, so they can investment.
assess whether they are receiving value Technology could also affect the for money from their asset managers.
Artificial Our primary regulator is the Financial intelligence, machine learning, data Conduct Authority FCA in the UK.
In and analytics have the potential to 2017, the FCA published the final findings fundamentally change portfolio ll To take advantage of these trends, ll To ensure we continue to deliver for ll With shorter product lifecycles and we need to focus on the agility and clients, as well as our people and the changing face of distribution innovation that allow us to anticipate shareholders, we need a governance, partners and clients, it has become and meet client needs.
This requires risk and control framework designed more critical that funds quickly investment in our business to ensure to support our growth.
To accelerate this we have systems that can sustain our to develop and evolve our internal process, we are proactively deploying growth, support different product processes in a way that recognises more of our balance sheet as seed types and allow us to operate the importance of controls.
We follow a highly efficiently and in compliance with disciplined process in deploying, ll To deliver our strategic goals, we regulations, as they evolve.
We redeeming and recycling such need the financial strength to continue therefore continue to invest in our seed investment.
to invest in the business, support our operating platform.
We are also growth, and reward our people and investing in new technologies, such as increase returns to shareholders.
data analytics, to ensure we keep pace with technological change.
7 Strategic report OUR MARKETS CONTINUED UNITED KINGDOM The majority of our clients assets in the ISAs currently allow individuals to invest UK are held within our unit trusts, which 20,000 a year in cash, funds, bonds are a standard UK mutual fund product.
or shares, with any resulting income or The wider UK mutual fund industry has capital gains being taxfree.
Other forms JUPITERS POSITION 1.2trn of assets under management.
of ISA have been introduced in recent The UK is our core market, as it As the chart below shows, holdings of years, which allow people to save to buy is home to the majority of our mutual funds tend to be robust across their first home or for retirement.
Our strong brand the market cycle, with consistent demand have much lower savings limits but and historical presence, deep for equity products as well as a growing receive government top ups to the distribution and track record of appetite for fixed income products.
outperformance after fees mean that we are well-positioned to The UK is also an important location for Longer lives mean that investing for continue to succeed.
global financial institutions which operate retirement is also becoming more in the resilient and growing high net complex.
Individuals now need to Regardless of how our clients access worth market.
The pool of assets accumulate assets during their working our products, over the last decade, managed in the UK by members of The lives and shift their investments to the UK market has evolved away Investment Association is estimated to be incomeproducing assets at the point from clients purchasing directly in excess of 6.9trn, with a large of retirement.
Once retired they need to from fund managers.
Instead, they proportion of these funds channelled continue to adjust their investments, to purchase via intermediaries such through decisionmaking centres in ensure they do not outlive their savings.
as investment platforms or wealth London.
Given the historic importance Many people will also find themselves managers.
Relationships with of London as a financial centre, and the working at least parttime beyond their increasingly professional distribution supporting infrastructure and resources retirement dates.
Fund management partners are critical to our success.
that have built up there, we do not groups have an opportunity to develop Direct clients now form a low believe that Brexit will fundamentally new products to support all these proportion of our asset base.
affect Londons importance, even if different phases of retirement.
businesses relocate some operations Fee transparency and clear 2017 was a notable year for asset to European centres.
demonstration of value for money flows in the UK, with all asset categories are critical to both distribution The UK government encourages positive, but heightened demand for partners and clients.
In early 2017, we individuals to invest by providing fixed income products and strategic proactively reviewed our unit trust taxefficient vehicles, in the form of bonds in particular.
Total net inflows pricing structure and, in anticipation, pension funds and Individual Savings were 47.5bn, up from 8.4bn in the adopted an approach aligned with Accounts ISAs.
Individuals can make previous year when political uncertainty the objectives of the FCAs market taxfree contributions to their pension dampened clients investment appetite.
study, which will come into effect for schemes within annual and lifetime 2018.
This means moving to a single limits, although these limits have been price for buying and selling fund significantly reduced in recent years.
units, thereby eliminating box profits Since 2016, individuals have had more earned by the Group.
This is an freedom over how they use their pension important step in the evolution of pots at the point of retirement.
This is our unit trust pricing structure, creating demand for products that increasing transparency and further provide income, as an alternative demonstrating the value we bring to to annuities.
In addition, research costs previously borne by funds, and therefore clients, will now be borne by Jupiter without a consequential price change in the amounts we charge.
Domestic AUM bn 1,250 1,181 Others Property 1,031 Mixed asset 1,000 Fixed income 909 872 Equity 803 750 690 611 608 500 250 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Unless otherwise stated, all market data has been sourced from The Investment Association.
8 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 INTERNATIONAL Continental Europe includes a number After Europe, Asia is the secondlargest of the worlds larger economies and crossborder mutual fund market in the has a substantial mutual fund market.
world, with total crossborder mutual Retail and private banks are the main fund assets of 0.3trn.
Hong Kong is the JUPITERS POSITION distribution channels, followed by largest market in the region, followed Diversifying the business, including financial advisers, insurance companies, by Taiwan and Singapore.
While there by geography, continues to prove platforms and direct sales.
Appetite for is no common regional framework like highly successful for Jupiter and we different products varies between European UCITS, there are moves have a growing presence in both countries but, in general, an environment towards mutual recognition of funds and Europe and Asia.
Our international of negative or very low real interest rates regional passporting, which will further strategy is primarily to continue is pushing European investors away from open up these markets.
Since December to deepen our distribution in our traditional savings products based on 2016, the Asia Region Funds Passport existing markets, by building on cash returns and towards products ARFP has been established and the existing relationships with that offer better returns.
ARFP Joint Committee has had a number distribution partners, targeting of facetoface meetings, published its new intermediaries and continuing International fund managers have built first Annual Report and initiated a to expand the range of funds we good positions in many European markets, Pilot Program.
helped by passporting of UCITS, which are mutual funds that can be sold to any Distribution of our product types in Jupiter has a UCITS passport, investor in the EU, under a harmonised Hong Kong is largely achieved through allowing us to act from our UK base regulatory regime.
This enables fund retail banks, while Singapore is as the management company for our managers to run funds on a crossborder dominated by private banks.
In basis, without needing a presence in financial institutions have a significant advance of the expected Brexit date each country where funds are domiciled.
presence in the region, enabling mutual in early 2019, we expect the Assets in crossborder UCITS total fund providers such as Jupiter to build management company activities for 1.4trn, compared with 1.2trn at the on relationships developed in other the SICAV will need to take place end of 2016.
Fixed income funds make markets.
Although product preferences within a legal entity domiciled in up the largest proportion of these assets in Asia vary by country, fixed income Europe as we expect that, post Brexit, at 41% of the total.
Equity and multiasset and multiasset funds have been most this will not be possible from the UK.
funds represent 38% and 12% in demand across those markets in 2017.
Our project to achieve this is well respectively.
European crossborder net In addition, holding periods in Asian advanced and will require a limited flows in 2017 were 127.4bn with positive markets tend to be shorter than in the amount of restructuring of our legal flows into fixed income, equity and UK and Europe.
entities during 2018, the identification multiasset funds.
of premises in Luxembourg and associated roles and activities that will be transferred to or created in Luxembourg.
A loss of delegation rights would require greater reorganisation: it is not currently clear whether this will be one of the outcomes of the Brexit negotiations and we consider this an unlikely outcome, but are monitoring developments very closely.
