Executive management team The Executive Committee manages the business on a day-to-day basis.
The team meets regularly to review a wide range of business matters, including financial performance, development of strategy, setting and monitoring performance targets, reviewing projects and other David Warren Raffaele Jerusalmi initiatives.
Profiles of the Executive team Interim Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana S. p. A. are provided as at January 2018 for and Group Chief Financial Officer.
and Director of Capital Markets.
further information on David Warren and Raffaele Jerusalmi, who are also members of the Board of Directors, see their biographies on pages 5455.
Chris Corrado Diane Ct Catherine Johnson Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Group Chief Risk Officer.
Joined the Group in November 2015.
Diane was previously Aviva Plcs Chief Finance Operations Officer.
Catherine advises the Board and senior executives on key legal Chris joined from MSCI where he was responsible for technology, Prior to this, she held the position of Avivas Chief Audit Officer.
In addition to her role as Group data services and programme management.
He has over 30 Diane has many years experience holding senior positions General Counsel, she was previously also head of the Groups years of global experience in managing technology platforms within Aviva and other leading organisations, including Standard Regulatory Strategy team.
Catherine qualified as a lawyer at and transformational change in the financial services industry.
He has also worked for high-growth technology companies including eBay, AT&T Wireless and Asurion.
Daniel Maguire Mark Makepeace Nikhil Rathi Chief Executive Officer of LCH Group.
Group Director of Information Services and Chief Executive Officer of London Stock Exchange Joined LCH in September 2008.
Chief Executive Officer of FTSE Russell.
plc and Director of International Development.
Was a founding Director of FTSE in 1995 Joined the Group in 2014.
Daniel has wide experience in risk management, regulatory and joined the Group in 2011. strategy, product management and development, programme Nikhil joined from the UK Treasury, where he held a number of delivery and sales and operations management.
He was Mark has over 20 years experience of developing successful senior positions, including Director of the Financial Services previously Global Head of SwapClear and also ForexClear and joint ventures and has forged alliances with stock exchanges, Group, representing the UK Governments financial services Listed Rates at LCH, and most recently LCH Group COO.
academics and leading industry groups.
interests internationally, and Private Secretary to the UK Prime Minister for 3 years from 2005 to 2008.
18 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017
