Technology Services Revenue FURTHER INFORMATION Market trends and our response for Technology Services can be found on pages 1215.
Profitability 91m of each segment can be found in the Financial Review on pages 3641.
An overview of the 2016: 88m regulatory landscape can be found on pages 166167.
A glossary of terms can be found on pages 162165.
Key Summary Introduction Throughout the year we also completed the migration Technology revenues increased by 3% to 91 Technology Services provides the Group and its of the Bolsa Y Mercados Argentinos to the Millennium million 2016: 88 million and were unchanged customers, including banks, specialist trading firms Exchange platform, and Oslo Brs launched LSEs new on an organic constant currency basis and other capital market venues with resilient, Turquoise Lit Auctions functionality on its Millennium high-speed, low latency trading platforms, post trade Exchange trading system.
LSEG Technology was launched: a re-branding platforms, real time market data and surveillance and re-engineering of our technology businesses.
The Group continues to assess opportunities that We introduced a new Leadership Team, created exist in Financial Technology FinTech such as a more nimble and product-driven delivery Exchange Technology distributed ledger blockchain, machine learning, capability, and improved our collaboration with Our cash equity and retail bond markets run on the big data and cloud-computing.
LSEG, through Borsa innovation teams, all with the aim of better latest version of the Millennium Exchange trading Italiana, announced in July, a collaboration with IBM serving existing and new customers platform.
This technology has reduced our cost base to develop a blockchain solution to digitise the LSEG Business Services Limited, our shared and increased the opportunities for customers to issuance of securities for unlisted SMEs in Europe.
services company, has broadened into services benefit from enhanced functionality and the further This aims to replace paper trading certificates, for corporate functions expansion of our co-location services.
This has commonly issued by private companies, with allowed us to meet the needs of our customers a more streamlined and transparent process.
Integration underway of Mergent and The Yield quickly and cost effectively.
Book technologies into the broader Group LSEG Business Services Limited BSL, our shared LSEG completed an extensive programme of change services company, provides a range of resilient and in order to ensure its readiness for the implementation efficient technology services Group-wide, as well as of MiFID II on 3 January 2018.
The programme reducing costs by leveraging low cost centres via involved a comprehensive assessment across LSEG centralised technology operations and back office.
markets to identify the impact of the new regulation The BSL shared services model is scalable and as such and implement the necessary changes to technology, has been extended to corporate functions in 2017. rules and business processes.
All technological upgrades were completed and tested with customers Through our Millennium Exchange technology, ahead of MiFID II go-live.
our UK cash equity continues to exhibit excellent technical performance, with the trading systems Following the completed acquisitions of Mergent and available for 100% uptime during the year 2016: The Yield Book and Citi Fixed Income Indices in 2017, 100%.
The average daily volume of transactions their technologies are being integrated with the for 2017 was 53 million.
Groups to utilise new data and analytic capabilities internally as well as for our customers.
32 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Strategic Report Technology Services LSEG Technology Gatelab LSEG Technology is the new name for our technology Gatelab, our Italy and UK-based technology businesses, which includes MillenniumIT and Gatelab.
company, is a provider of fully MiFID II-compliant A new Leadership Team has been introduced, and our trading and post trade solutions to the global development approach is changing to help us further financial community.
The products and services productise the business.
Our products will be Gatelab offers to buy-side, sell-side and hedge fund enhanced to reflect an emphasis on innovation in the partners include multi-asset cross-market electronic areas of emerging technologies such as Artificial trading platforms, ultra-low latency pre-trade risk Intelligence AI, large scale data analytics, blockchain market adapters, smart order routing for equities and distributed ledger technology.
and bonds, and post trade deal capture and cross-asset margining.
MillenniumIT MillenniumIT was acquired by the Group in 2009.
This year, Gatelab became an approved provider of MillenniumIT provides advanced market leading risk gateway services for third party clients accessing capital markets software and has implemented the Bombay Stock Exchange BSE.
This enables solutions for over 40 organisations and exchanges users to send orders to the BSE currency derivatives worldwide.
segment provided all pre-trade risk checks are met.
A wide range of software solutions are offered by Exactpro MillenniumIT: Millennium Exchange, the flagship In January 2018, Exactpro Systems was divested multi-asset trading platform, through which all of from LSEG.
LSEG will remain a significant customer the Groups cash equity and retail bond markets run: of Exactpro, which will provide an independent Millennium Market Data, the real time data and index software quality assessment of LSEGs core programs calculation platform: Millennium Surveillance, which through a multi-year services agreement between detects abnormal trading behaviour: and, among the 2 companies.
others, Millennium PostTrade, which offers real time clearing, settlement, risk management and CSD solutions.
In December 2017, LSEG announced that Lanka Century Investments LCI had acquired full ownership of MillenniumIT ESP, a global IT enterprise solutions provider, part of the MillenniumIT business.
LSEG retained MillenniumIT Software, the trading technology and software development component of the business.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 33
