What we do our business model London Stock Exchange Group LSEG is a How we add value Capital Formation: global financial markets infrastructure Our businesses are formed of interconnected Our Primary Markets provide choice and provider which operates in multiple regions business areas: 1 Intellectual Property: 2 Risk connections between a wide range of issuers and in order to meet our customers needs.
and Balance Sheet Management: and 3 Capital investors, enabling domestic and international Headquartered in London and with significant Formation.
Our presence across the financial markets companies to raise capital effectively operations elsewhere across the world in infrastructure value chain allows us to provide a Our Secondary Markets provide liquid and North America, Italy, France and Sri Lanka, platform for serving customers at each and every deep access to financial securities to enable the Group employs approximately 4,900 point and meeting a wide range of their needs.
improved price formation, transparency and people.
Global presence is also reflected in The model below shows our businesses and the trading efficiency the geographical distribution of our income, key connections between them: with 40% in Sterling, 32% in Euro, 26% in Group Technology US Dollar and 2% in other currencies.
Intellectual Property: Supports the 3 business segments.
It delivers financial Our Information Services division provides customers markets infrastructure IT to various businesses within The Group plays a vital economic and social with an extensive range of valuable information and the Group.
This IT comprises resilient, secure, high role within the global economy through its data products, that inform investment decisions and performance trading platforms, post trade platforms, interconnected businesses, enabling companies capital allocation, including indexes, data on pricing, real time market data, hosting and other infrastructure to access funding for growth and development, trading and valuations products and services.
It also provides these services make informed investment decisions and manage to third parties around the world.
In turn, on a broader macro-economic Risk and Balance Sheet Management: basis, this provides greater efficiency in accessing The Group offers a full range of central and managing capital, helping to fund innovation, counterparty CCP clearing services and collateral generate wealth and create jobs.
management solutions which provide strong risk management and capital efficiency benefits.
These allow our buy-side and sell-side customers to operate more effectively, enabling increased trading and investment activities Our activities across the financial markets value chain CAPITAL FORMATION PRIMARY MARKETS CAPITAL RAISING Our central function is to bring together companies seeking capital with investors from around the world.
SECONDARY MARKETS TRADING Trading Our markets and systems provide all market data participants with efficient, liquid and deep access to financial securities for the purpose of capital allocation and risk transfer.
Data and analytics to inform trading and Listed investment RISK & BALANCE SHEET MANAGEMENT company decisions and trading data The Group offers a full range of post trade services, providing risk and balance sheet management solutions to a range of customers.
CC&G Services: Product Central counterparty CCP clearing services clearing Monte Titoli Custody and settlement data Collateral management and asset services INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We provide customers with an extensive range of valuable and reliable information and data products that inform their investment and trading decisions.
Real Time Data GROUP TECHNOLOGY All of our businesses depend on technology that is secure, stable and performs to high levels of accuracy and throughput.
MillenniumIT develops exible, low-cost, high performance trading, market surveillance and post trade systems as well as network connectivity.
8 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Strategic Report What we do our business model What makes us different our competitive advantages NEED HELP?
In addition to providing businesses of scale across the value chain, our business model incorporates 2 key Like any industry, global financial markets approaches that differentiate us from competitors in the global financial markets infrastructure industry: infrastructure has its own unique language.
For that reason, we have included a glossary Open Access Customer Partnership on pages 162165.
Open Access is the principle which lies at the heart We believe that aligning our strategy, services of free and fair markets, and is enshrined in MiFID II and products to the needs and interests of our customers is central to supporting long-term We believe customers should have the choice value creation, enabling innovation in products of where they place their business.
In particular, which can be rapidly adopted we support non-discriminatory access to trading and clearing infrastructures as we believe this In some businesses, we are joint owners with our provides greater market efficiencies by reducing customers which helps ensure continued relevance fragmentation and barriers to service uptake and uptake of the business within the operating landscape, and targeted development goals We provide access to all of our markets and products for a wide range of users, including those that offer Examples: competing services to parts of the Group.
Access Several of our operating companies such as LCH, to our services is not conditional on taking a suite Turquoise, CurveGlobal and MTS are owned and or bundle of different services.
This open access governed in partnership with our customers who approach is in contrast to most other exchanges have varying minority shareholder interests in each.
and capital markets infrastructure providers These customers play an active role in shaping the Examples: services offered by these businesses for the benefit LCH provides clearing services to a number of of all users.
non-Group owned equities, derivatives and fixed income trading venues such as Nex Group, Euronext and Cboe Europe Equities.
FTSE Russell also licences its indexes to other exchange operators, such as CME in the US and the Singapore Stock Exchange, enabling them to list and trade derivatives products based on our indexes.
What we need to operate our businesses and deliver value CAPITAL ALLOCATION FRAMEWORK There are a number of factors that combine to give us competitive advantages: We use an established internal capital allocation framework to help us determine the most effective Intellectual property Regulatory expertise use of capital to support growth in the business, Our proprietary data and the resulting analysis Many of the markets we operate are highly regulated including investment in new products and services generated across our businesses deliver value-add and subject to ongoing regulatory change.
We have and also acquisitions to further enhance Group products and services that strengthen our proven expertise in operating transparent, efficient capabilities.
The returns from such investments are customers ability to make informed risk, and well governed market infrastructure in regulated benchmarked against alternative uses of capital, trading and investment decisions.
markets globally, providing services that are trusted, including distribution of cash to shareholders.
Risk management The management of risk is fundamental to Customer trust maintaining our role as a diversified global financial Our network of customers and their ongoing input markets infrastructure provider in order to maintain to, and support for, our businesses are vital to stakeholder confidence in our businesses.
our ability to provide efficient financial markets infrastructure across the value chain and underpin Technology customers success.
Secure and stable high-performing technology is critical to the operation of the Groups businesses.
People We continue to invest in our technology in order to Our people are at the heart of what we do we are maintain and enhance the quality, resilience and committed to attracting, developing and retaining efficiency of our platforms, while also creating exceptional talent and capabilities in order to deliver innovation to serve our customers.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 9
