Board of Directors COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Group Executive Committee Chairman Donald Brydon CBE David Warren Chairman of the Group and the Nomination Interim Chief Executive Officer and Committee age 72 Group Chief Financial Officer age 63 Appointed to the Board in June 2015 and Appointed to the Board in July 2012 and appointed subsequently Chairman in July 2015 as Interim CEO on 29 November 2017 Key areas of experience: Industry and finance, governance, Key areas of experience: Accounting, corporate finance, chair, pensions.
investor relations, mergers and acquisitions, strategy, treasury management.
Donald is currently Chairman of The Sage Group plc and the Medical Research Council.
David brings significant international financial management expertise to the Board.
Donald brings to the Board his wealth of experience gained on the boards of a number of listed companies across a wide Relevant past experience: Prior to being appointed Chief range of sectors, as well as his significant knowledge and Financial Officer of London Stock Exchange Group, David understanding of the Finance and Insurance industries, gained was Chief Financial Officer of NASDAQ from 2001 to 2009 from his time as Chairman and Chief Executive of both BZW and Senior Adviser to the NASDAQ CEO from 2011 to 2012.
Investment Management Ltd and AXA Investment Managers Other senior roles David has held have included: Chief Financial SA and acting CEO, BZW.
Officer at the Long Island Power Authority of New York and Deputy Treasurer of the State of Connecticut.
Relevant past experience: Donald has also held the post of Chairman at: Smiths Group plc, the London Metal Exchange, Other current appointments: None.
Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, Amersham plc, AXA Investment Managers SA, Royal Mail Group plc and The London Institute of Banking & Finance formerly ifs School of Finance and is a former Director of Aberdeen UK Tracker Trust plc, Allied Domecq plc, AXA UK plc and Scottish Power plc.
Other current appointments: Donald is currently Chairman of the charity Chance to Shine and Chairman of the Science Museum Foundation.
He is also a Trustee Board Member of the Foundation for Science and Technology.
Raffaele Jerusalmi Jacques Aigrain Paul Heiden Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana S. p. A.
Independent Non-Executive Director age 63 Senior Independent Director age 61 and Director of Capital Markets age 56 Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Appointed to the Board in June 2010 Appointed to the Board in June 2010 Key areas of experience: Client management, corporate Key areas of experience: Corporate finance and accounting, Key areas of experience: Capital markets, corporate finance, finance, corporate governance, post trade and clearing, technology and engineering, corporate governance and risk, fixed income, equity and derivatives trading.
investment management, mergers and acquisitions, strategy.
commercial manufacturing and supply chain.
Raffaele brings significant experience in capital markets and in Jacques brings significant expertise and knowledge of global Paul is a chartered accountant and provides the Board and fixed income, equity and derivatives trading to the Group.
post trade and clearing and investment management to the the Audit Committee with relevant financial expertise, gained Board.
He also holds a PhD in Economics from the University through a long career of senior finance and management roles He has worked for Borsa Italiana S. p. A. for the past 20 years and of Paris Sorbonne.
across a wide range of business sectors.
is Borsa Italianas Chief Executive Officer as well as the Groups Director of Capital Markets.
Raffaele also holds a number of other Relevant past experience: Jacques was Chairman of LCH Group Relevant past experience: Paul was previously a Non-Executive internal senior positions within the Group including: the Vice Holdings Limited from 2010 to 2015.
He has also been a Director of United Utilities Group plc, Bunzl plc and Filtrona plc Chairmanship of Monte Titoli, MTS and CC&G and Chairman of Non-Executive Director of Resolution Ltd, a Supervisory Board and Non-Executive Chairman of A-Gas Orb Limited, Talaris Elite S. p. A.. member of Deutsche Lufthansa AG and a Non-Executive Director Topco Limited and Intelligent Energy Holdings plc.
of the Qatar Financial Centre Authority.
Jacques was also Chief Relevant past experience: Prior to joining Borsa Italiana, Paul was Chief Executive Officer of FKI plc from 2003 to 2008, Executive Officer of Swiss Re from 2006 to 2009.
Raffaele was Head of Trading for Italian Fixed Income at Credit Executive Director of Rolls-Royce plc from 1997 to 1999 and Suisse First Boston.
Raffaele was also a member of Credit Suisses Prior to 2001 when he joined Swiss Re, Jacques spent 20 years Group Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc from 1999 to 2003. proprietary trading group in London as well as representing with J. P. Morgan Chase, working in the New York, London and He also held previous senior finance roles at Hanson plc and Credit Suisse First Boston on the Board of MTS S. p. A..
joining Credit Suisse, he was Head of Trading for the fixed income Other current appointments: Jacques is currently a Senior Other current appointments: Paul is a Non-Executive Director and derivatives divisions at Cimo S. p. A. in Milan.
Advisor at Warburg Pincus LLC, a Supervisory Board member of Meggitt plc.
of LyondellBasell Industries NV and a Non-Executive Director of WPP plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Swiss International Airlines AG a subsidiary of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, a role he will be stepping down from in June 2018.
54 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Board of Directors Board structure as at 31 December 2017 The Board comprised: Director Changes During The Year Chairman, who was independent on appointment Xavier Rolet stepped down from the Board on 29 November 2017, and CFO, David Warren 1 Senior Independent Director was appointed as Interim CEO 6 other Independent Non-Executive Directors Val Rahmani was appointed as an Independent and 1 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director on 20 December 2017 2 Executive Directors Professor Lex Hoogduin David Nish Stephen OConnor Non-Executive Director age 61 Independent Non-Executive Director age 57 Independent Non-Executive Director age 56 Appointed to the Board in December 2015 Appointed to the Board in December 2015 Appointed to the Board in June 2013 Key areas of experience: Clearing and settlements systems, Key areas of experience: Strategy, finance, corporate Key areas of experience: OTC derivatives, risk management, economic policy and research, financial stability and financial governance and risk, consumer and market regulation, capital markets, clearing, corporate finance.
Stephen brings international expertise in clearing and counterparty Lex brings significant expertise and knowledge of economics and David provides significant FTSE 100 expertise to the Board risk management to the Board.
He has worked extensively with the operation of financial markets to the Board.
He is also currently from his experience on a number of other boards, including global regulators in the area of financial services market reform.
Chairman of the Group subsidiary, LCH Group Holdings Limited.
in the Investment Management and Insurance sectors from Relevant past experience: Stephen was Chairman of the his time at Standard Life plc.
Relevant past experience: Lex previously served as Executive International Swaps and Derivatives Association from 2011 to Director at fide Nederlandsche Bank DNB from January 2009 until Relevant past experience: David was the Chief Executive 2014 having been appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2009.
July 2011, where his responsibilities included economic policy and Officer of Standard Life plc from January 2010 to August 2015 Stephen also worked at Morgan Stanley in London and New York research, financial stability, financial markets, statistics and having joined the company as Group Finance Director in for 25 years, where he was a member of the Fixed Income payment, clearing and settlement systems.
A chartered accountant, David was also Management Committee and held a number of senior roles previously Group Finance Director of Scottish Power plc and he is including Global Head of Counterparty Portfolio Management and He has also held a number of economic advisory positions a former Partner at Price Waterhouse.
Previously, David has been Global Head of OTC Client Clearing.
as Chief Economist at Robeco, Managing Director of the IRIS a Non-Executive Director of Northern Foods plc, Thus plc, HDFC research institute and adviser to the first president of the ECB.
Stephen was a member of the High Level Stakeholder Group for the Life India, the UK Green Investment Bank plc and was Deputy UK Governments review of the Future of Computer Trading in Lex holds a Masters degree in Economics from the University Chairman of the Association of British Insurers.
Financial Markets and served as Vice-Chairman of the Financial of Groningen, the Netherlands and received his PhD degree in Other current appointments: David is a Non-Executive Director Stability Boards Market Participants Group on Financial Benchmark Economic Sciences in 1991. of HSBC Holdings plc, Vodafone Group plc, and Zurich Insurance Reform.
He was a Non-Executive Director of OTC DerivNet Ltd from Other current appointments: Lex is Chairman of the Dutch Group.
He is also a member of the Council of the Institute of 2001 to 2013 and was Chairman from 2001 to 2011.
Payment Association and Chairman of the supervisory board Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Other current appointments: Stephen serves as Chairman of of the Centre for Integral Revalidation Health Care.
He is an Quantile Technologies Limited.
Stephen is a member of the US Adviser to Wilgenhaege a Dutch asset manager.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC Global Markets He is also a part-time Professor of Economics complexity and Advisory Committee and a member of the Scientific Advisory uncertainty in financial markets and financial institutions at Board of the Systematic Risk Centre, London School of the University of Groningen, the Netherlands.
Val Rahmani Mary Schapiro Andrea Sironi Independent Non-Executive Director age 60 Independent Non-Executive Director age 62 Independent Non-Executive Director age 53 Appointed to the Board in December 2017 Appointed to the Board in July 2015 Appointed to the Board in October 2016 Key areas of experience: Technology, technical risk Key areas of experience: Market regulation, corporate finance, Key areas of experience: Finance, financial risk management, management, corporate governance, strategy, sales corporate governance and risk, securities.
Mary brings expertise in market regulation and US markets to Andrea provides significant banking and finance experience Val brings significant expertise and knowledge of technology and the Board.
technical risk management to the Board gained from almost 30 Relevant past experience: Mary has held a number of senior Relevant past experience: Andrea was the Vice Chairman of years with IBM and 4 years as CEO of a cyber security start up.
regulatory positions including: the Chair of the US Securities and Banca Aletti & C S. p. A. from April 2009 to October 2012.
Andrea Val has wide-ranging experience as a senior executive in the Exchange Commission, CEO and Chair of the Financial Industry was a Non-Executive Director of Banco Popolare Societ technology sector fulfilling the role of general manager, board Regulatory Authority FINRA Inc. and its predecessor the Cooperativ from October 2008 to May 2013 and SAES Getters member, start up mentor, management consultant and public National Association of Securities Dealers Regulation Inc. S. p. A. from April 2006 to April 2015.
He has also been a Member of speaker.
Val also holds a DPhil in Chemistry from the University NASDR, Chair of the FINRA Educational Foundation, and the the Fitch Academic Advisory Board from June 2006 to June 2010. of Oxford.
Mary is a former Director of Kraft Foods Inc. Other current appointments: Andrea is the Chairman of Borsa Duke Energy Corp. Cinergy Corp. and a former trustee of the Relevant past experience: Val is a former Non-Executive Director Italiana S. p. A. a subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange Group MITRE Corporation.
She was also Managing Director, Governance of Aberdeen Asset Management and Teradici Corporation.
and a Non-Executive Director of Cogentech S. c. a. r. l. Since 1 and Markets, Promontory Financial Group LLC.
January 2017, he has been a member of the Board of Cassa Other current appointments: Val currently serves as a Other current appointments: Mary is a Non-Executive Board Depositi e Prestiti S. p. A. and he is also a Professor of Banking Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee Director of the General Electric Co. and CVS Health, Vice-Chairman and Finance of Bocconi University, Italy, where he was Rector at RenaissanceRe Holdings Limited.
She is also a Non-Executive of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board SASB and from 2012 to 2016.
Director of Computer Task Group Inc, where she chairs the Vice-Chairman, Advisory Board at Promontory Financial Group Compensation Committee and serves as a member of the Audit LLC.
She also serves as an advisory board member at Spruceview and Governance Committees and a Non-Executive Director of Capital Partners, Morgan Stanley Institute for Sustainable the early stage company, Rungway.
Investing and Hudson Executive Capital LP.
She is also an Independent Director at Axiom Law Inc. and joined the International Advisory Board to the China Securities Regulatory Commission in October 2016.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 55
