94 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Directors report The directors present their report with the Groups audited consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the Companies Act 2006 for the year ended 31 December 2017.
There are no significant events affecting the Group since the end of the year requiring disclosure except the post balance sheet event disclosed in the table below.
Incorporation by reference Certain laws and regulations require that specific information should be included in the Directors report.
The table below shows the items which are incorporated into this Directors report by reference: Information incorporated into the Directors report by reference Location and page Likely future developments in the Groups business Strategic report pages 3 to 55 The Corporate governance report Board of directors and Corporate governance report pages 56 to 64 Research and development Note 8 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 126 and Chief Financial Officers review page 36 Policies on financial risk management, including the extent to Note 3 to the Groups consolidated financial statements which financial instruments are utilised to mitigate any significant risks to pages 119 to 120 which the Group is exposed Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate responsibility report page 53 Employee information Corporate responsibility report pages 48 to 51 Employee involvement Employment of disabled persons Statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group duringthe Note 19 to the Groups consolidated financial statements year with an indication of the amount and treatment of any related page 133 tax relief Details of long-term incentive plans Directors remuneration report pages 72 to 93 Details of any arrangements under which a director of the Companyhas Nothing to disclose waived or agreed to waive any emoluments from theCompany or any subsidiary undertaking Details of allotments for cash of ordinary shares made during theperiod Note 36 to the Groups consolidated financial statements under review page 150 Details of authority for the purchase of own shares that is still valid at the Not applicable programme currently suspended end of the period under review Contracts of significance to which the Company is a party and in which a Nothing to disclose director is materially interested Contracts of significance between the Company and a controlling Nothing to disclose shareholder Contracts for the provision of services to the Company by a controlling Nothing to disclose shareholder Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or Nothing to disclose agreed to waive dividends Agreements related to controlling shareholder requirements Nothing to disclose underLR 9.2.
2A Statement of directors interests Directors remuneration report pages 91 to 93 A statement of how the Company has complied with the UK Corporate Corporate governance report page 64 Governance Code anddetails of any non-compliance Details of directors service contracts Share capital and control page 95 and Directors remuneration report pages 72 to 93 Related parties disclosures Note 17 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 131 Post balance sheet events Note 45 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 155 Description of the Groups internal control and risk management systems Risk management report pages 40 to 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 95 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Dividends Share capital and control The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of As at 31 December 2017, the Company held 13,957 treasury shares 10.80p per ordinary 5p share 2016: 10.30p, to be paid on 4 May with a nominal value of 5p each and the Companys issued share 2018 to those members on the register at close of business on capital excluding shares held as treasury shares consisted of 23March 2018.
An interim dividend of 5.05p 2016: 4.80p was 776,409,818 shares with a nominal value of 5p each.
If the final dividend as recommended February 2018, the Company held 13,957 treasury shares with a is approved, the total ordinary dividend for the year will amount to nominal value of 5p each and the Companys issued share capital 15.85p per ordinary 5p share 2016: 15.10p.
excluding shares held as treasury shares consisted of 776,417,972 shares with a nominal value of 5p each.
The issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2017 and details of shares Dividend reinvestment plan issued during the financial year are shown in note 36 to the Group The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP which consolidated financial statements.
enables shareholders to buy the Companys shares on the London Stock Exchange with their cash dividend.
Further information The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
about the DRIP is available from Computershare, the Companys The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary registrars.
shares are set out in the Articles.
A copy of the Articles is available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The holders of During 2017 the Company made the DRIP available to shareholders ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and for the dividends paid in May 2017 and September 2017.
The accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, Board currently intends to continue to make the DRIP available to to appoint proxies to exercise full voting rights and to participate in shareholders in 2018 and the date by which relevant DRIP elections any distribution of income or capital.
must be received is disclosed on the financial calendar page on our website.
There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on holding ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any Directors transfers.
There are no known arrangements under which financial The directors of the Company in office during the year and up to the rights are held by persons other than holders of the shares and no date of signing the financial statements were: known agreements or restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company share plans rank pari Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman, Mr A Wood, Mr S G Young retired, passu on an equal footing with the shares in issue and have no 31 December 2017, Mr G S Berruyer, Mr C R Day, Mrs N L Gioia special rights.
appointed, 27 April 2017, Ms A J P Goligher, Mr P E Green, Mr P Heiden Senior Independent Director, Ms B L Reichelderfer Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are retired, 27 April 2017 and Mr D R Webb.
Mr Wood became contained in the Articles which provide that a director may be Chief Executive on 1 January 2018 replacing Mr Young who retired appointed by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the from his position as Chief Executive and the Board of Directors on existing directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director.
Changes to the Articles must be submitted to the shareholders for approval by way of special resolution.
The directors may exercise All directors will be submitted for re-election at the annual general all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant meeting AGM except for Mr Young and Ms Reichelderfer.
legislation, the Articles and any directions given by the Company in generalmeeting.
Details of any unexpired terms of the directors service contracts are in the Directors remuneration report.
Membership of At the 2017 AGM, the Company was granted authority by committees and biographical information is disclosed on pages 58 shareholders to purchase up to 77,571,916 ordinary shares, being to 59 and in the AGM notice.
10% of the Companys issued share capital, in accordance with the Articles.
No shares were bought back under this authority during The directors benefit from qualifying third-party indemnity the year ended 31 December 2017.
Shares purchased under this provisions for the purposes of Section 236 of the Companies Act authority would be cancelled or held as treasury shares to be sold 2006 pursuant to the Articles in effect throughout the financial at a later date or used to satisfy awards under the Companys share year and up to the date of this Directors report.
The Company plans as the Board sees fit.
also purchased and maintained throughout the year Directors and Officers liability insurance.
No indemnity is provided for the The directors were also granted authority by shareholders to allot Companys auditors.
securities in the Company up to a nominal amount of 12,928,625 and to allot securities, without the application of pre-emption rights, Conflicts of interest up to a nominal amount of 1,939,297 and a further 1,939,297 in The Company has a procedure for the disclosure, review, connection with an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind authorisation and management of directors conflicts of interest contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying and potential conflicts of interest, in accordance with Pre-Emption Rights.
No such transaction is contemplated at the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In deciding whether to present.
authorise a conflict or potential conflicts, the directors must have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The These authorities apply until the conclusion of the 2018 AGM or, if authorisation of any conflict matter and the terms of authorisation earlier, 30 June 2018.
The Company will seek shareholder approval are regularly reviewed by the Board.
to renew these authorities at the 2018 AGM.
Detailed explanatory notes are set out in the AGM notice.
Political donations The Company and the Group did not make any political donations or incur any political expenditure during the year 2016: None.
96 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Directors report continued The Group has significant financing agreements which include Substantial shareholdings change of control provisions which, should there be a change At 7 February 2018, the Company had been notified under the of ownership of the Company, could result in renegotiation, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR of the following withdrawal or early repayment of these financing agreements.
substantial interests in the issued ordinary shares of the Company These are a USD600m note purchase agreement dated May requiring disclosure: 2016, a USD750m syndicated revolving credit agreement dated Other September 2014 and a USD400m note purchase agreement Direct Indirect financial Total Percentage datedJune 2010. voting voting instruments voting of total rights rights with voting rights voting m m rights m m rights There are a number of other long-term commercial agreements that may alter or terminate upon a change of control of the The Capital Group Company following a successful takeover bid.
These arrangements Companies, Inc. 77.0 77.0 9.92% are commercially sensitive and their disclosure could be seriously BlackRock, Inc. 41.9 6.9 48.8 6.30% prejudicial to the Company.
Harris Associates Agreements with the Companys directors or employees providing L. P. 41.3 41.3 5.31% compensation in the event of a takeover bid: First Pacific Advisors, LLC 39.1 39.1 5.04% Director Contractual entitlement T. Rowe Price Mr A Wood None except that provisions in the Companys Associates, Inc. 38.8 38.8 5.00% share plans may cause options and or awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on FMR LLC 38.1 38.1 4.91% a takeover.
Standard Life 22.2 3.8 26.0 3.35% Investments Ltd Mr D R Webb None except that provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or awards Legal & General 23.7 23.7 3.05% granted to employees under such plans to vest on Group plc a takeover.
Norges Bank 23.0 23.0 2.96% Mr P E Green Mr Green may terminate his employment within One voting right per ordinary share.
six months and would be entitled to compensation Attached to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
from the Company for loss of office.
The compensation would be annual remuneration These holdings are published on a regulatory information service plus the value of benefits for the unexpired notice and on the Companys website.
In addition, provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or Statement of directors responsibilities awards granted to employees under such plans to The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and vest on a takeover.
the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
directors Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared All other There are no agreements that would provide the Group financial statements in accordance with International employees compensation for loss of employment resulting Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European from a takeover except that provisions in the Union and Company financial statements in accordance with United Companys share plans may cause options and or Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom award granted to employees under such plans to Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure vest on a takeover.
Under Company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed for the Group financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been followed for the Company financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 97 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Fair, balanced and understandable records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and The directors as at the date of this report consider that the Annual Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and at any time the financial position of the Group and Company provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act Board has made this assessment on the basis of a review of the 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of accounts process, a discussion on the content of the Annual Report the IAS Regulation.
assessing its fairness, balance and understandability, together with the confirmation from executive management that the Annual The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern The directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue governing the preparation and dissemination of financial in operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group and Company Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the financial statements.
Board of directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: In reaching this conclusion, the directors have considered: the Company financial statements, which have been prepared the financial position of the Group as set out in this in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted report andadditional information provided in the financial Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, statementsincluding note 3 Financial risk management, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and note30 Bankand other borrowings and note 32 Derivative applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial instruments : financial position and profit of the Company: the resources available to the Group taking account of its the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in financial projections and considerable existing headroom against accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give committed debt facilities and covenants: and a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and the principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group is profit of the Group: and exposed, as set out on pages 40 to 45, the likelihood of them the Strategic report and this Directors report include a fair arising and the mitigating actions available.
review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a By order of the Board description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Each of the persons who is a director in office at the date of this report confirms that: M L Thomas so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Company Secretary information of which the Group and Companys auditors are 26 February 2018 unaware: and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group and Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
