JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business model Our business model comprises high quality niche businesses which offer a range of marine services predominantly to large multinational customers and governments globally.
High quality marine services Entrepreneurial culture Buy and build Our businesses are linked together The Group has a decentralised Organic growth from our existing by a set of common marine service management structure and businesses supported by selective skills.
The Group provides solutions encourages managers to be acquisitions is central to the growth to customers through the provision responsible for making timely of the Group.
Acquisitions broaden of specialist equipment supported decisions in the best interests of their our product range and service by the detailed knowledge of our businesses but with the back-up and portfolio, deepen our management people, who are industry experts resources of a larger group.
pool and potentially extend our in their specific operations.
The geographical coverage for our large Our businesses have strong, equipment is often designed and multinational customers.
James experienced management teams assembled by our people, who then Fisher has acquired a number of that are rewarded according to the operate it and provide through-life owner-managed companies with success of their businesses.
An support to our customers.
specific expertise, often with strong entrepreneurial culture means that market positions.
The Groups global Whilst our expertise originates in decisions are made quickly and in reach has facilitated the extension the UK, the Group provides these response to changes in the market of the scope of the operations of solutions and support internationally and the competitive environment.
these companies to an international and focuses on servicing less mature market.
growth has been achieved through Addressing such customer demands investment in people, working capital for quality and improvement requires and equipment.
the continuous development of innovative products to maintain market leadership in our areas of service.
