qxp 22 03 2018 09:32 Page 25 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T The Directors present their Annual Report and the Audited The Companys leverage and JPMFs remuneration disclosures are Financial Statements for the year ended 31st December 2017. set out on pages 70 and 71.
Management of the Company Management and Performance Fees The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMorgan Funds Limited The management fee was charged at a rate of 0.5% per annum, JPMF, a company authorised and regulated by the Financial paid quarterly in arrears, on the Companys total assets less Conduct Authority FCA.
JPMF is a wholly-owned subsidiary of current liabilities until 30th September 2017.
With effect from JPMorgan Chase Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also 1st October 2017, the management fee is charged on a tiered provides marketing, banking and dealing services to the basis as follows: Company.
Custodian services are provided by a JPMorgan Chase 0.35% on the first 500 million of net assets: Bank subsidiary, via a contract with the Companys depositary.
0.30% on net assets above 500 million and up to 1 billion: The Manager is employed under a contract which can be and terminated on six months notice, without penalty.
If the Company 0.25% on any net assets above 1 billion.
wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
The basic management fee is calculated and paid quarterly in arrears.
Investments in funds on which the Manager or any of its The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an associated companies earn a management fee are excluded from annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the the calculation and therefore attract no further fee.
In addition, investment strategy and the process of the Manager, a performance fee may be payable.
The Companys investment in performance against the benchmark and a relevant peer group over the long term and the support the Company receives from the JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund is not subject to the Manager.
As a result of the evaluation process, the Board a management fee and therefore not excluded from the confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of the calculation.
Manager is in the interest of shareholders as a whole.
The performance fee is calculated at the rate of 10% of the difference between the cum-income debt at par net asset value The Alternative Investment Fund Managers total return and the total return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed Directive AIFMD in sterling terms.
The performance fee due in respect of any single year is divided into equal parts payable over three years.
JPMF is the Companys alternative investment fund manager AIFM.
JPMF has been approved as an AIFM by the FCA.
For the Any negative fee resulting from underperformance is deducted purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment from any unpaid fees brought forward from prior years with any fund AIF.
remaining amount of the negative fee carried forward to be absorbed in future years.
JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day management of the Companys portfolio to JPMorgan Asset Management UK The performance fee paid in any one year will not exceed 0.25% Limited JPMAM which further delegates the management to of the cum-income debt at par net asset value at the Companys JPMorgan Asset Management, Inc..
The Company has appointed latest year end, with any unpaid excess being carried forward BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited BNY as its until paid in full.
BNY has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the In the year ended 31st December 2017 the Companys Companys custodian.
BNY remains responsible for the oversight cum-income debt at par net asset value total return of the custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its over-performed the total return of the S&P 500 Index, cash flows.
expressed in sterling terms, by 1.8 percentage points.
This The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to resulted in a positive performance fee calculation of 1,736,492. investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material This amount when added to the 3,339,696 performance fee changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of offset brought forward from 2016 leaves a negative balance of each AIF.
An Investor Disclosure Document, which sets out 1,603,204, which will be carried forward and offset against any information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, future outperformance.
leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts of interest and other shareholder information is available Directors on the Companys website at www.
There have The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the been no material changes other than those reflected in these year are detailed on page 24.
In accordance with corporate financial statements to this information requiring disclosure.
Any governance best practice, all Directors will retire by rotation at information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will AIFMD will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange through offer themselves for reappointment.
The Nomination and a primary information provider.
qxp 22 03 2018 09:32 Page 26 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Remuneration Committee, having considered their qualifications, Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights performance and contribution to the Board and its committees, At the date of this report, the following had declared a notifiable confirms that each Director continues to be effective and interest in the Companys voting rights: demonstrates commitment to the role and the Board Number of recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed.
For Shareholders voting rights % further details on the experience and skills of each Director Brewin Dolphin Limited 33,330,941 14.7 please refer to page 24.
Old Mutual plc 18,425,064 8.1 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 17,918,304 7.9 Director Indemnification and Insurance Rathbone Brothers PLC 12,239,189 5.4 As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party The Company is also aware that approximately 3.7% of the indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through The indemnities were in place during the year and as at the date savings products managed by JPMAM, registered in the name of of this report.
If those voting rights are not exercised During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by the by the beneficial holders, in accordance with the terms and Company which indemnifies the Directors of the Company against conditions of the savings products, under certain circumstances certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no the Manager has the right to exercise those voting rights.
That cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
right is subject to certain limits and restrictions and falls away at the conclusion of the relevant general meeting.
Disclosure of information to Auditor The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are contained in the Company at the time when this report was approved: Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant Act 2006. audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that bid: and no agreements between the Company and its Directors information.
concerning compensation for loss of office.
The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Listing Rule 9.8.
4R accordance with the provision of S418 2 of the Companies Listing Rule 9.8.
4R requires the Company to include certain Act 2006. information in the identifiable section of the Annual Report or a cross reference table indicating where the information is set Independent Auditor out.
The Directors confirm that there are no disclosures to be made in this report.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor to the Company and a resolution proposing its reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine its Annual General Meeting remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to shareholders at Note: This section is important and requires your immediate the Annual General Meeting.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from Capital Structure and Voting Rights your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Capital Structure Act 2000.
The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside cover of this report.
Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Voting Rights in the Companys shares Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page75.
qxp 22 03 2018 09:32 Page 27 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory Recommendation pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 The Board considers that resolutions 11 to 13 are likely to promote At the Annual General Meeting the Directors will seek authority to the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the issue up to 22,647,034 new shares or shares held in Treasury for Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,132,351 such unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the amount being equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital and resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial disapply pre-emption rights upon such issues.
The full text of the holdings which amount in aggregate to 111,863 shares resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on representing approximately 0.1% of the existing issued share pages73 to 75.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the capital of the Company.
Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2019 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
Corporate Governance Statement It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares Compliance or to sell Treasury shares to investors when the Directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate As such issues are only made at prices greater than the net asset governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share and spread the Directors Responsibilities on page 36, indicates how the Company Companys administrative expenses, other than the management has applied the principles of good governance of the Financial fee which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the UK a greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of Corporate investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
Governance the AIC Code, which complements the UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of best practice for ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares investment trusts.
Resolution 13 The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of At the Annual General Meeting held on 11th May 2017, corporate governance and considers that the Company has shareholders gave authority to the Company to purchase up to complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate 14.99% of its then issued share capital.
At that time, shareholders Governance Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys were informed that this authority would expire on 10th October business, and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
2018 but could be renewed by shareholders at any time at a general meeting of the Company.
The Directors consider that the renewal of the authority is in the interests of shareholders as Role of the Board a whole, as the repurchase of shares at a discount to the A management agreement between the Company and JPMF sets underlying net asset value NAV enhances the NAV of the out the matters over which the Manager has delegated authority.
Resolution 13 gives the Company authority to This includes management of the Companys assets within the buy back its own issued shares in the market as permitted by the guidelines established by the Board from time to time and the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authority limits the number provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration and of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 33,947,905 some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved for the shares representing approximately 14.99% of the Companys approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the issued shares as at 21st March 2018 being the latest practicable Board for decision has been approved.
This includes determination date prior to the publication of this document.
The authority also and monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and policy sets minimum and maximum prices.
and its future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of If resolution 13 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, shares the capital structure, appointment and removal of third party repurchased might not be cancelled but rather held as Treasury service providers, review of key investment and financial data and shares.
The Company does not have authority to re-issue shares the Companys corporate governance and risk control from Treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore any reissue of arrangements.
shares from Treasury would be at a premium to the prevailing The Board met six times during the year and additional meetings NAV.
Full and timely information is provided The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow on pages 73 to 75.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion of Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Further information on the Board and will only be made in the market at prices below the meetings and committees can be found on page 28. prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts of remaining shares as and when market conditions are appropriate.
interest and, following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
qxp 22 03 2018 09:32 Page 28 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T It confirms that the procedures have operated effectively during relevant to investment trusts.
Regular reviews of the Directors the year under review.
training needs are carried out by the Board by means of the evaluation process described below.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the Meetings and Committees Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to JPMF, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring adherence to committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown with Board procedures and compliance with applicable rules and the Directors profiles on page 24. regulations.
The table below details the number of formal Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were Board Composition six Board meetings, including a meeting devoted to strategy and The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, chaired by a private meeting of the Directors to evaluate the Manager.
In Dr Kevin Carter, all of whom are considered to be independent of addition, two Audit Committee meetings, two Risk Committee the Companys Manager.
The Directors have a breadth of meetings and three Nomination & Remuneration Committee investment knowledge, business and financial skills and experience meetings were held.
relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical details of Nomination & each Director are set out on page 24.
Audit Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which Director Attended Attended Attended Attended may be found below.
Sir Alan Collins, the Senior Independent Dr Kevin Carter 622 3 1 Director, leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chair and Sarah Bates 4 22 3 Simon Bragg 622 3 is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be Sir Alan Collins 622 3 resolved through discussion with the Chair.
Nadia Manzoor6 2 2 3 2 Robert Talbut 3 11 Tenure 1 Retired from the Board on 26th July 2017.
2 Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General Joined the Board on 11th May 2017.
Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is As well as the formal meetings detailed above, the Board required that they be reappointed by shareholders.
Subject to the communicates frequently by email or telephone to deal with day to performance evaluation carried out each year, the Board will agree day matters as they arise.
Directors also visited the investment whether it is appropriate for Directors to seek annual management team in New York and spent time with a number of reappointment in accordance with corporate governance best longer term strategists as well as with senior management, practice.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself governance personnel and the dealing desk in JPMAMs offices.
necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment but, when making a recommendation, the Board will take into account Board Committees the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
Nomination & Remuneration Committee A list of potential conflicts of interest for each Director is The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, chaired by Dr Kevin maintained by the Company.
These are considered carefully, taking Carter, consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually into account the circumstances surrounding them, and, if to ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and considered appropriate, are approved.
experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in A variety of sources, including external search consultants, may formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for be used to ensure that a wide range of candidates is considered.
inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the In relation to the appointment of Robert Talbut, the Board Annual General Meeting.
engaged a recruitment consultant, Tim Stephenson Associates, a firm with no other connections to the Company.
Open Induction and Training advertising was not used as part of the process as the use of On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all a recruitment consultant was deemed sufficient.
Thereafter, regular briefings are The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that affect account of the benefits of this during the appointment process.
Directors are encouraged to attend The Board remains committed to appointing the most appropriate industry and other seminars covering issues and developments 2 8 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7 D American p23-31.
qxp 22 03 2018 09:32 Page 29 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T candidate and seeks to ensure that it does not unwittingly exclude held regular discussions with larger shareholders.
Therefore, no targets have been set against which to are made aware of their views.
The Chair further writes to the report.
Companys largest shareholders each year to offer a meeting with himself and other members of the Board, with or without The Directors commissioned Lintstock, a firm of independent representatives from the Manager.
The Chair met independently consultants, to externally facilitate the evaluation of the Board.
The Chair and Directors make The process involved the completion of questionnaires by the themselves available as and when required to address Board.
The resulting written report was discussed by Directors shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through the under the remit of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee in Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 81. the presence of a representative from Lintstock.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chair and the Chair is evaluated The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in time by the Senior Independent Director.
to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit questions via recommendations to the Board as and when required.
the Companys website or write to the Company Secretary at the Risk Committee address shown on page 81.
The Risk Committee, chaired by Sir Alan Collins, consists of all the Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be Directors and meets at least twice each year.
The Committee published on the Company website shortly after the Annual discusses the Companys overall risk appetite, tolerance and General Meeting.
strategy, taking into account the current and prospective macroeconomic and financial environment.
It further reviews the Risk Management and Internal Control Companys key risks and identifies and manages any new risks The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at that arise during the year.
Finally, the Committee reviews least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys compliance with the Companys investment restrictions and system of risk management and internal control and to report to guidelines.
shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a review Audit Committee of all controls, which the Board has identified to include business, financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
The report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 31.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk Terms of Reference management and internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee ensure that financial information used within the business, or and Risk Committee have written terms of reference which define published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of which are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to available on the Companys website and for inspection on request achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material Meeting.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all Relations with Shareholders administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMorgan The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the and its associates, the Companys system of risk management and Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services understanding of the Companys activities and performance and provided by JPMorgan and its associates, including the operating reports formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys Annual Report and Accounts and the Half Year Report.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
Company see Principal Risks on pages 20 and 21.
The Company All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to does not have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the the internal audit department of JPMF which reports any material Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in failings or weaknesses.
This arrangement is kept under review.
person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In The key elements designed to provide effective internal control addition, a presentation is given by the investment manager who are as follows: reviews the Companys performance.
During the year the Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the investment management team, JPMF and the Companys brokers Board of key investment and financial data, including D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W | 2 9
