STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 21 OUR BUSINESS MODEL From April 2018, our business will be structured into three divisions, Reinsurance, Specialty and Employee Benefits.
OUR MISSION The Groups mission is to become the leading global specialist risk adviser and broker, operating through three divisions, Reinsurance, Specialty and Employee Benefits.
We will achieve that by establishing, developing and refining our specialised capabilities and ensuring that there is coordination across the Group to provide a seamless global service to clients that include the largest multinationals.
This will govern the Groups strategy.
DIVISIONS REINSURANCE SPECIALTY EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Providing reinsurance broking and Providing insurance broking, risk Acting as an adviser, intermediary and specialist advisory services in a range management and claims services for clients service provider in the pensions consultancy of areas including analytics, actuarial, across a wide range of business sectors.
and administration, employee benefits catastrophe modelling and exposure and healthcare, life insurance, wealth Clients include multinational corporations management, capital raising, mergers and management and health and accident and other public and private sector acquisitions, cyber, terrorism, political risk, claims management sectors.
organisations, retail insurance brokers credit and crisis management, workers and individuals.
Clients include national and multinational compensation and strategic consulting.
corporations, public and private sector Growth is driven via creation and Clients include regional, national and global organisations, pension trustees and development of industry specialty practices.
insurers as well as large captives, mutuals individuals.
FEES AND COMMISSIONS Fees are typically charged either on a time-cost Commissions are typically based on a percentage or a fixed-fee basis and are earned in each of the of the insurance or reinsurance premium being paid Reinsurance, Specialty and Employee Benefits by the client.
Frequently, the level of this commission divisions.
These fees are paid by the client rather payment is also subject to negotiation with the client.
than the insurer or reinsurer.
This commission is paid by the insurer or reinsurer rather than the client and is largely earned in the Groups Reinsurance and Specialty businesses.
ACQUISITIONS INVESTMENT INCOME PEOPLE Acquisitions to complement organic revenue Investment income arises from the holding of cash and The Group continues to retain and recruit growth have been, and will continue to be, an investments on behalf of clients.
The holding of client monies market-leading individuals across all of its important element of delivering on the Groups largely relates to premium and claims payments which the global operations.
In 2017, the Group made three business holds for a short period of time in its role as the JLT now has over 10,000 employees working new acquisitions for a total consideration intermediary.
Key to the success of our of 61.2 million.
recruitment approach has been retaining and In the last 5 years, the Group has made a total attracting individuals who not only add further of 36 acquisitions for a total consideration capabilities, but also fit JLTs distinctive culture.
The three largest of these The Group is committed to investing in the COSTS constituted 64% of this amount.
training and development of all its employees.
Two of the largest underlying costs to the business relate to staff and premises.
In 2017, these represented 62% and 5% respectively of total revenues.
There is a clear focus on cost discipline with the trading margin being a Key Performance Indicator.
The Group's Global Transformation Programme is projected to deliver significant cost reductions.
PROFIT REINVESTED IN BUSINESS REMITTED TO SHAREHOLDERS
