18 STRATEGIC REPORT MARKET FACTORS IMPACTING JLT JLT is a global provider of reinsurance, insurance and employee benefits related advice, brokerage and services.
Our business is influenced by a number of external factors, at both an industry-specific level and more generally.
A summary of some key market factors which currently affect JLT, and are expected to continue to impact it in the coming years, is set out below.
1 GLOBAL MACRO ECONOMIC TRENDS The IMF estimates that global output grew by 3.6% in 2017 IMPACT ON JLT and that it will grow by 3.9% in 2018, with sustained growth JLTs growth prospects are sensitive to macro trends: higher momentum across North America, Europe and the emerging levels of economic growth lead to more corporate activity, markets.
Risks to the global growth forecast are seen as investment and increasing personal wealth.
This increased broadly balanced in the near term, but remain skewed to the activity stimulates demand for our services.
downside over the medium term.
In light of the Groups investments to strengthen its representation The future development of the UK economy remains less clear in the European Union and the preparatory work undertaken, and subject to volatility in the near term as negotiation of the JLT does not anticipate that Brexit will materially impact its ability UKs exit from the EU continues.
to serve clients and access markets in the EU.
Higher oil prices in recent months have stimulated some new Conditions remain challenging in industries such as energy and exploration activity but, overall, global exploration spend is not marine, which represent important client concentrations for JLT.
Similarly, forecasts for maritime For the longer term, JLTs strategy is increasingly aligned with industry activity are mixed.
faster-growing sectors and geographies where demand is driven by market trends and demographic factors such as population growth, ageing, urbanisation and increasing middleclass wealth.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 19 2 THE RATING ENVIRONMENT For several years, high levels of available capital in the insurance IMPACT ON JLT markets, with relatively low loss levels, have led to sustained JLT is adversely affected by depressed insurance and downward pressure on premiums.
The level of capital deployed reinsurance pricing levels as a significant proportion of our in the insurance and reinsurance markets remains high.
income is earned by way of commissions.
This creates challenges for the business in delivering organic growth.
Towards the end of 2017, upward pricing pressure was experienced in some reinsurance markets.
This was primarily Reduced downward pressure on insurance pricing should a result of the higher property catastrophe losses caused by provide a better trading environment for JLT but we continue to hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria striking coastal regions of focus on those specialty sectors and economies where there is the US and the Caribbean.
Wild fires in California also added to particular value in our distinctive proposition.
If available capital and insurance capacity in the market At the start of 2018, the trend of significant price reductions moderates or declines, the value of the expertise provided by seems to have moderated or ended, with renewal rates seeing the broker will increase.
increases in areas where there were heavy losses.
However, other lines of business are still seeing price reductions, albeit at a slower pace, and a consistent pattern is not yet evident.
3 COMPETITION JLT faces a wide range of local, regional and international IMPACT ON JLT competitors in its Reinsurance, Specialty and Employee JLT has been able to attract new clients due to its differentiated Benefits operations.
specialty-led offering and distinctive culture.
Macro economic headwinds and the depressed rating We remain confident that the distinctive culture JLT offers to environment have combined, over recent years, to create a professional colleagues, together with our client proposition, competitive environment in which some rivals have discounted will allow us to continue to attract and retain talent and business.
heavily to retain and win new business, as well as offering very significant remuneration packages to attract new staff.
The competitive environment is unlikely to ease significantly in the near future, even if the rating environment starts to ease.
20 STRATEGIC REPORT 4 REGULATION JLT operates under the jurisdiction of a number of different IMPACT ON JLT regulators.
Its principal regulator is the UK Financial Conduct The trends in global regulation place an additional resource Authority FCA.
The level of oversight exercised by the various and cost burden on JLT.
They also increase the chances of financial services regulators varies from country to country regulatory action being faced by the Group in the relevant and often by business activity, but the overall trend is towards jurisdictions, sometimes with a retrospective element.
increasing levels of regulatory oversight.
There is also more Furthermore, as JLT grows, we can expect a greater level of consistency in the type of regulation being introduced across regulatory scrutiny in line with our increased scale, particularly many countries, in areas such as data protection.
for those of our businesses that carry consumer conduct risk.
Regulation can also create a more level playing field and We continue to invest in our risk and compliance frameworks help stimulate greater client demand.
Proportionate and fair to ensure that we have the right skills to enable us to regulation is something we welcome as being positive for our advise our businesses on the implications of the changing clients, our colleagues and the industry as a whole.
JLT is committed to working constructively with all of our regulators to ensure that we meet our regulatory commitments, protect our clients interests and achieve fair client outcomes.
5 TECHNOLOGY Advances in technology are bringing rapid changes in how IMPACT ON JLT JLTs clients businesses are run and in the risks they face.
Technological changes create opportunities for JLT to carry Similar pressures directly impact JLTs own business.
out its operations more efficiently and cost-effectively.
They also allow us to enhance the service we provide to clients, Technological change also gives rise to new areas of insurance for example through the collection and use of data to drive such as cyber risk cover.
better insights for our clients, or through the adoption of new A significant increase in the volume of risk and insurance data channels for engaging and communicating with them.
that can be collected and analysed is having a significant While the level of risk to our own business from cyber attack impact on the industrys actuarial understanding of underlying continues to increase, and requires substantial investment risk trends and how they should be priced.
in systems and procedures to counter the threats, cyber risk Technological advances potentially enable a new generation of offers an opportunity to provide risk management advisory competitors to disrupt existing players such as JLT.
Since a large proportion of the services JLT provides are specialised services in relation to the complex, specific risks borne by a base of mainly large clients, we believe that JLT is at a comparatively low risk of technology-enabled disruption.
