22 STRATEGIC REPORT REVIEWING & DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY OUR MISSION To become the leading global specialist risk adviser and broker.
OUR STRATEGY Our strategy balances the interests of our four key stakeholders: our clients, our colleagues, our trading partners and our shareholders.
The four pillars to our strategy are described in more detail on page 6: Culture, Specialist, Coordination and International.
RE-EXAMINATION OF KEY CONCLUSIONS GROUP STRATEGY The review resulted in a number of conclusions in respect of the future shape of the Groups strategy.
These are During 2017 we carried out a re-examination of the Groups summarised below.
strategy, in order to ensure that it remains appropriate to support and enable our future growth plans.
PRESERVATION OF JLTS DISTINCTIVE CULTURE The potential created for the Group by our growth in the US JLTs distinctive identity and culture an entrepreneurial includes both further expansion in the US market and the approach, a focus on clients interests and the provision to acceleration of our development in other parts of the world.
colleagues of the opportunity to develop their practices - are The US ambition remains at the heart of the Group's medium key differentiators with clients, insurance professionals and term strategy.
It was against this backdrop that we re-examined markets.
Their preservation and development are seen as our strategy, to ensure that the Group is able to deliver on this paramount.
At the same time, it is essential to maintain an growth potential.
equitable balance between the interests of the Groups four The review was also carried out in the context of continuing principal stakeholders: our clients, colleagues, trading partners economic and industry challenges, including headwinds in and shareholders.
the reinsurance rating environment and challenging market conditions in some industry sectors, such as oil and gas.
SPECIALIST FOCUS Other factors included changes in the types of risks that JLT will focus on becoming even more of a Specialty business clients face, with a move to more communication and in the next few years.
processing-dominated ways of conducting business across many industries, and the emergence of more intangible risks.
Specialty is defined as those practice areas industries or products where JLT has: Extensive discussions were held with senior colleagues across the Group, as well as with our clients and our trading partners, deep knowledge, expertise and experience: in order to gain a detailed understanding of the key challenges understanding of the risks specific to the area and risk and opportunities the business faces.
management options: first rate transactional capability: and market standing, contacts and reputation.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 23 Specialty also includes those areas where JLT can operate and AN EFFECTIVE INTERNATIONAL NETWORK compete as a value-adding trusted adviser, offering services JLTs International Network, which is a combination of such as data analytics, risk evaluation and management controlled and non-controlled, branded and non-branded services, in order to win appointments to carry out placements operations, is effective.
There are, however, opportunities to and to provide the best service to our clients.
improve collaboration within and between regions, through investment in supporting emerging specialties and international A large component of JLTs success is the quality of our people, development of regional strengths.
and it is this emphasis on enabling professionals to deploy their strength that makes JLT an attractive employer.
We will not seek The objective of building a US Specialty business that to commoditise what is a value-adding professional offering or contributes to the Group on a scale that better reflects the rely on automatic placement of premiums via client treaties or importance of the US to the global economy is at the heart of other mechanisms with the carriers who offer the intermediary the Groups medium-term strategy.
The Group intends to build the highest return at the lowest cost.
We do recognise, on the firm foundation that it has already established in the US however, that changes are taking place in how clients address through continuing organic revenue growth, complemented by risk, which are leading to changes in the types of service they targeted acquisitions.
It is essential for us to deliver what clients want, JLT will focus on strengthening its continental European which will mean striking the right balance between complex presence ahead of the UKs exit from the European Union.
transactions and simpler, more commoditised solutions in some circumstances.
JLT will also continue to explore opportunities to strengthen its presence in China.
JLT will focus on narrower but deeper penetration of existing clients, with increased cross-selling of additional lines of cover JLT needs to have the right representation in the right locations to existing clients.
to enable us to realise our global Specialty mission in our chosen industries.
JLT will focus its investment in new risk areas, as a worldwide evolution of risk from the physical to the intangible occurs.
In particular there will be extensive investment in the management STRATEGIC INITIATIVES of Cyber Risk and areas such as Credit & Political Risks.
The Group is undertaking a number of strategic initiatives to As a result of the review, the Group re-articulated its mission progress towards its mission to become the leading global during the year: To become the leading global specialist risk specialist risk adviser and broker, details of which are set out in adviser and broker.
the Chief Executive's Review on pages 14 and 15 and the table on page 24.
COORDINATION IS A KEY DIFFERENTIATOR Another key conclusion from the review was to reaffirm the importance of collaboration across divisions, regions and industry practices as a differentiator between JLT and its competitors.
Working together is central to the JLT culture: it has been a major factor behind our success and is, and will remain, the foundation of our structure and what we offer to clients.
To pursue the Groups mission successfully, JLT needs to evolve from case-by-case collaboration to working in a more formalised and consistently coordinated way.
This will enable JLT to provide a seamless and consistent global service to multinational clients wherever in the world we engage with them.
24 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC ACHIEVEMENTS AND PRIORITIES Set out below is a summary of the key achievements in 2017 against each of the elements of the Groups strategy as reshaped and the Groups strategic priorities in 2018: STRATEGY ELEMENT ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 PRIORITIES IN 2018 Carried out a detailed review of the leadership Implement career development plans addressing capability and potential of senior management the results of the leadership review.
1 and developed global talent pools to ensure that Continued focus on employing the strongest PRESERVING JLTs talent is being deployed in the right place, practitioners in our Specialty fields, aligned with AND DEVELOPING at the right time.
JLTS CULTURE Continued development of diversity programmes Continue to review our employee development AND IDENTITY to ensure that we recruit the best and foster career programmes to ensure they fully support development without limitation.
our leaders in delivering the strategic aims of Built our technical training capability on a the business.
Reinforced our Reinsurance, Specialty and Continued investment in new risk areas to reflect Employee Benefits activities in developing the worldwide evolution of risk from the tangible 2 markets, through selected investments, bolt-on to the intangible, including Cyber and Credit & BECOMING MORE acquisitions and partnerships.
SPECIALIST Investment in the continued build-out of our US Deepen the Groups offering of data analytics Specialty business, through selective specialist and risk evaluation and management services, recruitment and the acquisition of Construction through the implementation of the Global Risk Partners LLC.
Transformation Programme and the launch of JLT Re's proprietary analytics software, ANSER.
Continued development of global specialties such as Healthcare and Credit & Political Risks.
Focus on increased cross-selling of additional lines of cover in areas of Specialty strength to existing clients.
Developing consistent global processes across Implement the new global Specialty structure.
Roll out a global practice approach across all 3 Global coordination of Portfolio Management of the Groups key Specialty areas, including IMPROVING activities across all our operating entities and Energy, Construction, Financial Lines, COORDINATION geographies, supported by an appropriate Aerospace, Marine & Cargo and Credit & ACROSS THE GROUP operating platform and governance structure.
Continued roll out of a single common Implement the Global Transformation Programme reinsurance platform across the Group.
to deliver an integrated approach to facilitate consistent and systematically coordinated working Launched a coordinated global Employee across the Group.
Benefits offering, sold, managed and delivered by a single global team.
Continue to develop and market Employee Benefits as a coordinated global practice.
Achieved greater alignment across all functional areas.
Developed a strategic growth plan for US Implement the US Specialty plan, with targeted Specialty which maintains the momentum of acquisition activity complementing continuing 4 the business.
DEVELOPING THE Developed a plan to address the implications Continue to strengthen the Groups presence INTERNATIONAL for JLTs business arising from the UKs in continental Europe through acquisition and NETWORK withdrawal from the EU, including the enhancement of network relationships.
Strengthening the Groups presence in key Expanded our global Employee Benefits emerging markets such as China and India.
practice and local benefits capability to provide international benefits solutions for clients.
