qxp 22 03 2018 09:32 Page 24 B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S Dr Kevin Carter Sir Alan Collins Chair of the Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director Director since 2014.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2017.
Currently Chairman and Director of Murray International Trust PLC, a Director of Lowland Investment Company plc, and Aspect Sir Alan had a successful career in the British Diplomatic Service Capital Limited, Chairman of the Investment Committee and where he held a number of Ambassador and High Commissioner a trustee director of the BBC Pension Scheme.
He is also a trustee appointments and was until August 2011 the Consul General director of Universities Superannuation Scheme Limited and New York and the Director General for Trade and Investment USA.
Chairman of its Investment Committee.
Dr Carter is a CFA charter He was also the managing director in United Kingdom Trade and holder and has a doctorate awarded in mathematical statistics Investment responsible for the business legacy from the London with a research subject in financial economics.
2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, having been part of the team that won the bid to bring the Olympics to London.
He is now Shared appointments with other Directors: None a non-executive Director of Prudential Assurance Singapore Ltd and ICICI Bank UK plc.
He is also an advisor to a number of other limited companies, including St. Jamess Place plc, and a member of the Advisory Council of the London Philharmonic Orchestra.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Simon Bragg Chair of the Audit Committee A Director since 2012.
Mr Bragg is Chief Executive of JSB Energy Partners Limited, non-executive Director of Intralink Limited and Bridge Petroleum Robert Talbut 1 Limited.
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant at KPMG, A Director since 2017.
Mr Bragg previously worked at Hoare Govett, Cargill, HSBC, Oriel Last reappointed to the Board: N A.
Mr Talbut was, until 2014, the Chief Investment Officer of Royal London Asset Management and has over 30 years of financial services experience.
He has represented the asset management industry through the chairmanship of both the ABI Investment Committee and the Asset Management Committee of the Investment Association.
He has also been a member of the Audit & Assurance Council of the Financial Reporting Council and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Authority Advisory Panel.
He is currently a non-executive director of Schroder UK Mid Cap Fund plc, Shires Income plc, EFG Asset Management UK Limited and Pacific Assets Trust plc.
Nadia Manzoor Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Ms Manzoor is a Partner, Head of Business Development and Member of the Audit Committee.
General Counsel for S. W. Mitchell Capital, a specialist European Member of the Risk Committee.
Ms Manzoor commenced her career as a corporate lawyer at Slaughter & May in 2009.
All Directors are considered independent by the Board and are During this time she worked in London, Hong Kong and also spent members of the Nomination & Remuneration and Risk six months seconded to a FTSE 100 client.
Ms Manzoor is a law Committees.
scholar of Downing College, Cambridge University.
