American p02-22 22 03 2018 09:59 Page 21 L O N G T E R M V I A B I L I T Y which details the portfolios risk profile.
The investment of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
Details of the manager employs the Companys gearing within a strategic Companys approval are given on page 18.
Were the Company range set by the Board.
to breach Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys portfolio Operational and Cybercrime: Disruption to, or failure of, the would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 Managers accounting, dealing or payments systems or the qualification criteria are continually monitored by JPMF and custodians or depositarys records could prevent accurate the results reported to the Board each month.
The Company reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
must also comply with the provisions of the Companies On 1st July 2014, the Company appointed BNY Mellon Trust & Act 2006 and, as its shares are listed on the London Stock Depositary UK Limited to act as its depositary, responsible Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and Disclosure & for overseeing the operations of the custodian, JPMorgan Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the Companies Chase Bank, N. A. and the Companys cash flows.
Details of Act 2006 could result in the Company and or the Directors how the Board monitors the services provided by the being fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of Manager and its associates and the key elements designed to the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys provide effective internal control are included in the Internal shares being suspended from listing, which in turn would Control section of the Corporate Governance report on breach Section 1158.
The Directors seek to comply with all pages 27 and 28.
The threat of cyber attack, in all its guises, is relevant regulation and legislation in the UK, Europe and the regarded as at least as important as more traditional physical US and rely on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMF, threats to business continuity and security.
The Board has and its professional advisers to monitor compliance with all received the cyber security policies for its key third party relevant requirements.
service providers and JPMF has assured the Directors that the Company benefits directly or indirectly from all elements of Political and Economic: Changes in legislation, including JPMorgans Cyber Security programme.
The information in the US, UK and the European Union, may adversely effect technology controls around the physical security of the Company either directly or because of restrictions or JPMorgans data centres, security of its networks and security enforced changes on the operations of the Manager.
JPMF of its trading applications are tested by independent reporting makes recommendations to the Board on accounting, accountants and reported every six months against the AAF dividend and tax policies and the Board seeks external advice Standard.
In addition, the Company is subject to political risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: The free movement of capital.
The Company is therefore at risk sudden departure of the investment manager or several from changes to the regulatory, legislative and taxation members of the wider investment management team could framework within which it operates, whether such changes result in a short term deterioration in investment were designed to affect it or not.
The Board will continue to performance.
The Manager takes steps to reduce the keep under review the impact of the UKs decision to leave likelihood of such an event by ensuring appropriate the European Union.
The negotiations between the UK and succession planning and the adoption of a team based European Union will likely introduce further currency volatility approach.
The Board continues to stress to JPMF the to the Companys affairs.
importance of retaining the current investment manager.
Share Price Relative to Net Asset Value NAV per Share: Long Term Viability If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV The Company was established in 1881 and has now been in per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The Company is an investment trust and Throughout 2017, the Companys shares traded at a discount.
has the objective of achieving long term capital growth investing The Board monitors the Companys premium discount level in US equities.
The Company has been investing over many and, although the rating largely depends upon the relative economic cycles and some difficult market conditions.
attractiveness of the trust, the Board will seek, where deemed prudent, to address imbalances in the supply and demand of Although past performance and a long historic track record is no the Companys shares through a programme of share guide to the future, the Directors believe the Company is a good issuance and buybacks.
Unfortunately, it is impossible to look too far into the future, so the Directors have adopted a Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an somewhat shorter time horizon to assess the Companys viability, investment trust, the Company must comply with Section 1158 which is five years.
Thisis regarded by many as the minimum S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 2 1 American p02-22 22 03 2018 09:59 Page 22 L O N G T E R M V I A B I L I T Y time for investing in equities.
This exceeds the terms of the Companys indebtedness.
The Directors have considered the Companys prospects, principal risks and the outlook for the US economy, its equity market and the market for investment trusts.
They have examined the robustness of these base case estimates using further more cautious scenarios, including in one case repeating some of the returns data for the 19291934 Wall Street Crash.
The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next five years until 31st December 2022.
By order of the Board Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Funds Limited, Secretary 22nd March 2018 2 2 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7
