STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 91 DIRECTORS' REPORT The Directors present their report and audited consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE 2016 As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, we are committed to complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the 'Code', which is available on the FRC website at frc.
Throughout the accounting period, we have complied with the provisions of Sections A to E of the Code as detailed below, with the exception of those listed and as explained in the following table: Provision Requirement Non-compliance B.
1.2 At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, Between 1 January and 14 June 2017, excluding the Chairman, the should comprise non-executive directors Board comprised six Non-Executive Directors four Independent and two determined by the Board to be independent.
Non-Independent and three Executive Directors.
On 14 June 2017, Bruce Carnegie-Brown retired from the Board.
The Company became compliant with the Code on 2 October 2017 following the appointment of two Independent Non-Executive Directors, Andrew Didham and Richard Meddings.
Following Jonathan Dawsons resignation on 3 October 2017, excluding the Chairman, there were six Non-Executive Directors four Independent and two Non-Independent and three Executive Directors.
Lynne Peacock has been appointed as an additional Independent NonExecutive Director with effect from 1 May 2018, from which date the Company expects to be compliant with Code provision B.
2.1 A majority of members of the nomination Between 1 January 2017 and 14 June 2017, the Committees composition met committee should be independent the requirements of the Code.
Following Bruce Carnegie-Browns resignation non-executive directors.
on 14 June 2017, the Committee was comprised of the Chairman, three Independent Non-Executive Directors, and two Non-Independent NonExecutive Directors.
C. 3.1 The Board should establish an audit Throughout the year, the Committee was comprised of at least three committee of at least three independent Independent Non-Executive Directors, in addition to Lord Sassoon, non-executive directors.
D. 2.1 The Board should establish a remuneration Throughout the year, the Committee was comprised of at least three committee of at least three, independent nonIndependent Non-Executive Directors, in addition to Lord Sassoon and executive directors.
Adam Keswick, both of whom are Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee has led a formal and rigorous the Jardine Matheson-appointed Directors are considered to process to replace outgoing members of the Board.
Every be Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The relationship effort has been made to search for individuals with the talent with Jardine Matheson is maintained on an arms length basis and experience to complement the existing Board.
As a result as detailed on page 66 and in note 32 on page 160. of that process, Andrew Didham and Richard Meddings were The Jardine Matheson-appointed Directors, Lord Sassoon appointed as Independent Non-Executive Director on and Adam Keswick, will be standing for re-election at the 2 October 2017.
Lynne Peacock has also been appointed Companys AGM.
In addition to their Board roles, the Jardine as an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from Matheson-appointed Directors hold Committee memberships.
1 May 2018, and therefore the Board balance will comply with Lord Sassoon is a member of the Audit & Risk, Nominations Code provision B.
and Remuneration Committees and Adam Keswick is a Since 1997, other than for three months in 2016, JLT has had member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
two representatives of Jardine Matheson on the Board.
Jardine Matheson has a 40.16% interest in the Company.
As a result, 92 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE JLT has always sought to satisfy shareholders with an A2 Division of Responsibilities appropriate explanation of any areas where it does not The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are comply with the Code and to provide a full explanation for distinctly separate and are clearly defined.
The Chairman, retaining the Jardine Matheson Directors on the Board and Geoffrey Howe, is responsible for the leadership and relevant Committees.
The Board strongly believes that the governance of the Board.
continuation of these arrangements is in the best interests of The Group Chief Executive, Dominic Burke, is responsible the Companys shareholders for the following reasons: for the day-to-day operation of the business in line with the we believe our Board functions very well and has an strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
appropriate combination of Independent and NonHe is also responsible for promoting and conducting the affairs Independent Non-Executive Directors, in line with the of the Company with the highest standards of ethics, integrity Codes principle that no individual or small group of and corporate governance.
individuals should be able to dominate the Boards decision-making: A3 The Chairman there are at least three currently four Independent The Chairman, Geoffrey Howe, is responsible for the leadership Non-Executive Directors on each Committee and and governance of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, setting each Committee comprises a majority of Independent agendas, ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely Directors.
Committee effectiveness reviews confirm that and clear information and that there is effective communication each Committee is considered to operate, and discharge with shareholders.
He facilitates the effective contribution to its duties and responsibilities, effectively as currently the Board of the Non-Executive Directors in particular ensuring constituted: constructive relationships between the Executive and Nonthe business and profits of JLT have grown significantly Executive Directors.
in recent years and we believe the overall contribution of A4 Non-Executive Directors Jardine Matheson and its nominated Directors has been material to this: The Non-Executive Directors provide strong and robust independent oversight to the proceedings of the Board.
In Jardine Matheson has clearly demonstrated that it is a addition, they bring external experience from other financial committed, long-term shareholder.
We believe that its services companies and international businesses.
The letters interests are fundamentally aligned to the interest of other of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors are available shareholders.
In the Boards experience, over many years, for inspection at the AGM of the Company.
All Non-Executive conflicts of interest between Jardine Matheson and the Directors confirm on appointment they have sufficient time to other shareholders of JLT rarely occur, but if they do for fulfil their commitments.
example where Jardine Matheson has sought to increase its shareholding in JLT the Jardine Matheson-appointed B.
EFFECTIVENESS Directors recuse themselves from any relevant discussions: we believe that the continuing support of Jardine Matheson B1 The composition of the Board has been, and will continue to be, of great importance to The Nominations Committee annually reviews the balance the success of JLT, especially in Asia, a key growth market and experience of the Board.
The Nominations Committee for the Company, where Jardine Mathesons reputation and has also considered the issue of director independence and connections are of great value to us: and knowledge and confirmed that the Directors have the right level as individuals, Lord Sassoon and Adam Keswick bring of experience to promote the long-term performance of the skills and experience that complement the balance of Company.
Details of the Directors experience are shown in the the Board and its Committees, supporting an effective chart on page 62. decision-making process and providing appropriate levels of challenge to the Executive management.
B2 Appointments to the Board The process for the appointment of new Directors to the Board The following table describes in more detail how we have is led by the Nominations Committee.
Further details of the complied with the respective provisions of the Code.
appointments made during the year and succession planning activities can be found in the Nominations Committee Report on A.
A1 The role of the Board B3 Commitment The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategy Non-Executive Directors are advised on appointment of the time and monitoring the performance of the Company as a whole.
commitment expected of them, and this is reviewed regularly.
Details of matters discussed by the Board are set out on External appointments which might impact on existing time page 64. commitments must be agreed with the Chairman.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 93 B4 Development E. RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS All new Directors are invited to take part in a comprehensive E1 Dialogue with shareholders induction programme.
Details of the programme undertaken by The Board seeks to engage actively with all shareholders.
Andrew Didham and Richard Meddings, who were appointed Details of activity undertaken in this area can be found on during the year, are set out on page 65. page 66.
B5 Information and Support E2 Constructive use of the AGM The Chairman and Group Company Secretary work together The AGM provides the Board with an important opportunity to ensure that all Directors receive full and accurate information to meet with shareholders.
All of the Directors are expected in a timely manner.
to attend and will be available to answer questions from B6 Evaluation shareholders attending the meeting.
The Board and Committees undertake evaluations every year.
Internal evaluations were performed in 2017 following an DIRECTORS externally led review in 2016.
The biographical details of the currently serving Directors are B7 Re-election set out on pages 58 to 59.
The Directors who served during the All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election year were: Geoffrey Howe: Dominic Burke: Mark Drummond at the 2017 AGM, and the same process will apply at the Brady: Charles Rozes: Bruce Carnegie-Brown retired from the 2018 AGM.
Board on 14 June 2017 : Annette Court: Jonathan Dawson retired from the Board on 3 October 2017 : Adam Keswick: Lord Sassoon: Nicholas Walsh: Richard Meddings appointed to C. ACCOUNTABILITY the Board on 2 October 2017 : and Andrew Didham appointed C1 Financial and Business Reporting to the Board on 2 October 2017.
The Strategic Report, which can be found on pages 2 to 55, The interests of current Directors and their immediate families sets out details of the Companys performance, business model in the shares of the Company, along with details of Directors' and strategy, and the risks and uncertainties relating to the share options, are contained in the Directors' Remuneration Companys future prospects.
Report set out on pages 78 to 90.
At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material interest in any significant C2 Risk Management and Internal Control contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and internal control systems, and for regularly reviewing their PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND STRATEGIC REPORT effectiveness.
The activities of the Audit & Risk Committee, which supports the Board on this matter, are described on Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a holding company, pages 67 to 74 and the Risk Management Report is included domiciled and incorporated in the UK with Registered Number on pages 41 to 45.
01679424, as an international group of insurance brokers, risk specialists and employee benefits consultants.
C3 Audit & Risk Committee and auditor The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 55 covers the The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the activities of the Group, its performance during the year and Audit & Risk Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the likely future developments.
Companys financial reporting processes, internal controls and risk management framework, and the work undertaken by the external auditor.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The financial statements for the Company for the year to D. REMUNERATION 31 December 2017 are detailed on pages 171 to 175.
D1 The level and components of remuneration.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 21.8 pence The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the per share be paid on 8 May 2018 to shareholders on the Companys remuneration policy.
The key principles and register on 3 April 2018.
This brings the total dividend for the framework adopted by the Committee are set out in the year to 34.0 pence per share, an overall increase of 5.6% over Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 81. the previous year.
D2 Procedure The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of all Executive Directors.
Details of the composition and the activities of the Committee are set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 90.
94 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We are committed to ensuring that disabled people are afforded POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS equality of opportunity in respect of entering and continuing On 14 February 2018, the Group acquired, subject to FCA employment with us.
If existing colleagues become disabled, approval, a 100% ownership interest in Chartwell Healthcare every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Ltd, one of the leading Private Medical Insurance brokers in Group continues.
If such colleagues are unable to continue to the SME market in the UK.
work, every effort is made to safeguard their financial interest.
On 28 February 2018, the Group announced the acquisition The Group aims to provide recruitment, training, development of a 100% ownership interest in International Risk Consultants and promotion opportunities that are identical, as far as Inc. one of the leading trade credit and political risk insurance possible, for disabled and non-disabled colleagues.
brokers in the US, with operations in Hong Kong and Brazil.
For further information about our Diversity and Inclusion initiatives, please visit our Employee Diversity page on jlt.
com or EMPLOYMENT POLICIES refer to the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 50 to 51.
The Group aims to provide an environment where individuals can excel.
Wide share ownership, share option schemes and POLITICAL DONATIONS the Share Incentive Plan encourage employee engagement.
It is JLT Group policy not to make donations to any Regular briefings and consultation, using the JLT intranet political party.
where possible, keeps colleagues informed about the Groups performance and matters that affect them as employees.
Additionally we offer a wide range of benefits for colleagues SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS including health and lifestyle benefits.
At 31 December 2017 and 22 February 2018 the latest practicable date prior to the date of this Report, the Company During 2017 JLT refreshed the Employee Handbook bringing had been notified of the following significant holdings of voting together a number of in-force policies and ensuring that current rights in its shares: employees and new joiners have valid information on their 31 December 22 February contractual terms and related JLT policies to hand.
2017 2018 JLT operates a strict regulatory framework under which Shareholder % of voting % of voting all colleagues are required to undertake, and complete, a rights rights number of training modules on an annual or biannual basis.
JMH Investments Limited 40.16 40.16 The purpose of the regulatory training is to: refresh employees MFS Investment Management 7.01 7.00 understanding and awareness of a number of core risks and the actions needed to manage them for the benefit of clients and Royal Bank of Canada 3.45 3.42 JLT: help protect employees from breaching JLT Policy: and, EBT Trustee for UK employees, aid them to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including those of the Financial Conduct Authority STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES and the UK Information Commissioner.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Further information about the Group's employment practices Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors JLT is an equal opportunities employer and engages in have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance programmes to attract greater diversity of talent.
Programmes with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as include increasing the number of apprenticeships in the adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company business, broadening the intake of graduates and establishing financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom targeted management programmes to support inclusive Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom leadership at all levels of the organisation.
Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Our recruitment and selection policy supports this as we focus Under company law, the Directors must not approve the on a candidates skills, experiences and potential within the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give business.
Everyone is judged fairly on their merits.
We promote a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and fair and consistent treatment and ensure that colleagues are the Company, and of the profit or loss of the Group and the promoted and developed on the basis of their ability.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 95 In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are the Strategic Report, contained in pages 2 to 55 of the required to: Annual Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply Group, together with a description of the principal risks and them consistently: uncertainties that it faces.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Each Director as at the date of this Report, further confirms that: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed for the group financial so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit statements, and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and comprising FRS 101, have been followed for the Company the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have financial statements, subject to any material departures taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in continue in business.
accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys JLT VIABILITY STATEMENT transactions and disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Company and the Group, As prescribed by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Governance Code the UK Code, the Board has conducted Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies a detailed assessment of those risk events that could threaten Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, JLTs ability to continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for fall due over a three-year period.
This time scale is believed to safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, be appropriate for the following reasons: hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and a three-year period aligns with JLTs business and strategic detection of fraud and other irregularities.
planning process and the short business cycles associated with general insurance: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included given the environment JLT operates in, the use of any time on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom period greater than three years means increasing the level of governing the preparation and dissemination of financial uncertainty over key assumptions used within the assessment: statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the stress and scenario tests are considered over a three year period as applicable, a period which provides The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial management with the opportunity to implement mitigations Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and to return the business to normal trading conditions: and understandable and provides the information necessary for difficulty or inability to accurately predict the nature and shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, impact of environmental factors that could have a bearing business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors whose on the Group with a crystallisation period in excess of names and functions are listed on pages 58 and 59 confirms three years.
"that, to the best of their knowledge: the Company financial statements, which have been The Companys principal risks are at the heart of this rigorous prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally assessment which included the following core components: Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Financial sensitivity testing A series of key financial metrics Standards, comprising FRS 101 ""Reduced Disclosure are stressed, including levels of planned revenue, the Framework"", and applicable law, give a true and fair view development of key strategic operations, changes in foreign of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of exchange and interest rates, and cash flow: the Company: Key risk testing Assessing the impact of a combination of the Group financial statements, which have been prepared principal risks crystallising during the viability period."
Risks in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true captured within the scenario testing include Litigation and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Non E&O, Information Security Cyber, Privacy, Loss of profit of the Group: and Revenue, Bribery and Corruption and Competition: 96 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Reverse stress testing Estimating the quantum of a loss, OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION which may ultimately threaten the Companys viability, if not Directors Indemnity and Insurance effectively managed.
This is then reviewed in the context The Company provides the appropriate level of Directors of two of the key principal risks facing JLT, E&O risk and and Officers Liability Insurance in respect of any legal actions Cyber risk: and brought against its Directors, in addition to the indemnity Principal risks & environmental factors Reviewing included in the Companys Articles of Association.
Neither the the Companys principal risks in the context of the key insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the relevant environmental factors and considerations over the next Director or Officer acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
These included key trends, issues, uncertainties such as the regulatory environment and disruptive technology, known potentially impactful events and SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION emerging risks for example geopolitical risk.
SHARE CAPITAL The financial model incorporates the Group's 2018 budget, The issued share capital of the Company and details of and a series of projections for 2019 to 2020.
This model is the movements in the share capital are shown in note 24 to the basis on which the results of stressing the firms cash flow and financial statements.
As at 31 December 2017, the issued share balance sheet are derived.
capital consisted of 220,181,007 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, of which 1,143,131 shares were held as treasury shares As a result of this assessment, the Directors can confirm it is for which voting rights are not exercised.
their reasonable expectation that, over the next three years, the Company will continue to operate and meet its ongoing The Company has one class of share capital, being ordinary liabilities as they fall due.
shares of 5 pence each, and all the shares rank pari passu.
The holders of ordinary shares on the record date are entitled to This statement is underpinned by various mitigating factors receive dividends.
No person holds securities carrying special including the Companys control environment, capital rights with regard to control of the Company.
The shares are requirements and resources, together with the quality and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange and may be accessibility of its funding facilities.
traded through the CREST system.
The Board has the power to implement the purchase by the GOING CONCERN Company of its own shares in accordance with the power The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 55 includes information granted at the AGM each year, and will be seeking renewal of on the Group structure, the performance of our businesses, that power at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the markets in which we operate and the principal risks and the notice of that meeting.
The Company did not purchase any uncertainties faced by the business.
The Financial Statements of its own shares during the year.
on pages 100 to 169 include information on our Group financial results, cash flow and balance sheet position.
All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would The Directors have also considered the Group's cash flow normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, projections, presented in the review of the budget for the full subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions as year to 31 December 2018, as well as work undertaken for the may be appropriate at that time.
The Directors are satisfied that these cash flow projections, taking into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities associated with these forecasts and the Group's SHARES HELD IN TRUST current funding and facilities, alongside the Group's funding As at 31 December 2017, the Jardine Lloyd Thompson strategy, show that the Group will continue to operate and Employee Benefit Trust the Trust held 7,557,229 shares in the meet its liabilities for a period of at least 12 months from the Company representing 3.45% of the issued capital excluding date of approval of the financial statements for the year ended treasury shares.
As of 22 February 2018 being the latest 31 December 2017. practicable date prior to the date of this Report, the Trust held 7,492,791 shares representing 3.42% of the issued capital The Directors therefore consider it appropriate to continue to excluding treasury shares.
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in accordance with Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and In relation to LR 9.8.
"4R 12 and 13, the Trustees of the Related Financial and Business Reporting"" issued by the FRC JLT Employee Benefit Trust agree to waive dividends on the in September 2014 in preparing the financial statements."
shares held by the Trust to meet the awards under the long term incentive plans and the Senior Executive Share Scheme.
There has been no significant change in the financial or trading position of the Group since 31 December 2017.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 97 DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS VARIATION OF RIGHTS Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary If, at any time, the capital of the Company is divided into resolution, but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the different classes of shares then, subject to statute, the Articles amount recommended by the Board.
specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% The Board can pay interim dividends whenever the financial in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general such payment.
The Board can withhold payment of all or any meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate part of any dividend or other monies payable in respect of the general meeting, the quorum is two persons holding or Companys shares from any person with a 0.25% interest as set representing by proxy at least one third in nominal value of the out in the Articles if that person has been served with a notice issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held after failure to provide the Company with information concerning as treasury shares.
interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors may also retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction of the debts, Shareholders approved the authority for the Company to buy liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year.
We will not VOTING RIGHTS be seeking shareholder approval for a Rule 9 dispensation On a show of hands at a general meeting, every member in relation to this authority pursuant to the Takeover Code.
present in person has one vote and on a poll, every member This means that in the event that the directors were to initiate who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each a buy-back, in order to avoid triggering a mandatory offer share held.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of obligation upon Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited JMH the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by under Rule 37 of the Takeover Code, JMH would need to proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other participate in any such buy-back so that its overall percentage joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will be determined holding which at 22 February 2018 was 40.16% did not by the order in which the names stand in the Register of increase following the buy-back.
Members in respect of the share.
Voting rights in relation to Although the Company has not utilised the authority to buy treasury shares are suspended and the voting rights are not back shares since 2008, the Board believes that it would normally exercised in respect of the shares held in the Employee be in the interests of all shareholders for the Company to Benefit Trust, which are used to satisfy awards made under the continue to have the right to purchase its own shares in the Companys share plans.
We would only exercise this authority if we believe that it is in the best interest of RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING shareholders and would result in an improvement in earnings No member, unless the Directors otherwise determine, is per share.
entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting in respect of any shares held by the member if any call ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION or other sum then payable by the member in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member is entitled to The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation vote if the member has been served with a notice after failure to and the Articles of Association.
The Directors are authorised provide the Company with information concerning interests in to issue and allot shares, and to undertake purchases of those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Company shares, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Any amendment of the Articles requires shareholder approval in accordance with legislation in force from time to time.
Copies DEADLINES FOR VOTING will be available at the Companys AGM and can also be Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or in relation to accessed on the Groups website: jlt.
corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting, and the notice of AGM will The 2018 AGM will be held at 12.00 noon on 1 May 2018 at the specify the deadline for exercising voting rights.
St Botolph Building, 138 Houndsditch, London EC3A 7AW.
Full details will be included in the Notice of Meeting.
A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
The person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
98 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group cautions investors that a number of factors, INDEPENDENT AUDITOR including matters referred to in this document, could cause Following review, the Board proposes that actual results to differ materially from those contained in any  LLP are re-appointed as the forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not Company auditor.
A resolution proposing this will be limited to, the principal risks and financial risks discussed in the put to the AGM.
Risk Management Report on pages 41 to 45.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING Neither the Group, nor any of the Directors, provides any representation, assurance or guarantee that the occurrence FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION of the events expressed or implied in any forward-looking Where this document contains forward-looking statements, statements in this document will actually occur.
Undue reliance these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the should not be placed on these forward-looking statements.
information available to them at the time of their approval of this The Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise Annual Report and Financial Statements.
These statements any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new should be treated with caution due to the inherent risks and information, future events or otherwise.
uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES The Company has chosen, in accordance with Section 414 c 11 of the Companies Act 2006, to include certain matters in its Strategic Report that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in this Directors' Report.
The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 55 provides an overview of the Companys business, its position and performance during the year ended 31 December 2017.
It also includes the following information: information about greenhouse gas emissions page 47 and 48 : an indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company page 2 to 55 : and use of financial instruments, information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, its exposure to credit risk and foreign currency risk and its use of financial instruments page 41 to 45.
8 R of the FCA's Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules the content of the Management Report can be found in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report on pages 2 to 55 and pages 91 to 98 respectively.
Disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 C R can be found at the locations provided in the table below: Section Subject Location 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 3 N A Section 3 removed from the FCA handbook Not applicable 4 Long-term incentive schemes Page 124 5 Director waiver of emoluments Not applicable 6 Director waiver of future emoluments Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of shares for cash Not applicable 8 Non pre-emptive issues by a major subsidiary undertaking Not applicable 9 Any participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary undertaking Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividend Page 96 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividend Page 96 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Page 66 By Order of the Board Darren Lennark Group Company Secretary 28 February 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Includes the report of the Independent Auditor and the primary reporting statements as well as the accounting policies under which the financial statements have been prepared.
100 Independent Auditors' Report 138 Financial instruments by category 107 Consolidated Income Statement 141 Borrowings 108 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 144 Deferred income taxes 109 Consolidated Balance Sheet 145 Provisions for liabilities and charges 110 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 146 Share capital and premium 146 Non-controlling interests 111 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 147 Other reserves 112 Significant Accounting Policies 148 Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust 148 Cash generated from operations NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 149 Business combinations Contains the supporting notes to the financial statements 153 Business disposals which provide further detail and analysis 155 Retirement benefit obligations 118 Alternative income statement 160 Related-party transactions 119 Segment information 161 Commitments 122 Operating profit 161 Subsequent events 123 Investment income 162 Subsidiaries and associated companies 123 Finance income and costs 124 Employee information COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 126 Services provided by the Companys auditor Includes UK GAAP accounts of the company and its associates 127 Income tax expense 171 Income Statement 128 Earnings per share 171 Balance Sheet 129 Dividends 172 Statement of Changes in Equity 129 Goodwill 173 Significant Accounting Policies 131 Other intangible assets 174 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 132 Property, plant and equipment 133 Investments in associates 134 Available-for-sale financial assets 135 Derivative financial instruments 136 Trade and other receivables 137 Cash and cash equivalents 137 Trade and other payables
