American p02-22 22 03 2018 09:59 Page 10 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E R S R E P O R T Why invest in the JPMorgan American Investment Trust?
The worlds largest stock market should have a place in every investors portfolio.
We have the experience and expertise needed to fully capitalise on Americas future growth.
The US is home to some of the worlds biggest companies and most recognisable brands, with a stock market that provides direct access to the growth of the worlds largest economy and the chance to benefit from the strength of corporate America.
With deep resources and a disciplined investment Garrett Fish Investment Manager process at work on your behalf, we believe the JPMorgan American Investment Trust is the ideal actively managed vehicle to offer shareholders participation in the exciting growth story.
The Managers heritage and team JPMAM began its life in the United States and has managed US equities for more than 100 years.
Today, it manages US equities totalling USD270 billion.
JPMAM's commitment to its home market is borne out in the breadth and depth of its resources.
JPMAM's funds benefit from the insight of over 100 dedicated US investment professionals, with an average of 20 years of industry experience.
The Managers Investment Approach JPMAM believes that markets are not always efficient.
Investors exhibit consistent biases and irrational behaviours that result in persistent market inefficiencies, and hence investment opportunities.
Taking advantage of these patterns of behaviour, it is possible to outperform over market cycles by creating a portfolio comprised of companies with attractive valuations, high quality management teams and earnings, and improving business trends supported by superior market sentiment.
The Managers investment process blends quantitative and qualitative research Quantitative Qualitative Portfolio Rankings Overlay Construction Idea Generation Qualitative Analysis & Stock Selection Focused Portfolio Manager Review Provides JPMAM with the ability to Securities chosen with the most have a systematically deployed The portfolio manager uses stock attractive characteristics opinion on entire investment universe rankings coupled with his own highlighting those stocks that meet its insights to drive investment decision investment approach 147 100 USD$270 billion Years experience Investment professionals Managed in US equities investing in the region in America 1 0 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7 S American p02-22 22 03 2018 09:59 Page 11 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E R S R E P O R T Market Review Performance in the US equity markets in 2017 proved to be much stronger than most investors anticipated at the beginning of the year.
The newly passed tax reform act, the continued strength in the job market and the resulting hopes for greater capital investment have led Street analysts to raise earnings estimates and lent support to the equity market.
The S&P 500 Index finished the year up 11.0% in sterling terms, including dividends, and hit all-time highs 62 times over the course of the year.
The median daily market move was just 0.18%, the smallest on record.
The largest peak-to-trough drawdown was 2.8%, the mildest year since 1995.
To put some context around that number, the average intra-year drawdown since 1980 has been 13.8%.
Growth stocks, those stocks that tend to have a low dividend yield but above average prospects for capital growth, surged this year with the Russell 1000 Growth Index up 30.2% versus 13.7% for the Russell 1000 Value Index, an index that tracks higher yielding, slower growing value stocks.
The technology and materials sectors, up 38.8% and 23.8%, respectively led the S&P 500 Index, with the telecom and energy sectors trailing.
The economic environment was robust over the course of the year.
The Federal Reserve raised interest rates three times in 2017, bringing the Fed Funds rate to 1.25% 1.50%.
The Fed also increased the cap on the balance sheet run-off, the process by which it plans to shrink its balance sheet as the bonds it acquired in the course of its quantitative easing policy mature, to USD20 billion per month starting in the first quarter of this year.
The FOMC decision relied on evidence of underlying strength in the economy and the labour market.
However, inflation continues to be muted which means a gradual approach to interest rate policy normalization will be likely.
IHS Markit US Manufacturing PMI Purchasing Managers Index was strong over the course of the year.
The December number of 55.1 was the highest since March 2015 and signalled a solid improvement in the health of the industrial sector.
US strength coincided with strength around the globe with the J. P. Morgan Global Manufacturing PMI rising to 54.5 in December, near a seven-year high.
Legislative reform was perhaps the biggest political consideration of the year for the equity markets.
The economic After the failure to pass the American Health Care Act AHCA put the proposed tax plan in question, the environment early optimism around a legislative boost to corporate earnings waned.
The eventual signing of the tax was robust over reform act in late December resulted in raised earnings estimates for many companies and gave investors the course of renewed hope that 2018 would see an increase in investment spending.
the year The US Consumer Price Index rose 0.4% in November, and by 2.2% over the last 12 months.
This was driven by a strong increase in the energy components of the index.
Crude oil WTI rose more than 12% over the year supported by a continued drawdown of global inventories late in the year.
This tightening in inventory was caused by a number of factors, including supply disruptions caused by the hurricane season, increased compliance of production quotas by OPEC members and strong global demand.
Overall Asset Allocation and Performance The Companys NAV rose by 13.1% in total return terms in 2017.
The return was above the benchmark, the S&P 500 Index, which rose 11.0% in sterling terms.
The investment management team is responsible for managing the allocation between the large and the small cap portfolios, together with the levels of cash and gearing.
In 2017, the Companys gearing ranged between 8.5% and 9.2% of shareholders funds, with the level at the year-end registering at 9.2%.
The level of gearing has been adjusted at regular intervals within the gearing guidelines laid down by the Board.
With the market rising last year more than the cost of debt, gearing contributed to relative performance.
The weighting in the small cap portfolio ranged between 4.8% and 6.2% and ended the year at 5.0%.
We have reduced our number of holdings in the large cap portfolio to improve the performance in this area, to bring greater focus to the core portfolio and to reduce the size of the portfolio tail.
We believe that our ability to S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 1 1 American p02-22 22 03 2018 09:59 Page 12 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E R S R E P O R T move between the two segments enhances returns to shareholders over the long term and also helps to balance our overall risk.
Attribution data for 2017 in dollar terms, shows that our large cap portfolio modestly detracted for the period, while our smaller companies portfolio was additive.
We further enhanced our Small Cap Growth allocation tool to increase our weighting even more when the outlook is more favourable and vice versa in order to capture the strength of the underlying signal.
Large Companies Portfolio Our investment methodology continues to focus on investing in high quality, reasonably valued companies.
When constructing our portfolio, we use the core tenets of behavioural finance to narrow our investment universe.
Behavioural finance theory indicates that on average, high quality, fast growing, cheap stocks with good news-flow outperform lower quality, slow growing, and expensive stocks with bad news-flow.
PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2017 % % Contributions to total returns Net asset value total return in sterling terms 13.1 Benchmark total return in sterling terms 11.0 Excess return 2.1 Contributions to total returns Large cap portfolio 0.6 Allocation effect 1.0 Selection effect 1.6 Small cap portfolio 1.2 Allocation and selection effect 1.2 Gearing including change in the fair value of the debenture 1.8 Cost of debt 0.5 Currency hedge 0.4 Share issuance buy back 0.4 Management fee expenses 0.6 Total 2.1 Source: JPMAM and Morningstar.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark index.
A glossary of terms and alternative performance measures is provided on pages 76 to 78.
JPMorgan, and its predecessor First Standard & Poors company, computerised Formation of NYSE Floor Great Depression 500 Index becomes Manager trading network Nasdaq exchange the Company opened Stock Market Crash introduced of the Company for stocks opened 1881 1881 1903 1929 1957 1966 1969 1971 1 2 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7 S American p02-22 22 03 2018 09:59 Page 13 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E R S R E P O R T Taking this approach, we rank the stocks in our universe to uncover those companies that are high quality, attractively valued and are also exhibiting improving sentiment momentum.
We then undertake fundamental research to validate the rankings.
This leads us to invest in companies that exhibit the qualities we think are important: good growth characteristics with growing earnings, strong cash flows and reasonable valuations.
The S&P 500 Index returned 11.0% in sterling terms, while our Company strategy outperformed by 210 bps.
The returns The returns from the broad market were driven by companies with strong momentum characteristics, from the broad whereas those companies which we would define as of high quality and attractive from a valuation market were perspective underperformed.
The performance of a portfolio is reflecting in not only the securities within driven by the portfolio, but also the securities not held.
In our case several large securities that did not meet our investment thesis found favour with the market and this negatively impacted our performance.
companies with strong The large companies portfolio posted a positive return, but marginally underperformed the benchmark over the 12 months to the end of December 2017.
This underperformance was mainly driven by unrewarded momentum stock selection within the consumer staples, health care and information technology sectors.
characteristics Within consumer staples, our overweights in Walgreens Boots Alliance and CVS were among the largest detractors in the sector.
Shares of both companies fell during the period amid fears that Amazon may enter the pharmaceutical industry, which would present a significant headwind for incumbent companies.
More positively, overweight exposure to the information technology stock Apple buoyed relative returns over the period driven by surprisingly positive results for its largest revenue generating product the iPhone.
Most investors expected a large drop in orders ahead of the launch of the 10th anniversary iPhone in the second half of the year, which failed to materialise.
Apples shares remain attractively valued and the next iPhone upgrade cycle is expected to be the largest yet.
Similarly, our overweight position in Microsoft boosted performance during the period as the stock rallied on the back of strong earnings, with revenues and earnings that came in better than expected.
Among the highlights in its earnings announcement was the strong performance of its cloud computing offering, Azure.
Within information technology, our lack of exposure to Facebook and the specialist chip company NVIDIA detracted.
NVIDIAs shares rallied on the back of strong earnings results in the second quarter driven, in part, by high year-on-year growth in their datacentre and gaming segments.
At the same time, an overweight position in Qualcomm featured among the portfolios largest detractors at the individual stock level as the company remained mired in legal disputes with Apple and the Federal Trade Commission.
Within the health care sector, overweight positions in the pharmaceutical stock Allergan and the biotech firms Celgene and Gilead Sciences weighed on performance, reflecting growth concerns regarding new products approvals and pricing.
We still believe in their existing products and the future success of their pipeline.
On the other hand, the portfolio benefited from strong stock selection in the financials and consumer discretionary sectors.
Here, a greater than benchmark exposure to fast food restaurant chain operator McDonalds added value as the firm reported better-than-expected sales results.
Furthermore, an overweight in Home Depot featured among the top contributors to returns as the stock outperformed in the fourth quarter driven by its strong execution and market share growth.
The company announced improved revenue, profit and same-store sales growth figures, propelling its shares higher.
Black Monday Apple becomes President Trumps Garrett Fish F Stock Market biggest Company Tax Cut and appointed as Crash Tech crash Fund Manager Credit crisis in US history Reform Bill passed 2017 1987 2001 2002 2008 2012 2017 S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 1 3 American p02-22 22 03 2018 09:59 Page 14 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E R S R E P O R T Another bright spot in performance over the period was within financials.
Here, our exposure to MSCI and overweight in Citigroup buoyed relative returns.
MSCI is benefiting from prior acquisitions which are enabling it to capture a broad range of growth opportunities.
Shares of Citigroup outperformed during the period as investors cheered the prospects of a stronger capital return plan given this years favourable Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCAR results, and interpreted the Treasury Departments recent white paper as indicating a greater likelihood of a more favourable regulatory landscape for financials.
In terms of portfolio positioning, we added to our consumer discretionary and financials sectors, while trimming health care, telecom services and industrials.
Consumer staples is now our largest overweight followed by financials and consumer discretionary.
On the other hand, we retain our underweight position in the industrials, real estate and materials sectors, as we are less excited about their long term growth prospects and unappealing valuation levels relative to other sectors.
Smaller Companies Portfolio The smaller companies portfolio delivered a standout 2017 with stock selection being materially additive The smaller across the majority of the portfolio in 2017.
For the calendar year, the smaller companies portfolio returned companies 29.4% in sterling terms which significantly outpaced the benchmark of the Company.
Stock selection in portfolio technology was the top contributing sector as our software & video game holdings delivered strong growth delivered a throughout the year.
A position in video games publisher and distributor Take-Two Interactive featured among the top contributors as shares in the company rallied after it reported strong results.
Revenues, standout 2017 earnings and full year guidance all came in above consensus.
Market research data was subsequently released that pointed to digital revenue for Grand Theft Auto being up over 40% driven by microtransactions and users purchasing in-game content.
Health care was also a large driver as a number of our biotech holdings benefited from outstanding clinical data releases.
Here, a position in Kite Pharma a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company which focuses on the development of immunotherapy drugs was the top contributor at the individual stock level.
Shares in the company rallied after the announcement of an acquisition by Gilead Sciences via an all cash offer that equated to a 29% premium.
From a strategic perspective the deal provides Gilead with a strong foundation in oncology.
Outlook tax reform We continue to believe earnings for the S&P 500 Index will grow over the next year.
Year-over-year comparisons will be more challenging but tax reform should act as a tailwind to the current late cycle should act as a growth environment.
The energy sector has continued to stabilise and its improving profitability should tailwind to the contribute to overall earnings.
With over 40% of S&P 500 Index earnings coming from overseas, a weaker current late dollar will be a boost to foreign sales in 2018.
Inflation should continue to gently rise, helped by the weaker cycle growth dollar, higher oil prices and a tightening labour market.
This means that the Fed is likely to stay on track for the further rate increases expected by the market.
environment We do not see a material risk of a recession in the near term, but we continue to monitor a broad range of potential risks that could represent headwinds for US equity markets.
The passage of the tax reform act We do not see a removed one risk to the market, but prudent equity investment will require us to act with flexibility, as the implications of tax reform, trade policy, inflation and rising rates could drive rotations among sectors and material risk of styles.
a recession in the near term Garrett Fish Investment Manager 22nd March 2018 1 4 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7 S
