01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Key to Committee membership Board of Directors Re Chair Remuneration Au Ri Audit Risk NG Nomination & Governance Chairman Relevant skills and experience During 2017, Paul stepped down as chairman NG Paul has held a number of senior leadership and a member of the board of Henderson roles.
Notable appointments include serving Diversified Income Limited with effect from as chairman of the Association of Investment 26 April and was appointed to the board of Companies 1991 to 1993, acting as founding RateSetter Retail Money Market Limited with CEO of Threadneedle Asset Management effect from 1 June and as chairman from 17 July.
Limited 1994 to 1999, directorships of Eagle Paul initially joined the Board in October 2010 Star and Allied Dunbar, holding the offices of as the Senior Independent Director and member European CEO of Deutsche Asset Management of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, 2002 to 2005, global CEO of Rothschild Asset roles he held until his appointment as Chairman Management 1999 to 2002, chairman of in July 2012.
On becoming Chairman, Paul was Paul Manduca Bridgewell Group plc and a director of Henderson also appointed Chair of the Nomination & Chairman Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Governance Committee, having been a member Appointment: October 2010 Other previous appointments include the of the Committee since January 2011.
Age: 66 chairmanship of Aon UK Limited and JPM Other appointments European Smaller Companies Investment Trust Securities Institute Plc.
From September 2005 until March 2011, RateSetter Retail Money Market Limited Paul was a nonexecutive director of Wm chairman Morrison Supermarkets Plc, including as senior Templeton Emerging Markets Investment independent director, audit committee chairman Trust TEMIT chairman and remuneration committee chairman.
He was TheCityUK advisory council also a nonexecutive director and audit committee chairman of KazMunaiGas Exploration & Production until the end of September 2012.
Chief Executive Relevant skills and experience During his leadership of Jackson, Mike was Mike has more than three decades experience responsible for the development of Jacksons in insurance and retirement services, having marketleading range of retirement solutions.
started his career at the US brokerage house He was also part of the Jackson teams that Dean Witter, before going on to become a purchased and successfully integrated a savings managing director at Smith Barney Shearson.
institute and two life companies.
Mike joined the Prudential Group in 1995 Mike joined the Board in 2011 and was and became Chief Operating Officer and appointed Group Chief Executive in June 2015.
In 2011, he was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of Jackson, and joined Michael Wells Group Chief Executive the Board of Prudential.
Appointment: January 2011 Age: 57 Board changes Post year end, Alice Schroeder was appointed M&G Prudential.
John Foley became Non-executive Directors a member of the Risk Committee with effect Chief Executive of M&G Prudential and Ann Godbehere retired from the Board at the from 1 March 2018.
Anne Richards became Deputy Chief conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Executive of M&G Prudential retaining her Executive Directors held on 18 May 2017. role as Chief Executive of M&G.
Tony Wilkey stepped down as a member David Law succeeded Ms Godbehere as of the Board and as Chief Executive of Penny James stepped down from the Board Chair of the Audit Committee and became Prudential Corporation Asia and Nic and as Chief Risk Officer with effect from a member of the Risk Committee and the Nicandrou succeeded him in this position.
James Turner was Nomination & Governance Committee with Mark FitzPatrick was appointed to the Board appointed as an Executive Director and as effect from 19 May 2017.
Lord Turner was to succeed Mr Nicandrou as Chief Financial Group Chief Risk Officer with effect from appointed a member of the Audit Committee Officer.
The effective date for these changes 1 March 2018.
Pat Casey held the role of with effect from 19 May 2017. was 17 July 2017.
Group Chief Risk Officer on an interim basis until 1 March 2018.
Tom Watjen was appointed to the Board and In August 2017, the Company announced its as a member of the Remuneration Committee intention to merge its asset manager, M&G, with effect from 11 July 2017. and Prudential UK & Europe to form www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 83 Board of Directors continued Executive Directors Relevant skills and experience Mark previously worked at Deloitte for 26 years, building his industry focus on insurance and investment management globally.
During this time, Mark was Managing Partner for Clients and Markets, a member of the executive committee and a member of the board of Deloitte UK.
He was a vice chairman of Deloitte for four years, leading the CFO Programme and developing the CFO Transition labs.
Mark previously led the Insurance & Investment Mark FitzPatrick ca Management audit practice and the insurance Chief Financial Officer industry practice.
Appointment: July 2017 Mark joined the Board as an Executive Director Age: 49 and Chief Financial Officer in July 2017.
Relevant skills and experience Executive of Prudential Capital, Group Chief John spent over 20 years at Hill Samuel & Co, Risk Officer, Group Investment Director and where he worked in every division of the bank, Chief Executive of Prudential UK & Europe.
culminating in senior roles in risk, capital markets John first joined the Board in 2011 as Group and treasury of the combined TSB and Hill Chief Risk Officer and was reappointed in Samuel Bank.
Before joining Prudential, John January 2016, having stepped down during his spent three years as general manager, global time as Group Investment Director.
capital markets at National Australia Bank.
In 2017, Johns role was expanded from Chief John joined Prudential as Deputy Group Executive of Prudential UK & Europe to Chief Treasurer in 2000 and became Managing Executive of M&G Prudential, the Groups Director of Prudential Capital and Group John Foley combined UK asset management and savings Treasurer in 2001.
During his career at Chief Executive of M&G Prudential and retirement solutions business.
Prudential, John has held the offices of Chief Appointment: January 2016 Age: 61 Relevant skills and experience Other appointments Nic started his career at  European Insurance CFO Forum chairman PwC.
Before joining Prudential, he worked at CITICPrudential Life Insurance Company Aviva, where he held a number of senior finance Limited a Prudential plc joint venture roles, including Norwich Union Life finance director and board member, Aviva group financial control director, Aviva group financial management and reporting director and CGNU group financial reporting director.
In July 2017, Nic became Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia having originally Nicolaos Nicandrou aca Chief Executive of Prudential joined the Board in October 2009 as an Corporation Asia Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer.
Appointment: October 2009 Age: 52 84 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Key to Committee membership Re Chair Remuneration Au Ri Audit Risk NG Nomination & Governance Relevant skills and experience Anne joined the Board in 2016 as an Executive Anne became an analyst for Alliance Capital Director and Chief Executive of M&G.
She in 1992 and then moved into portfolio became Deputy Chief Executive of management roles at JP Morgan Investment M&G Prudential in 2017 whilst remaining Chief Management and Mercury Asset Management.
She joined the board of Edinburgh Fund Other appointments Managers plc as chief investment officer and Financial Services advisory board joint managing director in 2002 and continued in CFA UK Advisory this role following Aberdeen Asset Management Financial Conduct Authority practitioner PLCs acquisition of Edinburgh Fund Managers panel chair in 2003.
Anne was chief investment officer and Anne Richards Standing Council on Europe head of the EMEA region for Aberdeen Asset Deputy Chief Executive of M&G Prudential IBDE advisory board Management PLC, positions she held until and Chief Executive of M&G February 2016.
Appointment: June 2016 Age: 53 Relevant skills and experience Other appointments Before joining Prudential, Barry was president, International Insurance Society accident & health worldwide for AIG Life American Council of Life Insurers Companies.
He joined AIG in 1995 after having held senior positions at PanAmerican Life and Willis in the United States.
Barry joined the Board in 2006 as an Executive Director and the Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia, leading Prudentials Asian business through a period of major growth and development.
Barry Stowe Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Barry fulfilled this role until June 2015 when of the North American Business Unit he became Chairman and Chief Executive Appointment: November 2006 of the North American Business Unit.
Age: 60 Executive Director appointment post year end Relevant skills and experience was appointed Director of Group Finance in James led internal audit teams in UBS in both the September 2015, with responsibility for delivery UK and Switzerland.
Prior to joining Prudential, of the Groups internal and external financial James was the deputy head of compliance for reporting, business planning, performance Barclays plc.
He also held a number of senior monitoring and capital and liquidity planning.
internal audit roles across the Barclays group, He also led the development of the Groups leading teams that covered the UK, the US, Solvency II internal model.
Western Europe, Africa and Asia retail and James joined the Board as an Executive Director commercial banking activities.
and Group Chief Risk Officer in March 2018.
James joined Prudential in November 2010 as Other appointments the Director of Groupwide Internal Audit and James Turner fca West Bromwich Building Society Group Chief Risk Officer Appointment: March 2018 Age: 48 www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 85 Board of Directors continued Non-executive Directors Relevant skills and experience Other appointments NG Au Re Philip was a senior advisor at Credit Suisse and City of London Investment Trust chairman a vice chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston M&G Group Limited Prudential plc CSFB Europe and head of the UK Investment subsidiary chairman Banking Department.
He was twice seconded Severn Trent plc to the role of director general of the Takeover Takeover Panel Panel.
Philip also served on the board of UK Financial Investments Limited Northern Rock plc and as chairman of the Shareholder Executive.
Philip joined the Board in January 2013 as a Nonexecutive Director, as Senior Independent The Hon.
Philip Remnant cbe fca Senior Independent Director Director and as a member of each of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and Appointment: January 2013 the Nomination & Governance Committee.
Age: 63 Relevant skills and experience Other appointments NG Au Ri Sir Howard has a wealth of experience in the China Banking Regulatory Commission financial services industry, across the Civil international advisory board Service, consultancy, asset management, China Securities Regulatory Commission regulatory and academia.
Sir Howard was international advisory board chairman Institut dtudes Politiques Sciences Po previously chairman of the Phoenix Group and an independent director of Morgan Stanley Inc. Millennium LLC regulatory advisory board Royal Bank of Scotland chairman Sir Howard joined the Board in October 2010 as a Nonexecutive Director and Chair of the Risk Committee.
He joined the Audit Committee in November 2010 and the Nomination & Sir Howard Davies Governance Committee in July 2012.
Appointment: October 2010 Age: 67 Relevant skills and experience Other appointments NG Au Ri David was the Global Leader of L&F Holdings Limited CEO and its  PwC subsidiaries the professional indemnity insurance practice, a partner in PwCs UK firm, captive insurance group that serves the and worked as the lead audit partner for PwC network and its member firms multinational insurance companies until his retirement in 2015.
David has also been responsible for PwCs insurance and investment management assurance practice in London and the firms Scottish assurance division.
David joined the Board in September 2015 as a David Law aca Nonexecutive Director and member of the Appointment: September 2015 Audit Committee.
David was appointed Chair of Age: 57 the Audit Committee and a member of the Risk Committee and of the Nomination & Governance Committee in May 2017.
Relevant skills and experience Kai has served on a number of other boards, Ri Re Kai spent 19 years at Bank of America and was including Singapore Telecommunications and based in Hong Kong in roles as group executive Tate and Lyle plc.
vice president and head of the Asia Wholesale Kai joined the Board in January 2012 as a Banking Group during 1990 to 1995.
He spent Nonexecutive Director and member of the 10 years working for Standard Chartered PLC Remuneration and Risk Committees.
in Singapore as group executive director responsible for Asia Governance and Risk Other appointments during 1998 to 2007.
Kai was chief executive Clifford Capital Pte.
Ltd chair officer of the Asia Pacific Region of Credit Suisse Group AG Credit Suisse AG during 2008 to 2010 DukeNUS Medical School chairman Kaikhushru Nargolwala fca and now serves as director and chairman Prudential Corporation Asia Limited of their remuneration committee.
Appointment: January 2012 Prudential plc subsidiary chairman Age: 67 PSA International Pte Ltd 86 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Key to Committee membership Re Chair Remuneration Au Ri Audit Risk NG Nomination & Governance Relevant skills and experience Other appointments Re NG Anthony spent his career in Asia, where he Jardine Matheson Holdings and other joined the Jardine Matheson Group in 1969, Jardine Matheson group companies holding a number of senior positions before Schindler Holding Limited joining the board of Jardine Matheson Holdings Shui On Land Limited in 1994.
He was managing director of the The Hong KongAPEC trade policy study Jardine Matheson Group from 2006 to 2012. group chairman UKASEAN Business Council Anthony joined the Board in June 2013 as a Vitasoy International Holdings Limited Nonexecutive Director and member of the Remuneration Committee.
He became Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of Anthony Nightingale cmg sbs jp the Nomination & Governance Committee in Appointment: June 2013 May 2015.
Age: 70 Relevant skills and experience Alice joined the Board in June 2013 as a Ri Au Alice began her career as a qualified accountant Nonexecutive Director and member of the at Ernst & Young.
She joined the Financial Audit Committee.
She became a member of the Accounting Standards Board as a manager Risk Committee in March 2018. in 1991, overseeing the issuance of several Other appointments significant insurance accounting standards.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch International From 1993, she led teams of analysts specialising Showfer Media LLC formerly WebTuner in propertycasualty insurance as a managing Corp chair director at CIBS Oppenheimer, PaineWebber now UBS and Morgan Stanley.
Alice was also an independent board member of the Cetera Alice Schroeder Financial Group.
Appointment: June 2013 Age: 61 Relevant skills and experience Lord Turner joined the Board in September 2015 Au Ri Lord Turner began his career with McKinsey as a Nonexecutive Director and member of the & Co, advising companies across a range of Risk Committee.
He became a member of the industries.
He served as directorgeneral of the Other appointments Confederation of British Industry, vicechairman Chubb Europe chairman of Merrill Lynch Europe, chairman of the Energy Transition Commission chairman Pensions Commission and as a nonexecutive House of Lords crossbench member director of Standard Chartered Bank.
from 2005 Institute for New Economic Thinking Lord Turner was chairman of the UKs Financial Lord Turner frs chairman Services Authority, a member of the London School of Economics and Cass international Financial Stability Board and a Appointment: September 2015 Business School visiting professor Age: 62 nonexecutive director of the Bank of England.
OakNorth Bank advisor Relevant skills and experience A key architect of Providents merger with Unum Re Tom started his career at Aetna Life and in 1999, Tom was appointed president and chief Casualty before joining confining & Company, executive officer of the renamed Unum Group an investment and asset management provider, in 2003, a role he held for 12 years before where he became partner in the capital markets becoming nonexecutive chairman until his and venture capital division.
He joined Morgan Stanley in 1987 as a managing Tom joined the Board in July 2017 as a director in its insurance practice and in 1994, Nonexecutive Director and member of the was appointed executive vice president and Remuneration Committee.
chief financial officer of Provident Companies Inc. Other appointments Thomas Watjen SunTrust Banks, Inc Appointment: July 2017 Age: 63 www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 87
