Mondi Group 80 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Introduction from Joint Chairmen M ondi has a strong governance framework designed to promote high ethical standards.
Fred Phaswana David Williams Joint Chairmen Dear fellow shareholder The proposed acquisition, which remains John Nicholas replaced Anne as Senior subject to competition clearance and Independent Director and Tanya Fratto took You will have seen our introduction to the customary closing conditions, will be over Annes role of remuneration committee Integrated report and read the Strategic integrated into Mondis Packaging Paper chairman, having served on the committee report on pages 12 to 77.
Here we wish business unit and will allow us to expand since her appointment to the Boards on to provide some further detail on how the our customer offering in terms of both 1 January 2017.
This, in addition to her Boards have operated during the year, how product range and geographic reach.
experience gained as a member of another our governance framework is working in remuneration committee prior to her practice and the key areas of focus for us.
Further information relating to Mondis appointment to Mondi, meant that Tanya strategy and developments during the year was well-placed to take over the role.
Strategy can be found in the Strategic report on Our clear and consistent strategy is to Although the composition of the pages 12 to 77. deliver value accretive growth by focusing committees is kept under regular on our four strategic value drivers to Board composition consideration, these changes prompted drive performance along the value chain: a more thorough review of committee During 2017 there were two key changes to to invest in assets with cost advantage: to memberships, resulting in changes to our board composition.
inspire our people and grow responsibly: the membership of the audit, sustainable Firstly, as announced in February 2017, and to partner with our customers for development and social and ethics David Hathorn stepped down as Mondis innovation.
After the Boards detailed committees, as well as the executive Group Chief Executive Officer at the review of Mondis strategy during the year, committee as already explained.
conclusion of the Annual General Meetings we continue to believe that our approach Further details can be found in each on 11 May 2017 after 26 years with Mondi.
remains appropriate and supports our committees report.
While it was with sadness that we said commitment to delivering long-term value goodbye to David, we were delighted to to shareholders.
Safety appoint Peter Oswald as Group Chief Safety remains a key priority for us and is During 2016 and early 2017 a number Executive Officer.
Peter has now been in a focus of every board meeting.
We were of large capital investment projects were the role for almost a year and has proven deeply saddened by the two fatalities we approved in line with our strategy, including that he is extremely capable of leading experienced during the year, one in our a new 300,000 tonne per annum kraft the Group, providing continuity but at the South African forests following a timber top white machine and related pulp mill same time looking to move the business vehicle incident and the other at our Tire upgrade at Ruomberok Slovakia and an forwards and working to establish his Box plant in Turkey during electrical faultinvestment of 335 million to modernise own relationships with investors and other finding activities at a bundle-strapping our mill at tt Czech Republic.
Further details of Peters machine.
In addition, an employee was These investments are progressing appointment can be found on page 95. reported as missing presumed deceased well, with regular updates provided to Following his appointment, Peter took the in Russia during preparation for cleaning the Boards during the year, allowing opportunity to review the membership of activities on the river in our Syktyvkar developments to be monitored.
Visits to the DLC executive committee.
In all instances, we both sites by members of the Boards in the appointment of a number of were kept fully up to date by management were undertaken during the year, allowing additional members designed to better of the investigations in order to help us to the directors to hear first hand about the reflect the structure of the business and understand the events involved and how development of these projects from local to provide the committee with a broader we might prevent such incidents in the management.
More information can be perspective.
Further details can be found future.
We continue to strive for zero harm found on page 91. on page 110. and this goal remains fundamental to the During the year, the Boards also considered Secondly, Anne Quinn stepped down way we do business.
In as a non-executive director and from Building on the Top 5 Fatal Risks approach particular, we approved the acquisition her roles as Senior Independent Director introduced in 2013, we continued to ofPowerflute Group Holdings Oy Finland, and chairman of the DLC remuneration address the top risks in all of our operations a producer of high-performance semicommittee, also at the conclusion of the in 2017 in order to engineer them out of the chemical fluting.
Annual General Meetings on 11 May.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 81 business or, where this isnt possible, to Culture is a key consideration when we are The impact our business has on the implement robust controls.
We also apply looking to make acquisitions, with a review environment is also the subject of regular our top risks approach to our maintenance of personnel issues, management and review.
Such engagement will continue to shuts during which between 200 and compliance processes forming part of our be a focus for us during the coming year.
3,000 contractors work on-site at our due diligence processes.
Time is also spent More information can be found on pages mills at any one time as some of our following an acquisition in ensuring that 111 and 112. highest risk activities occur during these our policies, procedures and practices are Governance shuts and large or non-routine projects.
implemented, particularly when it comes We continue to strengthen and review our to safety and business integrity.
There was The governance environment in which risk assessments and controls to prevent specific focus during 2017 on the safety we operate has continued to evolve serious injuries from happening again.
standards of those businesses acquired during the year with the introduction of We also acknowledge that we need to during 2016 and significant work has been the South African King IV Governance place more importance on behavioural undertaken to ensure that our culture in this Code.
We regularly review our governance aspects of safety, so in 2017 we introduced regard is embedded and that they meet the framework and practices to ensure they the 24-hour safety mindset, whereby safety same high standards as the remainder of are still appropriate and where necessary, is seen as something we do for ourselves, the Group.
changes have been made to ensure for our families, and for our colleagues and we are in line with the new provisions.
Engagement with employees is critical their families.
We will continue to strengthen The new code increases the focus on to ensuring that Mondis values are put our safety culture and our engagement and ethical behaviour, sustainable practices and into practice.
There are a number of training efforts to prevent serious incidents diversity.
We also note the revised version ways in which the Group Chief Executive from occurring in the future.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code Officer communicates with employees, recently published for consultation, which including open-door days, question Culture, values and engagement looks to further develop the same areas.
and answer sessions, videos and Maintaining a culture that we can be proud newsletters.
Members of the DLC executive Your Boards are reviewing the proposals of, that encourages people to want to committee are encouraged to offer similar set out in the consultation and will look to work for Mondi and that promotes ethical opportunities.
The first virtual leadership amend our practices where appropriate.
behaviour is central to our decision-making meeting for Mondis senior leaders was also and the way in which the Boards operate.
The key matters considered by each of held during the year.
Mondi is a culturally diverse organisation the committees during the year are set During January 2018 Mondi undertook a with operations in more than 30 countries out later in the report but we highlight Group-wide employee survey, the last one and so having a set of common values and in particular the work of the DLC having been carried out at the end of 2015. goals, while respecting local customs and nominations committee in relation to While the results are not yet available, the methods of working, is key to achieving this.
diversity, reviewing the initiatives Mondi results and any key messages or concerns We believe that clear values and a focus has in place, considering the long-term that they might highlight will be reviewed on ethical behaviour allow the business to aims in this regard and updating the by the Boards and the implementation perform more efficiently and effectively and Groups diversity policy to reflect these.
of any required actions by management are supportive of our long-term strategy.
The completion of the audit transition monitored.
The high level of responses to from Deloitte to PwC was a key focus for Mondi has a strong governance these surveys suggests that employees the DLC audit committee and the DLC framework designed to promote high appreciate the opportunity to have their sustainable development committee ethical standards.
This is supported by views heard and feel that it is worthwhile spent time considering the requirements a number of Group policies.
Mondis taking the time to respond.
of the UK Modern Slavery Act, resulting in code of business ethics, setting out five approval by the Boards of a statement on We also look to engage with shareholders principles governing the way in which we Mondis practices.
and our wider stakeholders wherever do business, is integrated throughout the possible so that we can understand their Group and is widely understood.
The code The following report is intended to views and consider their interests during clearly communicates to employees and demonstrate how our governance our board deliberations.
Their views provide other stakeholders the values that are most framework operates on a day-to-day us with a different perspective and help important to the business and forms the basis and how this influences Mondis us to ensure that our discussions are not basis of the behaviour we expect from culture and the way in which the Group is too inwardly-focused.
A programme of everyone we work with.
We hope that, together with the investor events takes place throughout the business integrity policy addresses more Strategic report and Financial statements, year as well as consultation on specific specifically our position on anti-bribery and this will provide you with an overview of matters where appropriate.
In addition, the anti-corruption matters.
Our approach is how we are looking after the interests remit of the DLC sustainable development explained in more detail on page 53. of you, our shareholders, as well as our committee includes stakeholder wider stakeholders and the way in which engagement and one of its key areas of governance is integrated into our business.
focus is the way in which Mondi interacts with our stakeholders including local Fred Phaswana David Williams Joint Chairman Joint Chairman communities, NGOs and suppliers.
