Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report together with the audited Directors indemnities and insurance consolidated accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017, which The Group maintains directors and officers liability insurance, can be found on pages 157 to 254. which gives appropriate cover for legal action brought against its Directors and the company secretary.
The Company has also The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 103 was approved by the Board granted indemnities to each of its Directors to the extent permitted on 28 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by Vakhtang by law.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance cover provides cover in Butskhrikidze, the Companys Chief Executive Officer.
the event that a Director, officer or company secretary is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The above referred liability The Management Report together with the Strategic Report on insurance and indemnities were in force during the course of the page 2 to 103 form the Management Report for the purposes of financial year ended 31 December 2017 and remain in force as at the DTR 4.1.
Other information that is relevant to the Directors Report and Political donations incorporated by reference into this report can be located as follows: The Group did not make any political donations or incur any political expenditure during 2017.
Contents Page Directors governance statement 104 Relationship agreement Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee report 121 On 31 May 2016, the Company entered into a relationship agreement Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee report 123 with Mamuka Khazaradze, Badri Japaridze, Vakhtang Butskhrikidze, Audit Committee report 148 Temur Japaridze, Bob Meijer and David Khazaradze together the Remuneration Committee report 126 Presumed Concerted Party Group the Relationship Viability statement 111 Agreement to regulate the degree of control that the members of Going concern statement 111 the Presumed Concerted Party Group and their associates may Greenhouse gas emissions 81 exercise over the Groups management and business.
The principal Risk management 60 purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Principal risks and uncertainties 56 Company and its subsidiaries are capable at all times of carrying on Board of Directors 114 their business independently of members of the Presumed Employee matters 75 Concerted Party Group and their associates.
Environmental matters 80 Share capital 209 Under the Relationship Agreement, for as long as it remains in Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4: force, the members of the Presumed Concerted Party Group shall, Details of long-term incentive schemes 140 and have agreed that each of their associates shall, when acting in a Agreements with controlling shareholders 109 capacity which could include as a shareholder or director with any The remaining disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 are member of the Group, amongst other things: not applicable to the Group.
conduct all transactions and arrangements entered into between Information on the Groups financial risk management any member of the Group on the one hand and that member of and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate the Presumed Concert Party Group and or his associates on the risk and foreign currency risk 223 other on an arms length basis and on normal commercial terms and in accordance with the related-party transaction rules set Directors conflicts of interests out in the Listing Rules: The Company, in accordance with the requirements of the not take any action that would have the effect of preventing the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles of association the Company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Articles of Association, requires Directors to declare actual or Rules: and or potential conflicts of interest that could interfere with the interests not propose or procure the proposal of any resolution of the of the Company.
The Directors are required, prior to the Board shareholders which is intended, or appears to be intended, to meetings, to declare any conflict of interest they may have in relation circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
to the matters under consideration and, if so, abstain from voting and decision-making, in relation to the matter in question.
Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to these conflicts.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Share capital All employees including Directors that are deemed by the Company As of 28 March 2018, the Companys issued ordinary share capital to be insiders have complied with the Groups Share Dealing Code.
comprised 53,550,507 ordinary shares with a nominal amount of There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights, save in 0.01 each and carrying one vote per ordinary share at general situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose such a meetings of the Company.
There were no shares held in treasury.
restriction for example, under the Articles of Association where The Company has in issue one class of ordinary shares, all of which amounts remain unpaid in the shares after request, or the holder is are fully paid up, and it does not have preference shares in issue.
otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company.
The Company The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
There are no voting result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
restrictions on the issued ordinary shares and each ordinary share carries one vote.
Details of the movements in share capital during Major shareholders the year are provided in Note 25 to the consolidated financial As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified under statements on page 209 of this Annual Report.
Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority the DTRs of the following interests in its total voting rights of 3% or more.
Profit and dividends The profit for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 As of 31 December 2017 attributable to the Companys shareholders, after taxation, amounts % of voting # of voting to GEL 354,410,352.
The Board intends to recommend GEL 1.64 per Shareholder rights rights share, which will represent about 25% of the net profit, to be Mamuka Khazaradze 13.87% 7,343,936 distributed to the Companys shareholders as dividend, payable in Badri Japaridze 6.93% 3,669,878 British Pounds Sterling at an official exchange rate of the National Bank of Georgia for 24 May 2018, which is subject to shareholders Schroder Investment Management 9.53% 5,045,558 approval at the 2018 AGM.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid JPMorgan Asset Management 9.21% 4,877,138 on 22 June 2018 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business in the UK ie 6pm London time on 18 May 2018.
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 8.38% 4,436,406 Shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in the Company by joining Companys scrip dividend programme approved at the Subsequent to year end, Dunross & Co Holding Ltd notified the Company 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The scrip dividend programme in accordance with DTR5 of an indirect holding of 2,986,157 ordinary enables shareholders, if they wish, to receive new fully-paid ordinary shares, representing 5.58% of the Companys issued share capital.
shares in the Company instead of a cash dividend.
Any future regulatory filings by shareholders will be available on the Groups website at www.
com and the LSE website at Powers of Directors www.
The Directors may exercise all powers of the Company subject to applicable laws and regulations and the Articles of Association.
Powers of Directors to issue and or buy-back Company shares Special rights and transfer restrictions The Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association determine None of the ordinary shares in the capital of the Company carry the powers of Directors, in relation to share issues and buy-backs special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
There are of shares in the Company.
The Directors are authorised to issue and no specific restrictions on transfers of shares in the Company, which allot shares subject to approval at a general meeting of is governed by its Articles of Association and prevailing legislation, shareholders.
Such authorities were granted to the Directors by other than: shareholders at the general meeting of the Company, held on 5 June certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by 2017, authorising the Directors to allot ordinary shares in the capital laws or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing: of the Company up to an aggregate nominal value of 163,702.40. pursuant to the Groups Share Dealing Code, whereby the The Company did not repurchase any of its ordinary shares Directors and designated employees require approval to deal in during 2017. the Companys shares: where a person with an interest in the Companys shares has This authority will apply until the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Shareholders will be requested to renew these authorities at the Company with information concerning interests in those shares: 2018 AGM.
and pursuant to the Groups Senior Management Compensation System, whereby Participants as defined therein may be granted restricted share awards, which vest subject to continuous employment and malus and clawback provisions over three years from the award date.
110 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Appointment replacement of Directors and amendment of Going Concern statement The Board has fully reviewed the available information pertaining to Articles of Association the principal risks, strategy, financial health, liquidity and solvency The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the of the Group, and determined that the Groups business remains a Companys Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance going concern.
The Directors have not identified any material Code and the Companies Act 2016 and related legislation.
uncertainties that could threaten the going concern assumption and have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have Shareholders are authorised to appoint replace the Directors and adequate resources to remain operational and solvent for the make amendments to the Articles of Association by resolution at a foreseeable future which is, for this purpose, a period of 12 months general meeting of the Company with the latter being required to from the date of approval of these financial statements.
Accordingly, be passed as a special resolution.
the Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared in line with the going concern basis of accounting.
All of the Directors will stand for annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
As already mentioned, two non-executive Directors, Stefano Marsaglia and Stephan Wilcke will be stepping Viability statement down from the Board but remain in post pending the appointment of In compliance with the Code, the Directors have assessed the successors, which may or may not have occurred by the time of the viability of the Group over a three-year period beginning on 1 Annual General Meeting.
Stefano and Stephan will, therefore, only January 2018.
The Directors have determined the three-year period be re-elected if they remain Directors at the opening of the Annual ending on 1 January 2021 to be appropriate, as it is consistent with General Meeting.
Vakhtang Butskhrikidze and Giorgi Shagidze have the Groups planning cycle, covering, financial forecasts and service contracts with the Company, which came into effect on 10 strategic considerations of the Group.
In considering the longerAugust 2016 and will continue until terminated by either party to term viability of the Group and its operations, the Directors have such contracts, giving the other not less than seven months written carried out a robust and thorough assessment of the Groups risk notice.
They also have service contracts with the Bank, which both profile including all material existing and emerging risks that could came into effect on 1 July 2015 and will continue until 31 December cause the deviation of the groups financial condition, operations 2018.
Further details on the Directors service contracts are and prospects from the expectations over the period of assessment.
available in the Remuneration Report on pages 146 to 147.
In addition, the Directors analysed the Groups ability to meet all Biographical details and reasons for the reappointment for the regulatory requirements.
Directors are given in the Notice of AGM.
The Directors assessment considered: All principal risks and uncertainties of the Group and Change of control effectiveness of current and proposed mitigating actions.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party The key areas of focus were: of that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the i foreign exchange rate risk which is significant due to the high Company.
In addition, there are no agreements between the dollarisation of the Groups portfolio: Company and its employees and the Directors that contain ii the risk of economic and political instability and its impact on the compensation clauses for loss of office or employment that occurs Groups future performance: because of a takeover bid, resulting in a case of change of control.
iii the risk of economic and political instability and its impact on the Groups future performance: Employee disclosures iv the risk of not meeting minimum regulatory and liquidity The Companys disclosures relating to the employee engagement requirements.
This particular topic was extensively analysed and policies, as well as human rights, are included in the Employee during the year due the recent regulatory changes introduced by Matters section on pages 75 to 78 of this Annual Report.
the National Bank of Georgia.
Please refer to more details on page 125: and Disclosure information to the auditor v interest rate risk, in order to ensure that the Group will meet its The Directors, who held office at the date of approval of this Annual profitability expectations.
Report, confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and A summary of all material risks the Group is exposed to and the that each Director has taken all steps that he she reasonably should mitigating actions taken by the Group are set out on pages 56 to 59. have taken as a Director in order to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys statutory auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Groups strategic plans Directors responsibilities While reviewing and analysing the Groups strategic plans, the The following statement, which should be read together with the Directors assessed all potential risks related to the strategic plans Auditors report set out on pages 157 to 254, is required by the the achievement of the Groups strategic objective and ensured that Companies Act 2006 the Act.
those risks were properly managed.
The key focus areas were: i the current business position and future prospects of the Group The Directors are required to prepare the Companys and the ii capital, funding and liquidity profile of the Group Groups financial statements for each financial year.
Under the Act, iii the use of stress tests to ensure that the Bank holds adequate the Groups financial statements shall be prepared in accordance economic capital to withstand the predefined stress scenarios.
with the International Financial Reporting Standards the IFRS as The stress scenarios incorporate external and internal adopted by the European Union, and the Directors have elected to macroeconomic shocks, specific idiosyncratic risks such as prepare the Companys financial statements on the same basis.
increased competition in the market and regulatory changes.
iv availability and efficient use of respective human and The group has in place an effective internal control system in order technical resources.
to ensure accurate and reliable financial reporting.
The group has a well-defined framework of accountability and delegation of authority, as well as policies and procedures that include financial Effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework, planning and reporting: preparation of monthly management practice and internal control mechanisms.
accounts: project governance: information security: and review of The Directors ensure that the Groups governance structure enables the disclosures within the annual report and accounts from the adequate oversight and accountability, as well as a clear segregation respective leads, to appropriately disclose all relevant developments of duties.
The involvement of all governance levels in risk within the group in the year and to meet the requirements of a true management, clear segregation of authorities and effective and fair presentation.
communications between different entities facilitates clarity regarding the Groups strategic and risk objectives, adherence to the The financial statements are required by the Act and the IFRS to established risk appetite, risk budget and sound risk management.
present fairly the financial position and performance of the Company The centralised ERM function ensures effective development, and the Group for that period.
The Directors must not approve the communication and implementation of risk strategy and risk financial statements, unless they are satisfied that they give a true appetite across the Group.
and fair view of the state of affairs and the profit or loss of the Company and the Group for that period.
The Directors have determined that the Groups risk management framework is adequate for managing the principal risks and The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements uncertainties set out in the Annual Report and reducing their they have used appropriate accounting policies, supported by likelihood and impact wherever possible.
reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The review and analysis of the information presented in this Annual The Directors also believe that the financial statements have been Report has enabled the Directors to confirm that they have a prepared on the going concern basis.
Please see further the Going reasonable expectation of the Groups viability over the next three concern statement on page 111 of this Annual Report.
years up to 1 January 2021 and that the Group will be able to continue its operations and meet its liabilities as they fall due over The Directors have a responsibility that the Company and the Group the three-year period from 1 January 2018 to 1 January 2021. keep accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable the Directors to ensure that the accounts comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK, governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
112 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Directors responsibility statement Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 114 to 117 of this Annual Report, confirms that to the best of their knowledge: the Groups financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with the IFRS standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the Strategic Report and Directors Report contained in this Annual Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for the shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: Mamuka Khazaradze Chairman 28 March 2018 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113
