Mondi Group 108 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report DLC executive committee and company secretaries Peter Oswald Andrew King See full See full 82 82 55 48 biography biography Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed Experience Erik Bouts May 2017 Erik has extensive experience in the packaging industry, having worked for a number of major US 56 Committee membership Packaging corporations.
Chief Executive Officer, Executive Fibre Packaging Qualifications Erik spent over two decades at Philips Electronics holding roles of increasing responsibility up to President MBA from the University of and CEO of Philips Lighting North America before joining ICI Paints North America as President of the Tilburg in the Netherlands Glidden Company.
and completed the Advanced Management Programme at He went on to become President of the EMEA region for Owens-Illinois Inc, a manufacturer of glass packaging Harvard Business School products.
In 2015 Erik joined Ball Corporation as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to head up the global metal beverage packaging business, based in Zurich and Denver.
Erik joined Mondi in April 2017.
Appointed Experience Georg May 2017 Georg has more than 22 years of international experience having been Chief Financial Officer and Chief Kasperkovitz Committee membership Operating Officer of Rail Cargo Austria and a consultant and partner with McKinsey & Company, Inc. 51 Executive Qualifications Chief Executive Officer, Georg started his career as an engineer, working for five years in eastern Europe with Elctricit fide France A. S. A.
Masters and doctorate in Consumer Packaging After graduating from Harvard Business School, he went on to work for 13 years for McKinsey & Company, Inc, mechanical engineering from Vienna University of Technology focusing particularly on the industrial sector.
He gained international operations, transformation and corporate and an MBA from Harvard finance experience in western and eastern Europe, North America, Australia, Singapore, China and Africa.
Business School In August 2012 Georg joined Rail Cargo Austria AG executive management and successfully implemented the turnaround programme he had shaped as a consultant.
He went on to join Mondi in 2016.
External appointments Member of the supervisory board of SBB CFF FFS AG Swiss Federal Railways.
Appointed Experience John Lindahl August 2011 John has had an extensive career in the international forest industry, working in different operational managerial 58 Committee membership positions in Finland, the US and France in companies including M-real, Myllykoski and UPM.
At UPM he then Group Technical & Executive moved on to roles within corporate technology and investment coordination.
Sustainability Director Qualifications Graduated in pulp and paper From the industry he moved on to consulting and engineering company Pyry, where he held a number of engineering from the Technical executive positions in the forest industry business group, being involved in advisory services, pre-engineering University of Helsinki in 1985 studies and major implementation projects for the global pulp and paper industry until 2011 when he joined and an MBA from Jyvaskyla University in 1996 Mondi as Group Technical Director.
Appointed Experience Vivien October 2017 Viv has more than 14 years experience with Mondi, having joined Mondi Paper South Africa as Manager McMenamin Committee membership Corporate Affairs in 2003.
After joining Mondi, Viv went on to be appointed Director of Sustainable Development 54 Executive for the Mondi Group and a member of the Mondi South African board in 2004 before becoming Director Land & Chief Executive Officer, Qualifications Forestry for Mondis South African business in 2006.
MSc in Economics from South Africa theUniversity of London Prior to this, Viv worked extensively with government, trade unions and non-governmental organisations in South Africa, serving Nelson Mandela as a member of the Presidents Task Force on Local Economic Development and as a member of President Thabo Mbekis Economic Advisory Panel.
Viv was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Mondis South African business in October 2017.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 109 Appointed Experience Peter Orisich May 2017 Peter has extensive experience in the industrial and consumer packaging industry, having started his career 58 Committee membership at Unilever where he spent 14 years.
He held management roles in a number of divisions across central and Chief Executive Officer, Executive eastern Europe.
Uncoated Fine Paper Qualifications Graduated in business In 1998 he joined Lafarge Perlmooser as Chief Financial Officer, later going on to become Chief Executive administration from the WUOfficer and leading the Austrian and Slovenian cement subsidiaries of Lafarge, a global manufacturer of Vienna business school building materials.
After 10 years at Lafarge Perlmooser, Peter joined Mondi as Chief Executive Officer of Mondi Industrial Bags, taking responsibility for the strategy and operations of Mondis industrial bags business.
He went on to be appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Mondis Uncoated Fine Paper business in 2012.
Appointed Experience Sara Sizer September 2017 Sara has more than 30 years experience in communication and marketing, having held senior positions at a 55 Committee membership number of large international industrial companies.
Group Communication Executive & Marketing Director Qualifications In 1997, she joined Rolls-Royce plc as Head of Communication before being appointed as Head of Group Degree in Business Communications at Shell International.
Sara went on to become Group Head of Marketing at BG Group.
Administration from Loughborough University In 2010, Sara joined Mondelz International formerly Kraft Foods Inc, the multinational food and beverage company, where she held the role of Director Corporate & Government Affairs Europe and then Vice President Global Communication.
Sara joined Mondi in September 2017 as Group Communication & Marketing Director.
Appointed Experience Clemens Wille May 2017 Clemens has more than 25 years experience in industrial businesses.
He started his career at BASF Group in 55 Committee membership 1989 where he went on to hold a number of senior management positions.
Chief Executive Officer, Executive Packaging Paper Qualifications In 2000 he joined the global chemical company DyStar where he went on to serve as Chief Executive Officer.
PhD and Masters degree In 2008 Clemens was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of global packaging company MAUSER before in business administration moving to Mondi in 2013. from the University of St. Gallen in Switzerland External appointments None.
Experience Philip Philip Laubscher, who holds BProc and LLB degrees and is an attorney of the High Court of South Africa, was Laubscher in-house counsel with national power utility Eskom for 15 years before joining Mondi in 1999 as Head of Legal 62 Services.
He was appointed Company Secretary of Mondi Limited in January 2001.
Company Secretary Mondi Limited Experience Jenny Jenny Hampshire, a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators, joined Mondi in May 2007 Hampshire and has held various roles in the company secretariat, including five years as Assistant Company Secretary.
34 She was appointed Company Secretary of Mondi plc in December 2016.
Prior to joining Mondi Jenny worked for Company Secretary The BOC Group plc in its company secretariat.
Mondi plc Philip and Jenny work together on the coordination of Mondis DLC structure.
Mondi Group 110 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report Composition Following David Hathorns retirement from DLC executive committee the Boards on 11 May 2017, Peter Oswald Composition was appointed Chief Executive Officer and took over the chairmanship of the Meeting Members Committee attendance committee.
The opportunity was therefore throughout member nine meetings the year since in the year taken to review the membership of the committee and to establish whether or not Erik May 2017 5 1 Bouts it had the right balance of skills, experience and diversity.
After consultation with Peter, David Hathorn, May 2007 4 2 chairman the nominations committee recommended 3 Cornelia Hulla May 2017 2 a number of changes for consideration With a number of capital projects by the Boards.
These included the Georg May 2017 5 1 underway, the focus during 2017 Kasperkovitz appointment of the CEO of each of Mondis was on ensuring the smooth 4 business units to the committee, the aim Andrew King May 2007 8 implementation of these projects.
being to provide the committee with a John Lindahl August 2011 9 At the same time, we continued broader perspective and more direct input Vivien October 2017 1 to review and consider potential 5 from the businesses.
The recommended McMenamin growth opportunities for the Group.
changes were subsequently agreed by 1 Peter Orisich May 2017 5 Changes to the composition of the the Boards and are detailed in the table Peter Oswald, May 2007 9 committee during the year have 2 opposite.
Ron Traill retired as CEO of the chairman given the committee a broader South Africa business in October 2017 and 6 Sara Sizer September 2017 2 perspective and allow our business was replaced by Vivien McMenamin.
7 Ron Traill June 2008 8 unit managers to more directly Clemens May 2017 5 influence the delivery of our stated 1 Wille strategy and the decisions of the committee.
1 Erik Bouts, Georg Kasperkovitz, Peter Orisich and Clemens Wille were appointed to the Peter Oswald committee on 11 May 2017.
They attended all Chairman of the DLC executive committee meetings following their appointment Diversity of the executive committee 2 David Hathorn stepped down from the committee on 11 May 2017.
David was chairman % of the committee and attended all meetings up Female 22% to the time of his retirement from the Boards.
Peter Oswald became chairman with effect from Male 78% his appointment as Group Chief Executive Officer on 11 May 2017 3 Cornelia Hulla was appointed to the committee on 11 May 2017 and stepped down on 10 August 2017.
Cornelia attended all meetings between the date of her appointment and the time of her departure 4 Andrew King was unable to attend one meeting during the year due to a family emergency 5 Vivien McMenamin was appointed to the committee on 1 October 2017.
Viv attended all meetings following her appointment Nationalities represented 6 Sara Sizer was appointed to the committee on 18 September 2017.
Sara attended all meetings on the executive committee following her appointment South African 2 7 Ron Traill stepped down from the committee on British 1 11 October 2017.
Ron attended all meetings up to the time of his departure Austrian 3 German 1 Dutch 1 Other regular attendees Finnish 1 e Representatives from corporate functions, each of whom present on relevant topics Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 111 Key responsibilities Below are details of the key investor In addition, we maintain ongoing contact events that have taken place during 2017, with our debt providers and the Chief e Day-to-day management of the including meetings, investor roadshows Financial Officer and Group Treasurer Group within the limits set by the and participation in investor conferences.
have held regular meetings with the credit Boards, including implementation of In addition, the executive management rating agencies, relationship banks and operational decisions make themselves available to investors debt investors.
e Strategy implementation, including a in order to maintain an open dialogue, more in-depth annual strategy session The remuneration committee consults with resulting in a number of meetings and calls shareholders on remuneration matters e Risk identification and the management taking place throughout the year.
when appropriate, most recently in relation of mitigation of those risks It is important that we maintain this to proposed changes to the Groups e Monitoring financial, operational and regular engagement with shareholders remuneration policy which were approved safety performance, in particular and prospective investors in order to at the Annual General Meetings in 2017. monitoring the achievement of budgets, allow us the opportunity to further explain Such consultation is key to understanding forecasts and targets our strategy and priorities.
It is also shareholder views in this area.
e Policy implementation hoped that such engagement and our The Company Secretarys office willingness to be transparent builds trust is the focus for private shareholder Stakeholder engagement in Mondis management and develops communications, responding to individual While the Joint Chairmen maintain the investor communitys understanding shareholder correspondence, and responsibility for ensuring there is effective of our business.
While we accept that coordinating our engagement on corporate communication with shareholders, it is the our shareholders will have different governance matters.
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial priorities and varying views on the future of Officer who undertake active engagement Mondi, we welcome these views and the with investors, meeting with Mondis largest constructive dialogue that we aim for.
shareholders, analysts and fund managers.
The Senior Independent Director is always available to meet with shareholders as required should any issues not be capable of resolution through the more regular channels.
Investor events Month Event February e Preliminary results announcement e Investor roadshow in South Africa Johannesburg March e Investor roadshow in South Africa Cape Town e Investor roadshows in Europe Edinburgh and London, including Jefferies packaging conference e Sun City Merrill Lynch conference South Africa April e Discussions with investors and advisory bodies prior to Annual Capital Markets Day General Meetings May e Trading update In October 2017 Mondi hosted a Capital Markets Day in London.
There were approximately 100 e Annual General Meetings attendees at the event including investors, analysts e Investor day in Paris and advisers.
In addition, a number of people followed the event via our webcast.
The day e Investor roadshow in the US New York and Boston included presentations by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the chief August e Half-yearly results executive officers of each of the business units, e Investor roadshows in South Africa Johannesburg and allowing attendees to hear from management first hand.
The presentations provided an update on the Cape Town Groups strategic framework and how this is being September e Investor roadshows in Europe London and Edinburgh executed across the business units, including examples of some of Mondis key investment October e Trading update projects and innovative products.
The event was followed by visits to our Consumer Packaging e Capital Markets Day in London and site visit to two Consumer plants in Gronau and Steinfeld, both in Germany.
Packaging plants in Germany Video recordings and copies of the presentations November e London UBS conference from the day are also available on the Mondi Group website.
e Investor day in Dublin Mondi Group 112 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report The increasing focus on wider stakeholder Directors are available to meet informally The committee is responsible for engagement means we are also very with shareholders immediately before and determining whether information should aware of the need to consider the after the meetings.
It is expected that all be classified as inside information in interests of not just our shareholders directors and, in particular, the chairmen of accordance with regulation and for but also our employees, customers and the committees will be present.
procuring the prompt release of such the communities in which we operate.
information, or agreeing a delay in Separate resolutions will be proposed for Our Growing Responsibly model provides disclosure, as appropriate.
If disclosure is each item of business to be considered at the framework within which we can delayed, the committee will ensure that the meetings with the voting conducted by do this and through our sustainable the conditions set out in regulation are polls.
It is confirmed that each director will development committee encourages us met, including to maintain confidentiality be standing for re-election by shareholders to consider more widely the impact that of information.
The committee will oversee at the meetings.
All resolutions to be our business can have.
Our Group Head the creation and maintenance of insider presented to shareholders represent of Sustainable Development continues to lists, minimising the risk of an accidental regular business, with the exception of maintain a dialogue on socially responsible leak or share dealing by employees resolutions related to the proposed special investment through focused briefings with while in possession of inside information.
dividend more details can be found on interested investors and stakeholders The disclosure committee meets regularly page 27.
These resolutions represent and collaborates closely with a number throughout the year.
The voting results will be of external bodies on such matters.
announced on the JSE and LSE and made All dealings by directors and persons More information can be found in our online available on the Mondi Group website as discharging managerial responsibilities sustainable development report.
soon as practicable following the close of and their closely associated persons are All directors are kept informed of both meetings.
announced to the JSE and the LSE when shareholder views and feedback, they occur.
Details of the directors interests The notices, which include explanations particularly from the full and half-year in the shares of both Mondi Limited and of each resolution, are contained in investor roadshows, which are presented Mondi plc can be found on page 128. separate circulars which will be sent to all and discussed at board meetings.
shareholders in advance of the meetings, in Business ethics Analyst reports are shared regularly with accordance with the corporate governance the Boards and consideration given to Mondi continues to have a stated policy of codes of South Africa and the UK.
any views both positive and negative zero tolerance of bribery and corruption and regarding the Groups performance, ethical decision-making and behaviour both Dealing in securities future direction and the perceptions of the at board level and throughout the business The Boards have adopted a share dealing management team.
is fundamental to Mondis governance.
code for dealing in the securities of Mondi The Boards have adopted a Code of The Mondi Group website Limited and Mondi plc.
The code is Business Ethics that governs our corporate www.
com contains a wealth based on regulatory and governance best conduct and which applies throughout the of information including the latest news practice in South Africa and the UK and Group.
The code sets out five fundamental from around the Group, announcements, sets out in detail the restrictions placed on principles that govern the way in which share price information and general directors, senior management and other Mondi and its employees conduct shareholder information as well as more key employees with regard to their share business.
Three of the principles are in-depth reports regarding our sustainability dealing to ensure that they do not abuse monitored and reviewed by the sustainable commitments and progress.
their access to information about the Group development committee human rights, pending its public release and availability to No requests for access to records under stakeholders and sustainability and two by shareholders.
The code is accompanied by the South African Promotion of Access the audit committee legal compliance and clear procedures and guidelines.
to Information Act 2000 were received honesty and integrity.
The code is reviewed regularly to ensure about Mondis approach to anti-bribery and continued compliance with regulation anti-corruption can be found on page 53.
Annual General Meetings and best practice.
A thorough review Mondi has not been the subject of any At the 2017 Annual General Meetings and revision of the code was undertaken legal actions against it for anti-competitive all resolutions were passed.
Overall in in 2016 to reflect the introduction of behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices excess of 76% of the total Group shares the EU Market Abuse Regulation.
Mondi has not received were voted.
Relevant employees are regularly reminded any material fines or non-monetary of their obligations and the procedures they sanctions for non-compliance with laws The Annual General Meetings of Mondi are required to follow.
Limited and Mondi plc are scheduled to be held on 16 May 2018 in Johannesburg Mondi has established a disclosure and London respectively, presenting committee, of which the Chief Executive an opportunity for shareholders to Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the question the directors about our activities company secretaries of Mondi Limited and and prospects.
Mondi plc are members, to monitor Mondis obligations in this regard.
