GEORGIA External inflows and exchange rate MARKET OVERVIEW Given the positive trend in external inflows, Georgias current account balance improved markedly.
In 9M 2017, the current Our operations are primarily based in account deficit stood at 7.1% of GDP, compared with 11.2% a year earlier.
From the perspective of the saving-investment gap, Georgia and are focused on providing the lower current account deficit was primarily due to the increased saving level in the country, which sets the stage for a full range of financial services to even more sustainable growth and a reduced current account deficit going forward.
both retail and business customers.
Georgias growing role as a regional Chart 1.
Current account deficit and net foreign direct investment % of GDP hub for tourism, trade, transport and logistics supports its position as one of the fastest-growing economies in CEE as well as in the CIS.
Economic growth and employment In 2017, Georgias real GDP growth accelerated to 5.0%, well above the 2.8% reported in 2016, amid a favourable external environment.
Continued reform efforts and improved domestic business and consumer sentiment added more thrust to economic growth.
The economy benefitted from considerable positive spillover from the higher than expected growth in the EU, Georgias largest trading partner.
Most CIS countries started to recover from the slowdown experienced in 2014-16.
This translated into a sharp increase in exports of goods, as well as higher tourism and remittance inflows from these countries.
Growth was synchronised across a broad range of economic sectors, mostly driven by services.
In 2017, acceleration of growth was mostly on the back of the transport and communications and trade sectors.
Transport and communications expanded by 6.2% Current account FDI YoY, compared with a contraction of 3.1% YoY in 2016, while the Source: National Bank of Georgia, National Statistics Office of Georgia Geostat trade and repairs sector posted 6.6% YoY growth in 2017, up from 2.4% a year earlier.
Growth remained in double digits in the construction sector up 11.2% YoY and hotels and restaurants Chart 2.
Exports, tourism and remittances YoY up 11.2% YoY, the former supported by higher public investments and the latter by a sharp increase of tourism inflows.
30 25 This solid macroeconomic performance was reflected in Moodys 20 decision in September 2017 to upgrade Georgias Sovereign credit rating from Ba3 to Ba2, maintaining the outlook at stable, due to the 15 improved trade and investment relationship and the strengthened 10 banking supervision framework.
Fitch also revised Georgias credit 5 rating outlook from stable to positive in March 2018 to reflect accelerating growth and improved resilience of the economy.
0 -5 The existing dynamics of decreasing unemployment and pick-up -10 in jobs in business sector continued in 2017 as well.
In 2017 employment in the business sector went up by 5.6% YoY.
Exports to CIS countries increased import taxes on petroleum, automobiles and tobacco increased the most up 60.0% YoY due to the recovery seen in will drop out of the CPI inflation figures.
This is confirmed by the these economies, albeit from the low base of the previous year, deceleration of annual inflation to 4.3% and 2.7% in January and as exports to the CIS had halved from 2013 to 2016.
continued to grow to the EU up 13.0% YoY and other countries up 12.2% YoY as well.
Notable export growth to China continued The National Bank of Georgia continues to follow its inflation up 23.4% YoY, making it the fifth-largest destination for Georgian targeting framework, which calls for a flexible exchange rate goods.
The free trade agreement with China that came into effect to support economic growth and the GELs long-term stability.
from the beginning of 2018 should further boost Georgian exports For 2018, the inflation target was decreased to 3%, which to one of the worlds largest markets.
should support a stronger nominal exchange rate for the GEL going forward.
Imports of goods increased by 9.4% YoY amid a domestic demand recovery and higher oil prices.
Imports went up by 18.4% for Fiscal policy petroleum products, by 10.6% for consumer goods and by 5.0% The Ministry of Finance delivered on its commitment to maintain for capital and intermediate goods.
The balance of trade in goods a sustainable budget deficit in 2017 while accelerating the pace worsened slightly, edging down by 1.4%, or roughly US$ 70 million of investment in public infrastructure.
The budget deficit came in in absolute terms.
As a percent of GDP, capital spending edged up from 4.1% in 2016 to 4.8% in 2017, Tourism revenue grew by an estimated 26.9% YoY with the total while social expenditures declined from 10.0% to 9.3%, and number of visitors exceeding 7.5 million as Georgia is becoming 1 government consumption fell from 9.2% to 8.4%.
The ratio of an increasingly popular tourist destination for visitors from ever government consumption to GDP reached the lowest level of the more countries.
While its immediate neighbours still account for past 10 years, reflecting the successful attempts to optimise most incoming visitors, tourism inflows from the EU and Middle government spending on salaries and the purchase of goods East have been on an upward trend.
Further steps were taken to enhance the cost efficiency of public institutions.
Starting from 2018, the number Remittances climbed by 19.8% YoY, including by 15.1% YoY from of ministries was reduced from 18 to 14.
This initiative is a the EU and by 15.6% YoY from the CIS.
Growth of remittances welcome development from the perspective of reducing the from other countries stood at a sizeable 31.3% YoY.
latter group of countries, Israel and Turkey made the highest contributions with respective YoY increases of 96.1% and 25.6%.
The public debt level remains comfortable at around 44.0% of GDP as of the year-end, well below the upper limit of 60%.
The real effective exchange rate supported the competitiveness of Georgian goods and services exports, as it remained somewhat In addition, the government has continued its efforts to increase below its long-term trend, depreciating by 4.5% QoQ and 2.2% YoY the transparency of public finances.
According to the 2017 in Q4 2017. assessment by the International Budget Partnership, Georgia ranked fifth among the 102 countries surveyed, indicating its high As of the year-end, the USD GEL exchange rate appreciated by levels of transparency, oversight and public participation in the 2.1% YoY, while the EUR GEL rate depreciated by 11.1%, reflecting budgeting process.
In the Open Budget Index ranking, Georgia the EUR strengthening against the USD.
As expected, the stronger outscored all EU countries except for Sweden and Norway.
EUR coincided with improved growth in the EU, as well as higher commodity prices, which had an overall positive impact on the Financial sector Georgian economy.
The financial sector, dominated by banks, continues to grow under a prudent regulatory framework.
In 2017, the banking sectors Inflation and monetary policy total assets increased by 14.7% YoY to GEL 34.6 billion.
Annual inflation as measured in terms of CPI was relatively high throughout 2017, reaching 6.7% by the year-end.
Inflation The total loan portfolio increased by 17.8% YoY to GEL 22.3 billion, exceeded the target as a result of the one-off increase of excise or 58.6% of GDP, while the growth excluding FX effect was 19.3%.
taxes on petroleum and tobacco and the customs tax on The loan portfolio growth was primarily driven by loans in the automobiles.
In 2H 2017, higher oil prices and a weaker nominal national currency up 46.3% YoY, while foreign currency loans effective exchange rate added to the inflationary pressure.
To curb increased by 5.0% excluding foreign exchange effect.
second-round effects on inflation, the National Bank of Georgia raised its policy rate by 0.25 pp to 7.25% in December 2017, where In 2017, the National Bank of Georgia and the government it remained at the year-end, as the pressure on prices from the introduced measures to reduce the economys dependence on exchange rate eased along with the appreciation of the GELs foreign currency, bringing down the share of the loan portfolio nominal effective exchange rate.
In its latest guidance, the denominated in foreign currency.
Additionally, new liquidity National Bank of Georgia reported that inflation should align 1 Budget spending on salaries and goods and services TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 management instruments and an expanded collateral base allowed banks to promote lending in GEL more actively.
The share of foreign currency deposits declined by 5.9 pp YoY 5.4 pp without the FX effect to 65.3%, while the share of loans in foreign currency declined by 8.3 pp YoY 7.8 pp without the FX effect to 57.1%.
The National Bank of Georgia has enhanced the capital adequacy framework according to the Basel III requirements.
The new regulatory requirements are aimed at further increasing the banking sectors capacity to absorb any possible shocks in the future.
The updates envisage the introduction of additional capital requirements for systemically important banks, as well as a countercyclical capital buffer.
These requirements will be phased in gradually and will further increase the banking sectors resilience.
The quality of the financial sectors credit portfolio remains robust.
1 In Q4 2017, the share of non-performing loans in the total loan portfolio stood at 2.8%, down 0.3 pp QoQ and 0.7 pp YoY.
Going forward In 2018, the International Monetary Fund IMF expects the momentum of global growth to remain high in advanced, emerging and developing market economies.
Georgias economy should continue to benefit from the healthy growth of its main trading partners, buoyed by the further expansion of inflows from exports, tourism and remittances.
Aside from the favourable external environment, ongoing structural reforms, improved trade and investment relationships and a strengthened banking supervision framework further improve the countrys investment environment.
For 2018, the IMF expects growth of 4.2% of GDP, while the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development EBRD, the government and the National Bank of Georgia project a slightly higher rate of 4.5%.
As for 2022, IMF forecasts GDP growth rate of 5.5%.
Growth at these levels should allow Georgia to remain one of the fastest-growing economies in CEE and the CIS.
1 90 days past due loans 18 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19
