Mondi Group 82 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Board of directors Appointed Experience Fred Phaswana June 2013 Fred has a wealth of experience in African and global businesses with well developed strategic and commercial 73 Independent skills having previously been regional president of BP Africa, a non-executive director of Anglo American plc Joint Chairman Yes on appointment and chairman of Anglo American South Africa, Anglo Platinum, Transnet, Ethos Private Equity, the South African Committee memberships Nominations, social and ethics Energy Association and the Advisory Board of the Cape Town Graduate School of Business.
Fred was chairman Qualifications of Standard Bank group and TheStandard Bank of South Africa between 2010 and 2015.
He was also the MA Unisa, former vice chairman of WWF South Africa and Business Leadership of South Africa and was the honorary BCom Hons RAU, president of the Cape Town Press Club.
BA Philosophy, Politics and Economics Unisa External appointments Chairman of the South African Institute of International Affairs and non-executive director of Naspers Limited.
Appointed Experience David Williams May 2007 and as Joint David has significant experience in senior financial roles held across a range of multinational companies, with 72 Chairman in August 2009 board experience as both an executive and non-executive director.
He retired as Finance Director of Bunzl plc in Joint Chairman Independent January 2006, having served on the board for 14 years.
He was previously a member of the Tootal management Yes on appointment Committee memberships board and Finance Director of Tootal plc.
David has also held senior independent director and committee chair Nominations chairman, roles at a number of companies.
Formerly a non-executive director of the Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation remuneration Company, Dewhirst Group plc, Medeva plc, George Wimpey plc, Taylor Wimpey plc, Tullow Oil plc, Meggitt plc Qualifications and Dubai-based DP World Limited.
Graduated in economics from Manchester University, External appointments chartered accountant UK None.
Appointed Experience Peter Oswald January 2008 and as Chief Peter has over 26 years experience in the packaging and paper sector with detailed knowledge of operations 55 Executive Officer in May 2017 and extensive experience in acquisitions, the restructuring, turnaround and organic growth of businesses and Chief Executive Officer Independent inspiring large teams.
He began his career with Deutsche Bank and automotive company KTM.
He joined the No Frantschach Group in 1992 as the Head of Internal Audit, later becoming Corporate Controller.
Committee memberships Executive chairman, After serving as chief executive of the bag and flexibles business from 1995 to 2001, he was appointed chief sustainable development, social executive of Mondi Packaging Europe in 2002, leading its subsequent integration with Frantschach into the new and ethics Qualifications Mondi packaging division.
Having held a number of senior executive roles within Mondi, Peter was appointed Graduated in law from the Chief Executive Officer of the former Europe & International Division in January 2008 and Chief Executive Officer University of Vienna and in of the Mondi Group in May 2017. business administration from WU-Vienna Business School He was a non-executive director of Telekom Austria AG between 2008 and 2014 and of MIBA AG between 2014 and 2015 and chairman of the supervisory board of OMV AG between 2015 and 2016.
Appointed Experience Andrew King October 2008 Andrew has more than 15 years experience with Mondi in various strategy, business development and finance 48 Independent roles.
He has played a key role in defining the Groups strategic direction and re-shaping the capital structure Chief Financial Officer No since listing.
Committee membership Executive Andrew completed articles with Deloitte & Touche in Johannesburg in 1994.
In 1995 he joined Minorco, part of Qualifications Anglo American, as a financial analyst, before assuming responsibility for the groups investment management Graduated in commerce activities, and transferring to their corporate finance department in 1998.
He worked on a number of group from the University of Cape Town, chartered accountant M&A activities before being appointed a vice president of Anglo American Corporate Finance in 1999.
He was South Africa appointed Mondis Vice President of Business Development in 2002 and Corporate Development Director in 2004.
He served as Chief Financial Officer of Mondi from June 2005 to May 2006.
He was then appointed as Group Strategy and Business Development Director before becoming the Chief Financial Officer of the Mondi Group in 2008.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 83 Appointed Experience John Nicholas October 2009 and as John has business and commercial experience, in particular experience of capital intensive manufacturing 61 SeniorIndependent Director companies.
John spent his early career in technology-focused international manufacturing and service Senior Independent inMay 2017 companies involved in analytical instruments, fire protection and food processing.
He became Group Finance Director Independent Yes Director of Kidde plc on its demerger from Williams Holdings and was Group Finance Director at Tate & Lyle plc Committee memberships from 2006 to 2008.
He was a non-executive director of Ceres Power Holdings plc until December 2012, chairing Audit chairman, nominations the audit committee, and a non-executive director of Rotork p. l. c. until stepping down in February 2017, having Qualifications served on the board for nine years and as the Senior Independent Director since June 2014.
Masters degree in business administration from Kingston John served six years until April 2015 as a member of the UK Financial Reporting Review Panel, which seeks to University, chartered accountant ensure that the provision of financial information by public and large private companies complies with relevant UK reporting requirements.
It was announced in September 2017 that John will retire as a non-executive director of Hunting PLC at its Annual General Meeting in April 2018 after almost nine years in the role.
External appointments Non-executive director of Hunting PLC where he chairs the audit committee, chairman of Diploma PLC where he was previously the senior independent director and chair of the remuneration committee and non-executive director and chairman designate of Porvair plc.
Appointed Experience Dominique October 2015 Dominique has extensive business understanding of operating in Europe and has international consumer Reiniche Independent marketing and innovation experience.
She started her career with Procter & Gamble before moving to Kraft 62 Yes Jacobs Suchard as Director of Marketing and Strategy where she was also a member of their executive Non-executive director Committee memberships Nominations, remuneration, committee.
After helping Jacobs Suchard through its acquisition by Kraft, Dominique joined The Coca-Cola sustainable development System in 1992, starting in sales and marketing and then holding various roles of increasing responsibility up to Qualifications General Manager France.
From 2002 to early 2005 she was President Europe for Coca-Cola Enterprises and MBA from ESSEC Business from 2005 she was President Europe for the Coca-Cola Company and then chairman from 2013 until stepping School in Paris down in 2014.
Dominique was a non-executive director of Peugeot-Citroen SA between 2012 and 2015 and of AXA SA between 2005 and 2017.
External appointments Non-executive director of Chr.
Hansen Holding A S, Paypal Europe and Severn Trent Plc.
Appointed Experience Stephen Harris March 2011 Stephen has extensive experience in engineering and manufacturing having spent his early career with 59 Independent Courtaulds plc and then moved to the USA to join APV Inc from 1984 until 1995, where he held several senior Non-executive director Yes management positions.
He was appointed to the board of Powell Duffryn plc as an executive director in 1995 Committee memberships and then went on to join Spectris plc as an executive director from 2003 until 2008.
He was also a non-executive Audit, nominations, remuneration, sustainable director of Brixton plc from 2006 to 2009. development chairman, social External appointments and ethics chairman Chief Executive Officer of Bodycote plc.
Qualifications Chartered engineer, graduated in engineering from Cambridge University, masters degree in business administration from the University of Chicago, Booth School of Business Appointed Experience Tanya Fratto January 2017 Tanya has wide experience in product innovation, profit and loss, sales and marketing and engineering in a range 57 Independent of sectors.
Tanya also has extensive knowledge of operating in the US.
She was CEO of Diamond Innovations, Non-executive director Yes Inc. a world-leading manufacturer of super-abrasive products, until 2010.
Before that she enjoyed a successful Committee memberships 20-year career with General Electric where she ran a number of businesses and built an experience base in Audit, nominations, remuneration chairman product management, operations, Six Sigma and supply chain management.
Prior to starting her career with Qualifications General Electric, she worked at International Paper Company.
BSc in electrical engineering External appointments Non-executive director of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. Smiths Group plc and Ashtead Group plc.
