Mondi Group 20 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Strategy review Our financial performance in 2017 Group revenue of 7,096 million was up Delivering value 7%.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenue was up 4%.
accretive growth Underlying operating profit was up 4% to 1,018 million.
We benefited from good demand and higher average selling prices in most of our businesses, while Our strong performance in 2017 builds on our continuous drive for operational performance improvements mitigated the our track record of value accretive growth.
inflationary pressures on our cost base Our consistent and focused strategy, robust caused by the general economic recovery.
Our return on capital employed ROCE business model, integrated approach to was 19.7%.
sustainability and firm commitment to drive After taking into consideration the performance all continue to contribute impact of special items, operating profit of 957 million was up 1% toour results.
We continue to make good progress in securing future growth and the ongoing 2 017 was a successful cost competitiveness of our operations yearfor Mondi.
We benefited through delivery on our capital investment programme.
Of the two largest projects from good demand and currently in progress, the 335 million our continuous drive for modernisation of our kraft paper facility operational performance.
in tt Czech Republic remains on track, and work to upgrade the pulp mill Peter Oswald left at our Ruomberok mill Slovakia has Chief Executive Officer commenced, while we await final permits Andrew King right toproceed with our investment in a Chief Financial Officer 300,000 tonne kraft top white machine at the same site.
In addition, we are making good progress on smaller expansionary capital expenditure projects at a number ofour packaging operations.
These projects are expected to contribute to earnings from 2019.
Underlying earnings of 149.5 euro cents per share were up 8% compared to 2016.
A special item net charge amounting to 61 million before tax was recognised 2016: 38 million, mainly for restructuring and closure costs and related impairments.
After taking the effect of special items into account, basic earnings of 138.6 euro cents per share were up 5% compared to 2016.
Our cash generation remained strong with cash generated from operations of 1,325 million, including the impact of an increase in working capital during the year.
Net debt was down 57 million to 1,326 million, or 0.9 times net debt to 12-month trailing underlying EBITDA.
e g a s t t n e a s s v a d a Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements n i t t s s o e c v n h I t i w n a i I a n e n h d c s c n p g a i r e r o m e u w r l o o a r Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 21 Our strategy Our Uncoated Fine Paper UFP business Drive performance has a clear cost competitive advantage Mondis clear and consistent strategy along the value chain and exposure to growing markets in central is to deliver value accretive growth by and eastern Europe, Russia and South focusing on our four strategic value drivers.
Our passion for performance will always Africa.
We will continue to invest to maintain Our disciplined approach to this strategic be central to the way we run our business and improve the competitiveness of our roadmap, while retaining flexibility around from our focus on commercial excellence UFP operations and leverage this asset how we execute on it, has positioned us and lean processes, to rigorous quality base to increase our exposure to faster as a leading global packaging and paper management and operational excellence growing packaging products where the group with a strong platform for growth.
programmes that enhance productivity opportunity arises.
We continue to expand our business, with and efficiency.
an emphasis on assets and markets that We have continuous improvement Net operating assets by location offer us inherent advantages and products systems and processes in place focused % that are core to our portfolio or bring related on enhancing productivity, increasing Emerging Europe 39 development opportunities.
efficiency, reducing waste and ensuring our Western Europe 30 We see greatest potential for structural processes stay lean.
Russia 11 growth in the packaging sectors where South Africa 13 Our collaborative approach to we operate.
We plan to continue growing North America 5 benchmarking enables us to learn from our our packaging businesses through Other 2 best performing operations and identify value-enhancing capital investments and emerging issues to ensure performance is acquisitions that build on our competitive optimised throughout the organisation.
advantages and enable us to better serve our customers by broadening our We maintain selected centralised product offering and or extending our functions, where we believe we can geographic footprint.
benefit from a coordinated approach, such as procurement, technical, sustainable development, treasury and tax, to optimise collaboration and costs.
A key component of our success is driving performance along the value chain by creating an entrepreneurial and dynamic culture across our organisation.
Delivering value accretive growth Our strategy is to deliver value accretive growth by focusing on our four strategic value drivers.
This approach allows us to build on the competitive advantages we enjoy today and sets a clear framework for our investment and operational decisions so that we can continue to create value into the future.
We drive value While all strategic value drivers are accretive relevant to each of our businesses, growth priority levels differ across the value chain.
f v u e r r e s e p p p h o t e e n v o g s i p r i n l b D o e l l y a s r e m n o o t i s t u a c v o h t n i n w i r r e o n f t r a P Mondi Group 22 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Strategy review Invest in assets with cost advantage We believe that our portfolio of assets is industry leading.
Investing in our cost advantaged asset base to maintain and enhance our competitiveness is of particular importance for our pulp and paper operations where products are generally more standardised and relative cost competitiveness is a key value driver.
We focus on enhancing our cost competitiveness, improving energy efficiency, reducing waste and emissions and driving organic growth.
We invest management across our operations.
Next the Proactive asset management in our existing operations and, where team leveraged up the skill set and competencies tomaximise equipment reliability of maintenance and production teams across all appropriate, in acquisitions.
We aim to Mondis pulp and paper mills by providing theoretical acquire businesses that responsibly The Mondi Asset Management System AMS is a and practical classroom training.
This included offsite produce high-quality products with great example of our commitment to operational training courses for the top 50 maintenance and excellence.
With the goal of maximising equipment sustainable competitive advantage and the production managers across Mondi.
reliability, the Mondi Operational Excellence potential to achieve world-class operating By developing mill-specific roadmaps, leaders took Team, together with internal and external experts, standards.
This enables us to generate ownership of the role they needed to play in a new developed a best practice tool kit to enable our asset management culture.
We also introduced a maintenance and production teams to make the synergies through integration, enhance our platform for new learning experiences through crossright decisions at the right time.
product and service offering and or extend operational peer reviews.
It was important to first gather existing good our geographic reach to better serve Today all our pulp and paper operations use the practices and develop a common best practice our customers.
AMS as part of their operational improvement plans.
framework that outlined work organisation, This strong  maintenance methods and tools, ultimately creating a systematic network resulted in nine cross-operational peer and consistent process for optimum reliability reviews in 2017, and more are planned in 2018.
Group revenue Group underlying operating profit million million on 7,096m 1,018m q4% 2016 Packaging Paper 482 Fibre Packaging 111 7,096 1,018 981 957 Consumer Packaging 132 6,819 6,662 Uncoated Fine Paper 331 767 6,476 699 6,402 Breakdown excludes corporate costs of 38 million 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Return on capital employed ROCE Operating profit development by Business Unit % 12-month trailing million 85 12 11 44 19.7% 3 1,018 61 981 957 20.5 20.3 19.7 17.2 15.3 Underlying Underlying operating Packaging Fibre Consumer Uncoated Corporate operating Special Operating profit Paper Packaging Packaging Fine Paper profit items profit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2016 2017 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 23 Our integrated business model, with We continue to see progress in ramping As part of our plan to maintain Syktyvkars backward pulp integration and high up production of the requisite quality at our competitiveness and increase saleable electricity self-sufficiency, provides us rebuilt paper and inline coating machine at production by around 100,000 tonnes with security of supply, reduced exposure tt although technical challenges remain.
per annum in the medium term, we are to raw material price volatility and helps investing to debottleneck production and Over the last four years, our major us manage sustainability risks and avoid unplanned shutdowns.
We continue capital projects have contributed around opportunities more holistically.
to invest in our Fibre Packaging and 175 million of incremental operating profit, Consumer Packaging businesses to including 25 million in 2017.
We expect to Vertical integration enhance our product and service offering.
generate a further 15 million in 2018. production in million tonnes Our major capital projects in Czech We use Net market exposure We have a strong major capital expenditure Republic, Slovakia and Russia will project pipeline totalling over 750 million, 0.2 increase our current saleable pulp and 4.1 securing future growth.
We are making paper production by around 9% when good progress on the 335 million infull operation.
modernisation of our tt mill to replace the recovery boiler, rebuild the fibre lines and In recent years, we have invested 1.4 1 1.6 debottleneck the existing packaging paper significantly in the modernisation and 0.4 3.8 0.8 0.6 machines.
Start-up is anticipated in late growth of our Consumer Packaging 0.3 2018.
During the year we also completed business.
In the near term, while capital Pulp Virgin Recycled Kraft Uncoated the 41 million woodyard upgrade and  ne investment opportunities in this business board board paper bleaching line modernisation at this mill.
remain an option, we are focused on the 1 In addition to 1.6mt of uncoated ne paper, the Group also produced optimisation of our existing operations and 0.3mt of newsprint in 2017 The European Commission approved recent investments.
49 million in tax incentives for our Our disciplined approach to investigating, 310 million investment in a new 300,000 Given the approved project pipeline and in approving and executing capital projects tonne per annum kraft top white machine the absence of any other major investment, is one of our key strengths and plays an and related pulp mill upgrade at our our capital expenditure is expected to be in important role in successfully delivering Ruomberok mill.
Work on the pulp mill the range of 700 800 million per annum strong returns through the cycle.
upgrade has commenced, with start-up in 2018 and 2019 as expenditure on these Since 2013 we committed around expected in late 2019.
The investment in large projects accelerates.
770 million to major capital projects.
In the the paper machine remains subject to first half of 2017, we commissioned the last obtaining necessary permitting with startof these investments, the final phase of up expected in 2020. our 260 million investment programme in wiecie Poland.
This project provides an additional 100,000 tonnes per annum of softwood kraft pulp forward integrated to 80,000 tonnes per annum of light-weight kraftliner and an increased share of kraft top liner.
Capital expenditure million 611m 611 595 562 465 405 Investing in wiecie Our containerboard portfolio offers enhanced options for meeting customer needs in the light-weight kraftliner segment.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Mondi Group 24 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Strategy review Our people are important to us, particularly We have a strong track record of delivering Inspire our people and when it comes to ensuring that everyone on our sustainability commitments, as grow responsibly returns home safely to their families every reflected in our performance across the 10 day.
Regrettably, we experienced two action areas of our Growing Responsibly Sustainability fatalities in 2017 with a further employee model, which saw excellent improvements 42 performance missing, presumed deceased.
We also in safety, increasing sustainable fibre, and Our employees matter and we believe had three life-altering injuries.
With zero reducing carbon emissions, other air and diversity is key to Mondis future.
During the harm our ultimate goal, we continue to water emissions, and waste.
Built on our year we placed further emphasis on the work very hard to eliminate fatal and lifepast achievements and designed for our need to foster diversity across the business, altering injuries.
Our focus on the top fatal future success, our Growing Responsibly and by openly engaging with our people, risks at all operations has allowed us to model provides the business with a formal we work hard to ensure their commitment better anticipate and manage our highest structure to demonstrate, monitor and to a business that acts responsibly, risk activities which usually occur during improve the way sustainability is embedded empowers them and offers a range of annual maintenance shuts and project in the business.
The model includes development opportunities.
We have introduced a new 16 commitments to 2020 the climate 24-hour mindset approach, designed to commitment runs to 2030 across 10 In 2017 we continued our journey of regular help shape a culture where we act safely in action areas.
performance and development reviews everything we do.
We remain determined PDR including 360 feedback for all A number of our current and planned to focus on top risks so that fatalities and employees in leadership roles.
Our internal capital expenditure projects will contribute life-altering injuries are not a part of our mentoring programme engaged senior to meeting our Growing Responsibly future.
It is very encouraging that the steps leaders and cultural role models from commitments, particularly those relating we have taken resulted in an improved total across the business to mentor younger to greenhouse gas emissions and waste recordable case rate TRCR in 2017 to employees on managerial, technical and reduction.
We are pleased our total specific 0.60from 0.66 in 2016 and a 21% reduction cultural topics.
CO e emissions in tonnes per tonne of 2 against our 2015 baseline of 0.76, which saleable production have declined to Training and development is an important has been adjusted to include acquisitions.
0.72, a 15% reduction against the 2014 contributor to our success and we are baseline, as we continue to make progress proud of our global training facility, The Total recordable case rate TRCR in making our business less carbon Mondi Academy, which offers a wide per 200,000 hours worked intensive.
The contribution of biomassrange of training courses with a focus based renewable sources to the total fuel on general management, strategy, 0.83 0.78 consumption of our mills has increased and sales and marketing.
We have introduced new programmes including 0.60 adopted a new science-based greenhouse the Project Management Academy, and gas target to reduce our production related new gamification training schemes which total scope 1 and 2 GHG emission intensity apply game-design elements and game to 0.25 tonnes of CO per tonne of saleable 2 principles to corporate learning contexts.
production by 2050 against a 2014 baseline In January 2018 we kicked off our latest 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 of 0.59. global employee survey.
Actions taken 1 2015 baseline for calculating progress against 2020 commitment is 0.76, which has been adjusted to include acquisitions 1 since the last survey in 2015 include a best Value distribution practice sharing workshop for managing % We believe that being part of the solution to directors, a newly developed Leadership global sustainability challenges will secure Programme for Middle Management the long-term success of our business 2,483m in local languages and collaboration and the wellbeing of our communities and Employees 43 workshops.
We have also conducted three other stakeholders.
We address the risks Providers pulse check employee surveys at our and opportunities that arise from global of equity capital 12 larger operations to track the progress on environmental and societal trends, so Direct taxes paid 6 our actions.
that we retain our competitive edge and Providers of loan capital 3 generate value for our stakeholders long Reinvested into the future.
in the Group 36 1 Value distribution dened as operating profit before taking into account personnel costs and depreciation, amortisation and impairments Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 25 Partner with customers for innovation Working with our customers to create innovative solutions is key to our longterm success.
In our upstream packaging and paper operations our focus is on producing lighter weight packaging materials without sacrificing strength, enhancing the printing quality of our products and achieving productivity and efficiency gains.
Our downstream converting operations focus on product innovation, meeting evolving customer requirements and generating solutions that help our customers promote the products they produce, reducing the environmental footprint of their packaging, providing more sustainable solutions and delivery on product requirements such as longevity, freshness and convenience.
We enhance Q What are your personal highlights from the Extending the Mondi-WWF our quality processes to give hassle-free first three years of the Partnership?
Global Partnership service to our customers.
Alistair: Definitely the work weve done to identify Our integrated business model allows us Mondis science-based carbon targets as part of our In 2014, Mondi and WWF launched a global strategic Climate Savers Programme.
Over the last 10 years, to produce a broad range of customer Partnership to promote a more responsible forestry, Mondi has impressively proven how to reduce GHG pulp and packaging industry.
In 2017, we extended solutions and draw on our experience emissions by modernising its plants and investing our Partnership for another three years.
to develop the appropriate product from in energy efficiency.
Theres also the engagement Gladys Naylor, Group Head of Sustainable our fibre and flexible-based packaging to improve forest management developing the Development at Mondi, and Alistair Monument, Boreal Forest Platform in Russia and defining Intact operations or a combination thereof.
WWFs Forest Practice Leader, share the successes Forest Landscapes.
In our fibre-based packaging businesses, and challenges of the Partnership and why theyre Gladys: One of the highlights for me is the clarity proud of its achievements.
our backward integration provides us weve brought to the cascading use of wood Q Why do you think the relationship between security of supply.
Through our product concept: getting the most value we can from trees by the two organisations has been so powerful?
not burning them straight away for energy.
Its been development, we are able to carry great to play a part in communicating Mondi and Gladys: I respect the integrity that WWF brings to developments in our upstream paper WWFs common understanding on the most efficient the work we do together.
Whatever it is were working operations over to our Fibre Packaging use of wood both within our industry and beyond.
on, our relationship is such that we can rely on our products and, together with our Consumer Weve also cooperated on developing WWFs Water counterparts to recognise when progress has been Risk Filter by sharing our experience of carrying out made, and to flag where we could be doing more.
Packaging businesses, are able to offer water impact assessments, and by testing the WWF innovative solutions combining the best Alistair: Were idealistic and thats an important Water Risk Filter tool on our operations.
role we play but its been extremely valuable to features of our paper and flexible packaging Q What can we look forward to over the next understand the practical realities facing a business solutions to our customers.
three-year phase of the Partnership?
Its strengthened our understanding of corporate operating environments and, by bouncing Alistair: Responsible sourcing will continue to be a Revenue by location of customer ideas off of each other, weve been able to achieve big topic moving forward.
Im also expecting exciting win-win results that are more robust, practical % developments with regards to freshwater including and valuable.
engaging with the Alliance for Water Stewardship as well as the work around science-based 7,096m climate targets.
Emerging Europe 22 Gladys: I cant wait to see what the future holds.
Individually, both WWF and Mondi continue to do Western Europe 38 work that were proud of, but its the prospect of Russia 10 achieving more together that makes the next three Read the full interview: South Africa 6 years of our Partnership so exciting.
com sdpublication17 North America 11 Other 13 Mondi Group 26 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Strategy review Product mix % of revenue Consumer-related 1 packaging 51 Industrial packaging 22 Uncoated ne paper 18 Other 9 1 Comprises containerboard, corrugated packaging and consumer packaging Our products need to meet increasingly sophisticated and bespoke customer needs.
We operate a number of research and development R&D centres to improve existing products and processes and to develop new solutions.
We have made good progress this year, working on and launching a number of new products, improving our service offering and strengthening strategic partnerships.
In order to improve our offering of The innovative liner is made of sustainable, Eco-packaging breakthrough: innovative solutions, we acquired Excelsior certified paper.
Through Mondis extrusion coating Biodegradable paper liner technology it is given a double-sided coating of Technologies Limited UK at the beginning for FFS machines reduces plastic our biodegradable barrier Sustainex.
The papers of 2017, a producer of innovative flexible by 70% gas permeability properties are still maintained, packaging solutions, mainly for food preserving and protecting fresh food longer.
applications, with a unique packaging Until recently, running paper on a vertical form Sustainex is derived from renewable materials and is fully compliant with international standards fill-and-seal FFS machine was not possible.
technology for microwave steam cooking.
Mondi and Polish converter SILBO have developed for biodegradability and compostability.
It is eligible In December 2017, to broaden our highfor organic recovery, energy recovery and material a breakthrough solution: the first paper-based, quality packaging paper offering to our biodegradable liner for food that runs on horizontal recycling.
And of course it is approved for direct contact with food.
global corrugated packaging customers, we signed an agreement to acquire The outcome is a biodegradable window bag with Collaboration and complementary know-how led excellent printability and barriers, which offers the to the innovation of SKOG for Food.
It reduces Powerflute, an integrated pulp and paper brand owner and the consumer the most sustainable plastic by up to 70%, while retaining all the required mill in Kuopio Finland with an annual barrier packaging, comments Jan Murzyn, Sales barrier properties to keep food fresh longer.
production capacity of 285,000 tonnes of Manager Mondi Extrusion Coatings.
Mondi developed the paper liner and barrier coating needed, and SILBO added high-quality printing and high-performance semi-chemical fluting for a see-through window, enabling brands to better 365 million on a debt and cash-free basis.
Powerflutes semi-chemical fluting is sold to Nearly two years of collaborative research and a diverse range of customers, primarily for development between Mondi Extrusion Coatings packaging fresh fruit and vegetables, but and SILBO went into creating SKOG for Food.
Marcin piewok, Business Development Manager at also other end-uses such as electronics, SILBO says, We wanted to give the consumer the chemicals and pharmaceuticals.
opportunity to choose eco-friendly packaging that Around half of the companys production helps increase the time food can be stored at home.
is sold in Europe, while the remainder is exported globally.
We anticipate completion of this transaction in the first half of 2018, subject to competition clearance and customary closing conditions.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 27 Strategic risk management Five-year cumulative cash ow billion The industries and geographies in which we operate expose us to specific risks.
4.6 2.6 These include: e Industry productive capacity e Product substitution 1.1 e Fluctuations and variability in selling prices or gross margins 0.4 e Country risk 0.5 These risks are long term in nature and Cash ow Invested in Distributed to Net spent on Change in accepted by the Boards as they are generation asset base shareholders acquisitions and disposals net debt directly related to the Groups strategy and operating footprint.
The Boards continue to monitor our exposure to these risks Strategic financial priorities and Our Boards have recommended payment and investment decisions are evaluated returns to shareholders of a final ordinary dividend of 42.90 euro against our exposures and the established cents per share, bringing the total ordinary We manage our cost of capital by tolerance levels for any individual strategic dividend for the year to 62.0 euro cents per maintaining an appropriate capital structure risk.
Our conservative funding model share, an increase of 9% on 2016. with a balance between equity and net and low level of financial leverage provide debt.
The primary sources of our net The Boards regularly review the Groups some protection against these risks, debt include our 2.5 billion Guaranteed capital allocation priorities to optimise value while we continually monitor key trends Euro Medium Term Note Programme and accretive growth and long-term returns for impacting our business, taking early and our 750 million Syndicated Revolving shareholders.
Our strong cash generation decisive action to mitigate emerging risks Credit Facility.
The Groups liquidity has allowed us to reinvest to grow the where necessary.
At the end of business and sustain a cost advantaged the year, 791 million of our 2.0 billion Our principal position, while supporting growth in the 34 risks committed debt facilities remained ordinary dividend and deleveraging the undrawn.
The weighted average maturity of balance sheet.
As a result, our balance committed debt facilities was 3.8 years at Near-term outlook sheet leverage is well within our stated 31 December 2017. policy of maintaining investment grade Supported by ongoing good demand, we credit metrics.
Given our strong financial have seen strong upward momentum in Our free cash flow priorities remain position and confidence in the Groups pricing across our key product segments unchanged.
We are focused on maintaining cash generating capacity, the Boards in Packaging Paper and Fibre Packaging investment grade credit metrics, have recommended a special dividend of over the course of 2017 and into early 2018. undertaking selective capital investment 100.0 euro cents per share in addition to We expect continued, but manageable opportunities and supporting the ordinary the recommended final ordinary dividend.
pressure on the cost base across the dividend.
We believe that a strong and In coming to this view, the Boards have Group, a consequence of the turn in the stable financial position, supported by an taken full account of the Groups access to commodity price cycle and the general investment grade credit rating, increases funding and development plans, including economic recovery we are seeing in our flexibility and provides opportunities ongoing expansionary capital expenditure many of the regions in which we operate.
to access capital markets throughout programmes and the possibility of further The recent US dollar weakness coupled the business cycle, allowing us to take small to mid-sized acquisitions over the with stronger emerging market currencies, advantage of strategic opportunities when coming years.
most notably the South African rand, are they arise.
We pursue a dividend policy that reflects Total ordinary dividends per share our strategy of disciplined and valueOur outlook for the business is positive and euro cents creating investment and growth, with the we remain confident that our consistent euro aim of offering shareholders long-term and focused strategy, robust business 62 cents dividend growth.
model centred around our cost advantaged Interim ordinary dividend Final ordinary dividend We target an ordinary dividend cover range assets, and firm focus on driving Ordinary dividend cover times of two to three times underlying earnings on performance will sustain our track record of average over the cycle, although the payout delivering value accretive growth.
ratio in each year will vary in accordance Peter Oswald Andrew King with the business cycle.
Payment of Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer dividends is subject to us having sufficient 2.4 2.6 2.6 2.4 distributable reserves available, and, at 2.6 present, the Group has a significant level of distributable reserves.
