Mondi Group 14 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Our business model Creating value the Mondi Way The Mondi Way Our strategy builds on our 20 competitive advantages: The Mondi Way is our unique framework for creating sustainable read more in the Strategy review value.
Our purpose provides context for our strategy, which we then execute through the Mondi Diamond, our operational framework, in line with our culture and values.
Purpose Strategy Our purpose states what we do Our strategy is our plan of action and why we do it.
designed to build on our competitive advantages so that we can achieve We delight you with innovative our purpose.
and sustainable packaging and paper solutions.
We drive value accretive growth via our four strategic value drivers: Drive performance along the value chain Purpose Invest in assets with cost advantage Inspire our people and Strategy grow responsibly Partner with customers for innovation Operating framework Culture and values Operating framework: Culture The Mondi Diamond and values The Mondi Diamond converts Our culture and values connect, strategy into clear objectives that drive guide and inspire our people.
performance at an operational level.
e We are dynamic, entrepreneurial e Cutting-edge solutions and empowered Passion for performance e Inspired people e We are respectful e Operational excellence and responsible e Successful customers Caring e Sustainable development e We encourage honesty and transparency Acting with integrity Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 15 Our key inputs in 2017 e High-quality, well-invested, cost e Responsible procurement e Strong financial position advantaged integrated asset base of raw materials and other inputs and cash flow generation 90% 5.4 billion 71% 65% 948 million BBB Baa1 pulp and paper capital employed wood procured from mill fuel consumption cash flow generated S&P Moodys credit rating capacity in two lowest FSCor PEFC-certified from biomass-based cost quartiles sources renewable sources e Engagement and e Diverse and talented people e Constructive relationships collaboration with customers with a broad range of skills with communities, governments, and suppliers and experience NGOs and other stakeholders 9,000 1,500 26,300 22% Numerous Majority customers key suppliers employees women employed strategic partnerships, of key operations have across our operations memberships and Community Engagement collaborations Plans inplace Our value chain Raw materials Production processes Products Our integrated value chain shows how we convert raw materials into innovative Pulp and paper mills and sustainable packaging and paper solutions.
We use the Mondi Way as our framework to create sustainable value.
The risks we manage e Strategic risks e Financial risks e Operational risks e Compliance risks Raw materials Packaging and paper solutions Wood fibre Paper for recycling Resins, films, other Converting operations Our principal Explaining our Our integrated 34 16 60 risks business model value chain Our key outputs in 2017 e High-performing e Sustainably managed e Capital appreciation and operations natural resources and outputs dividends to shareholders 19.7% 14 10.1m GJ 100% 9% 203% ROCE production records on energy provided to managed forests increase in ordinary total shareholder pulp paper machines communities and certified dividend per share return 5 years publicgrid e Innovative products e Inspired and e Support to regional economies and solutions skilled people and local communities 23 million 7.9 out of 10 829,900 9% 151 million 9.6 million spent on research strong customer training hours reduction in total direct taxes paid community & development satisfaction recordable case rate investments survey results against 2016 Mondi Group 16 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Our business model Explaining our business model Our key resources and relationships Our people We have a team of 26,300 diverse and committed individuals with a broad range of skills and expertise.
Our culture and values are instilled across our operations to connect, guide and inspire our people, providing a platform for our shared success.
Safety is always a key focus.
We continue to address risks and strengthen our safety culture as we strive to reach our goal of zero harm.
Sustainability 42 performance Forests and Pulp and raw materials paper mills Fibre is a key input in our pulp and securing sustainable fibre and is outlined We have a high-quality, well-invested, paper businesses and 71% of our in our Growing Responsiblymodel.
cost advantaged asset base with wood procured is FSCor PEFCaround 90% of our pulp and paper capacity Access to natural resources most notably certified, with the balance meeting our in the two lowest industry cost curve water and energy and raw materials minimum Controlled Wood Standard.
We operate pulp and paper mills such as wood, chemicals, polymers and We have access to our own responsibly commonly referred to as our upstream paper for recycling is vitally important managed fibre supply from the 2.4 million businesses.
These manufacturing facilities to our success.
We are committed to hectares of forest we lease, own and use virgin fibre procured from our the responsible procurement of manage in Russia and South Africa.
managed forests or from external sources, raw materials and other inputs, and Responsible forest management is a key paper for recycling and other raw materials encourage supply chain transparency component of our commitment to to produce pulp, packaging paper and and promote fair working conditions uncoated fine paper.
Our packaging paper collaboratively with our 1,500 mills produce containerboard and kraft Sustainability key suppliers.
42 performance paper, which is sold to external customers and our Fibre Packaging and Consumer Packaging businesses.
Our uncoated fine paper mills produce office and professional printing paper sold as cut-size, in folio form or in large reels to our customers.
We operate a vertically integrated asset base allowing our upstream businesses to benefit from security of supply, reduced exposure to price volatility of key raw materials particularly wood and pulp and enabling us to benefit from production and logistics optimisation.
Packaging Uncoated 62 74 Paper Fine Paper Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 17 Financial resources Communities Our ability to generate value in a As a global company and significant sustainable way is also dependent on local employer, Mondi plays a key our financial resources.
The Group has socio-economic role in the communities historically generated cash through where we operate, creating employment the cycle, maintained a strong and business opportunities in addition to financial position and continually paying local and regional taxes.
In more reinvested into the business.
This has remote areas in particular, we continue to allowed us significant agility to pursue contribute to local communities through value accretive growth opportunities services such as energy and waste water as and when they arise.
In 2017, Mondi treatment, and by improving infrastructure.
generated 948 million of cash flow, We have Community Engagement of which 611 million was reinvested Plans in place at the majority of our into the business through capital key operations, and we make voluntary expenditure.
Our investment grade community investments supporting credit ratings were also reaffirmed during health, education, local enterprise and the year.
In 2017, we invested 9.6 million globally in the communities where we operate.
Group financial Sustainability 56 42 performance performance Pulp and Converting paper mills operations Our downstream businesses convert extrusion, flexographic and rotogravure packaging papers sourced internally printing, laminating, coating, rollfrom our upstream businesses as well as slitting, bag making, laser cutting and externally, and other raw materials into incorporating special features.
We believe converted packaging products such as this vertical integration, together with corrugated board and boxes, industrial our specialised R&D facilities, provides bags and extrusion coatings fibrea platform to develop partnerships based packaging.
with our customers and develop innovative and customised solutions.
We are also present across the entire Our global and broad range of consumer consumer flexible packaging production goods packaging solutions, technical process, from resin compounding for films, components for personal care certain products to blown and cast film products and release liners demonstrates our diversity, scale and ability to meet our Fibre Consumer 66 70 Packaging Packaging customers packaging needs.
