Mondi Group 30 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Our external context Challenges and opportunities in the global packaging market We seek opportunities and manage risk by monitoring and leveraging the trends affecting the global packaging industry.
By responding proactively, wecan shape our own future.
1 Global packaging by region The global packaging market continues % total market to grow.
Demand was estimated at Europe 23 around $851 billion in 2017, around 3% more than the previous year, driven by North America 24 improved economic conditions globally, Middle East and Africa 5 and demographic and socio-economic Asia-Pacic 44 changes increasing the need for more Central and South America 4 convenient packaging.
Trends include an increasingly urbanised world, an ageing population in developed countries, and an emerging middle class in developing economies.
Digitalisation and the ongoing development of new retail channels have 1 also fostered the need for right-sized Global packaging by product packaging, especially for e-commerce.
% total market Increased packaging consumption and Fibre based 42 the rise of the conscious consumer means Rigid plastic 18 packaging producers have a responsibility Flexible plastic and foil 17 to develop more sustainable solutions.
Metal 12 Glass 7 Europe and North America account for Other 4 around half of the packaging market.
Asia continues to increase its share of global packaging consumption, currently representing around 44%, driven by 1 Smithers Pira, The Future of Global Packaging to 2022 growing packaging needs in China and other Asian economies.
Mondis focus is on delivering packaging solutions to our customers along the fibre-based packaging value chain and in consumer flexible plastic-based packaging, primarily in Europe, Russia, Middle East and North Africa, North America and South Africa.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 31 Fibre-based Consumer packaging flexible packaging Containerboard and Kraft paper and industrial bags Our consumer flexible packaging corrugated packaging solutions are used by our customers We are the largest producer of kraft paper as primary packaging to protect and European consumption of in Europe our core market and globally.
promote everyday consumer products, containerboard is around 35 million Sack kraft paper is the primary input for 1 from a wide range of food categories tonnes.
Stronger European economies industrial bags where we are also a global to pet food, home care and personal and e-commerce developments led leader, while focusing on Europe, Middle 2 care products.
to an estimated 5% growth in 2017.
East and North Africa, and North America.
Limited capacity additions and lower We are a leading European producer of Kraft paper includes sack kraft paper and import levels contributed to a tight supply flexible packaging, with a small presence speciality kraft paper.
Sack kraft paper is and demand balance.
in Russia, North America and Asia.
used by Mondi and other converters to We are the leading producer of make strong and durable industrial bags European consumer flexible packaging containerboard in emerging Europe and principally for cement, building materials, consumption was estimated at around the second largest producer of virgin agriculture, food, chemicals, and other 3 14 billion in 2017.
Mondis main containerboard in Europe.
Speciality kraft markets are growing between 2% and we expect European demand for papers are used to make a range of mainly 4% annually driven by our emerging containerboard to grow at an average consumer products, from retail shopper European footprint and focus on highof around 3%, with recycled grades bags to consumer flexible packaging.
growth product areas such as pet food.
growing faster than virgin-based grades.
We estimate that Europe consumes 3 PCI Wood Mackenzie: Flexible Packaging, On the supply side, no significant virgin around 4 million tonnes of kraft paper European Supply Demand report, 2017 containerboard capacity additions are annually with demand driven by stable expected in Europe in the next three construction markets, increased general years, while around 3 million tonnes of consumption, especially in emerging recycled containerboard capacity is Europe, and increasing demand for expected to come on stream from 2018 sustainable paper solutions replacing to 2020.
This new capacity could cause certain plastic applications.
short-term price volatility, but based on Going forward we expect European kraft the current demand outlook, it should be paper demand to grow between 1% and absorbed in the medium term.
On the supply side, one new Our Corrugated Packaging business sack kraft paper machine started in Russia saw strong organic growth of 6% during at the end of 2017 and two new machine the year in our core region of central glazed speciality kraft paper machines are and eastern Europe, where Mondi is a expected to come on stream.
these capacity additions to be in line with demand in the medium term.
European containerboard Sack and speciality kraft paper demand growth and capacities demand growth and capacities 2018-2020E 2018-2020E 3% 3 % 2-3% 2% 0.5-1% Total Virgin Recycled Global European sack speciality Market demand kraft paper kraft paper growth mt 3.3 0.5 2.8 Market demand growth mt 0.1 0.2-0.3 Announced capacities mt 3.3 0.3 3.0 Announced capacities mt 0.1 0.2 1 RISI, European Paper Packaging Forecast December 2017 2 CEPI Containerboard, December 2017 deliveries to western and emerging Europe excluding CIS Mondi Group 32 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Our external context We are well positioned to leverage global industry trends Demand for packaging is closely linked to economic development.
Growth in consumer spending and industrial production will continue to drive demand for packaging in the future.
Beyond economic factors, there are a number of distinct drivers that shape the future of the packaging industry.
We are well positioned to benefit from the opportunities these trends will bring, and to address the challenges the industry may face.
Digitalisation and interconnectedness Digitalisation continues to reshape Why we are well positioned the world we live in where hundreds of millions of people and billions of Our portfolio of packaging papers, devices are increasingly connected, and corrugated packaging solutions and where information is generated and paper-based e-commerce bags are distributed at unprecedented speed well positioned to benefit from the and scale.
Globalisation and increasing increasing demand for the protection interconnectedness have generated of goods in transit and the possibility complex supply chains where increased to differentiate, enhancing the transparency in how we do business consumer experience upon delivery.
is needed, creating opportunities for Increasingly complex and longer business to drive transparent, inclusive supply chains require stronger fibres and productive value chains using digital to meet tough requirements, which technologies.
Online retail continues our virgin packaging papers can to grow, creating opportunities for provide.
Our corrugated packaging e-commerce solutions.
Our customers business continues to work with our require efficient solutions to protect customers to offer improved product and track goods in transit while designs including adjustable packaging optimising packaging requirements and solutions, optimised board structures minimising waste.
We promote transparency along our C-folder value chain through active engagement Resourceful and frustration free packaging supports with customers, consumers and the e-commerce growth, and links retailers and brands wider public about how we do business with consumers.
We offer customers a wide range of products including C-folder for the efficient and increase use of digital technology and environmentally responsible packaging of flat to standardise and strengthen our items like books.
End-users want their shipment to social and environmental practices arrive intact, and then be easy to open and recycle.
Consumers are also able to return goods using the double closing feature.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 33 Enhancing brand power Convenience Global brands are under pressure, Consumers want packaging that is safe Why we are well positioned competing with private label and convenient.
We live in a fast-paced We understand that convenience is and emerging local players.
world, with increasingly time-constrained a matter of lifestyle, values and habits.
Digitalisation gives consumers access consumers, evolving lifestyles, a rising We design packaging that meets to vast and detailed information.
middle class in emerging markets, consumers diverse functionality Fierce competition continues in the more women in the workforce, smaller requirements and helps them quickly traditional retail channels, where households and an ageing population identify their desired product on the shelf.
e-commerce has added additional in the developed world.
Our customers We work with our customers to find pressure to an already competitive want to offer their customers the endthe best combination of convenience landscape.
Communicating brand consumer smaller portions, hassle-free features to ensure products are easy to values effectively and enabling product opening, reclosability features, extended use, easy to store, and stay fresh longer.
differentiation is crucial to our blue chip product shelf-life and on-the-go solutions, Options include stand-up pouch designs, and hidden champion customers.
all contributing to more convenient easy-pouring spouts, resealing zippers, products that better suit their lifestyle.
Why we are well positioned strong handles and multi-barrier layers.
Packaging is key to our customers CornerPack In response to consumers growing appetite for to ensure it upholds their brand snacks on-the-go, we developed a new packaging values and enhances consumer solution with easy-to-use parallel semi-circular experience.
We continue to partner openings.
Consumers simply tear the corner open with our customers to find a range of along the highly intuitive scoring line of their choice giving them full control over the size of the opening innovative and appealing packaging and avoiding spillage.
designs that portray our customers brand values effectively and differentiate them either on the store shelf or when their customer receives Sustainability the product at home.
We have a range of packaging There is an increasing need for more Why we are well positioned papers and corrugated packaging responsible packaging.
Significant solutions that help optimise We offer fibre-based recyclable and environmental challenges, including packaging in transport and reduce biodegradable packaging made from climate change, industrial pollution and costs along the value chain.
Our light-weight waste, resource scarcity and degraded Our shelf-ready packaging and packaging solutions protect products ecosystems, have given rise to more point-of-sale display solutions help without compromising strength.
conscious consumers, with customers and our customers reduce handling costs other stakeholders expecting producers Our consumer flexible packaging while enhancing shelf attractiveness to use natural resources responsibly and products require less material than thanks to our high-quality minimise emissions and waste.
There are rigid alternatives plastic, glass or print solutions.
also opportunities for packaging solutions metal, less energy for transport and to contribute to sustainability by reducing provide excellent barrier properties food waste, driving responsible sourcing to prevent food waste and enhance of natural resources, and promoting shelf-life.
With the growing strategic responsible consumption.
importance of consumer packaging globally, and acknowledging the environmental challenges that plasticbased packaging can involve, we are committed to addressing the challenges of plastic waste in collaboration with key partners and stakeholders along the value chain.
We continue to communicate the sustainability value Flexible packaging Advantage MF EcoComp People love the new Coco Pops flexible packaging We developed a unique speciality kraft paper for organic of our packaging solutions and drive because it looks great, its easy to open and kitchen waste paper bags.
It is water-repellent to ensure responsible sourcing and consumption then close again, and 100% airtight to keep their the bag doesnt get soggy, and fully biodegradable of natural resources.
With its glossy high-quality andcompostable so the whole bag can be thrown in print finish on all surfaces, this form fill-and-seal the composting bin.
Additional benefits include reduced packaging solution stands out on the shelf, odours and lighter-weight for transportation.
boosting sales and increasing brand awareness.
