DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board is responsible for promoting the highest standards of Chairmans governance overview corporate governance within the Group and we are committed to further developing and strengthening our governance structure to achieve the highest level of effectiveness.
Mamuka Khazaradze Chairman 28 March 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Groups corporate governance framework provides shareholders with an explanation of how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code as relevant to the Company in 2017.
Compliance statement As a premium-listed company on the LSE, the Company complies with the Code.
At the date of this report, the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code in full.
Dear shareholders, The Code and associated guidance is published by the Financial I am pleased to present our corporate governance report for 2017.
Reporting Council and is available at www.
My role as Chairman is to lead the Board and ensure that it works effectively in the pursuit of sustainable, long-term shareholder value.
The Board We believe that an effective governance structure and strong oversight The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the Groups of the Companys business by the Board is vital in providing necessary long-term success and the delivery of sustainable value to checks and balances, thus supporting better decision-making and shareholders by establishing and overseeing the strategic direction of accountability in turn.
The effective delivery of long-term, sustainable the Company and its business.
The Board is led by the Chairman and value for shareholders requires an effective Board.
provides challenge, oversight and advice to ensure the Companys success.
The Board is the decision-making body in relation to all We understand that the Board requires the right balance of skills, matters that are significant to the Group.
There is a formal schedule country-specific knowledge, and diversity of experience and of matters reserved for the Boards approval in place to ensure that perspectives to achieve maximum effectiveness.
As Chairman, I the Board retains control over key decisions.
The matters exclusively ensure that there is constructive debate in the boardroom in order to reserved for the Boards approval include, among other things, create and maintain an environment where the Board remains open approval of the Groups strategy, long-term objectives, risk appetite, to different viewpoints and ideas.
Our Board is comprised of nine the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets, changes to the members, of which five namely, Nikoloz Enukidze SID, Stefano Groups capital, share buy-backs, major acquisitions and or mergers, Marsaglia, Nicholas Haag, Eric Rajendra and Stephan Wilcke are annual reports and accounts.
The full document is available on our considered independent non-executive Directors.
The Board views website at www.
each of these non-executive Directors as being independent of management judgement and character, and free from any business Board Committees or other relationship that could materially interfere with their The Board places significant reliance on its committees the exercise of independent judgement.
In accordance with the UK Committees and delegates a broad range of responsibilities to Corporate Governance Code the Code, all Directors are subject to them, while maintaining the effective links between Committees and annual re-election by shareholders at our Annual General Meeting.
The Board has four Committees: i the Audit Committee: ii the Remuneration Committee: iii the As previously announced, two non-executive Directors, Stefano Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee: and iv the Marsaglia and Stephan Wilcke will be leaving TBC Bank and Risks, Ethics and Compliance Committee.
The chairs of each stepping down from the Board as and when suitable replacements Committee report matters of significance to the Board after each are found during 2018.
I would like to extend the Boards thanks to meeting.
The detailed roles and responsibilities of each committee both Stefano and Stephan for their important contributions to TBC are set out in its terms of reference, which can be found on the Bank and wish them every success in the future.
Both non-executive website at www.
Directors will remain in post pending the appointment of successors, which may or may not have occurred by the time of the Annual General Meeting.
Stefano and Stephan will, therefore, only be re-elected if they remain Directors at the opening of the Annual General Meeting.
104 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Committee membership Corporate Governance Risks, Ethics Remuneration and Nomination and Compliance Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Badri Japaridze Eric J. Rajendra Nikoloz Enukidze Nicholas Dominic Haag Stefano Marsaglia Stephan Wilcke Chairperson Member Division of responsibilities There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the senior independent non-executive Director.
As Chairman, Mamuka Khazaradze is responsible for leading the Board to ensure that the Board as a whole performs a full and constructive role in the development and determination of the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
He also oversees the Boards decision-making processes.
The Chief Executive Officer, Vakhtang Butskhrikidze, is responsible for the Companys day-to-day management and has the principal responsibility of running the Groups business.
He is responsible for proposing, developing and implementing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives, which is done in close consultation with the Chairman and the Board.
In addition, the Board has appointed, in line with the requirements of the Code, Nikoloz Enukidze as the senior independent non-executive Director, who provides a sounding board for the Chairman.
He serves as an intermediary for the other Directors where necessary and meets with investors to discuss the Groups corporate governance matters.
This separation of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the senior independent non-executive Director ensures that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision-making.
The full document detailing the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the senior independent non-executive Director is available on our website at www.
Board composition The Board currently comprises a Chairman, five non-executive Directors and two executive Directors.
In accordance with the Code, the majority of the Board are independent non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of management and help develop proposals on strategy.
The Board has considered the independence of the Companys non-executive Directors against the factors described in the Code and has determined, as mentioned previously, that all non-executive Directors are independent, except for Mamuka Khazaradze and Badri Japaridze.
3.1 requires that the Chairman on appointment should be independent.
Mamuka Khazaradze, who is the Chairman, is, for the purposes of the Code, not considered to have been independent on his appointment in 2016 as the Chairman due to his role as founder of the Group.
The Board is unanimously of the opinion that Mr Khazaradze is an extremely valuable asset to the Company, bringing a wealth of experience in Georgias banking sector, and that it is, therefore, in the Companys best interests that he should continue as the Chairman of the Company.
Each non-executive Director has an ongoing obligation to inform the Board of any circumstances that could impair his independence.
Details of the individual Directors and their biographies are set out on pages 114-117.
Time commitment Each non-executive Director is required to devote such time as necessary for the effective discharge of their duties.
This includes attendance at the Board meetings and respective Committee meetings of which they are members, as well as scheduled away days, site visits, conference calls and email communication.
Non-executive Directors consider all relevant materials prior to each meeting and commit additional time to the Company when it is undergoing a period of particularly increased activity.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Board and Committee meeting attendance In 2017, the Company held three scheduled and eleven additional meetings.
In addition, the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer maintain frequent contact in person or otherwise with each other and the other Board members throughout the year outside of the formal meetings.
In addition, the affairs of the Companys main subsidiary, JSC TBC Bank the Bank, are supervised by a supervisory board the Supervisory Board with the same composition as the Board and equivalent committees of the Supervisory Board.
There are, therefore, in practice two equivalent supervisory bodies within the Group represented by the Board and the Supervisory Board, which are separate but interconnected with committees that have common membership.
However, we carefully balance the work of the Board, the Supervisory Board and their respective committees, dividing functions according to whether they are supervising the topics that impact on the Company or solely the Bank.
Attendance of meetings of the Board and its Committees in 2017 are set out below: Corporate Governance and Risks, Ethics and Remuneration Nomination Compliance Board meetings Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee eligible to attend meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to Board Attendance attended attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended Vakhtang Butskhrikidze Chief Executive Officer 14 14 1 Giorgi Shagidze Chief Financial Officer 14 13 Non-executive Directors 2 Mamuka Khazaradze Chairman 14 13 Badri Japaridze 14 14 5 5 Eric J. Rajendra 14 14 8 8 4 4 5 5 4 4 Nikoloz Enukidze 14 14 8 8 4 4 5 5 4 4 Nicholas Dominic Haag 14 14 8 8 4 4 4 4 3 Stefano Marsaglia 14 13 8 7 4 3 4 2 Stephan Wilcke 14 14 8 8 5 5 4 4 1.
Mr Shagidze was unable to join one Board meeting conference call held on 4 July 2017 due to delay of his business related flight, however, he had provided his opinion on the matters under consideration via email correspondence in advance of the meeting, as soon as he became aware about the delay.
Mr Khazaradze was unable to attend one Board meeting held on 22 March 2017 due to a prior business-related travel commitment: however, he discussed all matters on the agenda with the senior independent non-executive Director and the CEO and provided feedback on materials, as required, in advance of the meetings.
Mr Marsaglia was unable to join one Board meeting and four committee meetings due to personal reasons.
Attendance of meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees in 2017 are set out below: Corporate Governance and Risks, Ethics and Remuneration Nomination Compliance Supervisory Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to Supervisory Board Attendance attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended Mamuka Khazaradze Chairman 55 55 Vakhtang Butskhrikidze Chief Executive Officer 75 75 Giorgi Shagidze Chief Financial Officer 77 77 Badri Japaridze 58 58 4 4 Eric J. Rajendra 77 77 8 8 7 7 4 4 34 34 Nikoloz Enukidze 77 77 8 8 7 7 4 4 34 34 Nicholas Dominic Haag 77 77 8 8 7 7 34 34 Stefano Marsaglia 77 75 8 7 7 6 34 32 Stephan Wilcke 77 77 8 8 4 4 34 34 106 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Diversity policy Following last years evaluation, the Board discussed the previous We recognise the importance of ensuring diversity and see suggestion to establish a strategy committee and unanimously significant benefit to our business in having a Board and decided that since all of the directors need to be engaged in setting management team that is drawn from a diverse range of the Groups strategy, this topic should be a focus for the full Board.
This brings the required expertise, cultural diversity Therefore, instead of establishing a new committee, the Board and different perspectives to the Board discussions and helps to decided to add new meeting dates dedicated solely to the discussion improve the quality of decision-making.
Furthermore, the Chairman defined several areas of focus to help maintain and improve its effectiveness in the The Board is mindful that it does not currently include any female following areas: members and, although the Board is satisfied with the current level Continuing to focus the Boards attention on the Companys of diversity, relevant skills and expertise of its members, it intends strategic planning by dedicating specific meeting days on to ensure that the next appointments to the Board address this this topic.
concern and complement the Boards diversity in terms of ethnicity, Further refining the quality of debate on strategic matters cultures, gender, age levels, relevant skills and work experience.
by increasing the length of meetings dedicated to this topic.
The Board notes the number of talented women in key positions reporting to the CEO and other management board members and, In addition, as required by the Code, the Company, in 2018, and going going forward, the Board intends to increase diversity by identifying forward, once every three years will conduct an independent, qualified female candidates for appointment to the Board and senior externally facilitated selfassessment of the effectiveness of the management teams.
Board, the Committees and individual Directors.
Induction and training Directors commitments A formal induction is arranged for newly appointed Directors based The Directors are required to disclose to the Board their external on the individuals need, skills and experience.
Typically, these appointments or other significant commitments prior to their included a series of meetings with the Chairman and other Directors appointment.
Our non-executive Directors hold external and senior executives, as well as local site visits to provide directorships or other external positions, but the Board believes they familiarity with the business.
During the year, the Company did not still have sufficient time to devote to their duties as a Director of the have any new appointments to the Board or its Committees.
Company and believe that the other external directorships positions held provide the Directors with valuable expertise that enhances In addition, the Chairman takes responsibility to ensure that the their ability to act as a non-executive Director of the Company.
Board is updated in a timely manner about the Companys No significant changes to the commitments of the Chairman or performance, to enable it to make proper decisions.
The Chairman non-executive Directors were identified.
ensures that there are information exchanges between the Board, the Committees and executives.
If there is a need for independent Re-election of Directors advice, the Board can seek it directly at the Companys expense.
As mentioned above, in accordance with the Code, all Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at our Annual General Members of the Board are required to complete a self-assessment Meeting.
Biographical details of the Directors are included on pages process at the end of the year, which is considered as part of the 114 to 117.
As already announced, two non-executive Directors, Stefano Annual Board effectiveness evaluation Marsaglia and Stephan Wilcke will be stepping down from the Board The Board and Committees continually strive to improve their but remain in post pending the appointment of successors, which effectiveness and recognise that their annual evaluation process is may or may not have occurred by the time of the Annual General an important tool in reaching that goal.
Stefano and Stephan will, therefore, only be re-elected if individual performance evaluations were undertaken by the they remain Directors at the opening of the Annual General Meeting.
Chairman, which involved a discussion about a Directors individual contribution, the time commitment that is required to continue to Remuneration Committee deliver the role effectively, and their training and development needs.
Information on the Remuneration Committee is included in the The Chairman has confirmed that all non-executive Directors Directors Remuneration Report on pages 126 to 147. continue to perform effectively, contribute positively to the governance of the Group and are able to commit the time required for their role.
Engagement with shareholders Effective communication with shareholders is one of the Boards The Chairmans performance is evaluated by the independent highest priorities.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial non-executive Directors led by the senior independent Director.
Officer, together with the deputy Chairman and or the Chairman, Executive Directors individual performance evaluation is undertaken remain in regular contact with the Companys major shareholders.
as part of the performance management process for all employees.
They hold regular investor calls and also conduct face-to-face The results are considered by the Remuneration Committee when meetings with investors visiting Georgia.
Moreover, they participate determining pay awards each year.
in regular roadshows, as well as various investor conferences across numerous geographic locations to promote awareness and Having assessed the overall findings of the effectiveness review, understanding of the Groups business.
In addition, they take an the Directors were satisfied that the Board, collectively, and its active part in government events abroad aimed at increasing individual members operated effectively during 2017. investor confidence in the economic stability of the country and its TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED sustainable development.
The Banks senior executive team and Directors are also involved in hosting an annual Capital Markets Day in London.
Senior non-executive Director, Nikoloz Enukidze, together with the chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with large institutional shareholders to discuss remuneration matters in advance of the 2018 annual general meeting.
The Company has a dedicated investor relations website, which contains information on all disclosures made to the market, including results presentations and annual reports.
All announcements issued to the LSE are available on the Groups website at www.
The Group maintains a permanent representative in London, who handles matters relating to investor relations and international media on behalf of the management team.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, as well as Chairman, deputy Chairman and senior independent Director are available to discuss the concerns of shareholders at any point during the year.
Annual General Meeting The last Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company was held on 5 June 2017 at the offices of Baker McKenzie, 100 New Bridge Street, London.
At the AGM, 74.93% of total voting rights were exercised by shareholders.
All resolutions put to shareholders were passed, with votes in favour ranging from 92% to 99% of the votes cast.
The 2018 AGM is scheduled for 21 May 2018 in London.
The Notice of AGM will be circulated to all the shareholders at least 21 working days before the AGM and it will also be made available on our IR website: www.
The voting on the resolutions will be announced via the Regulatory News Service and made available on our website at www.
108 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017
