DIVISIONAL REVIEW RETAIL BANKING Overview Retail banking is our largest segment.
We serve more than 2 million customers, which is around 75% of the adult Georgian population.
Our retail banking is differentiated by our outstanding customer experience, world-class digital channels, strong brand, advanced analytical capabilities, as well as innovative products.
We are pioneers in Georgia following the launch of the first Georgian speaking chatbot available through facebook messenger and a voice biometric recognition system in our call center.
Our retail segment is comprised of three sub-segments: high-net-worth individuals HNWI, affluent customers TBC Status and mass retail.
Mass retail TBC Status HNWIs Number of clients 2.0 m 30,052 2,354 Loan book share 61.1% 36.9% 2.0% Deposit share 38.3% 28.8% 32.9% Cross-selling ratio 3.8 9.0 6.3 Strategy Further enhance our customer 2017 highlights experience 1 40.2% Retail loan market share 1 Continue to innovate and offer the 41.3% most up-to-date digital solutions Retail deposit market share on the market 49.5% Retail share in total loan book Improve customer engagement by increasing the products per 56.0% customer ratio in mass retail Retail share in total deposits Increase the number of customers c. 2 million customers Around 75% of adult population in Georgia in the affluent segment 88.3% Offloading ratio in mass retail Increase assets under management 1 Based on data published by the National Bank of Georgia as of 31 December in the high-net-worth individuals 2017: in this context retail refers to individual customers segment See our Case Studies starting from page 34 30 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance come to a branch, they are seen in specially designed service Retail sub-segments areas that offer additional comfort.
We have around 70 TBC TBC Bank serves mass retail customers through a wellStatus service areas in 27 branches.
In addition, our affluent developed multichannel network with a special focus on digital customers are entitled to a priority pass in all branches that channels.
Most banking transactions can be carried out online, allows them to skip any lines and be served first.
via self-service terminals or ATMs, and clients need to come to branches only if they want to take out a mortgage or conduct Other benefits of TBC Status include: non-standard transactions.
preferential rates on various TBC Bank products and services, including higher interest rates on deposits and Our TBC Status brand serves the affluent segment, including lower commissions on money transfers: individual clients with minimum monthly income of GEL 3,000 special offers, discounts or cash back from certain retailers, or a loan or deposit amount of at least GEL 30,000.
TBC Status hotels, restaurants and other partners: and differentiates itself with best-in-class personal bankers, exclusive events for TBC Status customers and special dedicated multichannel and tailored products and discounts for main concerts, such as our annual value-added services.
Our personal bankers are highly qualified professionals who are In addition, we offer a wide range of lifestyle products through committed to understanding the clients financial needs and our concierge service, including: offering them well-suited solutions.
They strive to build lasting holiday planning: relationships with customers, becoming trusted partners who restaurant reservations: can always be relied on and are easily accessible.
As our flower delivery: customers long-term well-being is of utmost importance to us, cleaning service: and we carefully analyse their personal circumstances and goals auto services.
before coming up with solutions.
The HNWI segment is comprised of resident and non-resident While we understand the importance of personal relationships, clients with deposit amounts equal to or above US$ 100,000. we also realise that our affluent customers are busy and have Our representative office in Israel, TBC Invest, allows us to less time for banking, so we have modelled our TBC Status attract non-resident clients more effectively from all over the banking concept around this idea.
We have created dedicated world.
We serve our HNWI clients in our VIP service area, which multichannel services for our affluent customers with a special offers an impeccable combination of luxury, comfort and focus on digital channels.
We serve our TBC Status clients privacy.
Our personal bankers are much more than just service through a separate call centre with extended capabilities, as managers, they are consultants and wealth planners dedicated to well as internet and mobile banking offerings with enhanced maximising customers prosperity by offering them the best functionality, allowing most transactions to be conducted investment opportunities available on the market.
In cases where our affluent customers still need to TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Key strengths Main achievements of 2017 Multichannel distribution platform In 2017, our retail loan book grew by 15.0% to GEL 4,233.2 million, Branches while retail deposits increased by 16.8% to GEL 4,378.3 million in We have one of the most productive, modern and visually appealing 2017.
As a result, the share of retail book in total loan portfolio stood branch networks in Georgia with 77 branches in Tbilisi and 77 at 49.5% and the share of retail deposits in the total deposit portfolio regional offices.
Following the merger with Bank Republic, we have amounted to 56.0% as of 31 December 2017. redesigned and rebranded its former branches.
As the number one bank in Georgia, we are constantly working to ATMs provide our customers with innovative, added-value services and We have the largest ATM network in Georgia with about 1,150 ATMs, products tailored to their needs and interests.
We continue to invest including partner banks.
our time and money to strengthen our multichannel platform and to Self-service terminals reinforce our leadership in retail banking.
As Georgia is still largely a cash-based society, our self-service terminals with cash payment functionality remain a very important One innovative project implemented during the year was the first channel for our customers.
It represents a strong substitution for the chatbot available via Facebook Messenger.
We developed and bank branches, as it offers the majority of branch functionality.
We introduced the first Georgian-speaking chatbot, Ti Bot, which can not have 2,790 self-service terminals around Georgia.
only understand typed messages, but also understand voice messages and respond accordingly.
Ti Bot can perform simple Call centre transactions including P2P transfers and purchasing tickets, as well Our best-in-class call centre operates 24 7 and is a particularly as provide helpful information about subjects as diverse as the strong channel for sales and customer inquiries.
Around 21.6% of all weather forecast, currency exchange rates, various entertainment products sold in remote channels are conducted in the call centre.
offerings, branch and ATM locations.
Ti Bot has proven very popular The call centre is integrated with our Siebel CRM system, which among our clients and we have received around 6.5 million allows us to deliver personalised services to our customers, as well messages from 124,000 customers since launch.
as achieve faster lead conversion.
We have also achieved outstanding results in terms of offloading our Internet and mobile banking branches.
In 2017, 88.3% of all retail transactions were conducted We pride ourselves on having the best-in-class internet and mobile remotely.
The main drivers were increased transactions through our banking applications with customer review ratings of 4.9 stars on mobile banking and self-service terminals.
In addition, mobile Google Play, 4.8 stars in the Apple App Store and the highest number banking penetration jumped from 24.2% to 31.4% YoY.
At the same of active online users in Georgia.
Since its launch in 2012, we have 3 time, 44.5% of total sales were conducted digitally or through the received many digital awards at the national and regional levels from call centre.
Global Finance, as well as three global awards: the worlds Best Integrated Corporate Bank Site in 2017, the worlds Best As an innovator in the card business, we constantly develop new Integrated Internet Bank Site in 2013, and the worlds Best Bill products and offerings to support cashless transactions.
In April Payment and Presentment in 2013.
2017, we launched a new loyalty programme called Ertguli.
The literal Georgian meaning of the word is loyal, but it can also be deconstructed into two separate words, one and heart, which is Strong brand and superior customer experience where the inspiration for our logo is drawn from.
All customers who TBC Bank is one of the most trusted and well-known brands in Georgia own TBC Bank plastic cards automatically participate in the and is associated not only with the best financial services, but also with programme and can accumulate points on each purchase.
an outstanding contribution to the country as a whole.
For 25 years, Furthermore, within the Ertguli loyalty programme, we have we have been working diligently to build long-standing relationships developed a new credit card that gives our customers an opportunity and deliver a superior customer experience to strengthen our brand and to collect more points at partner merchants, as well as participate in gain the trust of prospective customers, thus encouraging them to special promotions and receive exclusive discounts.
In addition, the explore our services and become clients.
As customer satisfaction is a card has a pre-approved instalment limit and it is no longer vital part of our success, we are committed to continually improving our necessary to fill out a special form and wait for approval at a branch customer experience to further enhance our leading position.
As a result, our credit card sales increased significantly in 2017, when we issued around 160,000 new credit cards, up 79.4% Advanced analytical capabilities YoY.
Our priority for 2018 is to increase card transactions by fully Since 2014, we have operated advanced data analytics that help automating and simplifying processes.
In addition, in May 2017, we us to better understand our customers needs and anticipate their developed youth and student cards with distinctive benefits tailored behaviour.
This, in turn, enables us to increase sales efficiency to these clients interests.
The cards also have a unique design, and productivity, as well as improve customer loyalty.
As a result, which can be changed based on owners wishes and interests.
For 1 this year we have increased our customer reactivation rate by youth cards, parents can set maximum daily expenditure limits to 2 22.8% and decreased our churn rate by 8.2%.
foster appropriate spending habits in their children.
32 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Furthermore, in December, we launched a mobile wallet application that allows customers to pay directly using the near-field communication NFC technology built into their smartphones.
Another 2017 innovation was the addition of a new feature to our ATMs allowing our customers to withdraw money by means of contactless cards, which reduces the time per transaction from around 40 seconds to 25 seconds.
Another breakthrough this year was the introduction of a voice biometrics recognition system.
In partnership with Verint Systems, a global leader in actionable intelligence solutions, we developed and implemented a voice biometrics recognition system in our call centre that helps us to identify a person based on their voice.
The main benefits are that customers can be verified quickly, enabling us to deal with a greater number of calls and reduce fraud through identity theft.
We are 4 the first bank in the region to have implemented such a system.
To serve our clients better, we constantly refine our IT infrastructure and analytical capabilities.
In 2017, we tested big data solutions and data architecture, successfully developed a proof of concept and are currently working on implementing the big data cluster, which will allow us to generate new revenue streams, deliver better customer service and improve operational efficiency.
In addition, we developed spending analysis that enables us to accommodate customer needs and offer them products and services tailored to their interests.
As a result, we have achieved strong results in cross-selling and increased our products per customer ratio by to 3.9 in December 2017 from 3.7 in 2016.
1 Customers who were passive at the beginning of the period and became active at the end of the period total number of active customers at the beginning of the period 2 Customers who were active at the beginning of the period and became passive at the end of the period total number of active customers at the beginning of the period 3 For products that are being sold in remote channels 4 Region in this context comprises Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 RETAIL: CASE STUDY TINATIN RUKHADZE LONG-STANDING PARTNERSHIP WITH TBC STATUS Tinatin Rukhadze is a successful Georgian businesswoman.
In 2002, she founded ACT, a leading research and consulting company with offices in Georgia, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan.
In addition, in 2015, she established the first coaching company in Georgia, GROWIN, which provides a wide range of professional training courses and coaching sessions.
To support women and encourage their active participation in business, she co-founded the Women for Tomorrow business federation.
Fifteen years ago, Tinatin became a TBC Bank customer and began an enduring partnership with the Bank.
Since 2010, she has been a TBC Status client and benefited from the bespoke services that the Bank offers.
For Tinatin, TBC Bank has been a consistently reliable partner that facilitates her financial needs and offers a superior customer experience.
Her personal banker anticipates her needs and always accommodates her requests, offering tailor-made solutions.
Tinatin highly values the flexibility of our digital channels and performs most of her transactions remotely and, whenever necessary, she can also easily contact her personal banker, who is always ready to assist, via Viber, email or phone.
In addition, Tinatin makes good use of spending analytics, which is available via the internet and mobile banking, to monitor monthly expenses and plan future finances.
34 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance TBC Bank is the perfect partner for businesspeople.
I often have to travel, and can always rely on TBC Banks innovative digital channels to perform the transactions that I need.
In addition, I acknowledge TBC Banks strong corporate responsibility towards the community.
During the years I have been a customer, I have witnessed many social projects that have been financed by the bank and I would like to especially highlight the innovative statusdonates.
ge platform, which was launched in 2017 and allows people to choose the project that they want to support.
Tinatin Rukhadze Successful Georgian businesswoman TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 TBC Bank is an undisputed leader in the digital segment.
I cant remember when I last visited a branch, since I can conduct all my banking transactions online.
I am very excited about the new digital product, TBC Wallet, which was just launched and I started using from the first day.
It allows me to pay for items using a mobile device instead of a credit or debit card, which is much faster and more convenient.
Giga Paitchadze Head of e-governance development at the Administration of the Government of Georgia 36 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance RETAIL: CASE STUDY GIGA PAITCHADZE A STRONG SUPPORTER OF OUR DIGITAL BANKING SOLUTIONS Giga Paitchadze has been with TBC Bank for more than 15 years.
He is head of e-governance development at the Administration of the Government of Georgia, as well as a board member at JumpStart Georgia, a lecturer at Georgian Institute of Public Affairs, and a mentor for a project at International Black Sea University.
Due to his very busy schedule, he has no time to visit branches and therefore actively uses our digital channels.
Mr Paitchadze is an active user of our internet and mobile banking services and performs most transactions online, including opening deposit accounts, ordering cards, paying utilities, transferring funds and exchanging currency.
He considers our call-centre services to be among the best in Georgia, especially after implementing the voice biometric recognition system, which allows for much faster customer authentication and reduces the possibility of fraud.
Mr Paitchadze is one of the most avid members of our loyal customers group on Facebook, which helps us to test our newly introduced digital products and provides feedback and valuable customer insights.
As superior customer experience is such a crucial part of our business model, we highly value our clients opinions and consider their suggestions to further develop our digital products and services.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANKING CIB Overview Strategy TBC Bank is a leading corporate bank in Georgia with a strong presence in all major economic sectors.
In recent years, we have been Further accelerate the development transforming into a one-stop-shop bank that offers a full range of core and supplementary products, including lending products, trade of the capital markets and finance and factoring, treasury solutions, cash management and investment banking business in digital banking services, as well as corporate finance advisory, debt Georgia and increase our footprint and equity capital markets, brokerage and research services through in this area in the region our wholly-owned subsidiary, TBC Capital.
We differentiate ourselves by creating a client-centric, advisoryfocused business model whereby our highly skilled bankers find a Further strengthen our coverage customised solution for each customer, optimising their financial and capital structure.
We have dedicated coverage teams for each of Georgian regions and midmajor sector of the economy, comprised of professionals with an corporate segment average experience of 10 years and strong sector expertise.
Our main priority is to build long-term relationships with our clients and to become the preferred partner in all their business undertakings.
Increase penetration of corporate 2017 highlights clients through the TBC Banks 1 services and products 36.0% Corporate loan market share 1 37.9% Corporate deposit market share 28.9% Corporate share in total loan book 30.8% Corporate share in total deposits c. 2,300 customers 1 Based on data published by the National Bank of Georgia as of 31 December 2017: in this context corporate refers to legal entities See our Case Studies starting from page 40 38 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Main achievements in 2017 Contribution to the economy We had a strong performance in 2017, increasing our loan book TBC Bank plays an important role in the growth of Georgias by 20.0% YoY to GEL 2,475.4 million, while our trade finance economy by supporting leading players in all major economic portfolio grew by 38.6% YoY to GEL 1,589 million.
At the same time, sectors to access financing, diversifying their source of funding our deposits expanded by 28.6% YoY to GEL 2,410.9 million.
1 1 Consequently, our market shares reached 36.0% and 37.9% in loans and deposits to legal entities, respectively.
0.8% 1.7% 2.1% 1.8% We supported our robust growth by becoming the core bank for 4.3% 2 leading industry players such as Coca-Cola, McDonalds, Nikora, 4.7% 4.2% 3 4 Silknet and Nova.
Our performance was further strengthened by 4.4% the contribution from the Bank Republic integration, including the retention of key customers and employees.
As a result, we gained 13.3% a high-quality pool of international customers, together with a well-diversified, mid-corporate segment and advanced trade finance capabilities.
2.8% As the demand for capital markets products and corporate finance 9.3% 28.0% advisory services is increasing among large corporates in Georgia, the need for sophisticated investment banking products and services 3.3% is becoming increasingly prominent.
At the same time, evolving legislation and regulation further supports the development of 17.5% capital markets in Georgia, which should, in turn, attract more international investors.
We aim to harness this opportunity by 1.7% developing a strong suite of investment banking products and services to help our clients achieve their corporate goals and growth objectives.
In 2017, we further strengthened our investment banking Agriculture Hospitality & Leisure subsidiary by appointing a new managing director Irakli Elashvili, Automotive Metals and Mining who has more than 15 years of experience in Georgia and in global Communication Real Estate universal and investment banks.
We broadened the deal team and Construction Services revamped TBC Capitals strategy to position it to benefit from Energy & Utilities Trade increased capital markets activity in Georgia and the region.
During Financial Services Transportation the year, we completed several notable transactions: TBC Capital Food Industry Other 3 2 5 was the sole arranger of Silknet, Nikora and Imereti Greenery Healthcare bonds via public and private placements.
TBC Capital also advised 6 Tegeta Motors on obtaining a global credit rating.
2 Nikora is a leading food producer company in Georgia 3 Silknet is a leading telecommunication company in Georgia 4 Nova is a leading manufacturer and importer of building materials in Georgia 5 Imereti Greenery is an agricultural company operating a modern greenhouse facility in the Imereti region of Georgia 6 Tegeta is a leader in an automotive industry in Georgia TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 CIB: CASE STUDY LOPOTA LAKE RESORT AND SPA SUPPORTING GEORGIAN TOURISM Lopota Lake Resort and Spa is a luxury resort located on a private lakeside surrounded by the Caucasus Mountains in the heart of the Kakheti region.
The breathtaking views, cosy atmosphere and comfortable infrastructure makes it an ideal place for relaxation and peaceful rest.
The hotel features 103 beautifully decorated rooms, three restaurants, a night club, outdoor and indoor swimming pools, and a deluxe spa.
It also offers a wide range of activities, including horse riding, quad-bike tours, mini-golf and fishing.
The hotel started its operations in 2008 with just seven rooms and TBC Bank actively assisted the company from a very early stage.
Since then, the resort has been growing rapidly with our support, with annual revenue expanding from GEL 280,000 in 2008 to GEL 12 million in 2016, recording a compound annual growth rate of 60% over the eight-year period.
Alongside the provision of direct financing to the company, we have also advised and assisted the hotel in raising equity for its future development.
In 2017, the company successfully closed a transaction with the Georgian State-owned Equity Partnership Fund, obtaining US$ 5.4 million.
These funds will be used to further expand the resort, allowing it to almost double the number of rooms by the end of 2018.
This should result in a sharp increase in the number of guests from the current level of around 47,000 local and international visitors per year.
40 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance TBC Bank has been supporting us from the very beginning and played an important role in helping us to realise our ambition of building a magnificent resort on a wild plot of land, which helps to promote and support Georgian tourism and hospitality.
George Maisuradze CEO and founder of Lopota Lake Resort and Spa TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Today, Georgian Beer Company exports only a small portion of its products to neighbouring countries, but we see great potential to increase the share of exports in the coming years due to our products unique qualities.
Our goal is to establish our brand in the region and become ambassadors of Georgian products.
We trust that TBC Bank will continue supporting us on our challenging journey.
Kakha Kotrikadze CEO of Georgian Beer Company 42 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance CIB: CASE STUDY GEORGIAN BEER COMPANY LEADING PRODUCER OF BEVERAGES IN GEORGIA Georgian Beer Company is a major domestic company that produces beer and non-alcoholic beverages.
It has a modern factory near Tbilisi, in Saguramo village, that is equipped with state-of-the-art European equipment.
Its products are based on unique spring water from the base of Zedazeni mountain a vital component of its highquality beverages.
Among the companys various brands, Zedazeni is one of the most popular on the local market.
The company became TBC Banks customer in 2012, when it was starting its operations.
With our financial assistance, it has significantly expanded its business and is now one of the leading players on Georgias beverage market.
In 2016, the company decided to enter a new segment and start producing natural juice.
We provided funding for this purpose and the company built a facility adjacent to the brewery for receiving and processing fruit from nearby farmers.
The new business line will contribute to economic development by producing new Georgian products and creating new jobs, and will also support agriculture.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 I am impressed with the professional attitude of TBC Banks team.
They not only provide loans for us, but also advise on the most optimal financing structure, as well as offer various useful products, including payroll and treasury products.
In partnership with TBC Bank, we are committed to further developing our business and delivering valuable services to our society.
Nugzar Abramishvili CEO of MediClubGeorgia 44 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance CIB: CASE STUDY MEDICLUBGEORGIA PROVIDING HIGHQUALITY HEALTHCARE TO GEORGIANS MediClubGeorgia MCG is a leading provider of medical services in Georgia.
Its facilities are equipped with the latest technology from the worlds leading manufacturers.
MCG was established in 1999 and is part of an international holding that aims to provide high-quality medical services in the South Caucasus.
The company consists of two strategic business units: a multifunctional clinic and a learning resource centre.
MCGs clinic offers its customers a comprehensive range of services, including general practitioner, paediatrics, therapy, cardiology, rehabilitation, surgery, and world-class emergency aid.
The clinic is equipped with three surgical suites and features individual and common medical wards with 55 beds in total.
The learning resource centre, a training unit, was established in 2004 as part of MCG and provides CPR first aid and emergency care training programmes to MCG staff and outside contractors.
MCG has been accredited by Joint Commission International JCI, an international organisation working in more than 100 countries to improve patient safety and quality of healthcare.
JCI accreditation is considered the gold standard in global healthcare.
MCG was the first clinic to be accredited by JCI in Georgia.
In 2011, TBC Bank became a partner of MCG and supported the companys expansion by providing a syndicated loan together with the EBRD European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to purchase and renovate a new building and to acquire high-quality equipment for the clinic.
Since then, we have been closely cooperating with the company and have provided a number of short-term loans for working capital needs, as well as other operating products.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES SEGMENT Overview The micro, small and medium enterprises MSME segment serves TBC Banks business clients that are not included in our corporate 2017 highlights portfolio.
We take pride in being the leading bank for MSME clients in Georgia, not only by the size of loan and deposit portfolios, but 1 1 63% also by being the top choice for MSME companies.
Overall, 63% of newly registered legal entities in Georgia choose to bank with us.
of newly registered legal entities choose TBC Bank We achieve this position by placing our customers needs first.
TBC Bank distinguishes itself by superior customer experience, 21.6% innovative offerings and extensive non-financial services.
MSME share in total loan book Strategy 13.1% MSME share in total deposit portfolio Continue to improve our superior 2 customer experience 92.0% Offloading ratio of MSME segment Further develop our flagship business support programme Maintain our focus on digitalisation by further enhancing our See our Case Studies starting from page 48 multichannel platform 46 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Main achievements in 2017 Figure 1 Our MSME loan portfolio grew by 14.2% during the last year to Within this programme, we offer three types of start-up loans: GEL 1,844.7 million, accounting for 21.6% of the total loan portfolio.
Start-up loan In 2017, the deposit portfolio increased by 23.6% and to GEL 1,027.7 General start-up loan Start-up loan for hotels for agro business million, representing 13.1% of the total deposit portfolio.
Maximum amount Maximum amount Maximum amount GEL 100,000, GEL 3,500,000 GEL 1,500,000 TBC Bank continues to attract and increase the number of MSME Maximum term - 7 Maximum term - 12 Maximum term customers.
By the end of 2017, we served around 110,000 MSME clients.
years, grace period years - 10 years To make banking easier and more comfortable for MSMEs, we offer - up to 1 year, Grace period - up to Grace period - up fully digital on-boarding, so that a prospective client can fill in the Individual payment 2.5 years to 5 years application and open a current account without visiting our branch schedule Individual payment Individual www.
If the client prefers to receive hard copies, schedule payment schedule all the necessary documents are delivered by our eco-friendly car.
In addition, our award-winning multichannel offering enables our clients Ability to participate Ability to to perform most transactions remotely, driving our offloading ratio as in government participate in 2 high as 92.0% by the end of 2017. programme Preferential Agro Produce in Credit Project We also actively cooperate with the government programme, Produce in Georgia which is Georgia, which aims to support agriculture, manufacturing and hospitality Ability to participate supported by industries.
Within the programme, borrowers can apply for a subsidy from in EBRD Georgian Ministry the government to lower their interest expense during the grace period.
programme, which of Agriculture This year, we also launched an innovative programme named Startuperi, allows giving early-stage companies access to financing from a bank.
The 10 - 15% cash-back programme also involves extensive non-financial support, such as for purchase of the training, masterclasses, individual consultations and media coverage equipment for young companies.
In addition, participant companies also receive special offers from TBC Bank and its partners.
The programme has 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 proved to be very successful and, by the end of 2017, 13,000 companies Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding took part in Startuperi, and we disbursed 168 loans totalling around portfolio GEL portfolio - GEL portfolio - GEL GEL 21 million.
Please see figure 1 for more information.
c. 3,200,000 c. 12,000,000 c. 5,800,000 Number of loans Number of loans Number of loans The MSME segments strong performance is shaped by our continuous - 76 - 38 - 54 efforts to transform our customer experience via innovative offerings.
No overdue loans No overdue loans No overdue loans We are the sole bank in Georgia offering a business support programme to our clients, including training, workshops and individual consultations.
In 2017, around 4,400 companies attended training in areas such as budgeting and analysis, innovations management, taxation, digital marketing and simplified IFRS.
Through these training sessions, we provide an essential business toolkit to our clients, encouraging them to fine-tune their businesses and become even more successful.
We strive to make our clients confident that we are more than just a bank: we are their partners.
In collaboration with Georgias Revenue Service, we have created Business Map www.
ge, a useful benchmarking tool for companies.
We have analysed public big data and built an online business map where companies can evaluate their performance against their competitors by district, city, or nationwide.
Business Map presents the following metrics: revenue, costs, number of employees and payroll.
In November 2017, we organised our second annual business awards ceremony, attracting up to 700 participants.
This year, we have announced winners in seven categories.
We try to find and promote successful Georgian businesses and encourage entrepreneurship in the country.
The event was a huge success and attracted 5.3 million views.
ge, the National Agency of Public Registry 2 Excluding cash transactions TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 MSME: CASE STUDY IB MTHIEBI RAISING NEW TALENT IB Mthiebi is one of the pioneer private secondary schools in Georgia.
Since 1995, the school has distinguished itself by the high standards of its academic programme, as well as by its qualified faculty and modern infrastructure.
The school was founded with the aspiration to set a new standard and create a positive learning environment.
When the school was set up, very few parents entrusted a start-up school with their children, but today it is highly ranked and has more than 1,200 students.
The schools founder is actively involved in continuously developing the educational programme.
In partnership with German shareholder IB, the school faculty regularly participates in exchange training to enhance their qualifications and learn about new teaching practices.
As demand for the school has grown, IB Mthiebi has decided to invest in its infrastructure to increase capacity and create classrooms equipped with modern technology.
For TBC Bank, this was not just another commercial loan, it was a chance to have a direct impact on developing an education system.
In 2012-16, with financing from the Bank, IB Mthiebi renovated its existing premises and built a new, 2,000 m2 campus that is fully equipped with the latest laboratories and IT infrastructure.
IB Mthiebi is one of the few schools in Georgia that has implemented the highest safety and quality management standards, receiving the OHSAS 18001:20017 and ISO 9001:2015 certificates.
48 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance We started our long-term relationship with TBC Bank in 2003.
We chose TBC Bank because we are confident that the TBC team understands the importance of education in Georgia and encourages us to succeed.
Nino Chikvaidze Founder and director of IB Mthiebi TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 TBC Bank had just launched its Startuperi programme, which aims to financially support start-ups and promote entrepreneurship.
So, when we came up with the business idea and needed financing, we decided to apply for Startuperi.
One of X-Parks founders 50 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance MSME: CASE STUDY X-PARK A NEW FORM OF ENTERTAINMENT In recent years, Georgia has entered the lists of top mustsee destinations from Cond Nast Traveler, Vogue and Lonely Planet.
Once a hidden gem, it is now under an international spotlight.
With growing numbers of tourists visiting the country every year, hospitality and leisure services have developed to offer a wide variety of entertainment options.
Three experienced enthusiasts decided to set up the countrys only large-scale adventure park in Dusheti regions Tvalivi village.
X-Park offers its visitors an unforgettable experience, full of excitement and adrenaline.
The park covers 7,000 square metres and is equipped with outdoor adventure tracks in the air and on land.
Visitors can choose from four available routes with varying difficulty levels.
The park is suitable both for lovers of extreme outdoor sports and for teambuilding events.
The founders came up with the X-Park idea after successfully operating another club for white water rafting.
The X-Park required a significant upfront investment to purchase necessary safety and outdoor equipment.
TBC Bank disbursed a US$100,000 loan in March 2017 and X-Park started operating in August 2017.
Since opening, the park has become quite popular and has attracted many visitors.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 MSME: CASE STUDY NADIA KANDELAKI SUCCESSFUL WOMAN IN AGRICULTURE Agriculture is one of the oldest, most widespread occupations in Georgia, where a large share of the labour force is engaged in farming.
However, employment in the agricultural sector is mostly dominated by male farmers, while female farmers are underrepresented.
Nadia Kandelaki is an example of a daring woman who decided to take up agriculture and start a farm.
In 2013, Nadia approached TBC Bank to finance her expansion plans.
At the time, she had some land, orchards, vineyards, beehives and livestock.
She decided to increase the number of beehives, as natural honey was in high demand and quite profitable.
She also bought dairy cattle and expanded her dairy production.
Nadia is very hard working, managing the farm on her own.
As her first expansion project was successful, she decided to grow her business further.
In 2016, TBC Bank provided Nadia with the funds she needed to set up a vineyard and build a wine cellar.
This year, she fermented her first harvest in her cellar.
Nadias successful business endeavours encourage women to be more active and entrepreneurial.
TBC Bank supports women in business and has a special programme aimed at financing womens start-ups.
52 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance When I started to expand my farm in 2013, I chose TBC Bank to be my financial partner.
I could feel the banks caring attitude from the first day.
They genuinely tried to accommodate my financial needs and did their best in supporting my business to succeed.
Nadia Kandelaki Farmer TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED TBC Insurance has grown rapidly since our acquisition and has 2 increased its market share to 13.3% as of 31 December 2017, compared with 3.5% in December 2016.
It has particularly SUBSIDIARIES 2 strengthened its position in the retail segment by reaching 28.9% to become the second-largest player.
Over the same period, the number of clients reached 276,848 compared to 2,887 one year prior.
TBC Insurance Gross insurance profit amounted to GEL 6,8 million in 2017.
At same TBC Insurance is a wholly owned subsidiary of TBC Bank and the time, the company has significantly improved its efficiency and main bancassurance partner of the Bank.
It was acquired by the decreased the net combined ratio to 95.9% in 2017 from 110.3% one Group in October 2016 and has been growing rapidly since then.
As a result, TBC Insurance recorded a net profit of GEL TBC Insurances product offerings comprise motor, travel, personal 935,000 in 2017. accident, credit life and property, business property, liability and cargo insurance products.
The company uses a broad range of TBC Insurance aims to further strengthen its positions on the channels to sell its products, including insurance agents, auto market and become the number one retail insurance company in dealerships and web platforms, as well as TBC Banks marketGeorgia in the medium term.
Our strategic priorities include: leading multichannel network.
increase the usage of digital channels: diversify our product offerings and develop new products, In line with the Groups digitalisation strategy, TBC Insurance including agricultural insurance, financial risks insurance and actively uses digital channels to market and sell its products.
In personal risks insurance: 2017, TBC Insurance launched the first insurance chatbot, B Bot, on offer a best-in-class customer experience to achieve the highest the local market, which sells different types of insurance products.
net promoter score among industry players: and B Bot is great fun to use and is quickly gaining popularity among our achieve a total market share of 25-30% and retail market share clients, especially the younger generation.
Another popular sales of 30-35% in the medium term.
channel is the wide network of TBC Banks self-service terminals, where customers can buy travel, casualty and collision CASCO, and TBC Leasing motor third-party liability MTPL insurance in a very short time.
In TBC Leasing is the leading leasing company in Georgia with a addition, travel insurance can be purchased through TBC Banks 3 market share of over 74.3%.
The company was founded in 2003 by internet and mobile banking services, and more products are TBC Bank, which currently holds a 99.6% interest.
By the end of planned to be added to this channel in 2018, including payment 2017, TBC Leasings portfolio amounted to around GEL 145 million, protection insurance PPI, CASCO and MTPL.
with approximately 2,150 customers and up to 3,450 active leasing agreements.
Georgias insurance market is promising with high growth potential.
The penetration level, measured as gross written premium to GDP, In 2017, the company had one of the most successful years in its 1 stood at 0.62% for the property and casualty P&C insurance history.
TBC Leasing launched two new products: used car financing for market as of 31 December 2017, which is the lowest among CEE the retail segment product named Starto and full-service countries.
The density, which is measured as gross written premium operational leasing for both corporate clients and individuals.
We also 1 per capita, is also low compared with peer countries at US$24.4.
enhanced our value proposition by beginning to offer advisory services.
The insurance business is regulated by the Insurance State Additionally, TBC Leasing strengthened its collaboration with the Supervision Service of Georgia, which closely monitors insurance Bank by beginning to use banking channels to sell its products to companies, and sets the minimum and solvency capital TBC Banks MSME customer base.
As a result, we disbursed record requirements.
There are 16 insurance companies operating in the high leases in the amount of GEL125 million to MSME clients.
The two largest players hold 2 respective market shares of 37.4% and 17.2%, followed by TBC In 2017, TBC Leasing also enhanced its internal operations and Insurance in third place with 13.3%.
processes by: launching the first bespoke leasing core software system, which During the last five years, the P&C insurance market in Georgia has was developed by a local IT company: grown at a significant compound annual growth rate of 11.7%.
The establishing an independent call centre separate from that of the largest insurance product lines are motor 35.1% and property Bank: and insurance 29.8%, followed by credit life and personal accident 11.7%, enhancing operational risk management procedures.
liability insurance 11.4%, travel insurance 3.2% and other 8.8%.
We see particular growth potential in car insurance due to the introduction Our mission is to contribute to Georgias economic development by of mandatory MTPL insurance starting from March 2018.
Travel providing comprehensive leasing solutions and premium advisory insurance is another promising segment, as the number of outbound services to our customers, making it easier for them to invest in tourists has been growing significantly since the introduction of a capital assets.
visa-free regime with EU countries in March 2017.
54 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Our medium-term strategy consists of the following main goals: TBC Capital develop digital solutions and innovative products: TBC Capital is TBC Banks wholly owned investment banking become more socially conscious by offering eco-friendly subsidiary.
In 2017, TBC Capital became an integral part of TBC solutions financing electric cars, solar systems, etc : Banks corporate and investment banking franchise.
Its main lines develop premium advisory services for our customers: and of business include corporate advisory, debt and equity capital optimise sales channels by forming strategic alliance with markets, brokerage and research.
TBC Capital is also a shareholder vendors and dealers, as well as by utilising the parent companys in the Georgian Stock Exchange and plays an active role in the resources.
More information about TBC Capital can be found in the corporate TBC Pay and investment banking section on page 39.
TBC Pay was founded in 2008 by TBC Bank and is its wholly owned subsidiary.
The company provides fast and easy payment options for individuals all over the country through its wide network of International operations self-service terminals on a 24-hour basis.
Customers can conduct Most of TBC Banks operations are conducted in Georgia 99.7% of various transactions, including paying for utilities or state services, total assets.
However, we have two international subsidiaries, depositing money in their accounts, repaying loans, topping up their one in Azerbaijan and one in Israel.
mobile balance and many more.
TBC Invest Starting from 2017, in addition to cash payments, our self-service TBC Invest is a representative office of TBC Bank in Israel that terminals were equipped with card readers and pin pads, allowing acts as an intermediary with Israeli clients, offering information our customers to pay for their services both with cash and credit regarding products, fees and interest rates on TBC Banks products.
We also started using our terminals as a channel to originate fast, preapproved loans for the Banks customers.
TBC Kredit TBC Kredit is a non-banking credit organisation that has operated In 2017, TBC Pay updated its online payment platform www.
It mainly focuses on the SME, consumer ge, which has the same functionality as the self-service terminals and mortgage lending sectors.
TBC Bank has owned 75% of TBC but offers a significantly improved user experience.
The company Kredit since 2008. was also successful in increasing the number of transactions by improving the availability of services and adding 200 new selfTBC Kredits total loan portfolio stood at US$16.3 million at 31 service terminals.
In addition, we won an important tender process December 2017.
SME lending accounted for 49.3%, while consumer in 2017 allowing us to place our terminals in metro stations, thus and mortgage loans accounted for a respective 36.7% and 14.0%.
As a result, the number and volume of transactions increased by a respective 9.5% and 43.5% YoY in 2017.
Other local subsidiaries The Group also includes the following subsidiaries: In addition to the existing business, TBC Pay started a cash United Financial Corporation is the largest card-processing management business for companies with a large volume of cash centre in Georgia, serving nine banks, five financial institutions operations.
We placed our terminals at retailers sites, allowing and one loyalty company.
It provides a full range of services them to deposit money directly to their bank accounts, which will be according to VISA International and MasterCard Worldwide reflected instantly.
Customer interest in this service is tremendous regulations, as well as payment card industry data and we plan to further expand this business in 2018. security standards.
Real Estate Management Fund and Mali manage property that The companys strategy in 2018 is to further develop and improve its TBC Bank has repossessed for future sale.
ge by adding new functions, such as Banking Systems Service Company provides hardware and wallet, mobile apps and loyalty programmes, which will further our software maintenance of ATMs, POS terminals and other ambition to become the number one payment company in Georgia in electronic banking systems.
Breakdown of Breakdown of total assets net income 1 Source: Geostat and Insurance.
ge The Bank 97.6% 94.4% 3 Based on internal estimates International Operations 0.3% 0.3% Other local operations 2.1% 5.3% TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55
