INVESTMENT CASE WHY INVEST IN TBC BANK?
We base our strategy on understanding our customers evolving preferences for using digital channels instead of branches and aim to become the best digital financial services company in the 1 region by developing the most intuitive, user-friendly and innovative digital solutions in the market.
1 Region in this context comprises Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia Our four main competitive advantages are: Focus on financial services Best-in-class digital channels TBC Bank is focused on financial services activities and 99.7% of We continue to leverage our leading digital capabilities to achieve our total assets relate to banking, insurance, leasing, brokerage business growth and operating efficiency.
TBC Bank has worldand corporate advisory services.
We have several small class digital banking channels, which include the award-winning subsidiaries, including card processing and a self-service terminal internet and mobile banking applications, a call centre and a vast operating company, which play a supporting role to strengthen network of ATMs, POS terminals and self-service terminals.
Over the past 25 years, we have built a sound, to our continued efforts, the number of retail transactions straightforward and resilient operating model, as well as gained conducted via digital channels continues to grow, resulting in a strong business expertise and market knowledge.
Our clear retail offloading ratio as high as 88.3% in December 2017.
At the strategic focus and experience provides a significant advantage same time, we continue to innovate and enhance our digital and solid basis for our future growth and development, and clearly product offerings.
This year, we have developed and introduced differentiates us from our peers.
the first Georgian-speaking chatbot, Ti Bot, using Facebook Messenger.
It can understand questions and provide helpful answers about currency exchange rates, various product offerings, branch and ATM locations, as well as conduct P2P transactions and purchase cinema tickets.
We are also proud that our digital capabilities gained global recognition and Global Finance magazine named TBC Bank the worlds Best Integrated Corporate Bank Site in 2017, in addition to receiving multiple regional CEE and country awards in many digital banking categories.
Global Finance named TBC Bank the Financial service activities account worlds Best Integrated Corporate for 99.7% of TBC Banks total assets Bank Site in 2017 08 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Superior customer experience Strong brand We pride ourselves on having the highest customer satisfaction For 25 years, we have been supporting the growth and prosperity of score in the Georgian banking sector, including the NPS and CSAT our customers, colleagues, partners and the community at large.
We achieved this by fostering a customer-focused culture, We have always acted with integrity and transparency in all our where every employee strives to create maximum comfort and undertakings, acknowledging our responsibility towards all our value for our customers.
We base our customer satisfaction on stakeholders.
We strive to generate added value for our customers by four main principles: i simplicity and comfort: ii professionalism creating straightforward and flexible products and services.
We aspire and stability: iii individual approach and iv care.
We are to foster the best working environment for our employees and build dedicated to providing the best customer experience in Georgia by long-term relationships with our partners, as well as make a positive constantly improving our service proposition and offering the most contribution to society by supporting business, culture, sports and the competitive and innovative solutions in the market.
Our goal is to young generation.
As a result, TBC Bank today is one of the most be able to anticipate our customers preferences to offer them the well-known and trusted brands in the country.
We are associated with right products and services at the right time.
We also continuously creating opportunities for young people and businesses, supporting work to simplify customer service processes and eliminate innovation and progress.
TBC Bank has also gained international unnecessary procedures in order to create a pleasant experience recognition and, among other things, received country, regional and for our clients.
Our customers feedback is very important to us, global awards, including Best Bank in Georgia awards from Global and we listen carefully to our clients and value their opinions.
Finance, EMEA Finance, Euromoney and the Banker magazines for many years in a row Find out more about our awards at www.
2 NPS: gap with peer Bank-16.7%, TBC Bank has been awarded Best Bank 2 CSAT: gap with peer Bank-16.6% in Georgia 14 times in the last 16 years 2 Based on surveys conducted by independent research companies ACT and IPM in December 2017 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 09
