d e C p l a o p y i t m a e l n t e t c e n k e r s a e M r O p e p x e c r e a l Strategic Report Strategy Our solutions STRATEGY Our strategy Strategic priorities Description As customer requirements evolve, so too does the Focus on innovative Our strategy is evolving from being a offering that Spectris provides to them.
Our long-term customer solutions supplier of products towards the customer relationships and technical know-how mean we can enhance our offering to them, whether that involves provision of complete solutions a the supply of improved equipment or a packaged solution combination of hardware, software combining hardware, software and or services.
and or services to our customers.
We build leadership positions in attractive niche markets Increase presence where we believe there are opportunities for in key strategic technology-led productivity enhancement.
These markets markets currently include segments within the life sciences and pharmaceuticals, energy, automotive, basic materials and technology sectors, but we also review and actively pursue opportunities in new markets.
In response to a customer base that is extending its Expand business international operations and becoming increasingly globally sophisticated, we seek to expand our business globally, with particular emphasis on markets such as China and India.
Project Uplift supports the delivery We strive for continuous improvement in all aspects of of our strategy.
Accelerate our business operations, both to enhance customer operational experience and to generate efficiency and productivity excellence gains.
In addition, we seek to improve performance and profitability by driving synergistic opportunities within and Enabling between our operating companies, and across the Group our strategy as a whole.
Drive Reduce Project efficiency & We acquire businesses which materially strengthen our Deploy capital complexity Uplift effectiveness operating companies through broadening their customer for both platform offering, reaching new customer segments or expanding and bolt-on M&A their geographical presence.
These are typically bolt-on in nature, i. e. integrated into one of our operating companies.
In addition, we invest in new platform or Stimulate stand-alone businesses in order to establish a presence in growth strategic markets or complementary capabilities.
Project Uplift is our productivity enhancement programme Project which is seeing increased collaboration and common We monitor the potential risks which Uplift processes being adopted across the Group to simplify the could impact delivery of our strategy.
business, increase efficiency and productivity and drive continuous improvement and growth.
See pages 3338 for more information 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 l t e i n o c n e e s a v n l i t o a i v t u o l n o n s I E x g p l o a b n a d l l i y n g Priorities for 2018 Our KPIs Progress in 2017 Invested 105 million in R&D 7% of sales.
Continue to invest around 7% of sales in new products, technologies and solutions.
Our KPIs measure our Created key account management structure for Focus on innovative differentiated customer solutions.
performance against automotive sector, offering cross-operating company solutions.
Continue to build relationships with customers to our strategy.
offer more value-added services such as consultancy, Established partnership with Novatek International software, testing, maintenance and training.
to provide an integrated environmental LFL sales growth monitoring solution.
Acquisitions added further condition monitoring Focus on key strategic growth markets: 6% capability, reliability design and testing expertise Pharma and life sciences and automotive testing capacity.
Automotive Developed test environment at Millbrook for Adjusted operating Test services connected and autonomous vehicles.
margin Cloud-based data analysis and services Beyond Tomorrow project: sound and vibration Industrial connectivity in future product development.
14.7% Strong LFL sales growth in Asia.
Continue to expand our international footprint to be closer to customers.
Internationalisation of Omega sees good sales Adjusted earnings growth outside the USA, particularly Asia.
Continue to grow Omega internationally.
per share growth Acquisition of Omnicon expands services and Ensure that we have the right talent to grow our software offering in key end markets in the USA.
14% Expanding capacity at Millbrook in both the UK and Finland.
Cash conversion Implement Project Uplift programme to ensure Merger of Malvern Instruments and PANalytical led to cross-selling opportunities.
benefits of scale are achieved and best practices are shared across the Group.
75% Restructuring activities at Omega and NDC to simplify and improve business processes.
Drive greater efficiency through operational excellence, for example, by applying lean initiatives Project Uplift programme initiatives underway.
Economic profit throughout the Group.
Appointed key personnel at Group level as leaders Increase employee training in these techniques and in HR, lean, supply chain, software and digital.
tools to build a continuous improvement culture.
163.2m Acquisition of Omnicon extended range of Fully integrate recent acquisitions.
Energy efficiency reliability improvement solutions at HBM Prenscia per m revenue Focus on acquisition strategy to expand software software business.
Acquisition of CSA Leyland Technical Centre Continue to look for new opportunities in key 67.2MWh extended commercial vehicle testing capabilities.
strategic growth markets through acquisition or licensing of technologies.
Acquisition of Setpoint brings conditioning monitoring hardware and software solutions.
Reportable accidents per 1,000 employees Continue to implement Phase 1 initiatives in New IT and procurement contracts signed, leveraging Group scale to enhance terms.
5.3 Undertake detailed design and implementation Initiated study on shared service centre project study for shared service centre project.
See pages 1819 for more information Spectris plc 9
