Strategic Report Our Business Model BECOMING the partner of choice What sets us apart How we are structured High barriers to entry from continuous Four business segments investment in R&D, intellectual property and Our business comprises 13 operating companies organised into four business segments which reflect the applications and strong customer relationships.
Each operating company has its own products, brands and customers and is responsible for Long-term customer relationships bring high developing new products and applications.
We have started levels of repeat business.
to evolve our operating model to increase the co-ordination between companies across key business functions and to Market-leading brands focus on niche markets leverage our scale.
Common values Broad geographical and end-market exposure Despite the individual nature of the businesses, they are all limits risk from major changes to the united by the same purpose, values and corporate strategy.
This shapes our culture across the Group.
Increasingly, in certain end markets there is a more collaborative approach Around 40% of sales come from customer across our operating companies to provide the solutions our operating expenditure budgets or aftermarket, customers require.
providing more resilience to revenues.
Central oversight Asset-light manufacturing model results The corporate centre provides strategic direction, governance in low capital requirements and good and oversight in addition to support in areas such as M&A, HR, legal and tax.
It also facilitates the sharing of best practice.
Acquisition strategy supplements organic Project Uplift Project Uplift is a Group-wide programme focused on reducing growth and exploits disruptive growth themes.
complexity, freeing up resources and stimulating growth with the aim of creating a cost-efficient and scalable platform from which we can grow profitably, whilst preserving the entrepreneurial spirit of our businesses.
Read more about our strategy on pages 89 Read more about our businesses on pages 2027 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 How we generate value Resources and relationships Understanding our customers Continuous innovation Our model is predominantly based on direct routes to market Strong intellectual property and continuous innovation through a worldwide network of sales, marketing and support are underpinned by sustained investment of around offices.
This enables us to gain a deep understanding of the 7% of sales each year in R&D.
In addition, we make both challenges our customers are seeking to address.
Around 80% bolt-on and platform acquisitions to access new or of sales come from customers who have purchased from us in complementary technology and markets, with a the preceding two years.
focus on software and services.
Enhancing productivity Customer relationships Our businesses provide value-enhancing solutions for our We build long-term relationships with our customers and customers.
These include shortening development cycles, seek to develop a deep understanding of their business improving product quality and consistency, increasing yield and processes.
Our products typically involve low capital expenditure but provide significant and rapid payback.
Employee expertise Our people play an essential role in delivering our strategy, Resilient revenues particularly in the development of new products, software As well as a high level of repeat business, we offer a full and services, and building relationships with customers.
range of aftermarket services and support, including training, Many of our employees are highly-qualified engineers technical support, spare parts, calibration and maintenance.
and technicians with deep product and application expertise.
This accounts for around 30% of sales.
Supplier partnerships High returns Supply chain management is an important tool in enabling Our long-term customer relationships along with high-quality us to deliver high quality at a competitive cost, whilst ensuring innovative products and solutions help sustain high barriers to compliance with international standards and regulations.
entry which in turn lead to limited pricing pressure, retention We believe that suppliers should have the opportunity to of market share and high gross margins.
benefit from their relationship with us.
In practice, this means working together to minimise and manage business risk and Good cash conversion improve business practices, through education, training and the sharing of good practice.
Our businesses are capital efficient, focusing on the areas where we have market-leading expertise and competitive advantage such as R&D, and out-sourcing component and sub-assembly production.
This results in good cash conversion.
Read more about our sustainable approach Read more about our strategy on pages 89 to business on pages 4045 Spectris plc 7
