Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 19 Our markets BAE Systems has leading positions in its principal markets in the US, UK, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia as well as established positions in a number of other international markets.
We are one ofthe largest global defence companies.
Group strategic 18 framework 1 Supporting our customers Accessible global defence markets Our strategy is focused on providing a Top ten global defence markets accessible vitaladvantage to our customers across US, for business by the Group $bn UK and international markets.
In particular, wehave built strong positions aligned with 1.
US 580 our core defence platforms to support our 2.
India 53 customers in our four principal markets.
UK 51 Theseprincipal markets the US, UK, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia 4.
Saudi Arabia 50 havebeen identified as having a significant 5.
Japan 47 and sustained commitment to defence and 6.
BAE Systems has established strong 7.
Germany 35 and enduring relationships in these markets 8.
South Korea and is recognised as playing a key role in the 34 industrial capability of each of these countries.
Brazil Principal markets 26 Our unique position and capabilities Our strong position in the US through the Source: 2016 US budget as shown in the Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Special Security Agreement, together with Request and, outside the US, IHS Janes Defence Budgets based on 2016 totaldefence ourstanding as the leading defence contractor budgets and constant 2017 US dollars.
in the UK, provides us with unique capabilities that can be leveraged across the Group to support our customers.
In addition, our diverse BAE Systems global defence market position portfolio, including leading cyber capabilities, provides us with a comprehensive offering for Top ten global defence our customers, with cyber now recognised as contractors revenue $bn a defence domain in its own right.
Lockheed Martin 44 Responding to a changing character 2.
BAE Systems 26 Our business continues to respond to 4.
Raytheon geopolitical and technology trends that will 22 influence the future character of conflict and 5.
Northrop Grumman 20 shape our customers requirements.
General Dynamics 20 excellence in complex engineering, developing 7.
Airbus 12 cutting-edge technology and seeking 8.
L3 Technologies 9 innovative solutions enables us to respond 9.
Leonardo toour customers requirements for greater 9 agility, global reach, and advanced technology 10.
Source: Defense News Top 100 for 2017 based on 2016 numbers.
Exchange rate applied International growth aspirations to BAE Systems is $1.35 1.
Following a number of years of defence spendcontraction, global defence markets arestabilising, with a number of nations returning to growth in response to an increasingly uncertain security environment.
We continue to recognise the importance and requirements of our international customers.
Wehave a significant international presence, one of the broadest amongst the defence primes, supported by long-standing customer relationships and diverse capabilities, leveraged across the Group.
Markets inaccessible for business by BAE Systems areexcluded.
BAE Systems 20 Annual Report 2017 Our markets continued US UK 1 Sales by destination A E D C The US continues to represent BAE Systems remains the the single largest defence largest defence company market in the world and inthe UK, with strong and B BAE Systems remains a top long-standing relationships A US 39% tendefence supplier in the US.
with the Ministry of Defence.
B UK 21% C Saudi Arabia 16% After seven months under a Continuing The UK is Europes largest defence market D Australia 3% Resolution that maintained funding at the and, after a period of budgetary decline, 2 E Other international markets 21% prior years level, the fiscal year 2017 defence defence spending has stabilised.
The 2017 budget ultimately rose by approximately 4%.
Spring Budget reinforced previous Whilst the fiscal year 2018 budget remains commitments to increase defence spending, under a Continuing Resolution, the bipartisan as well as the continued pledge to maintain budget agreement passed on 9 February 2018 spending at 2% of GDP.
This provides the would increase the US defence budget by context for the Modernising Defence approximately 10% over current levels, Programme announced in January 2018 reflecting continued growth in defence bytheDefence Secretary, the outcome spending to $700bn 518bn for the fiscal ofwhich is aimed to be announced by year ending 30 September 2018.
This budget thesummer of 2018. agreement increases the budget caps for two In light of the UKs referendum decision to years and extends the Continuing Resolution leave the EU, the government has signalled to 23 March 2018 to allow lawmakers to pass itsintent to continue to play a major role in a 2018 spending bill.
defence and security co-operation in Europe.
The US defence budget is expected to The UK government provides vital support experience continued growth.
inthe pursuit of international export The portfolio of the US-based business is opportunities, recognising the value that wellaligned with customer priorities and BAE Systems and the defence industry growth areas, which include combat vehicles, contributes to the UK economy.
precision-guided munitions, naval ship repair BAE Systems plays an important role in and modernisation services, electronic providing capabilities to support the UK warfare, and space security.
BAE Systems government and armed forces across the hasstrong positions on a number of premier air, maritime, land and cyber domains.
defence programmes, including F-35 Ourinvolvement across the major UK LightningII, Paladin self-propelled howitzer defenceprogrammes, including Typhoon and Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle, and we aircraft, Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft are a leader in advanced electronic systems, carriers, Type 26frigates, and Astute and real-time intelligence and analysis, naval gun Dreadnought Class submarines, maintains systems and artillery systems.
ourdiverse skillsets, allowing us to provide In addition to our position on US defence avital advantage to ourcustomers.
programmes, the US-based portfolio is also Our cyber business has a focused focused on Foreign Military Sales and direct investmentstrategy to ensure that we international sales to allied nations.
R evenue plus the Groups share of revenue supportour commercial and government ofequityaccounted investments.
We continue to deliver on existing commercial customers as cyber security becomes an 2.
Includes 0.9bn 4% of sales generated under the programmes, including engine and flight increasingly important part of a sophisticated Typhoon workshare agreement with Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH.
controls, and electric drive propulsion systems.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 21 International The Kingdom of Saudi BAE Systems is one of the BAE Systems has many strong Arabiacontinues to be largest defence companies and enduring relationships in aleading military power inAustralia, with strong other international markets.
andone of the largest activities across all domains.
Regional security tensions, the growing emphasis on indigenous capabilities and defencemarkets globally.
Regional instability and the pace of military varying economic conditions continue to modernisation in the Asia-Pacific region SaudiArabia has a strong commitment influence defence spending internationally.
continue to drive the governments todefenceand security spending driven With high growth in Asia-Pacific and the commitment to defence spending, with byregional security instability.
Middle East, BAE Systems has developed  programmes expected relationships with partners and customers Saudi Arabias Vision 2030 strategy to in the air, maritime and land domains.
inanumber of countries, working directly promote In-Kingdom industrialisation and In addition to a number of key priorities with local industry.
diversification away from reliance on oil highlighted in the Australian Defence White In Malaysia, we are a supplier to the armed continues to shape our activities in support Paper, the government indicated itsintent forces, both directly and through joint ofSaudi Arabias national objectives of togrow defence spending by committing to ventures.
We have set up a Global Engineering technology development, local skills, and the spend 2% of GDP by 2020 21.
As part of Centre in Kuala Lumpur focusing on local development of indigenous defence industry thiscommitment, the government has made delivery and global support of our cyber and and capability.
Through the restructuring clear its objective to build a stronger and financial crime detection services.
ofthe Groups portfolio of interests in a moresustainable domestic defence industry, number of industrial companies, building We have signed a contract to provide Typhoon ensuring that overtime the nation has in place onour stronghistory in Saudi Arabia, we aircraft to Qatar, subject to financing conditions a sovereign industrial base that has the skills, areworking in partnership to deliver these and receipt by the Group of first payment.
We knowledge and capability to manage and priorities and we have commenced discussions provide support to Typhoon and Hawk aircraft support the platforms and systems it has with thenew Saudi Arabian Military Industries and naval vessels supplied to Oman.
SAMI organisation to explore how we can In 2017, we signed a contract to collaborate collaborate to deliver further In-Kingdom We are well positioned to support Australias on the first development phase ofan Industrial Participation.
initiative for growing domestic capabilities, indigenous fifth-generation fighter jet, through an established business and a We remain well placed as a leading TF-X, for the Turkish Air Force.
Our footprint workforce based at more than 25 sites across in-countrycontractor in support of air inTurkey is growing through our armoured the country, in addition to our ability to defenceplatforms and training systems combat vehicles joint venture, FNSS.
leverage our international positions within fortheRoyal Saudi Air Force, as well as We have a strong presence in Sweden theGroup.
support for mine countermeasure vessels throughour BAE Systems Hgglunds business forthe Royal Saudi Naval Forces.
We provide support to the Australian supplying and supporting tracked vehicles DefenceForce through engineering, forinternational customers.
programme management and sustainment Our US businesses export combat vehicles solutions, including Jindalee Operational tointernational customers, including Brazil RadarNetwork upgrade, Hawk Lead-In andJapan.
Fightersupport, F-35 Lightning II sustainment, and Anzac frigate support and upgrade.
In India, we have long-established relationships with local industry partners.
We have a strong partnership with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited on Hawk aircraft and, more recently, with Mahindra Defence Services on M777 howitzers.
Through our shareholding in MBDA, our position in the missiles and missile systems market continues to grow in European and other international markets.
