BAE Systems 36 Annual Report 2017 Segmental review Electronic Systems Electronic Systems comprises the USand UK-based electronics activities, including electronic warfare systems, electro-optical sensors, military and commercial digital engine and flight controls, precision guidance and seeker solutions, next-generation military communications systems and data links, persistent surveillance capabilities, and hybrid electric drive systems.
Electronic Combat includes the Integrated C4ISR Systems addresses the market for Our strategy in action Electronic Warfare, Low Observable Tactical actionable intelligence through innovative First flights of our new Aircraft Electronic Warfare and Tactical Aircraft technical solutions for airborne persistent Electronic Warfare product lines.
The business surveillance, identification systems, signals Head-Up Display provides a depth of capability in integrated intelligence, underwater and surface warfare Our LiteHUD Head-Up Display HUD electronic warfare systems for airborne solutions, and space products.
tookto the skies for its first flights in 2017, applications, including electronic support, Controls & Avionics addresses the marking a significant milestone for both electronic attack and electronic protection commercialand military aircraft electronics the technology and the programme.
markets, including fly-by-wire flight controls, A HUD is a see-through display that Survivability, Targeting & Sensing exploits full authority digital engine controls, flight seamlessly presents flight-critical theelectro-optical and infrared spectrum deck systems, cabin management systems information directly in a pilots line of sight toprovide leading threat warning and andmission computers.
without obstructing views of the outside  systems, precision Power & Propulsion Solutions delivers world.
We began funding the development guidance and seeker solutions, advanced electricpropulsion and power management of LiteHUD more than two years ago targeting solutions, head-up displays and performance, with innovative products andwe are confident that customers will state-of-the-art tactical imaging systems.
andsolutions that advance vehicle mobility, benefit from its next-generation display efficiency and capability in the transit, capability at an off-the-shelf price.
military, marine and rail markets.
Designed using our patented optical waveguide technology, LiteHUD is 60%smaller and up to 50% lighter than conventional head-up displays.
The system enhances situational awareness in day and night conditions, significantly improving flight safety and reducing pilot fatigue.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 37 Alternative performance 06 measure definitions Operational and Financial performance strategichighlights Financial performance measures Financial performance 2 Orders worth over $450m 333m asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS received for F-35 Lightning II hardware 2017 2016 2017 2016 production andsupport Sales KPI 3,635m 3,282m Revenue 3,635m 3,282m Invested more than $100m 74m Underlying EBITA KPI 562m 494m Operating profit 542m 474m inourRamp to Rate initiative to Return on sales 15.5% 15.1% Return on revenue 14.9% 14.4% preparethebusiness for future Operating business Cash flow from  KPI cash flow 450m 469m operating activities 569m 568m Received a $311m 230m contract to 1 Order intake KPI 4,175m 3,322m provide the Digital Electronic Warfare 1 Order backlog 5.4bn 5.2bn System DEWS to support the sale of newaircraft to an international customer Sales compared with 2016 were up Cash conversion of underlying EBITA Growing demand for APKWS 5%at$4.7bn 3.6bn.
The growth forthefull year was at 85% 2016 97%, laser-guided rockets, with awards cameinthe electronic warfare business excluding pension deficit funding.
 $300m from theF-35 Lightning II and DEWS 222m during the year Order backlog was at a record high of programmes, as well as increasing Head-Up Display selected $7.3bn 5.4bn following further awards LiteHUD classifiedactivity.
Volumes of the bycritical launch customers, with forF-35 Lightning II systems, classified APKWS product almost doubled over firstflights in 2017 Electronic Warfare activityand APKWS theyear and now represent one of product.
The FADEC Alliance joint venture thetopfive sales lines.
transitioned to Full-Rate Production of The return on sales achieved of 15.5% thefull authority digital engine control 201615.1% reflects continued strong forthe LEAP commercial aircraft engine programme execution and risk retirement.
Major milestone achieved with the delivery of our 8,000th hybrid-electric system 1.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Sales by domain % Sales by line of business % Sales analysis: Defence and commercial % Controls & Avionics Land Electronic Power & Propulsion Commercial Air Combat Defence Solutions 16% 2 2% 81% 30% 78% Maritime 25% 3% C4ISR Survivability, Systems Targeting & Sensing 27% 18% BAE Systems 38 Annual Report 2017 Segmental review Electronic Systems Production of our sensor technology for the Operational performance The US Armys Family of Weapon Sights Long Range Anti-Ship Missile has commenced Crew Served programme completed its Electronic Combat following a $40m 30m order from prime System Critical Design Review during the BAE Systems has sustained its leadership contractor Lockheed Martin.
This seven-year contract awarded position in the US electronic warfare market sensor technology that supported a successful in2016has a potential valueof up to and production is ramping up across a launch of the missile, demonstrating its ability $384m 284m.
numberof programmes, some of which to address the US Navys requirement for areclassified.
The LiteHUD Head-Up Display has been versatile, multi-platform precision munitions selected by critical launch customers for Low-Rate Initial Production LRIP hardware that enabledistributed operations.
In 2017, deliveries for the F-35 Lightning II programme For over a decade, we have provided full ithadits first flights on a C-130J aircraft, continue with Lot 10 and 11 deliveries.
We lifecycle support as the prime mission system aTextron Scorpion jet and our advanced have received initial Lot 12 funding, with an integrator for the US Air Forces EC-130H Hawkdemonstrator aircraft.
anticipated final award value in excess of Compass Call stand-off electronic attack $300m 222m, and a Request for Proposal In December, the US Department of Defense platform.
We are under contract to cross-deck fora potential block buy encompassing announced that we were awarded a contract the mission electronics onto a new Gulfstream multiple lots.
by the US Army for the Limited Interim Missile G550 business jet for the US Air Force.
BAE Systems reached a price agreement BAE Systems will continue to sustain the withLockheed Martin on a $155m 115m existing EC-130H electronics as we develop, C4ISR Systems Electronic Warfare Performance Based manufacture, procure, integrate and sustain In September, the Communications & Logistics contract.
The award provides the electronics.
The programme could be Navigation Solutions product line joined the Electronic Warfare material availability worth more than $2.0bn 1.5bn over the Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance andsupport for the F-35 Lightning II next decade.
business toform a new C4ISR Systems aircraftover a five-year period.
business that spans the entire mission Due to the sensitive nature of electronic lifecycle sensing, processing, exploitation The business is under contracts from Boeing combat systems and technology, many of anddissemination.
and Warner Robins Air Logistics Complex, ourprogrammes are classified.
As a world totalling more than $1.0bn 0.7bn, to install leader in electronic warfare, we continue As a leading provider of space-qualified the Digital Electronic Warfare System on toexperience growth in these increasingly subsystems and components, we continue to selectnew F-15 aircraft, upgrade existing important areas.
experience growth in the areas of integrated F-15aircraft, and to provide spare units and on-board processors, reconfigurable processing Survivability, Targeting & Sensing modules for an international customer.
The payloads and secure communications.
Our Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System programme remains on schedule.
BAE Systems APKWS laser-guided rocket is experiencing We have been awarded an $81m 60m has also received a $311m 230m contract to growing demand, with over 13,000 units contract for the Network Tactical Common provide the Digital Electronic Warfare System delivered as at 31 December 2017.
In addition Data Link programme to provide the US Navy to support the sale of new F-15 aircraft to to expanding its use in the US military, the with the ability to simultaneously transmit another international customer.
system is generating strong international andreceive real-time intelligence, surveillance Following our selection by Boeing in 2015 to attention, with 19 nations expressing interest.
and reconnaissance data over multiple data develop and manufacture the next-generation The programme received awards totalling links with a system to be fielded on various digital electronic warfare system for the approximately $300m 222m during the year.
USAirForces Eagle Passive Active Warning We continue to execute on the Terminal Since winning the Geospatial Data Services Survivability System programme to upgrade High-Altitude Area Defence programme.
Foundational GEOINT Content Management up to 400 F-15 aircraft, we are currently Wehave received a $30m 22m production programme in 2014, we have been awarded executing the $161m 119m engineering contract for long-lead material on Lots 9 and orders valued at $214m 158m.
The business andmanufacturing development contract.
10, and anticipate that additional units will is meeting all delivery requirements in assisting Theprogramme could be worth more than beadded in response to increasing demand.
US intelligence community customers with the $1.0bn 0.7bn over its life.
development of advanced geospatial intelligence On the $236m 174m Common Missile We have been awarded $87m 64m worth data collection and processing solutions.
Warning System programme, we continue of modifications to a competitively awarded todeliver to schedule.
As a provider of signals intelligence capabilities, contract for an electronic warfare system for we are executing the $132m 98m Tactical Under the five-year, $434m 321m the US Air Force Special Operations Commands Signals Intelligence Payloads programme for EnhancedNight Vision Goggle III and fleet of C-130J aircraft.
The total value of the the US Armys Gray Eagle unmanned aircraft.
FamilyofWeapon Sights Individual contract, including all options, could exceed IndefiniteDelivery, Indefinite Quantity $300m 222m.
This award extends our contract, we continued to progress the position to include ourelectronic warfare production qualification testing.
capabilities on large, fixed-wing aircraft.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 39 Looking forward Forward-looking information for the Electronic Systems reporting segment isprovided later in this report.
Re-presentation Segmental 56 58 of 2017 results looking forward Work continues on the US Navys P-8A Poseidon maritime surveillance aircraft programme to provide state-of-the-art processing capabilities.
The programme isexpected to be worth $1.2bn 0.9bn overits life.
Controls & Avionics BAE Systems is a major supplier of engine controls, flight controls, and cabin and flight deck systems.
The development of the integrated flight control electronics and remote electronic units for Boeings next-generation 777X aircraft remains on schedule, with all hardware in qualification and systems integration testing progressing to plan.
On the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, a successfulfirst flight was completed on theMAX 9 with ourspoiler controls, flight deck systems andutilities electronics.
Our strategy in action The development of our civil active inceptors We are developing technology for the isprogressing, with Gulfstream G500 and Unmanned air USDefense Advanced Research Projects Embraer KC390 aircraft continuing flight Agency DARPA that will enable unmanned testswith positive pilot feedback.
A derivative systems adaptability air systems to conduct multiple missions.
of the civil inceptors for the Boeing CH-47 TheCONverged Collaborative Elements for Chinook helicopter, LinkEdge Active Parallel and mission RF Task Operations or CONCERTO Actuation Subsystem, has successfully programme is creating single, multi-function completed its Preliminary Design Review.
efficiency payloads that adapt to changing battlefield situations and mission needs in real time.
FADEC Alliance, a joint venture between FADEC International our joint venture with These compact units will allow operators to Safran Electronics & Defense and GE Aviation, converge multiple radio frequency systems has transitioned the full authority digital on one payload that will efficiently switch engine control FADEC for the LEAP engine between intelligence, surveillance and toFull-Rate Production.
The LEAP engine reconnaissance: command and control: powers the Airbus A320neo, the Boeing 737 networking: and combat operations MAX and the Comac C919.
The development supportmissions without having to make of the FADEC for the GE9x engine for the physical changes.
Boeing 777X is onschedule, with certification planned for 2018.
Group strategic More online 18 framework baesystems.
com On the F-35 Lightning II programme, LRIP Lot11 is ongoing for the current vehicle management computer and active inceptor system equipment.
Orders for Lot 12 are Power & Propulsion Solutions expected in 2018.
With the transit bus market continuing itsshift towards more electric bus systems BAE Systems has been awarded a multitomeet emission targets and to satisfy an milliondollar contract to provide flight control  public, BAE Systems computers, active inceptors, accelerometers achieved a major milestone with the delivery and integrated colour display systems for ofits 8,000th hybrid-electric system.
Transit newTaiwanese Air Force training aircraft.
operators around the worldarelooking Theaward establishes ourfootprint on a forreliable, low-emission technologies and newplatform.
majorcities, such as Seattle, Boston, Quebec, London and Paris, are adopting our advanced hybrid solutions, which are capable of emission-free driving up to half of the time.
