BAE Systems 40 Annual Report 2017 Segmental review Cyber & Intelligence Cyber & Intelligence comprises the US-based Intelligence & Security business and UK-headquartered Applied Intelligence business, and covers the Groups cyber security, secure government, and commercial and financial security activities.
Intelligence & Security delivers a broad range Applied Intelligence provides data intelligence Our strategy in action of services to the US military and government.
solutions which enable governments and Providing anti-money commercial organisations to defend against Global Analysis & Operations provides national-scale threats, protect their networks laundering protection to one innovative, mission-enabling analytic solutions and data against sophisticated attacks and and support to the US government.
of the UKs largest banks operate successfully in cyberspace.
Its solutions Integrated Electronics & Warfare Systems are delivered as licensed technologies, BAE Systems Applied Intelligence has provides systems engineering, integration  subscriptions, through beenselected by one of the UKs largest andthrough-life support services for US outsourced managed services, and via banks as its preferred strategic vendor defence and coalition partner customers.
consulting and systems integration projects.
IT Solutions delivers secure solutions and UK Services delivers cyber security, data With laundered money now estimated to services that enable US national security analytics, and digital transformation consulting represent between 2% and 5% of global customers to perform mission-sensitive and systems integration services to national Gross Domestic Product equivalent to operations and protect their data and security, government and large enterprises in the fifth largest economy in the world networks.
money laundering schemes are becoming ever more complex, with commercial, International Services & Solutions provides retailand investment banks all becoming cyber intelligence and defence solutions to targets for fraudsters.
international government agencies and communications service providers.
The contract means this bank can use ourlatest cutting-edge technology to Commercial Solutions provides cyber defence, ensure criminals and money launderers counter-fraud and financial compliance areaccurately detected.
products to commercial organisations globally.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 41 Alternative performance 06 measure definitions Operational and Financial performance strategichighlights Financial performance measures Financial performance 2 asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS Intelligence & Security 2017 2016 2017 2016 Six task orders secured valued at more Sales KPI 1,820m 1,778m Revenue 1,820m 1,778m than$180m 133m for Full-Motion Underlying EBITA KPI 52m 90m Operating loss profit 367 m 59m VideoIntelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance analysis support Return on sales 2.9% 5.1% Return on revenue 20.2 % 3.3% Operating business Cash flow from Won a position on a US Department KPI cash flow 116m 83m operating activities 127m 106m ofTreasury programme to support 1 Order intake KPI 1,859m 1,885m theOffice of Terrorism and Financial 1 Order backlog 2.1bn 2.4bn Intelligence, with a maximum lifecycle value of $135m 100m Awarded three US Navy contracts In aggregate, sales were marginally of27m was followed by a reduced second withanestimated lifecycle value lowerat$2.3bn 1.8bn.
The Intelligence half loss, before the restructuring charge, ofapproximately $180m 133m to &Security business saw a 4% decrease of10m as the cost-reduction actions provideengineering andintegration largelyin the highly competitive area of underthe ongoing restructuring started support for critical missionsystems ITsupport services to the intelligence todeliver bottom-line benefit.
Growth in Applied Intelligence Selected by the US Navy to pursue orders There was an operating loss of 367m was at 6%, benefiting from increases in to provide equipment and support services 2016profit 59m, which includes a theUK Services and International Services for Space and Naval Warfare Systems 384mgoodwill impairment in Applied &Solutions divisions.
Center Atlantic Intelligence reflecting the future level Return on sales was 2.9% 2016 5.1%, andtiming of expected returns from Applied Intelligence aftera restructuring charge taken in the thebusiness.
Contracts won with UK government Applied Intelligence business.
Return on Cash conversion of underlying EBITA andcommercial customers for secure sales in the Intelligence & Security business fortheyear was in excess of 100%.
was similar to last year at 8.8%.
In Applied ITtransformation and cyber defence Intelligence, the underlying loss for the Order backlog reduced marginally Restructuring activities under way, yearwas 61m, including 24m for the to$2.9bn 2.1bn.
including headcount and facility restructuring charge.
The first half loss reductionsand amove to a revised operating model, effective 1 January 2018, to drive profitable growth 1.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Sales by business % Sales analysis: Intelligence & Security % Sales analysis: Applied Intelligence % Applied Intelligence Global Analysis International Services IT Solutions Intelligence & Security & Operations & Solutions Commercial Solutions 20% 30% 7 0% 1 8% 21% 3 0% Government Government security security 99% 46% Commercial Commercial 1% 54% Integrated Electronics UK Services & Warfare Systems 49% 6 2% BAE Systems 42 Annual Report 2017 Segmental review Cyber & Intelligence Operational performance Intelligence & Security Global Analysis & Operations We are pursuing task orders under a new Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contractwith an estimated value of more than$400m 296m to expand our work inmotion-imagery analysis, analytic training, multi-media support and research for the USintelligence community.
During the year, the business secured six task order contracts valued at more than $180m 133m.
We won a position on a US Department of Treasury programme to support the Office ofTerrorism and Financial Intelligence.
The maximum lifecycle value of all task orders tobe awarded under the programme is estimated at $135m 100m.
Our strategy in action Integrated Electronics & Warfare Systems In October, our engineers achieved a The business is executing on the second year Upgrading significant milestone, successfully upgrading of a five-year, sole-source contract worth up to 1 the C4I capabilities of the 5,000th $368m 272m to provide systems engineering andsecuring mine-resistant tactical vehicle for US and services to the US Navys Strategic Systems allied forces.
The programme provides communications support for weapons systems on board The upgrades, which are performed at USOhio and UK Vanguard Class submarines, ourstate-of-the-art facility in Summerville, capabilities on as well as future Ohio Class replacement and South Carolina, US, enhance vehicle UK Dreadnought Class submarines.
communications systems, intercom systems, USArmy vehicles mobile network systems and soldier US Navy contract awards in the year include: protective systems on a variety of anew five-year, $42m 31m multiple-award Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected MRAP contract with the Naval Undersea Warfare vehicles, including the MRAP All-Terrain Center Division to install submarine multiVehicle M-ATV, MaxxPro Dash and mission trainer systems at bases in the US, RG-31platforms.
Guam and Australia: a 22-month, $76m 56m contract to support the rapid design, This important milestone comes as the development, fabrication, customisation and USArmy seeks to improve the mission lifecycle maintenance of new and existing capabilities of its tactical vehicle fleet and communication and electronic platforms for enhance situational awareness for soldiers.
the Naval Warfare Center Aircraft Division: and a five-year, $64m 47m contract to provide Group strategic More online 18 framework baesystems.
com lifecycle systems engineering and technical support for avarietyof deployed systems that ensure operational readiness of the fleet.
In addition, the US Navy awarded BAE Systems a position on a five-year Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contract to provide research, development, test and evaluation services support for the Naval Warfare Center Aircraft Divisions Aircraft Prototype Systems Division.
The potential lifecycle value of all taskorders under this contract across the eightawardees could reach $487m 360m.
Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 43 Looking forward Forward-looking information for the Cyber &Intelligence reporting segment isprovided later in this report.
Re-presentation Segmental 56 58 of 2017 results looking forward Organisational changes The US Navy has also selected BAE Systems We are continuing to renew existing long-term Effective 12 February 2018, the business moved toprovide equipment and support services customer contracts where we deploy a to a revised operating model to position for forSpace and Naval Warfare Systems Center comprehensive portfolio of products.
Provision growth through three customer-focused Atlantic.
As one of several companies involved, of our anti-fraud and anti-money laundering business areas: Integrated Defence Solutions: we will pursue future orders as part of this capabilities continues to see demand with Intelligence Solutions: and Air Force Solutions.
five-year, Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite financial services customers.
The total value of all orders Applied Intelligence Organisational changes to be awarded over the life of the contract is The business has delivered revenue growth In the second half of the year, the business estimated at $180m 133m.
from the continued delivery of national commenced a restructuring that resulted security solutions for the UK and international On the US Air Force Intercontinental Ballistic inaheadcount reduction and, effective governments, as well as deployment of Missile Integration Support Contractor 1January 2018, the business movedto a anti-fraud, regulatory compliance, and programme, we were awarded over $29m revised operating model to deliver a more cybersecurity products and services to 21m of additional engineering change targeted portfolio of products and services commercial customers.
proposals in 2017, raising the total lifecycle focused on customers within three core value of the contract to $922m 682m.
business units: Government: Financial UK Services Ourwork includes programme management, Services:and Technology & Commercial.
The business continues to invest in engineering systems sustainment, and cybersecurity Therestructuring will enable a greater focus disciplines and specialist expertise in the assessment and defence.
oncustomer needs and higher levels of cyber, digital and data domains to support operational efficiency, in the commercial ourcustomers in national security intelligence, We continue to pursue task orders on business, that will accelerate improvements national-scale cyber defence, commercial anine-year Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite incompetitiveness and profitability.
cyber security and regulatory compliance.
Quantity contract to support the US Army indeveloping next-generation technologies We have won a number of contracts with for space, high-altitude and missile defence.
both UK government and commercial enterprises, helping our customers to IT Solutions maximise the benefits of secure IT Our contract to connect a number of US transformation and cyber defence.
agencies under one shared IT environment passed significant security testing and was International Services & Solutions authorised for adoption into the government The business was underpinned by significant IT infrastructure.
Although we executed on demand for our national-scale cyber defence our task orders and provided IT services to capabilities.
We continue to work with key foster greater systems integration and national security customers in Asia-Pacific information sharing for the intelligence andthe Middle East.
Our technical capability community, we have been advised that in multi-source intelligence analytics has futurecontract options will not be exercised advanced significantly.
In order to improve asthe government reassesses its acquisition thecost competitiveness of our engineering, strategy in favour of a more federated desktop we are continuing to expand our off-shore approach.
We therefore do not anticipate service operations and delivery centres.
anyfuture awards beyond the $164m 121m of funding to date.
Commercial Solutions We have a focused set of cyber security, Our business was awarded a contract anti-fraud and regulatory compliance solutions.
increaseof $160m 118m to extend the period of performance of a major software We continue to see demand for our development and IT support contract for NetReveal anti-fraud and compliance suite, aUSintelligence community customer.
with solutions being deployed to an increasing number of prominent multi-national customers We received a five-year, $41m 30m in the financial services sector.
Customers are contractwith the US Department of increasingly consuming these solutions as Homeland Security, National Protection and multi-year managed services.
Programs Directorate to provide data analytics, risk scoring and systems engineering support, as well as cyber security assessment, governance and training to ensure all federal civilian agencies are in compliance with government cyber security regulations.
