Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators Focusing on PROFITABLE GROWTH We monitor progress against the delivery of our Adjusted operating margin strategic goals using five financial and two non-financial key performance indicators KPIs.
Adjusted operating Each KPI measures certain elements of the strategy, margin % as indicated by the relevant strategy icons see page 8.
An element of the Executive Directors Adjusted operating margin is a measure of improving remuneration is linked to two KPIs: adjusted profitability in our business and earnings per share growth and economic profit.
is defined as adjusted operating Our strategy focuses on profitable growth that is sustainable over profit as a percentage of the medium to long term and therefore we consider how we have reported sales.
Adjusted performed over a number of years, showing the KPIs for the last operating profit excludes five years.
A number of the KPIs are adjusted operating metrics as we believe Performance these are the primary indicator of the performance of the business 13 14 15 16 17 Adjusted operating margin as they exclude foreign exchange movements and the impact was 14.7%, representing of acquisitions and disposals.
See Note 2 to the Financial a decrease of 0.2pp over Objective Statements, page 103, for a reconciliation between adjusted the prior year, primarily Our aim is to achieve a and reported items.
reflecting the costs of the mid-teens adjusted Even in years where like-for-like sales growth has been low, the Project Uplift programme.
operating margin on average Group has maintained an operating margin in the mid-teens and throughout the cycle.
delivered good cash conversion of operating profit.
The Group has also generated significant economic profit throughout the period.
See pages 2832 for Financial measures more information Like-for-like sales growth Adjusted earnings per share growth LFL sales growth % Growth in adjusted EPS % Adjusted earnings per share LFL sales growth is a measure EPS is the ratio of adjusted of how our R&D and other earnings for the year to the investments help to grow weighted average number of our business organically, ordinary shares outstanding i. e. excluding the effects of during the year, excluding currency translation and certain items.
Performance Performance Adjusted EPS was 145.1p, a 14% Sales were 1,525.6 million increase year-on-year, reflecting in 2017, a 6% increase on a 13 14 15 16 17 a 12% increase in adjusted profit 13 14 15 16 17 LFL basis compared with 2016. before tax, a lower effective tax LFL sales increased across all four Objective rate and an increase in the Objective segments and all key regions.
Our aim is to achieve weighted average number Our aim is to achieve year-on-year growth in of shares.
Link to remuneration EPS performance is one of the criteria for the Performance Share See pages 2832 for See pages 2832 for more information Plan award.
See page 76 for more information more information.
18 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 0 2 0 2 6 2 17.9 6 16.9 8 15.2 12 14.9 14 14.7 Strategic priorities: Innovative solutions Market presenceExpanding globally Operational excellence Capital deployment Non-financial measures Cash conversion Energy efficiency Cash conversion % MWh per m revenue We focus on cash generation and Energy efficiency makes a use cash conversion as a KPI as significant contribution to we believe cash represents an environmental sustainability effective measure of the quality and helps us to reduce our of our earnings.
is defined as adjusted operating Performance cash flow as a percentage of Energy efficiency, measured in adjusted operating profit.
MWh per m revenue, was 67.2 Performance in 2017.
This represents an Cash conversion was 75%, a improvement of 2% compared 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 decrease of 38pp over the prior with the prior year.
This was primarily due to Objective Objective the planned increase in capital Our aim is to deliver high We monitor our use of key expenditure following the first cash conversion of operating sources of energy electricity, full year of the inclusion of the profit in each financial year.
gas, oil and steam with the Millbrook business and higher aim of reducing our carbon working capital in line with the emissions and improving improved trading performance.
See pages 2832 for See pages 4045 for more information more information Economic profit Accident incidence rate Three-year aggregate Reportable accidents economic profit m per 1,000 employees Economic profit is the annual We are committed to ensuring result derived from deducting a the health, safety and well-being capital charge applied to average of our people and monitor how capital employed from adjusted we are performing by measuring operating profit, aggregated over work-related accidents or ill a three-year period.
health resulting in lost time in excess of one day years prior to Performance 2017, three days.
Three-year aggregated economic profit was 163.2 million, Performance 13 14 15 16 17 representing an increase There were 5.3 reportable 13 14 15 16 17 on the prior year.
Objective This has increased year-on-year Objective Link to remuneration Our aim is to reduce due to the Group now reporting Our aim is to maintain a accidents and injuries at our Economic profit is one of the all accidents resulting in one day positive result over the criteria for the Performance Share sites to as low a level as or more absent from work rather three-year period.
See page 76 for than three days.
