Strategic Report Market Review UNDERSTANDING our markets We serve a broad spectrum of blue-chip customers across key manufacturing industries around the world.
Whilst our principal aim is to enhance our customers productivity, we are seeing a number of specific demand drivers and growth themes across these industries, which are summarised below.
Demand drivers Electric, hybrid and autonomous vehicles Biopharmaceuticals The prevalence of electric EV and hybrid vehicles has increased Biopharmaceuticals are the fastest-growing part of the pharma dramatically in recent years as the cost of the EV powertrain has industry as companies invest in new therapies that allow previously become more competitive, emissions regulations become more untreatable conditions to be addressed, offering higher efficacy and stringent and consumer attitudes undergo rapid change.
This growth is expected to continue for the is set to continue, further helped by government incentives and foreseeable future.
Many large pharmaceutical companies are subsidies and by the automotive OEMs who are looking to extend shifting their presence to biopharma, whilst endeavouring to the range of models they offer.
The current hybrid and electric car maintain competitiveness through affordability, quality and delivery stock now stands at over 2 million and the International Energy performance.
In generics, India and China have seen substantial Agency predicts that this will increase to 920 million by 2020. growth as household disposable income increases and there is now a drive to improve quality and standards in these regions.
R&D by the automotive OEMs has therefore been critical and spend has increased, focused on continuing technology improvements to Generally, the industry is under increasing pressure to ensure further enhance performance and narrow the cost competitiveness therapies are delivered rapidly yet safely.
Regulation is increasing, gap with petrol and diesel vehicles.
Similarly with autonomous cars, with manufacturers required to demonstrate compliance with, for although full driverless technology is still at an advanced testing example, the US Food and Drug Administration, and show that stage, it, too, is attracting notable investment.
their production processes and data collection systems meet Good Manufacturing Practice standards.
Our expertise in propulsion, durability, refinement and safety within the automotive space means we can deploy our hardware, We see increasing opportunities for our analysis systems for product software and services to provide solutions to the automotive OEMs purity and stability as well as quality control systems to enable and benefit from this trend for example, our automotive testing manufacturers to meet regulatory requirements and mitigate risks services support new product development: with significantly lower early on in development, accelerating time to market and noise emissions, our noise, vibration and harshness solutions can minimising costs.
represent a key competitive advantage to vehicle manufacturers and our torque measurement capability can be deployed in Energy determining EV mechanical efficiency and power distribution.
We Global commodity markets have seen a wide swing in prices over are also involved in the development and testing of autonomous the past five years which has put pressure on producers to reduce and connected vehicles.
capital investment, focus on productivity and dedicate spend to more cost-effective projects.
Energy prices have now stabilised, Regulation and compliance which has renewed confidence in the market and led to selected Regulation is increasing in many markets, particularly the upgrades and new-build projects going ahead, after being pharmaceutical, automotive and energy sectors, with an increasing postponed or cancelled while prices fluctuated.
emphasis on compliance and particular attention given to data Alongside this, non-fossil fuel energy sources such as wind are integrity.
In the automotive industry, stricter emissions testing and seeing major investment.
Renewable energy accounted for safety requirements are resulting in greater testing and validation two-thirds of new power added to the world's grids in 2016, during product development, both in the laboratory and in with solar power the fastest-growing source of new energy.
This leads to new equipment Technological advances in materials, cheaper storage and smarter purchases as manufacturers upgrade their capabilities and grids are driving this efficiency.
An increasing focus on air quality is also greater use of independent testing, validation and also resulting in greater investment in electric and hybrid vehicle assurance services.
development, as well as reducing industrial emissions.
Meeting increasing environmental regulations is also required We are seeing increasing demand for a number of our solutions in in a number of process industries, such as petrochemicals, where this area: microseismic monitoring: gas analysis products for customers need to ensure the safe running of their processes and refining and production of chemicals, petrochemicals, natural gas reduce emissions.
We already provide a number of products which and fuels: systems for analysis of new materials: wind turbine and help customers to meet regulations and are growing our services hydropower condition monitoring systems: battery testing systems business to enable customers to demonstrate compliance.
See pages 2027 for more detail on the operating companies customer offerings 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Demand drivers in our end markets Pharmaceuticals & fine chemicals Increased investment in biopharmaceuticals and biosimilar product development Rising demand for access to healthcare alongside a drive to improve quality standards in emerging markets Increasing regulatory scrutiny 13% and requirements for sterility Other assurance Including machine building 28% and distribution 12% Automotive Sales by Aerospace & defence Hybrid, electric and Aerospace development autonomous vehicle end-user projects developments Increased demand for Increased demand for industry % 4% 11% engineering software engineering software and noise, vibration and High value asset monitoring: harshness simulation life durability prediction 7% High-value asset Academic research monitoring: life durability 9% 7% prediction Availability of publicly-funded 9% research budgets Balance of R&D undertaken in-house versus outsourced to universities research centres Semicon, telecoms & electronics Pulp, paper & tissue Demand for consumer electronics, IIoT and Growth in tissue autonomous vehicles driving consumption from semiconductor growth emerging markets Growth in telecoms driven by Online shopping driving Energy & utilities Metals, minerals & new product development packaging demand Improving global oil and gas mining Growth in use of industrial Graphic paper market in markets, though industry Improving global mining connectivity solutions structural decline greenfield capex growth market as prices recover still modest Focus on productivity Growth in wind energy improvements capacity Growth in aftermarket Growth in use of industrial sales and equipment connectivity solutions replacement cycle Spectris plc 15
