BAE Systems 58 Annual Report 2017 Segmental looking forward Effective 1 January 2018, BAE Systems has five principal reportingsegments, Electronic Systems, Cyber & Intelligence, Platforms & Services US, Air and Maritime, which align withthestrategic direction of the Group.
Alternative performance Our 06 19 measure definitions markets Electronic Systems Cyber & Intelligence 1 2017 sales Sales by reporting segment for the year ended 31 December 2017 as re-presented to reflect the organisational structure effective from 1 January 2018 and the impact of the transition to IFRS 15 are asfollows: E A Electronic Systems comprises Cyber & Intelligence comprises the theUS and UK-based electronics US-based Intelligence & Security activities, including electronic business and UK-headquartered B warfare systems, electro-optical Applied Intelligence business, and sensors, military and commercial covers the Groups cyber security, digital engine and flight controls, secure government, and commercial D C precision guidance and seeker and financial security activities.
solutions, next-generation military Intelligence & Security A Electronic Systems 19% communications systems and The outlook for the US government services B Cyber & Intelligence 10% datalinks, persistent surveillance sector is stable, although market conditions C Platforms & Services US 16% remain highly competitive and continue capabilities, and hybrid electric D Air 39% toevolve.
Whilst the governments decision not to Electronic Systems is well positioned to address 2 exercise future options on our contract to 2017 underlying EBITA current and evolving priority programmes develop a shared IT environment for US Underlying EBITA by reporting segment from its strong franchise positions in agencies could impact revenue in 2018, the for the year ended 31 December 2017 as electronic warfare, precision guidance and shift in the governments IT strategy could re-presented to reflect the organisational seeker solutions.
Electronic Systems has a present new opportunities for the business.
structure effective from 1 January 2018 long-standing programme of research and With effect from 12 February 2018, the and the impact of the transition to development, and its focus remains on business has restructured to better align with IFRS15 is as follows: maintaining a diverse portfolio of defence its customer base and position the business and commercial products and capabilities E to more effectively compete and grow in forUS and international customers.
A critical, mission-focused areas with three The business expects to benefit from its business areas: Integrated Defence Solutions: ability to apply innovative technology solutions Intelligence Solutions: and Air Force Solutions.
that meet defence customers changing Applied Intelligence requirements.
That, along with strong B programme positions, particularly on F-35 With effect from 1 January 2018, the Applied Lightning II and F-15 upgrades, and specific Intelligence business has restructured to focus C D products such as APKWS, position the on a more targeted portfolio of products and business well for the medium term.
services, delivering for customers within three core business units: Government: Financial In the commercial aviation market, Electronic Services: and Technology & Commercial.
A Electronic Systems 26% Systems technology innovations are enabling Therestructuring will enable a greater focus B Cyber & Intelligence 3% the business to maintain its long-standing on customer needs and higher levels of C Platforms & Services US 12% customer positions and to compete for, operational efficiency, in the commercial D Air 47% andwin, new business.
business, that will accelerate improvements E Maritime 12% in competitiveness and profitability.
Sales growth is expected to continue as cyber security is an increasingly important 1.
R evenue plus the Groups share of revenue of equity part of government security and a core accounted investments.
Operating profit excluding amortisation and element of stewardship for commercial impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and enterprises in a sophisticated and persistent taxation expense of equity accounted investments threat environment.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 59 US defence budget Whilst we continue to operate under a Continuing Resolution, the bipartisan budget agreement passed on 9 February 2018 wouldincreasetheUS defence budget by approximately 10% over current levels, reflecting continued growth in defence spending to$700bn 518bn for the fiscal year ending 30 September 2018.
This budget agreement increases the budget caps for two years andextendsthe Continuing Resolution to 23 March 2018 to allow lawmakers to pass a 2018 spending bill.
Platforms & Services US Air Maritime Platforms & Services US, with Air comprises the Groups UK-based Maritime comprises the operations in the US, UK and air activities for European and GroupsUK-based maritime Sweden, manufactures combat International markets and US andland activities.
vehicles, weapons and munitions, Programmes and its businesses in Maritime and delivers services and Saudi Arabia and Australia, together In Maritime, there remains pressure on sustainment activities, including with its 37.5% interest in the theNavys near-term budgets and a highly-competitive environment in ship ship repair and the management pan-European MBDA joint venture.
of government-owned In the UK, as current export contracts for Within submarines, the business is executing munitionsfacilities.
Typhoon and Hawk complete, and UK on the Astute Class programme, with four Tornado support ends, sales are underpinned boats still in build.
On the Dreadnought The land vehicles business is underpinned by by our workshare on Typhoon for Kuwait, programme, production on the first boat strong positions on key franchise programmes.
Typhoon and Hawk support, and F-35 offour commenced in2016.
Investment These include the US Armys Armored Lightning II production and support.
UK-based continues in the Barrowfacilities to provide Multi-Purpose Vehicle, M109A7 self-propelled production of rear fuselage assemblies for the capability onthese long-term howitzer and Bradley upgrade programmes, F-35 Lightning II will increase over the next programmes through thenext decade.
and the CV90 and BvS10 export programmes three years to reach its expected peak rate from our BAE Systems Hgglunds business.
In shipbuilding, sales are underpinned by the for the next decade.
Weplay a significant contracts to manufacture the Queen Elizabeth role in the F-35 Lightning II sustainment The business continues to pursue a range Class aircraft carriers, Type 26 frigates and programme in support of Lockheed Martin.
ofdomestic and international opportunities River Class Offshore Patrol Vessels.
in combat and amphibious vehicles as well Discussions continue with current and asweapon systems.
The through-life support of surface ship prospective operators on contract awards platforms provides a sustainable business forTyphoon and Hawk, and wecontinue FNSS has grown its order book with both intechnical services and mid-life upgrades.
todevelop long-standing international domestic and international orders.
partnerships in the air domain, maintaining These long-term contracts and our franchise Land UK our skills and capabilities.
position in tracked vehicles, which offer The Land UK business continues to deliver The UK and Saudi support operations are opportunities in international markets, make support to armoured vehicle and bridging underpinned by long-term contracts.
In Saudi the land business well placed for growth in systems in UK and international markets, Arabia, the In-Kingdom Industrial Participation the medium term.
munitions under the 15-year Munitions programme continues to make good progress Acquisition Supply Solution partnering In the maritime domain, the Group has a consistent with our long-term strategy, as well agreement secured in 2008 and 40mm strong position on naval gun programmes as the Saudi Arabian governments National cased-telescopic cannons for the UK and and US Navy ship repair.
Additional dry dock Transformation Plan and Vision 2030.
ship repair capacity has been established in In Australia, the business is structured San Diego to support the US Navys increased aroundlong-term sustainment and upgrade requirements in the Asia-Pacific region.
activities, and we are progressing significant The Group remains a leading provider of opportunities with the Australian government gunsystems and precision strike capabilities in the maritime and land domains.
and, in the complex ordnance manufacturing MBDA has a strong order book which is business, we continue to manage the driving increasing production and sales.
USArmys Radford and Holston munitions Development programmes continue to facilities under long-term contracts.
improve the long-term capabilities of thebusiness.
