Directors Report This section sets out the information required to be disclosed by the Company and the Group in the Directors Report in compliance with the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
Certain matters that would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors Report have been reported elsewhere in this Annual Report.
This report should therefore be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 47 and the Corporate Governance Report on pages 48 to 83 which are incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
The Strategic Report and this Directors' Report, together with other sections of this Annual Report including the Corporate Governance Report on pages 48 to 83 incorporated by reference, when taken as a whole, form the Management Report as required under Rule 4.1.
Overview of the information required to be disclosed A summary of the information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report comprising pages 79 to 83 together with the relevant page reference is set out in the table below: Disclosure Reported in Page reference Acquisitions and disposals Strategic Report 30 Amendments of Articles of Association Directors Report 80 Annual General Meeting Directors Report 80 Appointment and removal of Directors Directors Report 80 Authority to allot shares Directors Report 81 Business model Strategic Report 67 Change in control Directors Report 80 Community and charitable giving Strategic Report 45 Corporate governance Corporate Governance Report 4883 Directors' conflicts of interest Directors' Report 80 Directors details Corporate Governance Report 5051 Directors indemnity Directors Report 80 Directors responsibility statement Directors Report 83 Disclosure of information to auditors Directors Report 82 Diversity, equality and inclusion Strategic Report 43 Employee engagement Strategic Report 44 Employees with disabilities Strategic Report 43 Employee equal opportunities Strategic Report 43 Employee involvement Strategic Report 43 Employee share plans Directors Report 81 Financial instruments Directors Report 81 Future developments and strategic priorities Strategic Report 89 Going concern Directors Report 81 Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic Report 41 Political donations Directors Report 81 Powers of Directors Directors Report 81 Principal risks and risk management Strategic Report 3338 Research and development activities Strategic Report 7 and 29 Restrictions on transfer of shares Directors Report 81 Restrictions on voting rights Directors Report 81 Results and dividends Strategic Report 132 Rights and obligations attaching to shares Directors Report 81 Share capital Directors Report 81 Substantial share interests Directors Report 82 Viability statement Strategic Report 39 Spectris plc 79 Governance Directors Report continued Results and dividends Change in control The results for the year are set out on pages 92 to 155.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or Adjusted operating profit for the year amounts to 223.5 million terminate upon a change of control of the Group following a 2016: 200.8 million.
takeover, such as bank loan agreements and Company share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their An interim dividend of 19.0 pence per share was paid on 10 potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
It is also November 2017 in respect of the half year ended 30 June 2017. possible that funding arrangements for the Groups defined benefit The Board is recommending a final dividend of 37.5 pence per pension arrangements would need to be enhanced following share, making the total dividend for the year of 56.5 pence per a change of control if that resulted in a weakening of the share 2016: 52.0 pence per share.
Dividend details are given in employer covenant.
Note 10 to the Financial Statements.
Subject to approval of shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the final The Company does not have any agreements with any Director that dividend will be paid on 29 June 2018 to those shareholders on the would provide for enhanced compensation for loss of office or register at 25 May 2018. employment following a takeover bid.
Articles of Association Articles Directors The Companys Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions Details of the Directors who served, were appointed and who regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating retired during the year are set out on pages 50 to 51 other than Dr to pre-emptive rights: the allotment of shares: and share buy-backs John Hughes who retired from the Board on 26 May 2017. of the Companys shares are also included in the Articles and such Directors are appointed and replaced in accordance with the authorities are renewed by shareholders each year at the Annual Articles, Companies Act, and the UK Corporate Governance Code General Meeting.
The Articles also give power to the Board to 2016.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and appoint and remove Directors and require Directors to submit the Companies Act.
themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting Directors conflicts of interest following their appointment and for annual re-election at subsequent AGMs.
The Articles may be amended by special The Board has an established process to review at least annually, resolution of the shareholders.
The Companys Articles are available and, if appropriate, authorise conflict or potential conflict of on the Companys website: www.
Any transactional conflicts are reviewed as they arise.
Directors are asked to review and confirm reported conflicts of Annual General Meeting AGM interest as part of the year-end process.
The AGM will be held at 12.30pm on Friday 25 May 2018 at Great Directors remuneration and interests Fosters, Stroude Road, Egham, Surrey TW20 9UR.
The notice of the AGM accompanies this Annual Report.
Details of Directors remuneration and their interest in the Companys shares can be found in the Directors Remuneration Auditors re-appointment and remuneration Report on pages 64 to 78.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act, a resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor is Directors and officers indemnities and to be proposed at the forthcoming 2018 AGM.
A further resolution insurance is to be proposed at that meeting to authorise the Directors to The Spectris Group maintains liability insurance for its Directors and agree the remuneration of the auditor.
The Directors, Company Secretary and members of the Executive Committee have also been granted a third-party Branches indemnity, under the Companies Act, which remains in force.
Spectris Group, through various subsidiaries, has established Neither the Companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover in branches in a number of different countries in which the the event that an indemnified individual is proved to have acted business operates.
80 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors powers Political donations Subject to the Companys Articles, UK legislation and any directions The Groups policy is not to make any political donations and none given by special resolution, the business of the Company is were made during the financial year 2016: nil.
managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Post balance sheet events Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in Note 34 to the Borrowing powers Financial Statements on page 141.
The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money.
Share capital The share capital of the Company comprises ordinary shares of Pre-emptive rights and new issues 5 pence each: each share carries the right to one vote at general Subject to the Articles and applicable laws and regulations, the meetings of the Company.
The authorised and issued share capital Directors may allot, grant options over, offer or otherwise deal with of the Company, together with movements in the Companys or dispose of shares of the Company to such persons at such times issued share capital during the year, is shown in Note 44 to the and generally on such terms and conditions as they may determine.
The Articles, available on the Companys website, contain provisions governing the ownership Share buy-backs and transfer of shares.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2017 AGM to purchase in the market up to 10% of the Companys issued Shareholders rights and obligations share capital, as permitted under the Companys Articles.
No shares attaching to shares were bought back under this authority during the year ended 31 December 2017.
Restrictions on shareholders rights On 19 February 2018, the Directors announced their intention to All of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of the Company undertake a 100 million on-market share buy-back programme.
have equal voting rights, with one vote per share.
There are no Shares purchased under this programme will be cancelled.
special control rights attaching to them.
This standard authority is renewable annually: the Directors will Alteration of share capital and variation of rights seek to renew this authority at the 2018 AGM.
It is the Companys The Company may reduce or vary the rights attaching to its share present intention to cancel any shares it buys back.
Such matters are subject to the relevant provisions of the Articles and applicable laws and Employee share plans regulation.
Further details in relation to rights and restrictions Details of employee share plans are set out in the Remuneration applying to the Companys shares are set out in the Articles.
Policy tables on pages 66 to 69.
Transfer of shares Financial instruments There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares beyond those Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives required by applicable law under the Articles or under any and policies, its exposure to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, applicable share dealing policy.
liquidity risk, credit risk and capital management is contained in Note 27 to the Financial Statements on pages 135 to 136.
Voting Subject to any special rights or restrictions, every shareholder on the Going concern and viability statements Register not less than 48 hours excluding non-working days Having reviewed the Groups plans and available financial facilities, before the time fixed for a general meeting, will have one vote for the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group has every fully-paid share that they hold.
Shareholders may cast votes adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at either personally or by proxy and a proxy need not be a least 12 months following the signing of the accounts.
Details relating to the appointment of proxies and reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing registration of voting instructions for the 2018 AGM are set out in the Groups accounts.
The Companys Viability Statement can be the Notice of AGM accompanying this Annual Report.
Related party transactions Related party transactions are set out in Note 32 to the Financial Statements on page 140.
Spectris plc 81 Governance Directors Report continued Substantial share interests As at 31 December 2017, the Company had received formal notifications of the following holdings in its ordinary shares in accordance with DTR5.
Percentage of issued Shareholding in share capital at date of Spectris shares Date of notification notification MFS Investment Management 12,039,317 05 11 2015 10.11% Fidelity Management & Research Company 6,403,655 23 11 2016 5.37% Oppenheimer Funds, Inc 6,031,367 04 08 2017 5.06% No changes in disclosable holdings under DTR5 have been notified to the Company between 31 December 2017 and 19 February 2018.
An updated list of the Company's major shareholders is available on page 156.
Treasury shares Shares held by the Company in treasury do not have voting rights and are not eligible to receive dividends.
Disclosures required under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4 There are no disclosures required to be made under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4 other than in respect of long-term incentive schemes, details of which are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 78.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors Report confirm that: so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information, which would be needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing its audit report, of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board Mark Serfz General Counsel and Company Secretary 19 February 2018 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Statement of Directors' responsibilities Directors responsibility statement in respect of the Annual Report and the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Financial Statements the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Directors' Remuneration Report and the Group and Parent Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law taken as a whole: and regulations.
the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 47 and the Directors' Report Under the Companies Act, the Directors are required to prepare the on pages 48 to 83 include a fair review of the development and Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance performance of the business and the position of the Group and with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS regulation and have together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties also elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements in that they face: and accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Under company law, the Directors are required to prepare such necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, Financial Statements for each financial year and must not approve business model and strategy.
the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved by Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
By order of the Board In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: John OHiggins Clive Watson select accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Chief Executive Group Finance Director 19 February 2018 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
