e r a e w r o C d r a H S o f t B u i Strategic Report Strategy in Action SOLUTIONS selling in action Providing our customers with solutions which combine our traditional hardware products with software and or services is becoming increasingly more important in our strategy.
Our aim is to further enhance our customer engagement by focusing on certain vertical markets where we have deep knowledge and expertise and can bring insight into their activities as they look to improve productivity and enhance returns.
Demand for a solutions-based approach is being driven by There is an increasing reliance on software which can automate the customer's activities, such as replacing some of the physical changing market forces and we see a number of key trends behind this.
testing that is undertaken, and this software capability is allowing more sophisticated analysis of the data being collected.
This is Amongst our customers there are fewer scientists and engineers transforming how customers think about their assets, their facilities as the existing employee population moves closer to retirement and their operations.
and fewer new scientists and engineers are entering the workforce.
This is leading to a fide-skilling of the workforce and also a Alongside this, there has been huge growth in technology in requirement for products and outputs to be simpler, despite the terms of connectivity: availability and speed have risen and the fact that technology is becoming more complex.
As a result, our cost has come down dramatically.
This is having an impact on customers are having to refocus their available resource and the industrial world, which opens up notable opportunities for the concentrate on core activities and, consequently, they are more sensing, connectivity and software and service capability that our willing to outsource some of their activities to trusted partners.
In an attempt also to preserve financial capital, companies are less We are looking to complement and supplement our instruments willing to dedicate capital expenditure to acquiring the instruments with software and services such as engineering software, test themselves.
They are more interested in acquiring the knowledge, service capability, process analytics software and diagnostic services.
data and insight provided by the hardware rather than the product We are positioning ourselves as a group to really benefit from these itself.
Therefore, buying this as a service and funding it as an trends and believe this puts us in an advantageous position to operating cost rather than on their balance sheet is more attractive.
deliver added value to our customers.
It is this data that is increasingly being recognised as having value by our customers.
The ability to measure and collect data is at the heart of any activity to monitor and improve industrial processes and productivity.
This data is translated into a format that enables more effective decision-making and automation optimisation.
Solutions selling 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 l w d a r e e c d i l i v u B r e S Contamination Data management Transmission control solutions solutions testing solutions In September, Particle Measuring Systems The effective use of modern data Volkswagen Group uses Brel & Kjrs formed a strategic partnership with management systems is giving progressive Discom noise, vibration and harshness Novatek International to provide a fully tissue producers a competitive edge, analysis software to test gears at the end integrated hardware and software solution bringing improved quality, higher of their production lines and also to test for cleanroom monitoring in the life productivity and lower raw material the completed transmissions.
gear and transmission production facility at Kassel, Germany, produces around Particle Measuring Systems Facility Pro A tissue paper producer in Spain, a 17,500 transmissions per day.
environmental monitoring system operates customer for BTGs Duroblade coating by communicating with cleanroom sensors, blades, is one of the first tissue mills in Testing is primarily focused on identifying including particle and microbial monitors, the world to be equipped with BTGs new durability issues and ensuring customer which are placed where product Yankee Performance Scorecard.
This data acceptance for ride quality and comfort.
contamination can occur during the aggregation and visualisation tool gives Durability issues in gears can lead to a manufacturing process.
The Novatek operators real-time decision making failure in an assembled transmission.
The software adds the next step to this system, support to improve the performance end-of-line transmission test simulates providing customers with the secure data and reliability of this critical part of the vehicle conditions so that any potential management they need to demonstrate tissue machine.
problems are identified early or even sterility assurance.
predicted and avoided entirely, minimising The system collects a discrete process costs and improving quality.
This integrated solution uses a risk-based data set and processes it according to environmental monitoring programme to calculations based on domain expertise The Discom database and associated tools help pharmaceutical manufacturers to and industry best practice to display in the system help develop predictions on visualise possible sources of contamination graphical performance information which tool wear.
The system uses a unique in their critical production processes and helps operators to make the correct USB-based data acquisition front end, correct potential problems before they process decisions.
The customer is seeing developed especially for Volkswagen, occur, thereby maintaining consistent benefits in terms of improved productivity and a significant number of features product quality and meeting increasingly and better quality.
Savings on plant which are now part of the standard stringent regulatory requirements.
downtime and plant cost efficiency are Discom system originated from already estimated at 95,000 per year.
