BAE Systems 26 Annual Report 2017 How our business works Our technology We leverage our technology and engineering capabilities and invest in research and development to deliver competitive solutions for our customers now and in the future.
1 Our investment Our approach Research and development expenditure Technology and innovation are central to our Our strategic thinking informs where we invest business: they underpin our strategy and the our research and development R&D funding development of our products and services.
This in turn helps us to secure 1.7bn customer funding from organisations such We scan emerging technologies from asthe UK Ministry of Defence, the Defense 2016 1.5bn aroundthe world to assess their potential for Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA application in defence and security.
We develop and the US military service laboratories to take embryonic technology before selecting the development of the technology to the technologies to mature for use in our products nextlevel.
To do this, we work across our business and we work with our customers, We target investment in customer priority academia and other industry partners.
In some areas and in programmes that will give us a cases, we will acquire other organisations to competitive advantage.
Our R&D programmes secure exclusive access to technologies that are designed to improve the capability and are critical for our future.
performance of our products and services, reduce the cost of production, and provide We also work with potential overseas partners customers with efficiency savings and lower as part of our international campaigns and this through-life costs.
can be a major discriminator in some markets.
An example of this is our participation, for the In 2017, we spent 1.6bn 2016 1.4bn on first time, in a technology symposium with R&D, of which 238m 2016 206m was Singapores Defence Science and Technology funded by the Group.
In addition, the Groups Agency DSTA in 2017.
Our hope is that this share of the R&D expenditure of its equity will be the first step in working with DSTA to accounted investments in 2017 was 0.1bn identify and prioritise areas of technology that 2016 0.1bn.
we can jointly explore for future collaboration.
Protecting our investment in new technologies Our people are encouraged to innovate is important and we have a portfolio of patents andembrace disruptive technologies focused and patent applications covering approximately on those which will ensure ourcustomers are 2,000 inventions internationally.
equipped to face present and future threats.
We look to make value-adding acquisitions in We look for ways that technology can give emergent new technologies or in technologies ourcustomers a competitive edge.
that will accelerate our R&D programmes We assess the utility of our existing and, in 2017, we completed the acquisition technologyto determine if we can create ofIAP Research, Inc. a US engineering value through licences and sales of rights company focused on the development and toother organisations.
production of electromagnetic launchers, power electronics and advanced materials.
Laser Directed Energy Weapons changing thenature ofwarfare Recognising the potential for Laser Directed Energy Weapons LDEWs to change the nature of warfare, we are leveraging our engineering expertise across our UK and US businesses to accelerate the development and introduction of laser capabilities.
Using focused light energy, LDEWs could be used in a range of operations across the air, maritime andland domains, and our aim is to show our customers the potential capabilities of these weapons, whilst prioritising safety and affordability.
We are collaborating with the university community to consider how to protect our platforms fromLDEWs and how we can shape ourfuture platform designs to ensure protection isbuilt in 1.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 27 Cobotics delivering manufacturing advantage Traditional manufacturing processes separate thecomplex tasks performed by humans from thesimple, repeatable tasks performed by robots.
In contrast, cobotic systems are designed for humans to work collaboratively with robots, allowing us to merge the efficiency and repeatability from the robot with the skill anddexterity from the human operator.
Our ongoing development of cobotic technology is focused on how we can provide more agility inthe manufacturing environment, increase productivity, reduce costs and deliver improvements in safety.
Advances in sensor technology, robotics design and machine learning will increasingly enable humans to work safely alongside machines without stopping the production line.
Our aim is to produce a system with the ability to adapt to the user interfacing with it, thereby becoming the ultimate manufacturing assistant.
Our areas of focus Autonomy investing in the development Chief Technology Officer and integration of autonomous systems Today, there are BAE Systems technologies Technology is a key priority for our business technologies.
They will play an increasingly operating from the depths of the ocean to and a new Chief Technology Officer CTO important role in future conflict by removing thefar reaches of space.
However, the was appointed at the start of 2018 to focus armed forces personnel from dull, dirty technologies that have brought us to where onour investment in, and development anddangerous tasks while ensuring humans we are today will not see us through the next andexploitation of, technologies across remain in control, continuing to make decades.
This is why we are investing in key ourproducts, services andoperations.
technologies that will be important for our NigelWhitehead, a member of the Executive customers in the future and which will bring Committee, assumed therole of CTO and, Laser Directed Energy Weapons value to our business over the coming years.
working with the BAE Systems, Inc. business, commencement of a programme to he will also oversee functional collaboration developa laser weapon integration Areas of focus include: across the Group on technology, IT and capability and accelerate its introduction Big data developing technologies and digitalstrategy: manufacturing: engineering: intooperational service.
capabilities that allow us to analyse and support: and project management.
Advanced manufacturing positioning deduce relevant information from vast our manufacturing capability to meet future amounts of data.
This is of growing product and platform demands through importance for both the defence and thedevelopment and exploitation of novel commercial sectors.
materials and advanced manufacturing Stealth continuing to invest in the technologies.
development of materials, design approaches, manufacturing techniques andsupport processes that minimise the observability of our military products.
Electronic warfare developing this advanced technology to help pilots identify, monitor, analyse and respond to potential threats.
We are also investing to improve ourefficiency and capacity in defence electronics production.
