BAE Systems 52 Annual Report 2017 Segmental review Platforms & Services International Platforms & Services International comprises the Groups businesses in Saudi Arabia, Australia and Oman, together with its 37.5% interest inthe pan-European MBDA joint venture.
In Saudi Arabia, the business provides In Oman, the business is developing its position Our strategy in action operational capability support to the building on a long history of relationships Supporting the operational countrysair and naval forces through with the Omani armed forces through the UK Saudi  provision, support and upgrade of defence capabilities of the Royal programmes.
The Saudi British Defence platforms and cyber security services.
Business Saudi Air Force Co-operation Programme and Salam generated in Oman is executed through our Typhoonproject provide for multi-year relevant reporting segments.
Throughout 2017, we have continued contracts between the governments.
toprovide support to the Royal Saudi MBDA is a leading global prime contractor AirForce Typhoon and Tornado fleets.
In Australia, the business delivers production, ofmissiles and missile systems across the air, Wehave delivered against our contractual upgrade and support programmes for maritime and land domains.
requirements ensuring that, as part of our customers in the defence and commercial Organisational changes commitment to support the defence needs sectors across the air, maritime and land Effective 1 January 2018, BAE Systems of the Kingdom, an efficient and affordable domains.
Services contracts include the revisedits reporting segments to reflect support service is always available.
provision of sustainment, training solutions theorganisational changes described on and upgrades.
Building on our success in reducing page17.
The Platforms & Services UK through-life costs for the UK Royal Air andPlatforms & Services International Force, we have met our commitments in management structures have been removed supporting Saudi Arabian aircraft across with the organisation streamlined, and maintenance, training, logistics and strengthened Air and Maritime reporting servicing, as well as identifying cost savings segments created.
We have done this without compromising the effectiveness of the aircraft, enabling the Royal Saudi Air Force to continue to conduct its vital role in the defence of the Kingdom.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 53 Alternative performance 06 measure definitions Operational and Financial performance strategichighlights Financial performance measures Financial performance 2 Final four of 72 Typhoon aircraft delivered asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS to Saudi Arabia on the Salam Typhoon 2017 2016 2017 2016 programme Sales KPI 4,138m 3,943m Revenue 3,136m 3,037m The Typhoon support contracts are Underlying EBITA KPI 472m 400m Operating profit 427m 365m operating well and a contract for Return on sales 11.4% 10.1% Return on revenue 13.6% 12.0% supporttoadditional flying hours Operating business Cash flow from wasagreed in April KPI cash flow 671m 435m operating activities 669m 473m Contracts agreed to provide ongoing 1 Order intake KPI 4,365m 6,175m support services to the Royal Saudi Air 1 Order backlog 13.3bn 13.1bn Force and Royal Saudi Naval Forces for afurther five years Sales of 4.1bn 2016 3.9bn were 5% Order backlog was marginally higher at The first major units of the second batch upover 2016.
With all 72 Salam Typhoon 13.3bn 2016 13.1bn as further order ofHawk aircraft delivered on schedule aircraft nowin service, we have seen higher intake was booked under the renewal of the toSaudi Arabia allowing final assembly levels of support.
In addition, we have seen five-year support contract in Saudi Arabia tocommence the expected ramp-up fromMBDAs strong and Qatari naval orders became effective Assigned the role of F-35 Regional order backlog.
Warehouse provider for the Asia-Pacific Underlying EBITA of 472m 2016 400m region and the return on sales of 11.4% 2016 Selected as the preferred tenderer for 10.1% benefited from improving theJindalee Operational Radar Network performance from our Saudi partner upgrade programme companies and stronger performance atMBDA.
MBDA signed a contract in December tosupply Brimstone and Meteor missiles Operating cash inflow was 671m toQatar, subject to financing conditions 2016435m, although approximately andreceipt of first payment 300m of this was for an advance paymenton the Saudi support programme.
MBDA contracts for naval fleet air defence and coastal defence in Qatar became effective in July 1.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Sales by domain % Sales by line of business % Sales analysis: Platforms and services % Land Air MBDA Saudi Arabia Services Platforms 7% Maritime 8 4% 21% 6 5% 71% 29% 9% Australia 14% BAE Systems 54 Annual Report 2017 Segmental review Platforms & Services International Operational performance Saudi Arabia On the Salam Typhoon programme, with four deliveries in the year, all 72 contracted aircraft have been delivered to the customer.
Typhoon capability development programmes continue to progress.
The Typhoon support contracts are operating well and a contract for support to additional flying hours was agreed in April.
Discussions have continued with the Saudi Arabian customer though 2017, resulting in contractual agreements under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme to provide ongoing support services to the Royal Saudi Air Force and Royal Saudi Naval Forces for a further five years to 31 December 2021.
Our strategy in action Final aircraft deliveries for the first batch of22Hawk aircraft were completed in the In June, we were advised that we have been second half of the year.
The first major units Upgrading selected as the preferred tenderer to help ofthe second batch of 22 aircraft, contracted sustain Australias radar defence network in 2015, have been delivered on schedule Australiasradar beyond 2042.
The JindaleeOperational toSaudi Arabia allowing final assembly Radar Network JORN, a network of three tocommence.
defence network remote over-the-horizon radars, provides wide-area surveillance andthe upgrade Under the Royal Saudi Naval Forces programme will see uscarry out important Minehunter mid-life update programme, work to insert new technologies and extend acceptance of the third and final ship is the operational lifeof the network.
expected in the first half of 2018.
The JORN programme offers further Under the planned reorganisation of our opportunities for Australian suppliers as portfolio of interests in a number of industrial our100% Australian approach will see us companies in Saudi Arabia, Riyadh Wings developing Australian small and mediumAviation Academy LLC acquired a4.1% sized enterprises in the supply chain.
This shareholding in a Group subsidiary, Overhaul also ensures that Australia retains control and Maintenance Company, during 2016 ofits strategically important sovereign asset andisexpected to acquire a further interest which plays a vital role in supporting the uptoa maximum of 49%.
The reorganisation Australian Defence Forces air and maritime supports our strategy to expand the customer operations, border protection, disaster relief, base of our In-Kingdom Industrial Participation and search and rescue operations.
programme, promoting training, development and employment opportunities in line with Group strategic More online theKingdoms National Transformation Plan 18 framework baesystems.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 55 Looking forward Forward-looking information reflecting theorganisational changes described on page 52 isprovided later in this report.
Re-presentation Segmental 56 58 of 2017 results looking forward Our existing Hawk Mk127 Lead-in MBDA The Saudi Arabian In-Kingdom Industrial Fightersustainment contracts continue In March, MBDA secured a contract from the Participation programme continues to make toperform strongly.
UKand French governments for a three-year good progress.
During 2017, there has been concept phase of the Future Cruise Anti-Ship further capability and knowledge transfer on The Capability Assurance Programme to Weapon, which will prepare for the the Typhoon and Hawk platforms.
The first upgrade the Hawk fleet to meet the training replacement of the existing missiles deployed Hawkaircraft assembled in Saudi Arabia requirements of the fifth-generation F-35 by the UK and French armed forces.
This willcome off the production line in2018 Lightning II is progressing ahead of schedule, contract follows on from the joint UK-France fordelivery to the Royal Saudi AirForce.
with 20 of the 33 aircraft modified at the end 2016 programme for the mid-life refurbishment of 2017.
During 2017, the Australian Air Force We have commenced discussions with of their current inventory of missiles.
customer declared achievement of initial thenew Saudi Arabian Military Industries operating capability and has commenced In July, MBDA finalised the financing SAMI organisation to explore how we can training with the aircraft.
packageto secure effectivity of the Qatari collaborate to deliver further In-Kingdom contracts signed in 2016, which will supply Industrial Participation.
All of these activities In June, the Commonwealth announced airdefence systems and anti-ship missiles are aligned with our long-term industrialisation thatwe have been selected as the preferred forthe naval surface fleet along with coastal strategy, as well as the Saudi Arabian tenderer for the Jindalee Operational Radar defence systems.
governments National Transformation Network upgrade programme.
If successful, Planand Vision 2030. the expected value of the contract over the The German Ministry of Defence and initial award term of ten years is approximately MBDAhave entered into a formal negotiation Australia A$1.0bn 0.6bn.
process for the German ground-based air We have continued to provide in-service defence system, TLVS, a key element of the support to the Navys two Landing Helicopter Following down-select in 2016 as one of German defence strategy.
Lockheed Martin Docks under a four-year support contract twotenderers for the Land 400 Phase 2 will be the joint venture partner with MBDA awarded in 2014.
Final acceptance of these Combat Reconnaissance Vehicle programme, on this programme.
vessels is expected in 2018. we have completed the Risk Mitigation Activity contract and submitted our final Significant progress has been made in HMAS Stuart, the final Anzac Class frigate proposal to the Commonwealth in August.
securing positions on a number of fast jet tobe modernised under the Anti-Ship Missile Customer evaluation is ongoing, with final platforms.
The Meteor Beyond Visual Range Defence programme, has been accepted into preferred tender selection anticipated inthe Air-to-Air Missile is already in operational service by the Commonwealth.
first half of 2018. service on Gripen with the Swedish Air Force The scope of activities for the next five years and has now achieved qualification for both Our tender response for the Commonwealths of sustainment and upgrade of the Anzac Typhoon and Rafale aircraft.
A contract has nine-ship SEA 5000 Future Frigate programme fleetunder the Warship Asset Management been received to procure further Brimstone Alliance has been agreed and contracts was submitted in August.
The Commonwealth missiles to equip Typhoon.
Integration of totalling A$561m 324m have been continues to fund Schedule Protection Activity MBDA missiles on F-35 Lightning II has awardedtoBAE Systems.
to support its evaluation timetable and we progressed well, with successful Advanced anticipate a preferred tender selection in the The next upgrade cycle for the Anzacfrigate Short Range Air-to-Air Missile qualification first half of 2018. fleet, the Mid-Life Capability Assurance firings achieved and contracts received from Programme, has commenced, with the first Oman the UK to integrate Meteor.
ship, HMAS Arunta, being docked at our The Oman Typhoon and Hawk aircraft In December, MBDA entered into a contract Henderson shipyard during the second half programme, being undertaken by Platforms with Qatar for the supply of Brimstone and ofthe year.
The upgrade programme is &Services UK, completed delivery of the Meteor missiles.
The contract is subject to planned torun through to 2023. firsteight Typhoon aircraft and all eight financing conditions and receipt by MBDA Hawktrainer aircraft in 2017.
The remaining The delayed JP 2008 Phase 3F programme offirst payment which are expected to be four Typhoon aircraft are scheduled to be toprovide enhanced defence satellite fulfilled no later than mid-2018.
delivered in 2018. communications services was formally accepted Success in both domestic and export markets by the Commonwealth in November.
We will Separately, we continue to fulfil our legacy has significantly increased MBDAs production continue to provide in-service support to the industrial participation obligations in Oman volumes resulting in the requirement to expand system under a five-year support contract.
through delivery of an agreed training and production capacities.
A new manufacturing knowledge transfer programme.
Mobilisation activities for sustainment of the facility is fully operational in Bolton, UK, and Regional F-35 Lightning II fleet continues to acapacity enhancement is under way in progress at our Williamtown facility, with an Bourges, France.
increased scope following the announcement in August that BAE Systems was assigned the role of F-35 Regional Warehouse provider for the Asia-Pacific region.
