BAE Systems 130 Annual Report 2017 Statutory and other information Office of Fair Trading undertakings Political donations Company registration As a consequence of the merger between No political donations were made in 2017.
BAE Systems plc is a public company limited British Aerospace and the former Marconi byshares registered in England and Wales Issued share capital Electronic Systems businesses in 1999, the with the registered number 1470151.
As at 31 December 2017, BAE Systems Company gave certain undertakings to the issuedshare capital of 86,686,002 comprised Directors Secretary of State for Trade and Industry 3,467,440,044 ordinary shares of 2.5p each The current directors who served during nowthe Secretary of State for Business, and one Special Share of 1. the2017 financial year are listed on pages Energy and Industrial Strategy.
Ian King also served as a 2007, the Company was released from the Treasury shares directoruntil his retirement on 30 June majority of these undertakings and the As at 1 January 2017, the number of shares 2017.
RevathiAdvaithi was appointed remainder have been superseded and varied held in treasury totalled 291,449,361 having totheBoard on 1 January 2018. by a new set of undertakings.
Compliance atotal nominal value of 7,286,234 and with the undertakings is monitored by a representing 8.4% of the Companys called up Dividend compliance officer.
Further information share capital at 1 January 2017.
During 2017, An interim dividend of 8.8p per share was regarding the undertakings and the contact the Company used 10,216,622 treasury shares paid on 30 November 2017.
The directors details of the compliance officer may be having a total nominal value of 255,416 and propose a final dividend of 13p per ordinary obtained through the Company Secretary representing 0.3% of the Companys called up share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the atthe Companys registered office or share capital at 31 December 2017 to satisfy final dividend will be paid on 1 June 2018 to throughthe Companys website.
awards under the Free and Matching elements shareholders on the share register on 20 April of the Share Incentive Plan 5,457,845 shares 2018.
Information on dividend waivers is given Profit forecast in aggregate, awards under the Free and on page 185.
In its half-year results announcement on Matching elements of the International Share 2August 2017, the Group made the following Annual General Meeting AGM Incentive Plan 314,147 shares in aggregate, statement, which is regarded as a profit The Companys AGM will be held on 10 May awards vested under the Performance Share forecast for the purposes of the Financial 2018.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting Plan 486,223 shares, awards vested under Conduct Authoritys Listing Rule 9.2.
18 is enclosed with this Annual Report and details the Restricted Share Plan 861,480 shares, and andwhich amended the US dollar planning the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
options exercised under the Executive Share rate from the profit forecast made in the Option Plan 3,096,927 shares.
The treasury Certain information in the Strategic report Groups full-year results announcement on shares utilised in respect of the Share Incentive The following items are set out in the Strategic 23February and in the Annual Report 2016 : Plan, the International Share Incentive Plan report on pages 1 to 71: In aggregate, we expect the Groups andthe Restricted Share Plan were disposed disclosures in relation to the use of financial underlying earnings per share for 2017 to be of by the Company for nil consideration.
instruments: 5% to 10% higher than full-year underlying The3,096,927 shares disposed of by the earnings per share in 2016 of 40.3p.
This Company in respect of the Executive Share particulars of important events affecting outlook remains unchanged despite moving Option Plan were disposed of by the Company theGroup which have occurred since the US dollar planning rate for the year from for an aggregate consideration of 12,047,653.
As at 31 December 2017, the number of an indication of likely future developments shares held in treasury totalled 281,232,739 Underlying earnings per share was 43.5p in the business of the Group: having a total nominal value of 7,030,818 in2017.
and representing 8.1% of the Companys an indication of the activities of the Group inthe field of research and development: Employees called up share capital at 31 December 2017.
The Group is committed to giving full and The rights to treasury shares are restricted actions taken to introduce, maintain or fairconsideration to applications for develop arrangements aimed at employees: inaccordance with the Companies Act and, employment from disabled people who and inparticular, the voting and dividend rights meetthe requirements for roles, and attaching to these shares are automatically greenhouse gas emissions.
makingavailable training opportunities and suspended.
appropriate accommodation to disabled people employed by the Group.
Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 131 certain restrictions may from time to time The holder of the Special Share has the Rights and obligations of ordinary shares beimposed by laws and regulations for rightto require the Company to redeem the On a show of hands at a general meeting example, insider trading laws : Special Share at par or convert the Special every holder of ordinary shares present in Share into one ordinary share at any time.
person and entitled to vote shall have one restrictions may be imposed pursuant to vote, and every proxy entitled to vote shall theListing Rules of the Financial Conduct Restrictions on transfer of securities have one vote unless the proxy is appointed Authority whereby certain of the Groups The restrictions on the transfer of shares in by more than one member in which case the employees require the Companys approval theCompany are as follows: proxy has one vote for and one vote against to deal in shares: and the Special Share may only be issued to, ifthe proxy has been instructed by one or awards of shares made under the Companys heldby and transferred to the Special more members to vote for the resolution and Long-Term Incentive Plan 2014, Deferred Shareholder or his successor or nominee: by one or more members to vote against the Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan, resolution: or if the proxy has been instructed the directors shall not register any allotment Restricted Share Plan, Share Incentive by one or more shareholders to vote either or transfer of any shares to a foreign person, Plan, International Share Incentive Plan, foror against a resolution and by one or more or foreign persons acting in concert, who Group All-Employee Free Shares Plan and of those shareholders to use his discretion atthe time have more than a 15% voting International Profit Sharing Scheme are how to vote.
On a poll, every member present interest in the Company, or who would, subject to restrictions on the transfer of in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall following such allotment or transfer, have shares prior to vesting and or release.
have one vote for every ordinary share held.
such an interest: Subject to the relevant statutory provisions The Company is not aware of any the directors shall not register any person and the Companys Articles of Association, arrangements between its shareholders asa holder of any shares unless they have holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a thatmay result in restrictions on the transfer received: i a declaration stating that upon dividend where declared or paid out of of shares and or voting rights.
registration, the share s will not be held by profitsavailable for such purposes.
Subject Significant direct and indirect holders tothe relevant statutory provisions and the foreign persons or that upon registration ofsecurities Companys Articles of Association, on a theshare s will be held by a foreign person As at 31 December 2017 and unchanged as returnof capital on a winding-up, holders of or persons: ii such evidence if any as at 21 February 2018, the Company had been ordinary shares are entitled, after repayment thedirectors may require of the authority advised of the following significant direct and of the 1Special Share, to participate in such ofthesignatory of the declaration: and indirect interests in the issued ordinary share areturn.
There are no redemption rights in iii such evidence or information if any as capital of the Company: relation to the ordinary shares.
to the matters referred to in the declaration asthe directors consider appropriate: Percentage Rights and obligations of the Special Share Name of shareholder notified The Special Share is held on behalf of the the directors may, in their absolute AXA S. A. and its group of companies 5.00% Secretary of State for Business, Energy and discretion, refuse to register any transfer Industrial Strategy the Special Shareholder.
ofshares which are not fully paid up Barclays PLC 3.98% Certain provisions of the Companys Articles butnot so as to prevent dealings in listed BlackRock, Inc. 5.00% of Association cannot be amended without shares from taking place : the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 10.11% the directors may also refuse to register any provisions include the requirement that no instrument of transfer of shares unless the Franklin Resources Inc. and affiliates 4.92% foreign person, or foreign persons acting in instrument of transfer is in respect of only concert, can have more than a 15% voting Invesco Limited 4.97% one class of share and it is lodged at the interest in the Company, the requirement that Silchester International Investors LLP 3.01% place where the register of members is kept, the majority of the directors are British, and accompanied by a relevant certificate or the requirement that the Chief Executive and such other evidence as the directors may any executive Chairman are British.
reasonably require to show the right of the The holder of the Special Share is entitled to transferor to make the transfer: attend a general meeting, but the Special Share the directors may refuse to register an carries no right to vote or any other rights allotment or transfer of shares in favour atany such meeting, other than to speak ofmore than four persons jointly: inrelation to any business in respect of the Special Share.
Subject to the relevant statutory where a shareholder has failed to provide provisions and the Companys Articles of the Company with certain information Association, on a return of capital on a relating to their interest in shares, the winding-up, the holder of the Special Share directors can, in certain circumstances, shall be entitled to repayment of the 1capital refuse to register a transfer of such shares: paid up on the Special Share in priority to any repayment of capital to any other members.
BAE Systems 132 Annual Report 2017 Statutory and other information continued At each AGM of the Company, any director Powers of the directors Exercise of rights of shares in employee who was elected or last re-elected at or The directors are responsible for the share schemes beforethe AGM held in the third calendar management of the business of the Company The trustees of the employee trusts do not year before the then current calendar year and may exercise all powers of the Company seek to exercise voting rights on shares held must retire by rotation and such further subject to applicable legislation and inthe employee trusts other than on the directors must retire by rotation so that in regulation, and the Articles of Association.
direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
totalone-third of the directors retire by Novoting rights are exercised in relation to At the 2017 AGM, the directors were given rotation each year.
A retiring director is shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
the power to buy back a maximum number eligiblefor re-election.
It is the Boards of317,752,630 ordinary shares at a minimum Restrictions on voting deadlines intention that all directors will stand for price of 2.5p each.
The maximum price The notice of any general meeting shall specify election or re-election in 2018 in compliance wasthe higher of i an amount equal to the deadline for exercising voting rights and with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
105% of the average of the middle market appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in Amendment of the Companys Articles quotations of the Companys ordinary shares relation to resolutions to be proposed at the ofAssociation as derived from the London Stock Exchange general meeting.
The number of proxy votes The Companys Articles of Association may Daily Official List for the five business days for, against or withheld in respect of each only be amended by a special resolution at a immediately preceding the day on which resolution are publicised on the Companys general meeting of shareholders.
Where class suchordinary shares are contracted to be website after the meeting.
rights are varied, such amendments must be purchased, and ii the higher of the price Appointment and replacement of directors approved by the members of each class of ofthe last independent trade and the Subject to certain nationality requirements shares separately.
highestcurrent independent bid on the mentioned below, the Company may by London Stock Exchange as stipulated by In addition, certain provisions of the Articles ordinary resolution appoint any person to Regulatory Technical Standards adopted ofAssociation cannot be amended without beadirector.
bythe European Commission pursuant to the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These article 5 6 of the Market Abuse Regulation.
The directors also have the power to make provisions include the requirement that no appointments to the Board at any time.
foreign person, or foreign persons acting in This power will expire at the earlier of the Anyindividual so appointed will hold office concert, can have more than a 15% voting conclusion of the 2018 AGM or 30 June 2018. until the next AGM and shall then be eligible interest in the Company, the requirement that A special resolution will be proposed at the for re-election.
the majority of the directors are British, and 2018 AGM to renew the Companys authority the requirement that the Chief Executive and to acquire its own shares.
The majority of directors holding office must any executive Chairman are British.
Otherwise, the directors who are At the 2017 AGM, the directors were given not British shall vacate office in such order the power to issue new shares up to a nominal thatthose who have been in office for the amount of 26,476,737.
This power will expire shortest period since their appointment shall on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2018 vacate their office first, unless all of the AGM or 30 June 2018.
Accordingly, a directors otherwise agree among themselves.
resolution will be proposed at the 2018 AGM Any director who holds the office of either to renew the Companys authority to issue Chairman in an executive capacity or Chief further new shares.
At the 2017 AGM, the Executive shall also be British.
directors were also given the power to issue The Company must have not less than six new issue shares up to a further nominal directors holding office at all times.
If the amount of 26,476,737 in connection with an number is reduced to below six, then such offer by way of a rights issue.
This authority too number of persons shall be appointed as will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of directors as soon as is reasonably practicable the 2018 AGM or 30 June 2018, however, no to reinstate the number of directors to six.
resolution to renew this additional authority TheCompany may by ordinary resolution will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
fromtime to time vary the minimum number of directors.
Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 133 Change of control significant agreements In June 2017, BAE Systems Surface Ships Conflicts of interest The following significant agreements contain Limited entered into a contract with the As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, provisions entitling the counterparties to MoD for the manufacture of the first the Companys Articles of Association contain exercise termination, alteration or other similar batchof three Type 26 frigates.
Where the provisions which enable the Board to authorise rights in the event of a change of control of MoD considers that a proposed change of conflicts or potential conflicts that individual the Company: controlof BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited directors may have.
would be contrary to the defence, national The Group has entered into a 2bn To avoid potential conflicts of interest the securityor national interest of the UK or Revolving Credit Facility dated 12 December Board requires the Nominations Committee where the change of control would result 2013 which provides that, in the event of tocheck that any individuals it nominates for inincreased costs to the MoD under the achange of control of the Company, the appointment to the Board are free of potential contract, then the change of control shall lenders are entitled to renegotiate terms, conflicts.
In addition, the Boards procedures not proceed until agreement with the orif no agreement is reached on negotiated and the induction programme for new MoDis established.
If there is a change of terms within a certain period, to call for the directors emphasise a directors personal control without notice or notwithstanding repayment or cancellation of the facility.
responsibility for complying with the duties the objection of the MoD on such grounds, TheRevolving Credit Facility was undrawn relating to conflicts of interest.
The procedure then the MoD may terminate the contract asat 31 December 2017. adopted by the Board for the authorisation with immediate effect.
The Company has entered into a Restated ofconflicts reminds directors of the need to and Amended Shareholders Agreement The MSDF agreement between BAE Systems consider their duties as directors and not grant with European Aeronautic Defence and Surface Ships Limited and the MoD became an authorisation unless they believe, in good Space Company EADS N. V. EADS and effective on 1 October 2014 and establishes faith, that this would be likely to promote the Finmeccanica S. p. A. Finmeccanica relating a framework until March 2019 for the success of the Company.
As required by law, to MBDA S. A. S. dated 18 December 2001 provision of surface ship support work the potentially conflicted director cannot vote as amended.
In the event that control of andservices relating to HM Naval Base on an authorisation resolution or be counted the Company passes to certain specified Portsmouth.
Where the MoD considers in the quorum.
Any authorisation granted may third-party acquirors, the agreement allows thata proposed change of control of be terminated at any time and the director is informed of the obligation to inform the EADS and Finmeccanica to exercise an BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited would Company without delay should there be any option to terminate certain executive becontrary to the defence, national security material change in the nature of the conflict management level nomination and voting or national interest of the UK, then the orpotential conflict so authorised.
rights, and certain shareholder information change of control shall not proceed until rights of the Company in relation to the agreement with the MoD is established.
Directors indemnities MBDA joint venture.
Following the exercise Ifthere is a change of control without The Company has entered into deeds of of this option, the Company would have noticeor notwithstanding the objection indemnity with all its current directors and theright to require the other shareholders ofthe MoD, the MoD shall be entitled those persons who were directors for any topurchase its interest in MBDA at fair toterminate the MSDF.
partof 2017 which are qualifying indemnity market value.
provisions for the purpose of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company and EADS have agreed thatifFinmeccanica acquires a controlling The directors of BAE Systems Pension Funds interest in the Company, EADS will increase Trustees Limited, BAE Systems 2000 Pension its shareholding in MBDA to 50% by Plan Trustees Limited, BAE Systems Executive purchasing the appropriate number of Pension Scheme Trustees Limited and Alvis shares in MBDA at fair market value.
Pension Scheme Trustees Limited benefit from indemnities in the governing documentation The Company, BAE Systems, Inc. of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme, the BAE Systems Holdings Limited and BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan, the BAE Systems Holdings Inc. entered into BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme and aSpecial Security Agreement dated the Alvis Pension Scheme, respectively, which 23October 2015 with the US Department are qualifying indemnity provisions for the of Defense regarding the management purpose of the Companies Act 2006. ofBAE Systems, Inc. in order to comply withthe US governments national security All such indemnity provisions are in force as requirements.
In the event of a change atthe date of this Directors report.
ofcontrol of the Company, the Agreement may be terminated or altered by the US Department of Defense.
BAE Systems 134 Annual Report 2017 Statutory and other information continued In December 2011, BAE Systems Marine Statement of directors responsibilities In August 2008, BAE Systems Land Limited entered into a contract with the inrespect of the Annual Report and the Systems Munitions & Ordnance Limited MoD for the design of the Dreadnought financial statements now BAE Systems Global Combat Systems submarines.
Where the MoD considers that The directors are responsible for preparing Munitions Limited and the MoD entered a change of control of BAE Systems Marine theAnnual Report, and the Group and parent into a 15-year partnering agreement for Limited would be contrary to the defence, company financial statements in accordance theprovision of ammunition to UK Forces national interest or national security of the with applicable law and regulations.
the Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution UK, then the change of control shall not take MASS partnering agreement.
Where Company law requires the directors to place until agreement is reached with the theMoD considers that a proposed change prepareGroup and parent company financial MoD on how to proceed.
In the event that of control of BAE Systems Global Combat statements for each financial year.
Under there is a change of control notwithstanding Systems Munitions Limited would be thatlaw, they are required to prepare the the objection of the MoD on such grounds, contrary to the defence, national security Group financial statements in accordance the MoD shall be entitled to terminate the ornational interest of the UK, then the withInternational Financial Reporting contract with immediate effect.
change of control shall not proceed until Standards as adopted by the European Union agreement with the MoD is established.
In September 2016, BAE Systems Marine IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable Inthe event that there is a change of control Limited entered into a contract with the law, and have elected to prepare the parent of BAE Systems Global Combat Systems MoD for the first phase of manufacture company financial statements in accordance Munitions Limited, notwithstanding the ofBoat 1 of the Dreadnought Class with UK accounting standards, including objection of the MoD on such grounds, programme.
The MoD is entitled to Financial Reporting Standard FRS 101, theMoD may, having followed the dispute terminate the contract in the event of a Reduced Disclosure Framework.
resolution process, terminate the MASS change of control of BAE Systems Marine Under company law, the directors must not agreement for default.
Limited, provided that the MoD must act approve the financial statements unless they reasonably in exercising this right.
In November 2012, BAE Systems Marine are satisfied that they give a true and fair view Limited entered into a contract with the In addition, the Companys share plans of the state of affairs of the Group and parent MoD for the design, construction, testing containprovisions as a result of which options company, and of their profit or loss for that and commissioning of Boat 4 of the Astute and awards may vest and become exercisable period.
In preparing each of the Group and Class programme.
In November 2015, on a change of control of the Company in parent company financial statements, the BAE Systems Marine Limited entered into accordance with the rules of the plans.
directors are required to: acontract with the MoD for the design, select suitable accounting policies and construction, testing and commissioning Auditors thenapply them consistently: ofBoat 5 of the Astute Class programme.
As detailed on page 82, following the InMarch 2016, BAE Systems Marine conclusion of a formal tender process make judgements and estimates that are Limitedentered into a contract with the ledbythe Companys Audit Committee, reasonable, relevant, reliable and prudent: MoD for the design, construction, testing theBoard has approved the proposed for the Group financial statements, and commissioning of Boat 6 of the appointment of Deloitte LLP as the statewhether they have been prepared AstuteClass Programme.
Where the MoD Companysauditors for the financial year inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by considersthat a proposed change of control ending 31 December 2018, subject to theEU: of BAE Systems Marine Limited would be approval by Companys shareholders at for the parent company financial contrary to the defence, national security theAGM on 10 May 2018. statements, state whether applicable UK ornational interest of the UK, then the accounting standards have been followed, change of control shall not proceed until subject to any material departures disclosed agreement is established with the MoD.
and explained in the parent company Inthe event that there is a change of financial statements: controlof BAE Systems Marine Limited, assess the Group and parent companys notwithstanding the objection of the MoD ability to continue as a going concern, on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled disclosing, as applicable, matters related to terminate the agreements immediately.
togoing concern: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 135 Statement of disclosure of information The directors are responsible for keeping Responsibility statement of the toauditors adequate accounting records that are directorsin respect of the Annual The directors who held office at the date sufficient to show and explain the parent Reportand financial statements ofapproval of this Directors report confirm companys transactions and disclose with Each of the directors listed below confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is reasonable accuracy at any time the financial that to the best of their knowledge: norelevant audit information of which the position of the parent company and enable the financial statements, prepared in Companys auditors are unaware: and each them to ensure that its financial statements accordance with the applicable set director has taken all the steps that he she comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They ofaccounting standards, give a true ought to have taken to make himself herself are responsible for such internal control as andfair view of the assets, liabilities, aware of any relevant audit information and they determine is necessary to enable the financial position and profit or loss of toestablish that the Companys auditors are preparation of financial statements that are theCompany, and the undertakings aware of that information.
free from material misstatement, whether included in the consolidation taken as dueto fraud or error, and have general awhole: and responsibility for taking such steps as are the Strategic report and Directors reasonably open to them to safeguard the report, taken together, include a fair assets of the Group and to prevent and review of the development and detectfraud and other irregularities.
performance of the business, and the Under applicable law and regulations, position of the Company and the thedirectors are also responsible for undertakings included in the preparing astrategic report, directors consolidation taken as a whole, together report, directors remuneration report with a description of the principal risks andcorporate governance statement that and uncertainties that they face.
complies with thatlaw and those regulations.
In addition, each of the directors considers The directors are responsible for the that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, maintenance and integrity of the corporate isfair, balanced and understandable, and and financial information included on the provides the information necessary for companys website.
Legislation in the UK shareholders to assess the Companys governing the preparation and dissemination position and performance, business model of financial statements may differ from and strategy.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman Charles Woodburn Chief Executive Jerry DeMuro President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. Peter Lynas Group Finance Director Revathi Advaithi Non-executive director Elizabeth Corley Non-executive director Harriet Green Non-executive director Chris Grigg Non-executive director Paula Rosput Reynolds Non-executive director Nick Rose Non-executive director Ian Tyler Non-executive director On behalf of the Board Sir Roger Carr Directors report Chairman 21 February 2018 The Directors report was approved by the board of directors on 21 February 2018.
