BAE Systems 48 Annual Report 2017 Segmental review Platforms & Services UK Platforms & Services UK comprises the Groups UK-based air, maritime, land and shared services activities.
Military Air & Information includes Land UK provides combat vehicle Our strategy in action programmes for the production of upgradesand support to the British Army First Typhoon and Hawk Typhooncombat and Hawk trainer aircraft, andinternational customers, and designs, F-35 Lightning II manufacture and support, develops and manufactures a comprehensive aircraft delivered to the support and upgrades for Typhoon, Tornado range of munitions products servicing its Royal AirForce of Oman and Hawk aircraft, and development of maincustomer, the UK Ministry of Defence, next-generation Unmanned Air Systems aswell as international customers.
The The arrival of the first Typhoon and Hawk anddefence information systems.
business also develops and manufactures aircraft, part of a batch of 12 combat and cased-telescoped weapons through its eight trainer jets scheduled to be delivered Maritime programmes include the CTAInternational joint venture.
to the Sultanate of Oman, was marked construction of two Queen Elizabeth Class with a ceremony inJune in the presence aircraft carriers, five River Class Offshore Organisational changes ofthe Commander of the Royal Air Force PatrolVessels and seven Astute Class Effective 1 January 2018, BAE Systems of Oman at Adam Air Base, Oman.
submarines for the Royal Navy, the design revisedits reporting segments to reflect andproduction of the Dreadnought Class theorganisational changes described on The Sultanate of Oman announced its submarine and Type 26 frigate, and in-service page17.
The Platforms & Services UK decision to purchase Typhoon and Hawk support, including thedelivery of services at andPlatforms & Services International aircraft in December 2012, and this first HM Naval Base, Portsmouth.
management structures have been removed delivery signifies important progress in with the organisation streamlined, and helping the Sultanate to upgrade the strengthened Air and Maritime reporting capability of its air force.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 49 Alternative performance 06 measure definitions Operational and Financial performance strategichighlights Financial performance measures Financial performance 2 Contract valued at approximately asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS 5bnsigned in December to supply 2017 2016 2017 2016 24Typhoon aircraft andsupport to Sales KPI 7,682m 7,806m Revenue 7,624m 7,699m Qatar, subject to financing conditions Underlying EBITA KPI 794m 810m Operating profit 774m 780m andreceipt bythe Group of first payment Return on sales 10.3% 10.4% Return on revenue 10.2% 10.1% First eight Typhoon and all eight Operating business Cash flow from Hawkaircraft for Oman delivered KPI cash flow 427m 199m operating activities 607m 385m totheSultanate of Oman 1 Order intake KPI 6,817m 8,024m Signed the full 3.7bn production 1 Order backlog 16.8bn 17.8bn contractfor the initial batch of three Type26 frigates Sales of 7.7bn 2016 7.8bn were Order backlog reduced to 16.8bn Received the full 1.4bn contract for marginally lower than 2016.
The 5bn order received thesixth Astute Class submarine from levelson the submarine programmes from Qatar in December for 24 Typhoon theRoyal Navy in March, and the wereahead ofplan.
aircraft and support has not yet been taken fourthAstute boat, Audacious, was into order backlog, pending completion of launched inApril Return on sales was at 10.3% 2016 10.4%.
the financing package which we expect in Rationalisation activities announced, There was a cash inflow of 427m 2016 the coming months.
including potential headcount reductions 199m, which includes a 106m temporary inthe Military Air & Information and benefit relating to VAT.
Consumption of Maritime Services businesses customer advances on theOmani, Saudi Arabian and European Typhoon contracts has now largely completed.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Sales by domain % Sales by line of business % Sales analysis: Platforms and services % Military Air Land Air Land UK & Information Services Platforms 5% 56% 4% 5 9% 37% 63% Maritime Maritime 39% 3 7% BAE Systems 50 Annual Report 2017 Segmental review Platforms & Services UK On the F-35 Lightning II programme, full As a result of reducing production activity Operational performance contract award was secured on Lot 10 and 82 onTyphoon and Hawk, and also taking into Military Air & Information rear fuselage assemblies were manufactured account the changes to support requirements In December, BAE Systems and the forthe Low-Rate Initial Production Lot 10 as the Royal Air Force transitions from Tornado Government of Qatar entered into a contract, and11 contracts.
Negotiations continued to F-35 Lightning II, the business announced valued at approximately 5bn, for the supply onLot 11, with additional order intake received inOctober a total proposed headcount of 24 Typhoon aircraft.
Alongside supplying in the year of 248m.
Lot 11 negotiations are reduction of up to 1,400 roles over the the aircraft, the agreement provides for expected to conclude during the first quarter nextthree years.
thesupply of ground support to the Qatar of 2018, with the balanceof the order intake ArmedForces and delivery of technical and Maritime also expected in this timeframe.
The contract is subject On the aircraft carrier programme, HMS to financing conditions and receipt bythe At RAF Marham in Norfolk, good progress Queen Elizabeth successfully concluded Group of first payment which areexpected hasbeen made on construction ofthe initialsea trials and enteredHM Naval Base, tobe fulfilled no later than mid-2018.
engineering and training facilities andthe Portsmouth, for the first time in August.
stand-up of the operational service in Operational handover and acceptance In the year, 20 Typhoon aircraft were readiness for the arrival of the UKs first bytheRoyal Navy took place in December.
deliveredfrom the UK final assembly facility, F-35Lightning II aircraft in 2018.
HMS Prince of Wales floated out of the ofwhich four were delivered to Saudi Arabia, dockat Rosyth in December.
Large volume completing the contract for 72 aircraft.
All 236 Following the announcement that the UK installation activities continue to progress, Tranche 2 aircraft have been delivered to the hadbeen chosen as a major European repair withcommissioning of systems planned to UK, Germany, Italy and Spain, together with hub for the maintenance, repair, overhaul commence in 2018 and sea trials beginning 51 ofthe 88 contracted Tranche 3 aircraft.
andupgrade of F-35 Lightning II avionics in2019.
andcomponents, we have established a joint There were eight Typhoon and eight Hawk venture with the UK Ministry of Defence and The full 3.7bn production contract was aircraft deliveries to the Oman customer in Northrop Grumman, and progress on signed in June for the first batch of three theyear, with the remaining four Typhoon establishing the repair facility and capability Type26 frigates, with 2.8bn of order intake aircraft scheduled to be delivered in 2018. continues to plan.
in the year, following funding in previous years Good progress continues to be made on for long-lead items.
Production of the first ship, Support continues to be provided to users airframe manufacture for the contract to Glasgow, commenced in July.
The programme ofHawk trainer aircraft around the world.
supply 28 Typhoon aircraft to Kuwait secured currently employs over 1,000 people and Thelong-term support contract for the by Italian Eurofighter partner, Leonardo, in production activities will progressively build RoyalAir Forces UK fleet of Hawk fast jet 2016, with fuselage deliveries due to upduring 2018 as more of the ship transitions trainer aircraft continues to deliver against commence in 2018. from completion of the detailed design through allcontractual milestones.
Development towards the Royal Air Force Discussions continue with the Government Centurion standard continues, which will The first Offshore Patrol Vessel OPV, HMS ofIndia and Hindustan Aeronautics Limited enable transition of air capabilities from Forth, completed sea trials in December and HAL for the supply of additional kit sets Tornado to Typhoon.
Flight testing for was accepted by the Ministry of Defence in which will result in aircraft built under StormShadow and Meteor weapons January 2018.
Construction of the remaining licenceby HAL for the Indian Air Force capability enhancements was completed four OPVs on the Clyde continues.
Integration of the Captor Under the Maritime Support Delivery E-Scan radar continues.
Following an extensive review with our partner, Framework contract, which the Ministry Northrop Grumman, of the requirements and We have continued to support our UK and ofDefence has agreed in principle to extend conditions of the US Air Force future trainer European customers Typhoon and Tornado until 31 March 2020, we provide services programme, both companies decided not to aircraft and their operational commitments.
atHM Naval Base, Portsmouth, and support proceed with the competitive bid.
The ten-year partnership arrangement with tohalf of the Royal Navys surface fleet.
We the Ministry of Defence tosupport the UK An initial contract for the Anglo-French remain ontrack to achieve target cost.
The Typhoon fleet continues asplanned, with unmanned combat air system feasibility and business was unsuccessful on a competitive availability of aircraft being sustained at definition phase of 16m was received during bid to provide equipment procurement and contractual levels.
It is anticipated that an Anglo-French equipment management services for the follow-on programme will be agreed in 2018.
Queen Elizabeth Classaircraft carriers and The initial support package has been Type 45 destroyers.
substantially deliveredas part of the A 119m contract was secured for collaboration contractto commenceoperations at a on the first design and development phase of newoperating air base at Adam in Oman.
an indigenous fifth-generation fighter jet for the Turkish Air Force.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 51 Looking forward Forward-looking information reflecting theorganisational changes described on page 48 isprovided later in this report.
Re-presentation Segmental 56 58 of 2017 results looking forward The first three Astute Class submarines are inoperational service with the Royal Navy.
Progress continues on the manufacture of theremaining four boats, with launch of thefourth boat, Audacious, achieved in April.
A full contract award for the sixth boat, Agamemnon, was secured in March for1.4bn, with 0.6bn of order intake in theyear after order intake in previous years forlong-lead items.
Further funding of 80mwas received for the seventh boat.
Functional and spatial design, and the production of the first of class continues toadvance on the Dreadnought Class submarine, the replacement for the RoyalNavys Vanguard Class submarine.
Thenext phase of the contract is scheduledtocommence in April 2018.
Our strategy in action The major programme of building works The UK programme to manufacture the atthe Barrow site continues, with contracts Production of Type 26 frigate for the Royal Navy is under inplace totalling more than 500m, with way following the receipt of the full3.7bn twofurther major buildings being completed Type 26 frigates production contract for the initial batch of during the year.
Progress on the programme The detailed arrangements for the forthe Royal was highlighted by the cutting of steel on Dreadnought Alliance, including the Glasgow, the first of the new ships, in July.
organisational, governance and commercial Navycommences Highly-advanced and adaptable, the Type 26 arrangements between the three parties, frigate will be able to fulfil multiple missions theMinistry of Defence, BAE Systems and around the world, from submarine hunting Rolls-Royce, continue to be developed.
Designed for a Land UK service life of at least 25 years, the Type 26 The business continues to provide UK and frigates will be a critical part of the future international customers with a full range Royal Navy surface fleet.
oflight and heavy munitions, with orders totalling 133m received in the year.
Group strategic More online 18 framework baesystems.
com During the year, 131 40mm cased-telescopic cannons weredelivered to the Ministry of Defence by CTAInternational, a joint venture between BAE Systems and Nexter, bringing cumulative deliveries to 160 of 515.
This is the BAE Systems provides significant support Evolving customer requirements and a focus first entirely new medium calibre cannon and andmaintenance to the Royal Navys fleet on improved efficiency and removing cost ammunition system qualified by the British ofType 45 destroyers, and has responded inthe Maritime Services business have led to Army since the late 1960s.
toaMinistry ofDefence competitive proposal theannouncement in October of a proposed on its power improvement project, with the headcount reduction of around 375 roles.
The business has continued to provide support award decision expected in 2018.
Theproposed rationalisation will more closely to previously supplied armoured vehicles and align capacity with workload and improve bridging systems, with orders of 48m Progress continues on the 270m Spearfish competitiveness to retain and grow our received in the year.
The business is one of torpedo upgrade demonstration and position on key programmes, while retaining two contenders delivering the design stages manufacture phases, with the demonstration critical skills.
ofthe Challenger 2 Life Extension Programme phase forecast to complete in 2020. and the British Armys bridging system.
