Viability STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate Similarly, in making the assessment, the Directors also considered Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the the ability of the Group to raise finance and deploy capital in the Company over a three-year period, taking into account the Groups context of the principal sources of facility for credit, the maturity current position and the assessment of the principal risks and of those facilities, the Groups ability to re-finance debt as it falls uncertainties as set out on pages 34 to 38. due and the overall level of headroom available.
The Directors have determined that a three-year period to While the review encompassed all of the principal risks identified by 31 December 2020 constitutes an appropriate period over which to the Group, the following were focused on for enhanced analysis provide its Viability Statement.
The selection of this period for the including stress testing: political and economic: laws and assessment is supported by the Groups strategic planning cycle regulations: and fluctuations in exchange rates.
The following together with other relevant considerations such as the maturity of severe but plausible potential scenarios were analysed: the Groups credit facilities.
In addition, the Group is exposed to a The translational foreign exchange impact of major number of different industry cycles of varying and ill-defined length movements and volatility in key Group currencies and duration which may or may not overlap, and this has also been Sterling vs the Euro and the Dollar.
taken into account in considering the relevant period.
The Group A significant downturn in the trading environment faced by the operates a detailed financial forecasting process over a rolling Group triggered by each of the following: 18-month period, supplemented by monthly analysis of risks and opportunities against the forecast presented.
Each of the Groups Brexit: businesses has established growth targets through to 2020.
The a marked economic slowdown or downturn in the Chinese Directors believe that this supports the selection of a three-year economy: and period over which the Viability Statement is made.
a general increase in trade barriers between Europe and Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe that the Group will the USA.
not be viable over a longer period, it is recognised that such future Legal regulatory breaches modelling a fall in sales volumes assessments carry a level of inherent uncertainty which increases arising from a theoretical debarment from operating in certain with the length of the period.
As such, we believe a three-year key markets.
period presents users of the Annual Report with a reasonable Mitigations considered as part of the stress testing included cost degree of confidence while still providing a longer-term perspective.
reduction, a reduction in the Groups dividend, a reduction in The Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks capital expenditure and re-financing of the Groups credit facilities.
facing the Group, including those that could threaten its business The results of the above stress testing demonstrated that the Group model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This assessment would be able to withstand the impact of each of these scenarios was made with reference to the Groups current position and materialising over the course of the assessment period.
This is in prospects, the Groups strategy and the Groups principal part due to the Groups operating model and organisation structure risks, including how these are managed, as detailed on which gives it the ability to respond rapidly in the event of pages 33 to 38. heightened risk in the external environment, and also partly due to In considering the Groups prospects, the Directors also noted the the Groups financial position and access to additional funds.
broad spread of markets, products and customers maintained by Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have the Group.
This natural diversification provides mitigation against a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in the risk of a serious economic downturn in a particular market or operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period the risks associated with dependence on a specific sector or to December 2020. customer.
Our largest customer constitutes less than 2% of Group sales.
At the same time, the Directors noted the Groups strong financial position coupled with its ability to react promptly in adjusting our cost base in the event of a material change in the trading environment.
