BAE Systems 04 Annual Report 2017 Our key products and services BAE Systems has strong, established positions supplying defence equipment, electronics and services, as well as cyber, intelligence and security solutions for governments.
Wealsohave a growing position in adjacent commercial markets, including avionics and cyber security.
Typhoon manufacture and F-35 Lightning II design Unmanned and future air capability development andmanufacture system capabilities Manufacture of major Typhoon assemblies Design and manufacture of sub-assemblies Development of future air system capabilities, forEuropean partner nations and other inthe UK, including the aft fuselage and including a joint unmanned combat air system exportcustomers.
Aircraft assembly for the empennage.
Provision of equipment in the programme with France.
Royal Air Force, Royal Saudi Air Force and US, including the electronic warfare suite.
Expansion of the BAE Systems has a significant workshare capabilities of the aircraft.
onthe worlds largest defence programme.
Air support Defence Commercial avionics and training electronics equipment Provision of support to operational capability.
Design, manufacture and support of avionics Design, manufacture and support of avionics We provide maintenance, support and training equipment across a range of US and other equipment across multiple commercial aircraft for Typhoon aircraft inservice with the UK western military aircraft programmes, platforms, including engine and flight controls, andSaudi Arabian air forces.
Under the Saudi including a leadership position in the and cabin and cockpit systems, together with British Defence Co-operation Programme, electronic warfare market.
BAE Systems is a wehave contracts to provide manpower, leading supplier of engine controls for GE, and logistics and training, training aircraft is a major supplier of flight control electronics including Hawk, and upgrades to Tornado for Boeing and other aircraft platforms.
We provide support for Hawk aircraft in service in 14 countries andwill provide sustainment services for theF-35 Lightning II aircraft in the Europe andPacific regions.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 05 Complex Submarines Ship repair and warships naval support Design and manufacture of two 65,000-tonne Design and manufacture of seven Astute Provision of naval and commercial ship repair aircraft carriers, five Offshore Patrol Vessels, Classnuclear-powered attack submarines and modernisation services in the US and UK, and Type 26 frigates for the Royal Navy.
The first three Astute together with support to the navies of the US, Classsubmarines are in operational service UK and Australia.
In the US, BAE Systems has with the Royal Navy, with the remaining facilities located on the east, west and Gulf fourboats in build.
The final boat is expected coasts, as well as Hawaii, and has invested toenter service in the middle of the next innew dry dock facilities at its San Diego decade.
Design and manufacture of four shipyard to support the US Navys increased Dreadnought Class nuclear-powered focus on Asia-Pacific operations.
submarines to carry the UKs Trident ballisticmissiles.
Manufacture of the first Dreadnought Class boat, Dreadnought, commenced in 2016.
Weapon systems Combat Cyber and munitions vehicles security Design and manufacture of naval gun Products and services include: upgrade of Delivery of a broad range of services to systems, munitions, torpedoes, radars, naval USArmy tracked vehicles, including Bradley enablethe US military and government command and combat systems, artillery Fighting Vehicles: design and manufacture of torecognise, manage and defeat threats.
systems, missile launchers and, through a the US Armys M109 self-propelled howitzer Support to UK and other government 37.5% interest in MBDA, missiles and missile and Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle, as well agencies in their intelligence missions.
BAE Systems also manages complex asamphibious vehicles for the US Marine Provision of defence-grade solutions ammunition plant operations for the US Army Corps and international customers: design, forcommercial cyber applications.
to produce insensitive munitions and manufacture and support of the CV90 propellant grains.
andBvS10 combatvehicles for international customers: and vehicle upgrade and support tothe BritishArmy.
