32 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk review Executive summary During the year, the Group maintained a low and stable risk Key risk profile in line with the Boards risk management objectives.
indicators Commentary The Group continued to invest in its risk management infrastructure and resources to support the Groups growth objectives and to ensure ongoing compliance with the The Group further strengthened CET1 ratio emerging industry good practice and regulatory standards.
its fully-loaded CET1 ratio to 13.7% 13.7% during 2017 2016: 13.3% 13.3% By effectively leveraging its risk management framework, the demonstrating the strong organic Group actively managed its risk profile in accordance with the capital generation capability of Board approved risk appetite.
Through continuous monitoring the business to support and assessment of the underlying risk drivers, whilst actively significant growth.
engaging the Board and senior management, the Group took appropriate and timely management actions in the context of 2016 2017 the changing economic, business and regulatory environment.
Through taking judicious and considered investment decisions, Total capital The Groups total capital ratio the Group improved its risk assessment and monitoring ratio increased by 1.8% to 16.9% capabilities.
In particular, the Group focused its risk-based 16.9% during 2017 driven by the investment to enhance its data governance and controls, 15.1% strengthened CET1 ratio and the upgrading its operational resilience assessment and issuance of 60m of AT1 management framework and delivering improvements to securities.
The Group also expanded its risk management capacity through the recruitment of specialist risk and compliance resources within its UK and Indian operations.
2016 2017 The Group delivered strong and profitable growth whilst maintaining a low and stable risk profile.
The underlying There was a reduction in the 3 months assetquality profile has continued to exhibit very strong percentage of loans more than in arrears performance and has continued to maintain sizeable and 1.4% three months in arrears during highquality buffers against minimum prudential solvency 1.2% 2017 driven by a strong andliquidity requirements.
performance across newly originated loans.
The underlying asset quality profile and the strength of its financial position helped to position the Group favourably in Note: 3 months in arrears ratio the context of uncertain economic, political and regulatory excludes legacy problem loans.
In particular, the Group continues to be mindful 2016 2017 ofthe uncertainty surrounding Brexit negotiations and has leveraged its stress testing capabilities to identify potential points of vulnerability.
Cost of risk Improved impairment performance was primarily driven The new regulatory standards relating to Buy-to-Let 0.16% by increased prudence in underwriting and affordability testing represented an assumptions introduced in 2016 important area of focus for the Risk and Compliance functions.
following the UK referendum vote The inherent strength of the Groups underwriting procedures to leave the EU, as well as lower 0.07% and its continued investment in customer data management underlying loan losses on enabled the Group to respond effectively to the regulatory acquired residential portfolios changes.
The Group also continued to improve its funding and the effect of increasing and liquidity forecasting procedures and has credible 2016 2017 property values.
plans for when the Bank of England withdraws its Term Funding Scheme.
Liquidity ratio The Groups liquidity ratio The other key regulatory developments to which the Group remained well above regulatory is responding include the General Data Protection Regulation 17.9% and risk appetite limits in 2017 GDPR and Payment Services Directive PSD2.
Both these 15.2% finishing the year at 15.2%.
regulatory initiatives are supported by dedicated resources, structured programmes and engagement of external advisors The Group managed liquidity to ensure that the Group complies effectively with the levels within its target range in emerging requirements.
the year and its liquidity coverage ratio was 225% against a The Group continued to maintain a robust and secure IT 2016 2017 regulatory minimum of 90%.
infrastructure and remains acutely conscious that the level and sophistication of cyber-risk continues to evolve.
Dedicated resources, improved detection capabilities and planning have helped the Group to minimise the risk of cyber-attacks.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 33 A Group-wide programme was established to enhance the High level key risk indicators Banks approach to data governance and controls in the The Group aligns its risk appetite to a select range of key context of industry good practice and regulatory standards.
performance indicators that are used to assess the Groups The programme is overseen by a senior level Steering success against strategic, business, operational and regulatory Committee with cross-functional executive sponsorship.
Actual performance against these indicators is The programme is designed to deliver improved data controls continually assessed and reported.
The table above outlines and models, aggregation capabilities and end user reporting the comparative analysis of the leading risk indicators with capabilities.
The programme will support other strategic and supporting commentary.
regulatory initiatives including IRB, GDPR and securitisation.
Key achievements in 2017 To ensure a holistic and integrated approach to operational The Group further enhanced and integrated its Strategic Risk resilience, the Group established an Operational Resilience Management Framework SRMF to inform, guide and support Programme to align its current approach to emerging industry business and strategic decision making.
The Group generated good practice and regulatory standards.
The programme will shareholder value through the optimisation of its risk and reward profile within the constraints of its risk appetite.
help to deliver an integrated approach to the ongoing assessment of critical operational functions and key The Groups approach to setting its risk appetite was enhanced dependencies, assessment of potential points of vulnerability through the use of improved borrower and loan level risk and business continuity planning and crisis management.
assessment, greater alignment with the financial planning process and the use of stress testing.
The Board actively The Group continued to enhance its Internal Capital Adequacy guided the process of setting risk appetite, ensuring that the Assessment Process ICAAP, through improved risk-based risk appetite is fully reflective of the Boards attitude and capital assessments and the use of stress testing.
The Group tolerance for risks to its objectives.
worked with industry experts and engaged with the PRA to ensure that its ICAAP adheres to regulatory standards and The IFRS 9 programme continued to progress according to represents an important mechanism by which the Board and plan with the core processes being subject to a full parallel senior management assess the adequacy and effectiveness of runthroughout 2017.
An independent validation of all the Groups business and capital plans under normal and underlying models, implementation standards and stressed operating conditions.
Fully integrated funding and governance arrangements was performed.
The Group was liquidity planning and stress testing analysis is used to support fully prepared to begin reporting under the IFRS 9 regime on the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP.
The Group also enhanced its Recovery Plan through active assessment of risk drivers, identification of business model The Groups secured business model, sensible loan to value vulnerabilities and development of credible and reliable profile and strong arrears performance result in a manageable business recovery options.
day one impact post adoption of the IFRS 9 standard of c. 4m.
For arrears balances purchased via the portfolio acquisition Risk-based management information has been an important process, the Group conservatively assesses expected loss at area of continued improvement.
Through the use of a broad the point of acquisition which is offset against the modelled range of early warning indicators and risk drivers, a more future cash flows to derive the effective interest rate for the forward-looking approach to risk identification and book.
This incurred loss protection is therefore recognised over management was established.
In particular, enhancements the life of the book against the unwind of any purchase were made to the credit portfolio risk triggers by leveraging discount or premium through interest income providing credit bureau data to supplement internal risk assessments.
The Group is actively using its early warning risk indicators andrisk assessment capabilities to identify and analyse any The Internal Ratings Based IRB programme was formally emerging trends, particularly during the current period of established to enable the Group to transition to the advanced economic and market uncertainty.
approach to measuring its credit risk-based capital requirements.
The programme progressed in accordance with Improved Financial Crime and Compliance team structures the Board approved plan and the Group is well placed to were implemented with continued investments made to commence parallel running its IRB models and capital materially build out specialist capabilities in relation to calculation engine.
The Group completed an internal selfmonitoring, testing and assurance.
assessment exercise against the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR to develop detailed plans and a roadmap of Priority areas for 2018 key steps towards a formal regulatory application.
The Group The priority for both the Risk and Compliance functions during will be engaging actively with the PRA and external subject 2018 is to further embed the risk management frameworks matter experts to ensure successful delivery of the into the culture and decision making processes at all levels of programme.
Both functions intend to utilise the enhanced level of specialist risk and compliance resources to deliver on As the Group increased the use of risk-based analytics and a number of key initiatives including: models, it also improved model validation, monitoring and back-testing.
Appropriate controls were established to assess Delivery of an enhanced and integrated data governance the ongoing robustness and usage of all risk models.
Improved data aggregation, Group established Board and senior management oversight analytics and distribution channels to support ongoing and governance procedures through a Board approved model business reporting requirements as well as key strategic risk policy.
and regulatory initiatives Continued progress against the Groups IRB plan, with particular focus on delivery of second generation credit risk models, improved adherence to emerging regulatory 34 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk review continued The SRMF is a structured approach to aligning the Boards requirements and meeting the use-test requirements.
overarching objectives against the risks assumed and the Improved model governance and controls, supported by ongoing management of these risks.
The SRMF enables the an extensive training and awareness programme Board to articulate its expectations and tolerance in relation Continued improvements to the underlying risk forecasting to the nature and level of risks it is willing to assume in pursuit and stress testing capabilities which supporting the Group of its strategic and business agenda.
The Board also uses ICAAP and ILAAP, including the roll-out of IRB and IFRS 9 the SRMF to outline its expectations with respect to the compliant stress testing capabilities appropriate level of risk management capabilities and the The Groups operational resilience programmes to deliver an sophistication needed to actively manage the risk profile.
integrated approach to operational resilience assessment and improved aligned to Business Continuity Plan BCP The modular construct of the SRMF provides for an agile development and testing, through the leveraging of an integrated system solution.
approach to responding effectively to the evolving nature of the business and regulatory environment.
The SRMF and its The Board and senior management are providing an core modular components are subject to periodic review and appropriate level of oversight across all key initiatives.
The approval by the Board and its oversight committees.
Group also engages external subject matter experts and consults with supervisory authorities to ensure appropriate The following sections describe the key modules of the levels of transparency and successful outcomes are achieved.
Risk management Key modular component 1: Risk principles and culture Approach to risk management The Board adopted a principle-based approach to articulating Ongoing risk identification, assessment, monitoring and its expectations and guidance relating to how the Group reporting are the primary risk disciplines underpinning the should frame its risk management approach.
The risk Groups growth strategy and adherence to the prudential and management principles are designed to set a clear tone from conduct regulatory requirements.
The Groups approach to risk the top with respect to the Groups risk culture and values.
management is outlined within the SRMF.
The risk principles also provide the background context in which to articulate the Groups risk management objectives, The SRMF is the overarching framework which enables the strategy and appetite.
Board and senior management to actively manage and optimise the risk-reward profile within the constraints of the The risk principles are: Group risk appetite.
Specifically, the SRMF enables the Board Customer outcomes: fair treatment and good customer and senior management to take informed decisions by outcomes are core business values which cannot be put at risk appropriately balancing the interests and expectations of Proportionate and scalable: the approach to risk the various stakeholders and to manage potential trade-offs management needs to be commensurate with the within the context of the risk appetite.
complexity of the underlying risk profile and appropriately agile to respond to changing business and regulatory needs Strategic Risk Management Framework SRMF Key Risk principles and culture elements Risk strategy and appetite Risk governance and function organisation Risk definitions and categorisation Financial risks Non-financial risks Principal risks Credit risk Strategic and business risk Market risk Operational risk Reputational risk Liquidity risk Conduct risk Regulatory compliance risk Solvency risk Capabilities Risk framework Risk data and IT Risk analytics Risk MI and policies Risk Recovery plan regulatory ICAAP ILAAP Resolution pack submissions Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 35 Risk appetite Actively managed: the risk profile needs to be actively The Group effectively aligned its strategic and business objectives managed within the Board approved risk appetite with its risk appetite, ensuring that the Board and senior Comprehensive coverage: all risks and their underlying management are able to monitor the underlying risk profile drivers impacting the Groups strategic, business, relative to the overarching risk principles, risk strategy and operational and regulatory objectives should be actively financial performance objectives of the Group.
The risk appetite assessed, monitored and reported is a critical mechanism though which the Board and senior Segregation of duties: risk-taking, oversight and assurance management are able to identify adverse trends and respond to responsibility to be organised in adherence to the three unexpected developments in a timely and considered manner.
lines of defence principle Integration and usage: risk assessment should be a critical The risk appetite is calibrated to reflect the Groups strategic feature of decision making processes at all levels of objectives, business operating plans, as well as external the organisation economic, business and regulatory constraints.
In particular, Versatile and progressive: the approach to managing the risk appetite is calibrated to ensure that the Bank risks should be subject to continuous review and continues to deliver against its strategic objectives and challenge to keep pace with emerging good practice operates with sufficient financial buffers even when subjected and regulatory standards.
to plausible but extreme stress scenarios.
The objective of the Board risk appetite is to ensure that the strategy and business In adherence to the risk management principles, the Group operating model is sufficiently resilient.
Board and senior management have cultivated a risk culture which encourages a proactive, transparent and analytical The risk appetite is calibrated using statistical analysis and approach to risk management.
Risks are assumed in a stress testing to inform the process by which the Board set balanced and considered manner, taking into account management triggers and limits against key risk indicators.
stakeholder expectations, good customer outcomes, risk The Board and senior management actively monitor actual management capabilities and controls.
performance against Board approved management triggers and limits to respond in a timely manner to adverse trends Key modular component 2: Risk strategy and appetite and breaches.
Risk strategy OSBs risk strategy is to create value through informed Overarching risk appetite statement risk-based decisions and leveraging the Groups risk data and The Bank has a prudent and proportionate approach to risk analytics in a timely and accurate manner to optimise the taking and management, which is reflective of its risk-reward profile.
Risks are only to be assumed which can be straightforward business model.
The inherent resilience of the effectively identified, assessed, measured and controlled Groups business model is underpinned by the fact that the across all phases of the risk life cycle.
Bank only lends on a secured basis, has established robust underwriting practices and relies on intermediary based This risk strategy is based on three key components: distribution.
The Group supports its lending activities by being Creating value through generating returns which sufficiently predominantly reliant on stable retail funding, supported by exceed the cost of risk, funding costs and operating costs strong and high quality financial buffers.
The highly efficient Risks are only to be assumed where they are subject to a business operating model is an important source of structured and disciplined approach to risk management competitive advantage.
The Group also places significant Risk management capabilities are scalable and agile enough importance on its strong conduct and compliance culture as to adequately address future evolution of the risk profile.
an important driver of its overall success.
Business and risk strategy provide the context within which the Group Business outlines its business objectives and establishes its SRMF.
The risk appetite and risk seeks to articulate the willingness of the Group to take risks in light of its strategic and risk objectives.
strategy The overarching risk appetite sets the tone for risk management.
Overarching It provides a framework to develop and cascade the Groups risk culture and to establish risk policies, controls and limits in appetite statement a consistent manner.
The overarching risk appetite statement is supported Risk types and individual by the individual, risk type level appetite statements risk level appetite statements for all relevant risks.
Risk appetite statements are supported by a broad range of qualitative and Risk metrics quantitative metrics.
Information and reporting Oversight and monitoring 36 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk review continued The Executive Committee has day-to-day responsibility for Key modular component 3: Risk governance and managing the Groups risk profile within the parameters of functionorganisation theBoard approved risk appetite.
The Executive Committee Risk governance refers to the processes and structures discharges its risk control and oversight responsibilities established by the Board to ensure that risks are assumed and through a number of management level risk committees managed within the Board approved risk appetite, with clear covering all principal risks.
delineation between risk-taking, oversight and assurance responsibilities.
The Groups risk governance framework is The Chief Risk Officer CRO is the accountable Executive structured to adhere to the three lines of defence model.
All responsible for establishing an effective risk management risk-taking, oversight and assurance functions are allocated to framework supported by appropriately organised Risk and accountable Executives.
In discharging his duties, the CRO has dual reporting lines into the Group CEO and the Chair of the The Group Board has the ultimate responsibility for the Risk Committee.
The CRO ensures that the Risk function is oversight of the Groups risk profile and management appropriately resourced and capable of identifying, assessing framework and where it deems it appropriate, it delegates its authority to its nominated Committees.
The Board and its and reporting all principal risks to which the Bank is exposed.
Committees are provided with appropriate and timely information relating to the nature and level of the risks to The various management level risk committees have been which the Group is exposed and the adequacy of the risk established to ensure a more focused approach to monitoring controls and mitigants.
The Internal Audit function provides and managing the specific risks.
Additional sub-committees independent assurance to the Board and its Committees as to and working groups have also been established to focus on the effectiveness of the systems and controls and the level of specific risk initiatives or projects.
adherence with internal policies and regulatory requirements.
The OSB risk governance structure is detailed below: Risk Credit Market Liquidity Operational Regulatory Conduct Board Board governance Risk Committee Executive Committee Management Credit Regulatory Governance Assets and Liabilities Committee Risk Management Committee governance Committee Committee Chief Risk Officer Frameworks Strategic Risk Management Framework, Stress Testing Framework Compliance Risk Management Operational Risk Framework, Credit Risk Management Market & Liquidity Financial Crime Management Framework, Conduct Risk Interest Rate Risk in Risk Management Risk Management Framework, Lending Operational Management the Banking Book Framework, Treasury Framework, Policy, Arrears, Resilience Policy, Framework, Conduct Policy Policy, Funding and Group Anti-Money Key policies Repossession and Vulnerable Customer Risk Policy Liquidity Risk Policy Laundering and and documents Forbearance policies and Suicide Counter Terrorist Awareness Policy Financing Policy, SMR policies Risk Appetite Statement, ICAAP, Recovery Plan, Resolution pack ILAAP Compliance and Management Operational Conduct risk Credit MI pack ALCO MI pack Financial Crime information risk MI pack MI pack MI pack Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 37 The OSB risk organisational structure is detailed below: Board Board of Directors Committees Remuneration Nomination and Audit Committee Risk Committee CommitteeGovernance Committee Executive Committee Credit Executive Operations Risk Management Regulatory Executive Assets and Management Committee M&A Committee Committee Governance Disclosure Liabilities Committees Committee Committee Committee Committee Transactional Heritable Model Review Project and Vendor Vulnerable Data Product and Credit Transactional Committee Change Management Customer Governance Proposition Committee Credit Committee Committee Committee Forum Management Committee Forum First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Business Ensures that risks are identified, Provides an independent review and Provides independent assurance on and control measured, monitored a nd reported in challenge to the business and control the e ffectiveness of the SRMF, functions line with policy in an effective manner.
functions to ensure that all aspects of compliance with regulations, the risk profile are managed adherence to policies and Key Brands inadherence to risk appetite effectiveness of controls.
Operations Risk and Compliance Internal Audit IT and Change Credit Strategy Commercial Sales and Marketing Legal and Regulation Chief Executive Officer Executives Chief Financial O fficer Chief Risk Officer Group Head of Internal Audit Group Chief Operating O fficer Group Chief Credit Officer Chief Information O fficer Group General C ounsel and Company Secretary Group Commercial Director Sales & Marketing D irector Brand-Level S enior Management 38 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk review continued Key modular component 4: Risk definitions evolving nature of its risk profile, it has established a broad andcategorisation range of early warning indicators and maintains risk registers The Groups business activities, business model and external covering all principal risks.
Outlined below are the various operating environment result in a unique risk profile.
To ensure financial and non-financial risks which constitute the Groups that the Bank is actively monitoring and responding to the risk profile.
Business model characteristics Specialist, and primarily Desired levels of credit Also incurs exposure Manage infrastructure The Bank is subject secured lender to exposure to key segments to potentially riskier and operations to support to variations in the underserved sectors Buy-to-Let SME, sub-sectors second its core business activities macroeconomic residential charge, bridging and Perform activities to environment and Potential for concentrations development finance ensure regulatory movements in key compliance variables e. g. Gross Domestic Product, unemployment, interest rates Risk profile Financial risks Non-financial risks Portfolio credit risk Strategic and business risk Reputational risk Operational risk The risk to the Banks earnings Refers to the potential adverse Operational risk is the risk of The risk of losses due to one or more borrowers failing to meet all or part of their and profitability arising effects that can arise from loss resulting from inadequate from its strategic decisions, the Banks reputation being or failed internal processes, obligations towards the Bank.
Credit risk also includes other elements such as prechange in the business sullied due to factors such as people and systems or from conditions, improper unethical practices, adverse external events.
It includes settlement and settlement risk, residual risk of credit risk mitigation and implementation of decisions regulatory actions, customer legal risk but excludes strategic concentration risk.
or lack of responsiveness to dissatisfaction and complaints and reputational risk.
Market risk inc. IRRBB Conduct risk Reputational risk can arise The risk of losses in on and off-balance sheet Conduct risk is the risk that the from a variety of sources and positions arising from adverse movements in firms culture, organisation, is a second order risk the market prices.
behaviours and actions result in crystallisation of a credit risk poor outcomes and detriment or operational risk can lead to for customers and or damage a reputational risk impact.
to consumer trust and integrity in the markets in which we operate.
Regulatory compliance risk The risk of failure due to non-adherence to provisions of the PRA handbook and all relevant prudential and conduct standards in the UK or non-compliance with reporting requirements or submission of incorrect information.
Solvency risk The potential inability of the Bank to ensure that it maintains sufficient capital levels for its business strategy and risk profile under both the base and stress case financial forecasts.
Liquidity and funding risk The potential inability of the Bank to fund increases in assets, manage unplanned changes to funding sources and to meet obligations when required.
It primarily arises due to the maturity mismatch associated with the Banks assets and liabilities and the growth in mortgage lending.
