The changing world of energy The world of energy is changing every day.
With rising concerns about climate, technological advances and geopolitical shifts, the energy mix is moving towards lower carbon sources.
2040 outlook Growing demand for energy Energy mix is shifting People rely on energy for heat, light and mobility.
Today, oil and gas account for almost 60% of all energy Growing economies need energy to support their used.
Even in a scenario that is consistent with the Paris industry and infrastructure.
How that energy is delivered goals of limiting warming to less than 2C, oil and gas is changing rapidly and the energy mix of the future will could provide around 40% of all energy used by 2040. become increasingly lower carbon.
So its essential that action is taken to reduce emissions from their production and use.
The demand for energy continues to grow largely driven by rising incomes in emerging economies and In a low carbon world, gas offers a much cleaner a global population heading towards nine billion by alternative to coal for power generation and a valuable 2040.
But this growth is much slower than in the back-up for renewables, for example when the sun previous 20 years.
The extent of the increase is being and wind arent available.
Gas also provides heat for curbed by gains in energy efficiency, as there is industry and homes and fuel for trucks and ships.
greater attention around the world on using energy To meet the rising demand for cleaner energy, more sustainably.
we are increasing our gas production.
a Energy consumption by region Renewables are the fastest-growing energy source billion tonnes of oil equivalent and could account for at least 14% of all energy in 2040.
2040 We are building up our renewable portfolio focusing on biofuels, biopower, wind energy and solar energy.
2020 Oil is the primary fuel for transport today.
We expect its 2000 share of the total energy mix will gradually decline as we see more energy efficiency in traditional engines, greater use of biofuels and gas, and growth in fully electric and 0 3 6 9 12 15 18 hybrid vehicles, as well as ride sharing, in the years OECD Other Asia India Rest of World ahead.
China Africa a Evolving transition scenario.
We are developing new efficient fuels and lubricants that can help our customers and consumers to lower their emissions.
Advances in technology Insights from our Energy Outlook and Technology Outlook help shape our strategic thinking.
We consider how policy, consumer behaviour and advances in technology could affect the pace of the energy transition and how we produce and use energy in the coming decades.
We prioritize certain new technologies for in-depth analysis based on their fit with our strategy and how soon and likely we think they are to break through technological and commercial barriers.
We also invest in start-up companies to understand and participate in these potentially transformational technologies.
See Innovation in BP on page 44.
Above: Our Ituiutaba sugar cane processing unit in Brazil.
10 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic report overview Emerging greenhouse gas policy and regulation Governments are putting in place taxes, carbon trading schemes and other measures to limit greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
A fifth of the worlds GHG emissions are now covered by carbon pricing systems, double the coverage from just five years ago.
We expect around two thirds of BPs direct emissions will be in countries subject to emissions and carbon policies by 2020.
And we have been active as a trader in the worlds current emissions trading systems since their inception.
To help anticipate greater regulatory requirements affecting our GHG emissions, we use a carbon cost when evaluating our plans for large new projects and those for which emissions costs would be a material part 80-90% of the project.
In industrialized countries, this is currently CO emissions 2 $40 per tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent.
We also stress test at a carbon price of $80 per tonne.
Around 80-90% of carbon dioxide emissions from oil and gas products are Our carbon cost, along with energy efficiency from their use by consumers in transportation, power plants, industries and considerations, encourages projects to be set up buildings.
So one of the biggest contributions we can make to advance the energy in a way that will have lower GHG emissions.
transition is by providing products and services that help consumers lower their carbon footprint.
Energy consumption 2040 projections 2016 Actual energy mix 2040 Evolving transition 2040 Faster transition 2040 Even faster transition 0 3 6 9 12 15 18 Billion tonnes of oil equivalent.
The sum of the fuel shares may not equal 100% due to rounding.
Oil Gas Coal Nuclear Hydro Renewables Evolving transition Faster transition Even faster transition In this scenario, government policies, This scenario sees carbon prices rising faster This scenario matches carbon emissions technology and social preferences evolve in a than in the evolving transition scenario with similar to the International Energy Agencys manner and speed seen in the recent past.
The other policy interventions encouraging more sustainable development scenario which growing world economy requires more energy rapid energy efficiency gains and fuel aims to limit the global temperature rise but consumption increases less quickly than switching.
More information BP Energy Outlook Provides our projections of future energy trends and factors that could affect them out to 2040.
com energyoutlook Technology Outlook Describes how technology could influence the way we meet the energy challenge into the future.
