Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 57 Viability statement Testing the Groups viability Viability statement The Directors have assessed the Groups The Directors also assessed a perfect In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the viability in conjunction with its current storm scenario by combining multiple UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, position as well as its financial projections scenarios above and modelling the the Directors have assessed the viability in the context of the various debt facilities resulting downside to stress-test the of the Group over a three-year period to and associated covenants.
These financial Groups viability if these cash ows were 31 December 2020. projections are based on the Groups to immediately and simultaneously come Three Year Plan, which has been built under severe threat.
This scenario is The Directors consider this period to be up through a bottom-up basis with a aimed to test the viability of the Group if appropriate because this is the period Group overlay which provides a more it was to experience a catastrophic failure aligned to the current order book and top-down view to align to the Groups and to allow the Directors to assess the for which there is a good visibility of strategic objectives.
These projections mitigations available to avoid this.
the pipeline of potential new projects.
indicate that the projected headroom, This period also allows greater certainty In assessing the Groups viability under provided by the Groups net cash position over the forecasting assumptions used these severe but plausible scenarios and under the debt facilities currently in labour and material pricing, skills and including in the instance of a perfect in place, are adequate to support the availability.
In the longer term, there storm, the Directors have also Group over the next three years, whilst is also significant political uncertainty.
considered the Groups projected cash still enabling the Group to repay its There is inherently limited visibility of position whichexcludes cash that is 410 million debt falling due in the next contract bidding opportunities beyond not immediately available to the Group, three years.
In the three-year period, the three-year period, and the accuracy bank facilities and their maturity prole the Group is also not projecting to draw of any forecasting exercise will also be and covenants, the borrowing powers down on its revolving credit facility of impeded by the uncertainty around the allowed under the Companys Articles of 400 million to 31 December 2018 and costs involved to deliver these contracts.
Association and the fact that the Groups 375 million to 31 December 2020.
Consequently, the Group performs its PPP investments comprise reasonably In testing the headroom available under the medium-term planning over three years.
realisable securities which can be sold to key sensitivities modelled, the Directors meet funding requirements if necessary.
The Directors and the Executive Risk haveassumed that the expiring debt It is unlikely, but not impossible, that Steering Group continue to monitor the facilities will be fully repaid and will not the crystallisation of a single risk would principal risks facing the Group, including bereplaced with another form of debt.
test the future viability of the Group: those that would threaten the execution The Groups projections have been stresshowever, unsurprisingly, it is possible of its strategy, its business model, future tested against key sensitivities which could to construct scenarios where either performance, solvency and liquidity.
As part materialise as a result of crystallisation multiple occurrences of the same risk, of assessing the Groups future viability, of one or a combination of the Groups orsingle occurrences of different principal the Directors have considered these principal risks with the aim of stress-testing risks, could put pressure on the Groups principal risks and the mitigations available the Groups future viability against severe ability to meet its financial covenants.
These principal risks and the but plausible scenarios.
These severe but The Directors have considered the strength consequent impact these might have on plausible scenarios include: of the mitigations available to the Group theGroup as well as mitigations that are failure to manage effectively the and whether these are sufficient to avoid inplace are detailed on pages 51 to 56. uncertainties caused by Britains exit a catastrophic outcome to the Groups In their assessment of the Groups viability, from the EU viability and believe that there are sufficient the Directors have also considered the mitigations immediately available to an inability to collect need to be successful in implementing minimise this risk.
recoverable amounts the Groups Build to Last transformation Based on the assessment undertaken to programme and to focus on its strategic an operating event that damages stress-test the Groups viability against priorities of Lean, Expert, Trusted and Safe the Groups reputation and results severe but plausible scenarios, and taking detailed on pages 12 to 15. insignicant penalty into account the strength of mitigations more onerous payment terms By the end of 2016, the Group had that are immediately available to the Group, demanded from suppliers leading to successfully exceeded its Phase One Build the Directors have concluded that there is areduction in creditor payment days to Last targets of 200 million cash in: a reasonable expectation that the Group 100 million cost out.
The Group continues failure to realise further projected will be able to continue in operation and to exploit opportunities to re-engineer benets from Build to Last.
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the processes to drive efficiencies, reducing three-year period until 31 December 2020.
The above scenarios result in: cost whilst maintaining or improving efficiencies.
The Group is now in Phase a reduction in revenue Our 2017 Strategic Report, from pages Two of its Build to Last programme, which 1 to 57, was approved by the Board on a reduction in margin aims towards achieving industry-standard 13 March 2018. an increase in operating costs margins in its earnings-based businesses.
a slowdown in the Groups investments As part of Phase Two, it remains critical disposal programme that the principles embedded in Phase One of Build to Last are maintained in order to negative changes to working capital.
achieve these industry-standard margins, Philip Harrison although this is also dependent to a certain Chief Financial officer extent on the Groups ability to selectively win new contracts which will be partly impacted by political changes, particularly in the UK and the US.
