60 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report Board of Directors Biographies David Weymouth Andy Golding April Talintyre Graham Allatt Eric Anstee Andrew Doman Rod Duke Margaret Hassall Mary McNamara Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment David was appointed to the Andy was appointed to the April joined the Bank in May Graham was appointed to Eric was appointed to the Andrew was appointed to Rod was appointed to the Margaret was appointed to Mary was appointed to Board in September 2017.
2012 and was appointed to the Board in May 2014.
Board in December 2015. the Board in July 2016.
Board in July 2012 and the Board in July 2016. the Board in May 2014. the Board in June 2012. was appointed Senior Independent Director in 2014.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Member of the Nomination None.
Member of the Risk Committee.
Chair of the Risk Committee Chair of the Audit Member of Audit, Chair of the Nomination Member of Audit and Chair of Remuneration and Governance Committee.
and member of the Committee and member Nomination and Governance, and Governance Committee Risk Committees.
and member of Risk Audit Committee.
Remuneration and and member of the and Nomination and Risk Committees.
Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills David has nearly 40 years Andy has over 30 years April has broad financial Graham has significant Eric has extensive corporate Andrew is an experienced Rod has extensive experience Margaret brings a broad range Mary has broad senior experience in the financial experience in financial services.
She has banking, credit risk finance and Mergers & financial services executive.
in operations, investments, of experience developed management experience in the services industry and has a been a member of the Institute experience and financial Acquisitions experience risk management and across various industry sectors banking and finance sectors.
degree in modern languages of Chartered Accountants in services experience.
over a broad range of corporate finance across retail including manufacturing, from University College England and Wales since 1992. business sectors.
London and an MBA from the University of Exeter.
He is a member of the Takeover Panel Appeals Board and Visiting Professor, London Metropolitan University Business School.
Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications David was previously Chief Andy was previously CEO April was previously an Graham was previously Acting Eric was Chairman of CPP Group Andrew is currently Chairman Rod was previously Group Margaret spent seven years Mary is a Non-Executive Information Officer at Barclays of Saffron Building Society, Executive Director in the Group Credit Director at Lloyds plc from 2014 to 2015.
Prior at Castle Trust Capital plc General Manager, HSBC with working for Deloitte and Director of Dignity plc Bank plc and Chief Risk Officer where he had been since Rothesay Life pensions TSB and Chief Credit Officer to this he was Chief Executive and was previously CEO of responsibility for UK distribution Touche as a consultant and and Motorpoint plc.
She at RSA Insurance Group 2004.
Prior to that he held insurance business of Goldman at Abbey National.
Prior to of the City of London Group Premium Credit Limited and branches, call centres and led the financial services was previously CEO of the plc.
He sat on the Executive senior positions at NatWest, Sachs and worked for this he spent 18 years in the plc, the first Chief Executive CEO, President and later internet banking for both consulting business for Commercial Division and Committee of both companies.
John Charcol and Bradford Goldman Sachs International NatWest Group culminating in of the Institute of Chartered Chairman of Frank Russell personal and commercial Charteris Plc.
More latterly Board Director of the Banking His experience as an executive & Bingley.
He was a Nonfor over 16 years, including the role of Managing Director, Accountants in England and Company.
Rod was with Margaret has been engaged Division at Close Brothers includes a wide range of senior Executive Director of Kreditech as an Executive Director in Credit Risk at NatWest Markets.
Wales and Group Finance Senior Director of McKinsey HSBC for 33 years.
Previous as Chief Operations Officer or Group PLC.
Prior to that, Mary roles in operations, technology, until 1 November 2017.
He the Controllers division in A Fellow of the Institute of Director of Old Mutual plc.
& Company, management directorships include VISA UK, Chief Information Officer for was Chief Operating Officer of risk and leadership.
David currently holds a number of London and New York.
April Chartered Accountants, Eric was also Group Finance consultants, based in the HFC Bank plc and HSBC Life.
divisions within some of the Skandia, the European arm of is also Chairman of Mizuho posts with industry institutions began her career at KPMG in Graham is Deputy Chairman Director at The Energy Group London office.
He focused on He also served on the Board worlds largest banks, namely Old Mutual Group and prior to International Plc and his including membership of a general audit department.
of the Friends of the British plc and advisor to Lord Hanson the financial services sector, of Alliance & Leicester plc until Bank of America Merrill Lynch, that, Mary spent 17 years at other current Non-Executive the Council of Mortgage Library and was involved in on the demerger of Hanson serving a number of leading its takeover by Santander.
Margaret is GE Capital, running a number directorships include Fidelity Lenders Executive Committee.
housing associations for nearly plc.
Prior to this Eric spent banks, insurance companies Rod is a Fellow of the Institute a Non-Executive Director for of businesses including GE International Holdings UK He is also a Director of the 30 years as Treasurer and 17 years at Ernst & Young.
and asset managers across a of Financial Services.
Fleet Services Europe and Limited and The Royal London Building Societies Trust Board member in the North Eric is also a Non-Executive wide range of topics including GE Equipment Finance.
and has also served as a of England and in London.
Director of Sun Life Financial strategy, performance He also served on the Board Non-Executive Director for of Canada Limited and Insight improvement and risk.
He of the Bank of Ireland UK Northamptonshire NHS.
was formerly a Non-Executive plc until November 2017.
Independent Non-Executive Director Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 61 David Weymouth Andy Golding April Talintyre Graham Allatt Eric Anstee Andrew Doman Rod Duke Margaret Hassall Mary McNamara Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment David was appointed to the Andy was appointed to the April joined the Bank in May Graham was appointed to Eric was appointed to the Andrew was appointed to Rod was appointed to the Margaret was appointed to Mary was appointed to Board in September 2017.
