08 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Market review 1 Economic The housing market The housing market in 2017 continued to reflect the overview uncertainties that emerged in 2016 after the UKs vote to leave the EU.
Transaction volumes remained at much the same 1 levels as they have since 2014, reflecting ongoing challenges posed by affordability driven by low wage growth and higher 2 house price inflation HPI.
2017 has seen HPI fall back, UK Buy-to-Let gross advances particularly in London, and it is possible that we may see a return to a moderate level of growth in transactions.
In February 2017, the government issued a long-awaited 35.8bn housing white paper.
This reflected a shift in sentiment towards a more holistic approach to property tenure and 2017 35.8bn away from an explicit focus on demand side initiatives that 2016 40.6bn promoted home ownership.
The political instability that 2015 37.9bn followed the General Election has, however, left most of the proposed measures untouched.
With the housing market Source: UK Finance remaining in the national spotlight, it is likely that the agenda set out in that white paper will re-emerge.
The mortgage market According to UK Finance, gross mortgage lending reached UK house price inflation 3 257bn in 2017, ahead of the expected figure of 248bn and 4.4% up on 2016, driven largely by an increase in remortgage activity.
The larger house purchase market rose by 9% 4 5.2% to 139bn.
First time buyers continued to take advantage of Help to Buy, 2017 5.2% with overall first time buyer lending up by 11% to 59.2bn 2016 7.2% 5 2016: 53.5bn.
The effect of the Stamp Duty Land Tax 2015 6.7% SDLT change for first time buyers that was announced in the Budget came too late to have any influence on the market Source: ONS, Survey of mortgage lenders in 2017: however, our view is that any impact will be minimal.
OneSavings Banks lending markets: 2 UK Buy-to-Let specialist SME market The Private Rented Sector PRS accounts for approximately 6 5.5 million households.
In the year to December 2017, it grew by 2.2%, a figure less than a third of that for the same period in 2014 and less than half of what it was in 2016.
This was, of course, a reaction to a series of regulatory and political interventions aimed at cooling the rate of market growth and improving levels of home ownership.
In the year, new Buy-to-Let lending of 35.8bn was down 12% on 2016 7 40.6bn.
This is, however, within the context of a continuing shortage of housing supply and mortgage regulation that keeps house prices relatively high and mortgage finance beyond the reach of many, thus underpinning strong and sustained demand for rental property.
The PRA changes to affordability assessment and to underwriting standards for portfolio landlords have driven two significant shifts within the Buy-to-Let market.
First, we have seen growth in the professional landlord community, at the expense of the amateur.
Second, we have seen these professional landlords increasingly prioritise yield, resulting in an increase in Houses in Multiple Occupation HMO and student let lending, coupled with geographic diversification away from the South East, where yields tend to be lower.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 09 Furthermore, professional landlords continue to mitigate the impact of tax changes by borrowing through limited companies.
OSB is a respected lender within the specialist Buy-to-Let sector with a strong reputation for limited company lending and that has been beneficial to date and is expected to continue to be so.
Commercial The UK commercial property market saw investment demand continue to increase during 2017, driven by overseas investors, who accounted for 60% of the whole market, up from around 8 50% in 2016.
Uncertainty caused by Brexit continues to present risks, but there are strong underlying factors which mean the UK, and particularly London, remains attractive to investors.
Demand has grown in all sectors except retail, with strong growth in offices, and particularly the industrial sector, which has benefited from the same types of shift towards e-commerce that has damaged the retail sector.
Research from JLL shows commercial property investment recorded double digit growth in 2017 to 60bn, although the share of that accounted for by properties over 200m is more 3 than twice as high as 2016, and the proportion of smaller lot 9 sizes has dropped.
However, yields in cities across Europe came under more pressure in 2017 compared to London Specialist residential lending and other regional UK cities, creating the possibility for more OneSavings Banks manual underwriting and individual case activity in the UK during 2018, albeit with growth returning assessment model provides a strong platform for specialist to more normal, single digit levels.
Customers with unusual asset and income structures, or complex credit histories as well as those The lending market is dominated by the high street banks.
seeking shared ownership mortgages, are ill-served by the Opportunity exists for specialist lenders whose manual commoditised and inflexible decision making processes underwriting approach, and willingness to engage in a of mainstream lenders.
We have identified strategic dialogue to ensure robust understanding of customer opportunities in this market that we will pursue in 2018. requirements, can provide a service differential.
Second charge lending 10 Residential development The second charge market saw approximately 1bn of gross The UK has experienced a long-term upward trend in real new lending in 2017 2016: 874m.
This market continues house prices, creating affordability problems as demand for to adjust to the changes in regulation that came into effect housing continues to outstrip both supply and real wage in March 2016 and the short-term outlook is at best neutral: growth.
Furthermore, turnover in the second-hand housing any significant increase in market size is considered unlikely.
In this context, we continue to resist the market trend to aggressively chase business through widespread price The housing white paper published in February 2017 refers reductions or relaxation of credit standards, believing to a broken housing market and identified that not enough the returns available to be insufficient reward for the homes are being built and thus prioritised initiatives that will risks involved.
Notable among the initiatives announced in the white paper were a raft of measures to encourage Funding lines smaller builders to build more homes, through an improved There are a number of successful non-bank or alternative planning framework.
The government also expressed a desire providers of finance to retail and SME customers in the UK.
that lenders should back developers in building more homes.
These businesses are funded through a variety of means The white paper represents a holistic assessment of the UKs including wholesale finance provided by banks, high net housing needs, and it is encouraging to note the emphasis worth investors and market based peer-to-peer finance.
placed on supporting the small and medium sized developers OSB is an active provider of secured funding lines to the who form our core audience for development finance.
non-bank finance market, to date focusing on short-term real estate finance, leasing and development finance.
Through these activities the Bank has achieved senior secured exposure at attractive returns to asset classes that it knows well.
This financing activity covers a broad range of business sectors and its overall size is thus difficult to quantify.
OSB sees a regular flow of opportunities, adopts a very selective approach and has a strong pipeline of new business.
UK Finance, Property sale transactions, UK countries, PT2, 21 Feb 2018.
Kent Reliance Buy-To-Let Britain Report, edition 7, Dec 2017.
UK Finance, House price changes, UK countries and regions, HP14, 13 Feb 2018.
UK Finance, New and outstanding buy-to-let new mortgages, 2 Feb 2018.
UK Finance, New mortgages by purpose of loan, ML1, 1 Feb 2018.
JLL, The UK Commercial Property Market, Jon Neale, Jan 2018.
UK Finance, First-time buyers, new mortgages and affordability, UK countries 10.
FLA, Second charge mortgage new business volumes grow in 2017, and regions, ML2, 1 Feb 2018.
