Innovation in BP 3,600 patents and applications 8 major technology centres Technology is ever-present Technology across the business in all that we do from safely The right technology is central to the safety apply technology that enhances operational and reliability of our operations.
In Upstream, integrity, boosts conversion efficiency, discovering and recovering oil we seek to increase recovery and gain new reduces CO2 emissions or helps to provide and gas, to renewable energy, access.
And in Downstream we develop and high-performance products for our customers.
digital, and lower carbon fuels and products.
We seek innovations that help to make Between our operations and products more 8-15% efficient and sustainable.
fuel savings And by partnering with early and growth stage start-ups, we invest in emerging technologies that are scalable and commercially viable.
We also complement our comprehensive research capability with external collaborations that provide a range of specialisms, supported by innovative academic programmes.
We have scientists and technologists at eight major technology centres in the US, UK, Asia and Germany.
In 2017 we invested $391 million in research and development 2016 $400 million, 2015 $418 million.
This excludes the investment in technology Helping heavy-duty vehicles reduce carbon emissions made through venturing which gives us While the focus of reducing emissions We are working to improve the safety and alternative access to innovation.
has been on battery power for passenger efficiency of trucks through our investment and small vehicle fleets, the solution in Peloton Technology.
The business has BP and its subsidiaries hold more than for heavy-duty vehicles such as lorries developed connected and automated vehicle 3,600 granted patents and pending patent isnt as obvious.
To help tackle this, we are technology for commercial vehicles, using applications throughout the world.
developing a number of technologies the same approach as cyclists who race in bp.
com technology that offer a range of ways for heavy-duty close formation to travel as fast as the leader vehicles to reduce emissions.
Linked pairs of trucks have synchronized acceleration and braking Our acquisition of the renewable natural to maintain a safe distance between the gas business of Clean Energy Fuel Corp. is vehicles.
Travelling in this way can reduce helping to make renewable energy more emissions and result in estimated fuel accessible for natural gas powered vehicle More information savings of between 8-15%.
Biogas is produced Technology Outlook entirely from organic waste and is estimated How technology could influence to result in up to 70% lower greenhouse the way we meet the energy gas emissions than from equivalent gasoline challenge into the future.
com technologyoutlook 44 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic report performance Improving oil and gas recovery Operational decision-making is being transformed by a combination of cloud 2,500 technology and big data software solutions.
wells with Argus Our wells data platform Argus holds historical real-time data and real-time data in our proprietary data lake 01010101010101010101 on nearly all of the 2,500 wells we operate 01 0101 0101 0101 01 10101010101 globally, making data available to any relevant 01010101010101010101 engineer, anytime.
Well reviews that used 01010101010101010101 to take days of preparation can now be 010101010101 1 1 10 0 1 done live using Argus, leaving more time 01010101010101010101 to explore new ways to deliver efficiencies 0101010101 and improve production rates.
0101010101 We recently deployed a new proprietary seismic processing algorithm called Full Waveform Inversion in our Gulf of Mexico business, which lets us see through the salt to the reservoirs below.
Applied to BPs four hubs in the Gulf of Mexico, it has helped us identify significant additional resources.
We ran that algorithm in just two weeks at Using fibre optics cables inside our wells, Through our venturing partnership with our centre for high performance computing we listen to the rock, so we can intervene BiSN, we help to protect oil production rates in Houston in 1999 that would have if issues arise.
We have deployed this by shutting off unwanted water and gas.
taken us more than 2,000 years using technology in more than 30 wells to date BiSN applies heat technology in a well to available computer power.
with many more planned globally, and melt alloys so they can flow into any spaces Sand production caused from weak rock are now investigating other applications within the cemented well.
When cooled, breaking down under pressure creates a for the technology, including 4D seismic the alloys solidify and seal the well, inhibiting challenge for our industry.
If sand enters oil and well integrity monitoring.
We have deployed production facilities, it can cause erosion this novel BiSN technology successfully and disrupt production efficiency.
in the Gulf of Mexico and Angola.
Working in partnership Creating low carbon businesses Carbon capture, use and storage New technologies can help pave the way technology CCUS, where CO can be 2 to a lower carbon future.
We are building captured and prevented from entering the low carbon into what we do, across the $400 million atmosphere, is another important means business in ways that can help generate invested in corporate venturing since of reducing emissions.
BP is working with value over the long term.
the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative OGCI to We are an investor and an end-user speed up wide-scale use of CCUS, which of the technologies we invest in.
is one of the main focus areas for OGCIs 40 $1-billion investment vehicle.
In 2017 Our approach is not about trying to we committed funding through OGCI to active investments in our venturing do everything, but to focus on the areas advance designs for a full-scale gas power portfolio, with more than 200 that have the greatest potential value plant with CCUS one that can receive co-investors and 12 technologies to our business now and in the future.
government support and attract private used in BP.
Our venturing partnerships help us sector investors.
to understand and develop solutions for the future.
We invest to help companies develop Sustainable raw materials technology quickly often for our own use.
We are helping commercialize production Our investments include: of new high-performance wood.
Tricoya technology changes the physical properties Advanced mobility of wood chips that are used to make MDF Carbon management panels with enhanced durability and stability.
The panels can be used outside and in wet Low carbon power and storage areas where concrete, plastic or metal Bio and low carbon products materials would usually be needed.
The lightweight and sustainable raw material offers Digital energy.
benefits to the construction, joinery and civil engineering industries.
BP and Tricoya have formed a consortium to build a plant in the UK, producing more durable wood chips.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 45 Turning carbon into concrete Our investment in Solidia, a cement and concrete company, is supporting a new technology to produce cement in a way that generates fewer emissions using CO instead of water to cure the concrete.
2 The technology has the potential to lower emissions in concrete production by up to 70%, and allows 80% of the water used in its production process Rapid mobile charging to be recycled.
BP has invested $5 million in FreeWire, a US manufacturer of mobile electric 70% vehicle rapid charging systems, and we potential plan to roll out the charging facilities for emissions use at selected BP retail sites in Europe reduction during 2018.
This investment will help to build our understanding of this fastevolving market.
Venturing and low carbon across multiple fronts Going beyond $20 million the limits invested in Beyond Limits 20 years supporting NASA knowledge to simulate human reasoning, Previously used in deep space with the same exploration techniques exploration our venturing that NASAs Curiosity Rover used on the partnership with Beyond Limits surface of Mars.
is using artificial intelligence We are supporting this work to help AI technology to transform accelerate its delivery and provide the the way we manage reservoirs energy sector with new levels of process here on Earth.
automation and better insight and effectiveness across all operations.
Our investment in the start-up company The work supports BPs vision of using is helping develop and commercialize the digital technology to help transform our same technology that successfully organization.
And we believe that it could supported NASAs space programme for fundamentally change how we locate more than 20 years for the oil and gas and develop reservoirs, produce and industry.
refine crude oil, market and supply refined products and make unmanned repairs Beyond Limits aims to adapt and deliver possible for dangerous maintenance.
its AI software to tackle industrial and business challenges on Earth.
The Alternative work uses machine learning and human thinking Disruptive New business technologies models 46 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
