72 Directors report other disclosures Business and financial review No person has special rights of control over the Companys share The Chairmans introduction on pages 2 and 3, the Group Chief capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Executives review on pages 4 and 5, the market and strategic As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notied in reviews on pages 8 to 15, the performance review on pages 16 accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the to 25, the sustainability section on pages 29 to 37 and the Chief Financial Conduct Authority of the following interests in its ordinary Financial Ofcers review on pages 44 to 47, are incorporated by share capital: reference into the Directors report.
Number Percentage of ordinary of ordinary Corporate governance shares held shares held The Governance section on pages 58 to 87, including the Compliance with the Code statement on page 58, forms part Causeway Capital Management LLC 76,067,468 11.03 oftheDirectors report.
Henderson Group plc 48,009,867 6.96 Results and dividends Prudential plc 42,969,270 6.22 The results for the year are shown in the audited financial BlackRock Inc 34,825,961 5.04 statements presented on pages 94 to 173 and are explained more Schroders plc 34,779,827 5.04 fully in the Group Chief Executives review, the performance review and the Chief Financial Ofcers review.
Newton Investment Management Limited 31,347,697 4.54 An interim dividend of 1.2p per ordinary share was approved by the Invesco Limited 29,102,945 4.21 Board on 15 August 2017 and a final dividend of 2.4p per ordinary share will be recommended at the Annual General Meeting, giving Since 1 January 2018, the Company has received further a total dividend per ordinary share of 3.6p for 2017 2016: 2.7p.
notications that BlackRock Incs interest has increased to 6.17% Preference dividends totalling 10.75p per preference share were and that Schroders plcs interest has fallen below 5% and has paid in 2017 2016: 10.75p.
therefore ceased to be notiable.
The Directors continued to offer the dividend reinvestment plan, which allows holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their cash Auditor dividends in the Companys shares through a specially arranged KPMG LLP has indicated its willingness to continue as auditor share dealing service.
to the Company and a resolution for its re-appointment will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
Innovation, research and development Information concerning innovation, research and development Articles of Association is set out on pages 29 and 30, and forms part of the Directors The Company has not adopted any special rules regarding the report disclosures.
appointment and replacement of Directors or the amendment of the Articles of Association, other than as provided under Branches UKcompany law.
As the Group is a global business, there are activities operated through branches in certain jurisdictions.
Relations with shareholders The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good Share capital and shareholders relationships with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December are kept informed of significant Company developments.
2017, including the rights attaching to each class of share, are set The Company continued its programme of communication with out in Note 29 on page 145.
During the year ended 31 December institutional investors and sell-side analysts throughout 2017.
2017, no ordinary or preference shares were issued or repurchased Presentations of the half-year and annual results were made in for cancellation.
accordance with the practice of previous years.
At 31 December 2017, the Directors had authority under Through the year, approximately 125 one-on-one and group shareholders resolutions approved at the AGM and at the meetings were held at regular intervals with institutional Class Meeting of preference shareholders held in May 2017 to shareholders 2016: approximately 75.
Current and prospective purchase through the market 68,973,961 ordinary shares and shareholders, brokers and analysts were also given the opportunity 16,775,968 preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions.
to engage with Balfour Beatty during road shows in London and This authority expires at the earlier of the conclusion of the Class North America.
Meeting of preference shareholders which will follow the 2018 This communication programme will be maintained and expanded AGM or on 1 July 2018. where appropriate, subject to the constraints of regulation and Throughout the year, all the Companys issued share capital was practice.
The 2018 investor relations programme will focus on publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and it remains so ensuring investors and the analyst community understand the as at the date of this report.
There are no specic restrictions on Group, its operations and strategy, and that institutions continue the size of a shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which are tobe given the opportunity to meet with management.
both governed by the Articles of Association and the prevailing law.
Care is exercised to ensure that any price sensitive information The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders isreleased to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with ofthe Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the UK Listing Authority requirements.
transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 73 Executive Directors report regularly to the Board on meetings Employment or other contact with shareholders or their representatives.
The Balfour Beatty Group operates across a number of geographies The non-executive Directors continue to believe that, through and end markets.
their direct and ready access to, and contact with, the Chairman Balfour Beatty provides a Human Resources framework and the Senior Independent Director and through the regular for promoting diversity, ethical behaviour and learning and reports to the Board, they are kept fully aware of the views of development as well as continuing to full its commitments in the larger shareholders in the Company and the investment relation to regulation and corporate governance.
The key principles community generally.
in the design and practice of employment policy that are applicable The Board continues to retain the services of independent across the Group are to: external corporate and investor relations consultants who provide a safe, open, inclusive and challenging environment provide advice on the relationship between the Company and its thatattracts and retains the best people institutional investors.
enable all employees to perform at their best and realise Further information on the Companys investor relations their full potential, assisted by appropriate training and programme can be found at: www.
com investors career development The Board regards the Companys general meetings as an communicate the strategy of the Group, the objectives of opportunity to communicate directly with private investors each respective business and the role and objectives of each and actively encourages participative dialogue with all the employee within that business Companys shareholders.
actively consult with all employees and engage in a participating environment that fosters the exchange of best practice The chairs of the Board Committees attend the AGM each year and collaboration along with the other Directors and are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The circular setting out the Notice of the provide market competitive pay and benets that reward both 2018 AGM provides a detailed explanation of the business to be individual and collective performance transacted and includes contact details which shareholders can use ensure that all job applicants receive fair treatment, regardless to make any comments or ask any questions concerning the AGM.
ofage, origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, The website is regarded by the Company as an important religion or belief source of information on the Group, including financial press ensure that all employees similarly receive fair treatment releases, shareholder documentation, annual and half-year results throughout their career presentations and the terms of reference of the principal Board provide a working environment of respect and free Committees.
The Companys website continues to be developed from harassment.
toensure it remains a principal source of information on the Group and its activities.
The Group provides fair and exible employment policies and practices that respond to the different needs of its people.
Political donations Information concerning employee diversity is set out on page 33 At the AGM held in May 2017, shareholders gave authority for the and forms part of the Directors report disclosures.
Company and its UK subsidiaries to make donations to political Balfour Beatty strives to provide employment, training and organisations up to a maximum aggregate amount of 25,000 in development opportunities for disabled people wherever possible the European Union.
This approval is a precautionary measure in and is committed to supporting employees who become disabled view of the broad denition of these terms in the Companies Act.
during employment and helping disabled employees make the best No such expenditure or donations were made during the year and use of their skills and potential, consistent with all other employees.
shareholder authority will be sought again at the 2018 AGM.
The Company also operates an all employee Share Incentive In the US and Canada, corporate political contributions Plan SIP which enables UK-based employees to acquire the totalling 19,306 were made by business units during 2017 Companys ordinary shares on a potentially tax-favourable basis, 2016: 195,290.
Any political contributions or donations are tightly in order to encourage employee share ownership and provide controlled and must be approved in advance in accordance with additional alignment between the interests of employees and theCompanys internal procedures and must also adhere strictly to shareholders.
Participants in the SIP are the beneficial owners of the Companys policies on probity set out in its Code of Conduct.
shares but not the registered owners, and the voting rights to such shares are exercised by the trustee of the SIP at the discretion of Corporate responsibility the participants.
A full description of the Groups approach to sustainability, including information on its community engagement programme, appears on Information concerning the performance of the Group and pages 29 to 37.
The Groups published policies on health and safety, theCompanys share price is provided to all employees via the the environment, business conduct and ethics remain in place and Companys website.
are subject to regular reviews.
Greenhouse gas emissions Details of emissions during the year and the actions which the Group is taking to reduce them are set out on pages 35 and 36 and form part of the Directors report disclosures.
com AR2017 74 Directors report other disclosures continued Events after the reporting date Some other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal On 15 January 2018, Carillion plc led for compulsory liquidation.
course of business, include change of control provisions.
Carillion was one of the Groups joint operations partners in the The Groups share and incentive plans include usual provisions Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route AWPR project on a joint relating to change of control, as do the terms of the Companys and several basis.
As a result of Carillions liquidation, the Group cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares.
and its remaining joint operations partner on the project, Galliford There are no agreements providing for compensation for the Try plc, are jointly liable to deliver Carillions remaining obligations Directors or employees on a change of control.
on this contract in addition to each partners existing 33% share.
The Group has assessed the liquidation of Carillion plc as an Financial instruments adjusting post balance sheet event and in light of this, the Group The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and has recognised a one-off non-underlying loss provision of 44m its exposure to the following risks foreign currency, interest rate, in2017, which reects the Groups additional loss onthe contract price and credit are detailed in Note 38 on pages 156 to 160. as a result of Carillions liquidation.
The contract is expected to complete in the summer of 2018.
Statement of Directors responsibilities On 14 February 2018, the Group repurchased a further 17.7m of The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and its convertible bonds, which will result in a loss on settlement of the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with 0.3m.
This settlement will also trigger a further 2m of reserves applicable law and regulations.
relating to the equity component of the repurchased bonds Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and being transferred from other reserves into retained earnings.
Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Following this settlement, the Groups outstanding bonds on law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements maturity inDecember 2018 amount to 213.7m.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as On 19 February 2018, the Group agreed the disposal of a further adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and 5% interest in Connect Plus M25 Holdings Ltd to Equitix for a cash applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial consideration of 42m, equivalent to the price of the 20% disposal statements in accordance with UK accounting standards, including in 2017.
The expected profit on disposal for this transaction is FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
On 23 February 2018, the Group completed this transaction Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial and received from Equitix the full cash consideration of 104m, statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair inclusive of the 62m outstanding at the reporting date as detailed view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their in Note 32.2.
The Group continues to own a 15% profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and interest in Connect Plus M25 Holdings Ltd. Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: On 7 March 2018, the Group repaid the first tranche of its US select suitable accounting policies and then apply private placement notes amounting to US$45m 32.5m.
them consistently US$305m remain outstanding, with the next tranche of US$46m being due in March 2020 and the remaining loan notes falling due make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant, inMarch 2023 and March 2025. reliable and prudent for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been Change of control provisions prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU The Groups bank facility agreements contain provisions that, on for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable 30 days notice being given to the Group, the lender may exercise UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any its discretion to require prepayment of the loans on a change of material departures disclosed and explained in the Company control of the Company and cancel all commitments under the financial statements agreement concerned.
assess the Group and the Companys ability to continue as A number of significant joint venture and contract bond agreements a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to include provisions which become exercisable by a counterparty going concern on a change of control of the Company.
These include the right of a counterparty to request additional security and to terminate use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either an agreement.
intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Groups US private placement arrangements require the Company, promptly upon becoming aware that a change of control The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting of the Company has occurred and in any event within 10 business records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys days, to give written notice of such fact to all holders of the notes transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time and make an offer to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure the notes, together with accrued interest.
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine The Groups convertible bond arrangements provide that the holder is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of bonds can require the Company to redeem its bonds following that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud a change of control of the Company at their principal amount, or error, andhave general responsibility for taking such steps as together with accrued interest.
The Company is required to notify are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group the bond holder within 14 days of a change of control.
andto prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 75 Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In light of the work undertaken by the Audit and Risk Committee reported in greater detail on pages 67 to 69 and the internal verication and approval process which has been followed this year, the Directors are able to state that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Statements of Directors as to disclosure of information toauditors Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board David Mercer General Counsel and Company Secretary 13 March 2018 Registered Ofce: 5 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf London E14 5HU Registered in England Number 395826 balfourbeatty.
