Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 67 Accountability Summary of activities in 2017 In 2017, the Committees work programme focused on a number of significant issues and other accounting judgements where the Committee believed the highest level of judgement was required and with the highest potential impact on the Groups financial statements.
Further information is set out on page 68.
Financial reporting The Committee reviews and evaluates the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial statements including the announcements thereof to the London Stock Exchange with both management and the external auditor, including: at the Boards request, whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to Stephen Billingham assess the Companys position and performance, business Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee model and strategy.
The Audit and Risk Committee has assisted in achieving this objective by reviewing proposals for the internal procedures to be applied in preparing the Annual Report Audit and Risk Committee the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance During the year the Committee comprised Stephen Billingham as reporting requirements and guidelines, including the European chairman, non-executive Directors Stuart Doughty, Iain Ferguson Securities and Markets Authority Guidelines on Alternative until 6 July 2017, Barbara Moorhouse from 6 July 2017 and Performance Measures Michael Lucki from 1 September 2017. discussing the critical accounting policies and use of assumptions Main responsibilities and estimates, as noted on pages 108 and 109 of this Annual The terms of reference for the Committee are based on the Report, and concluding that the estimates, judgements and Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting assumptions used were reasonable based on the information Council.
The main responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee available and had been used appropriately in applying the are summarised below: Companys accounting policies assessing the Groups implementation of the new revenue review the integrity of the financial statements of the Group recognition standard, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with and any formal announcements relating to the Groups Customers.
In particular, the Committee focused on the financial performance robustness of the implementation project led by the Group team review the Groups internal controls established to identify, and the impact assessment of the new standard on the Groups assess, manage and monitor risks, and receive reports from results.
The Committee also reviewed, assessed and endorsed management on the effectiveness of the systems it has the Groups proposed internal accounting policies to reect the established and the conclusions of any testing carried out by requirements of the new standard, which was adopted by the theinternal audit function and external auditor Group on 1 January 2018.
Further detail on the impact of the monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit adoption of IFRS 15 can be found on page 102 function, including its work programme reviewing the viability of the Group over the longer term as part make recommendations to the Board in relation to the of its assessment of the Groups risks see page 57. appointment of the external auditor and approve the The Committee is able to question management at both Group and remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor business unit levels to gain further insight into the issues addressed assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of in these reports.
the external auditor and develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services The key significant financial reporting issues and other accounting judgements are set out in the table on page 68. review the integrity of the statement in the Annual Report on being fair, balanced and understandable, as required under the Companies Act 2006 review the procedures for the Groups helplines and other mechanisms used by employees to raise concerns condentially including any whistleblowing facilities and their effectiveness.
Dr Stephen Billingham, formerly group finance director CFO of British Energy Group plc and of WS Atkins plc, has been identied by the Board as having recent and relevant financial experience.
Partners from the external auditor, the Group Risk and Audit Director, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer and the Group Financial Controller regularly attend meetings.
The Committee also invites divisional leaders and specialists relevant to the Committees agenda.
com AR2017 68 Accountability continued significant issues and other accounting judgements Revenue and margin Given the nature of the Groups operations, these elements are central to how it values its work.
Having recognition reviewed detailed reports and met with management, the Committee considered contract and commercial issues with exposure to both revenue and margin recognition risks.
As a key area of audit focus, the Committee also received a detailed written report from the external auditor setting out the results of its work in relation to key contract judgements.
Carrying value of goodwill The judgement largely relates to the assumptions underlying the value in use of the cash-generating units, and other intangibles primarily the achievement of the three-year strategic plan and the macroeconomic assumptions such as discount rates underpinning the valuation process.
The Committee received reports from management outlining the impairment model and the assumptions used: in addition, the external auditor provided detailed written reports in this area.
Going concern and In order to satisfy itself that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation for the viabilitystatement foreseeable future and that there are no material uncertainties that could lead to significant doubt as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, the Committee considered the Groups viability statement, cash position both existing and projected, bank facilities and covenants including bonding lines and the borrowing powers allowed under the Companys Articles of Association.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement and the viability statement for inclusion in the Annual Report.
More details on going concern and the viability statement are contained on pages 47 and 57.
Non-underlying items The key judgement is whether items relate to underlying trading or not and whether they have been presented in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The Committee conducted a review of each ofthe non-underlying items, receiving written reports from management and the external auditor as to their quantum and nature.
Provisions The Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to provisions, including litigation and other risks.
The Committee received detailed reports, including relevant legal advice.
Retirement benets The key judgement relates to the assumptions underlying the valuation of the retirement benefit obligations.
The Committee received reports from management outlining the assumptions used, including input from the Groups actuaries, in particular in relation to discount rates, ination and mortality which were evaluated against external benchmarks and, in relation to which, the external auditor also provided reports.
Deferred tax assets The Committee reviewed the Groups considerations on future profitability to evaluate the judgement that itis probable the deferred tax assets are recoverable.
Directors valuation of the The Committee assessed the methodology used to value the assets in terms of the discount rates applied.
Investments portfolio Italso critically appraised the output of the Directors valuation exercise.
Other matters In addition to its key role in the financial reporting process, the Audit Committee also considered the following as well as developments in regulation: Items discussed March May Aug Nov annual assessment of risk and internal control approval of the Groups internal audit plan and review of internal audit activity reports andupdates review of the internal audit functions terms of reference review of the effectiveness of internal audit audit report on 2016 financial results review report on 2017 interim results approval and review of the proposed audit strategy plan and procedures review of auditor effectiveness and independence following KPMGs first year as external auditor review of the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditor including fees review and assessment of the effectiveness of the planned audit strategy review of the summary and findings of process and control issues identied during the audit andrecommendations to management progress report on the Groups implementation of IFRS 15, impact assessment and endorsement oftheproposed accounting policies to be adopted by the Group upon transition assessment of the Groups insurance strategy and programme consideration of consequences of future failure to prevent tax evasion assessment of the robustness of the Groups procedures on Business Integrity review and discuss findings in the Groups Business Integrity reports consideration of the Groups readiness to comply with the UK Payment Legislation Requirements consideration of the correspondence with the FRC on its thematic review of the Groups 2016 APMs annual review of the Committees terms of reference Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Other matters External audit Internal audit Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 69 FRCs thematic review on Alternative Performance Measures of value.
The aggregated spend on non-audit services with the In 2016, the Group received a letter from the Financial Reporting external auditor will not exceed 60% of the Group audit fee, unless Council FRC conrming that the Groups disclosures on Alternative exceptional circumstances exist, with a three-year rolling average not Performance Measures in its Annual Report and Accounts 2016 exceeding 70% of the Group audit fee.
would be included in the FRCs thematic review.
At the FRCs request, During 2017, there were fees of 0.5 million 2016: 0.5 million paid the Committee notes that the FRCs review only covered the specic to the external auditor for non-audit services.
2017 non-audit services disclosures relating to the thematic review and provides no assurance primarily related to the half-year review.
Audit fees for 2017 were that the report and accounts were correct in all material aspects.
Further details are included in Note 6.2 on page 113.
As a result of this review, the Group committed to providing additional There is no inconsistency between the Financial Reporting Councils disclosures on how the Directors valuation of its Investments ethical standards and the Companys policy.
portfolio compares to the equivalent statutory measure reported The Committee considers that the Company receives particular under accounting standards.
The enhanced disclosure is included benets, including those relating to cost, quality and consistency, onpage 42. from the advice provided by its external auditor, given its wide and detailed knowledge of the Group and its international operations.
Areas of focus in 2018 There can also be savings in management time and accelerated In 2018, the Committee will continue to address the topics described delivery of work in situations where rapid turnaround is required.
on pages 67 and 68 including continuing to undertake reviews of 90% by value of non-audit related work provided by international the risk management and assurance practices across the Group on accounting rms in 2017 was carried out by rms other than KPMG.
The Committee will also continue to receive any necessary training in order to broaden and refresh the skills and Annual assessment of the audit process knowledge of its members.
The Committee will also oversee the In addition to receiving written reports from the auditors both internal Groups transition to the new leasing standard, IFRS 16. and external and management, the Committee also conducted separate private meetings with the external auditors and with Risk management and internal control management.
These provide the opportunity for open dialogue and The risk management and internal control framework now comprises feedback on the audit process, the responsiveness of management a number of approval and review gates that cover the business and the effectiveness of individual internal and external audit teams.
lifecycle from initial project pursuit through to delivery and completion.
These processes are underpinned by common minimum standards in A detailed assessment of the external audit process and the project and commercial management and are under constant review effectiveness of the external auditor, together with any identied to ensure their effectiveness and compliance.
improvement recommendations, is prepared each year.
Internal auditor effectiveness External auditor rotation The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit The external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner every function on an ongoing basis.
This is achieved, in part, by reviewing five years.
Such changes are carefully planned to ensure business and discussing the reports presented to it at each meeting, setting continuity without undue risk or inefficiency.
KPMGs lead partner, out the functions work and findings, but also through a formal annual Stephen Wardell, who will complete his second year in May 2018, assessment.
An independent periodic review of the internal audit has communicated to the Committee during 2017 that he will function, as well as a thorough self-assessment scorecard drawn be retiring in May 2018 and will be succeeded by Paul Sawdon.
up in accordance with best practice guidelines, also helps contribute The Committee will oversee this transition.
The EU Audit Directive on audit tendering took effect from June 2016 and its key aspects include: External auditor independence and effectiveness audit rms will have a maximum tenure of 10 years, although The Committee carries out a formal review each year to assess the UK Government proposes to allow an extension of i up to theindependence and effectiveness of the external auditor, KPMG.
an additional 10 years where a public tender is carried out after The Committee has satisfied itself as to KPMGs independence.
10years: or ii by an additional 14 years where more than one audit The Committee took into consideration the following matters: rm is appointed to carry out the audit Non-audit work audit rms are to be prohibited from providing certain non-audit The objective set out in the Companys policy is to ensure that the services and where non-audit services are provided they will be external auditor is not placed in a position where its independence is, subject to a fees cap or might be seen to be, compromised.
Under no circumstances will a restriction in any contract limiting a companys choice of auditor any assignment be given to the external auditor, if it results in: will be prohibited.
audits of its own work The Group has therefore adopted a policy that no external auditor making management decisions on behalf of the Group appointed after June 2016 can remain in post for longer than 20years acting as advocate for the Group and there will be a tendering process every 10 years, and that KPMG, a mutuality of interest being created.
as the currently appointed external auditor, may remain so until the completion of the 2025 annual audit.
However, the Committee will The Companys policy identies the various types of non-audit continue to consider annually the need to tender the audit for audit services and determines the analysis to be undertaken, and level of quality or independence reasons.
There are no contractual obligations authority required, before the external auditor can be considered to in place that restrict the Companys choice of statutory auditor.
For any non-audit services which are not excluded under the policy, the policy provides for approval by the Chief Financial officer of expenditure below 250,000, and approval by the chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee of expenditure The disclosures provided above constitute the Companys statement of compliance with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market above 250,000.
A report is also submitted to the Committee of any Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee non-audit services carried out by the external auditor, irrespective Responsibilities Order 2014. balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 70 Accountability continued Stuart Doughty Chairman of the Safety and Sustainability Committee Safety and Sustainability Committee Summary of activities in 2017 The Committee has also overseen the greater sharing of health and In July 2017, Stuart Doughty assumed responsibility as Committee safety best practices between the Groups UK and US operations.
chairman following the retirement of Maureen Kempston Darkes The Groups sustainability strategy, Our Blueprint, can be viewed at: on 18 May 2017.
Other members during the year included the www.
com media 195840  Chairman, Phil Aiken, non-executive Directors Stephen blueprint-2017.
pdf Billingham from 6 January 2017 to 6 July 2017 and Iain Ferguson until 6 January 2017 and from 6 July 2017, and the Group Chief The merger of the UK Health and Safety function with the Executive, Leo Quinn.
UK Environment and Sustainability function has proven very successful with the benets of greater collaboration now apparent.
The UK Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability function Thiscontinues to be supported by training of health, safety, performs a Group-wide data collection and reporting role for Balfour environment and sustainability practitioners as part of an ongoing Beattys UK and international operations.
development programme to build expertise and exibility.
The Committee considered certain significant health and safety The Committee has reviewed a number of opportunities to improve related incidents, including fatalities, discussing in detail the Balfour Beattys sustainability performance, including opportunities themes around supervision, communications and safety by design.
to reduce carbon emissions by focusing on Balfour Beattys It also reviewed the Groups sustainability performance alongside plant and fleet operations.
It has also reviewed Balfour Beattys environmental incidents.
engagement process with customers to drive sustainability During the year safety performance benchmarking against industry performance to add value.
peers has been extended to provide the Committee with more objective reporting of absolute and relative performance against Areas of focus in 2018 agreed KPIs.
The Committee has also overseen improvements to In 2018, the Committee will continue to seek greater collaboration the escalation procedures so as to ensure the immediate reporting with the Groups major customers and maintain its focus on the key of any major incidents to all members of the Committee.
areas of health and safety and sustainability by design, supervision, Initiatives to work with equipment manufacturers have also been subcontractor engagement and treating health like safety, taken with a view to designing-in engineering control improvements resource efficiency, carbon reduction, social value and supply for improved operational safety.
chain engagement, as well as measuring performance against Our Blueprint and the Zero Harm action plan.
The Committee will Good progress has been made in establishing much closer also review how best practice is shared across geographies to liaison between the Committee and its equivalents within continually improve performance.
major customers, with a view to facilitating a greater sharing of safety information, the development of safer working practices and to improve understanding and co-operation with regard to sustainability objectives.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 71 Philip Aiken AM Leo Quinn Chairman of the Nomination Committee Group Chief Executive Nomination Committee Group Tender and Investment Committee Summary of activities in 2017 Summary of role During the year the Committee comprised Philip Aiken as chairman, The Committee has been chaired by Leo Quinn as the Group non-executive Directors Stuart Doughty, Iain Ferguson and Stephen Chief Executive, or in his absence, the Chief Financial officer, Billingham from 6 July 2017 and the Group Chief Executive, orin his absence by any one of four senior business unit leaders.
Those business unit leaders are not permitted to chair any meeting which reviews proposals from those areas of the business for During 2017, the Committees programme of work included which he she has executive responsibility.
the recruitment of two new non-executive Directors, Barbara Moorhouse and Michael Lucki.
The main purpose of the Committee is to review all major proposed tenders with projected values above specified levels, with a specic All appointments to the Board are based on merit, against objective focus on risk.
The Committee also has authority to approve capital criteria, having due regard for diversity, including gender.
expenditure applications and any proposed acquisitions or disposals In seeking suitable candidates for the positions, Heidrick and up to certain specified limits determined by the Board.
For example, Struggles US and Ridgeway, external executive search agencies, currently the Committees terms of reference require contracts for were separately engaged.
The Committee identied the construction or services in the UK of a value exceeding 100 million competencies and experience sought.
to be submitted for review, whilst other limits vary according to geography and nature of the contract.
The key determinant in the selection of the Directors was abackground in organisations that share key dynamics with Any member may convene a meeting of the Committee to discuss BalfourBeatty, including contracting, customer service, any of the tender reviews in more detail.
In addition to those majorcapital projects, infrastructure and B2B services.
members of the Committee most relevant for the consideration ofeach proposed tender, meetings are attended by key members The search agencies appointed were reminded to approach a of the bid team concerned and their strategic business unit leaders.
diverse talent pool of candidates, and neither has other connections Minutes of all meetings are made available to all Directors.
Areas of focus in 2018 Finance and General PurposesCommittee In January 2018, the Committee received from the Group Chief Executive a comprehensive presentation on the succession Summary of role anddevelopment plans for the Groups senior leadership team The Committee is chaired by Leo Quinn as the Group Chief and discussed succession plans for the Board.
The implications Executive or, in his absence, by the Chief Financial officer.
of the business strategy for senior executive recruitment and the impact on the Groups succession planning are also areas which The Committee is responsible for agreeing the Groups borrowing theCommittee will consider during the year.
It will continue to and banking arrangements, management of foreign exchange monitor the appropriateness of the composition of the Board.
exposure, contract nancing, bonding and leasing arrangements and various matters relating to the issued share capital of the Company.
A summary of the business conducted at the meetings is providedto all Directors.
