Shareholder engagement Institutional investors Private investors The company operates an active investor relations programme.
The BP held a further event for private investors in conjunction with the board receives feedback on shareholder views through results of an UK Shareholders Association UKSA in 2017.
The chairman and head anonymous investor audit and reports from management and those of investor relations gave presentations on BPs annual results, directors who meet with shareholders each year.
In 2017 the chair of strategy and the work of the board.
Shareholders questions were the remuneration committee undertook extensive engagement on focused on BPs activities and performance.
the new remuneration policy prior to the AGM in May see the remuneration committee report on page 86.
The chair of the audit AGM committee and the senior independent director also held one-to-one Voting levels decreased in 2017 to 50.8% of issued share capital, meetings with institutional investors during the year.
including votes cast as withheld, compared to 64.3% in 2016 and Senior management regularly meets with institutional investors 62.3% in 2015.
We believe this drop in vote levels was due to the late through roadshows, group and one-to-one meetings, events for return of BP stock on loan, with voting deadlines for some custodians socially responsible investors SRIs and oil and gas sector coinciding with the date that BP shares went ex-dividend.
The conferences throughout the year.
company is looking at future AGM voting deadlines against its financial calendar to mitigate this event recurring.
In April the chairman and all board committee chairs held an annual investor event.
This meeting enabled BPs largest shareholders to All resolutions were passed at the meeting.
Each year the board hear about the work of the board and its committees and for NEDs receives a report after the AGM giving a breakdown of the votes to engage with investors.
and investor feedback on their voting decisions to inform them on any issues arising.
com investors for investor and strategy presentations, including the groups financial results and information on the work UK Corporate Governance Code compliance of the board and its committees.
BP complied throughout 2017 with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code except in the following aspects: Shareholder engagement cycle 2017 B.
3.2 L etters of appointment do not set out fixed-time commitments since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject Fourth quarter results Q1 to change according to the demands of business and other BP Energy Outlook presentation events.
Our letters of appointment set a general guide of a time Strategy investor roadshows with executive commitment of between 30-40 days per year.
All directors are management expected to demonstrate their commitment to the work of the US SRI meetings on remuneration board on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the nomination committee in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
Investor meetings on remuneration, continuing into Q2 D. 2.2 T he remuneration of the chairman is not set by the remuneration committee.
Instead, the chairmans remuneration is reviewed by SRI roadshow following the launch of the BP the remuneration committee which makes a recommendation Sustainability Report 2016, continuing into Q2 to the board as a whole for final approval, within the limits set by shareholders.
This wider process enables all board members Chairman and board committee chairs Q2 to discuss and approve the chairmans remuneration, rather meetings than solely the members of the remuneration committee.
UKSA private shareholders meeting First quarter results Meetings with members of the Church Investors Group and Charities Responsible International advisory board Network BPs international advisory board IAB advises the chairman, group Institutional Investors Group on Climate chief executive and the board on geopolitical and strategic issues Change IIGCC meeting relating to the company.
This group meets once or twice a year and Annual general meeting between meetings IAB members remain available to provide advice and counsel when needed.
BP Statistical Review of World Energy launch Downstream investor day, Pangbourne The IAB was chaired by BPs previous chairman, the late Peter Sutherland.
Its membership in 2017 comprised Lord Patten of Barnes, Josh Bolten, President Romano Prodi, Dr Ernesto Zedillo and Dr Javier Second quarter results Q3 Solana.
The chairman, chief executive and Sir John Sawers attend Investor roadshows with the group meetings of the IAB.
Issues discussed in 2017 included the global chief executive and chief financial officer economy, developments in the Middle East, political events in Latin America and the political and economic outlook in the US.
The IAB discussed the UKs potential exit from the European Union at both of Q4 Third quarter results its meetings during 2017.
IIGCC meeting 76 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
