16 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 In focus One fair place to save New savings customers in 2017: The savings proposition to small and We deliver straightforward medium sized businesses, launched in products that meet customers 2016, has been very well received and needs for cash savings.
We offer continues to grow, with an average over balance per account of nearly 78k.
good and consistent value to attract and retain a loyal In 2017, we were recognised by customer base.
Consumer Moneyfacts as the ISA 27,000 Provider of the Year and by Moneyfacts Stable funding platform as Best Cash ISA Provider for the fifth OSBs proposition for savers is simple: year running.
we offer consistently good value savings products to attract and retain a loyal Customer-focused philosophy customer base, providing a stable By maintaining our strong customerfunding platform for the business to centric approach we are rewarded with grow its loan book.
Our retail savings a loyal customer base that recognises franchise has been a valued and long-term good value.
recognised brand for over 150 years.
We reward our people based on the Transparent savings products quality of service they provide to We deliver straightforward products customers, further protecting our that meet customer needs for cash retail savings franchise.
We offer good and consistent customer satisfaction and net promoter value, without having to price at the score NPS through regular customer very top of the best buy tables.
We do surveys using independent experts.
not offer new customer only products, These measures are aligned to our and existing customers benefit from business strategy and the client NPS loyalty rates.
score increased to 62 for the year, up from 59 in 2016.
Our clients can access savings products directly via post, online and in our nine We will continue to invest in enhancing branches.
The products offered include our service in 2018, based on using fixed term bonds, ISAs, easy access and technology and modern practices to regular savings accounts.
We also offer support the brand traits customers a childrens account which supports one have told us they prefer heritage, of our chosen charities, Demelza trustworthy and traditional.
We will Hospice for Children.
also use our real-time customer feedback capability to identify and We attracted over 27,000 new savings act on ideas for new products and customers during 2017, and retained service improvements.
90% of maturing fixed term deposit balances, demonstrating the strength of our long-term proposition.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 17 Our strategy in action Broaden savings propositions further Provide access to To match the new space, we Unlike most banks, we are customers through have employed more local seeing an increase in the the channel of people, further adding to the number of customers visiting their choice community we serve.
Results our branches, meaning some so far are positive.
In the first are getting a bit crowded.
In full month after opening, Maidstone, we tackled this customer service ratings for by moving into much larger AMANDA LUDLOW the branch shot up.
And the premises, regenerating a listed BRANCH NETWORK best news is that we are building in a popular location MANAGER going to do the same for on the busy high street.
our Canterbury customers Our customers this year.
We havent just made it bigger though.
Listening to our are voting with customers has helped us their feet, and deliver a much improved visiting our service, with additional counter space, a larger team branches in and more meeting rooms ever-increasing for private discussions and longer enquiries.
