Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Executive management board 61 C 11.
PHILLIPA M CROSTIE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD Date of appointment Supporting the development of Inmarsat as a September 2016 high-performing company and a focus on culture Background and relevant experience Phillipa Pip was a member of EYs Global Executive are key elements of this teams responsibilities Board for eight years until her retirement in June 2016.
Pip was also its Global Head of Corporate Finance.
She transformed Corporate Finance into a business with revenues exceeding $3bn during the global recession.
Her responsibilities included P&L, strategy, investment, people development and risk.
Pip led the acquisition and integration of Parthenon, a global strategy consulting business.
Pip has deep experience of international M&A and tax and is a qualified lawyer.
External appointments RUPERT PEARCE Member of the Board of Peterson Institute of International Economics and Chair of its Audit Committee: senior advisor Chief Executive Officer to EYs Global Executive and a regular contributor on business issues to CNBC, CNN, Bloomberg and Reuters.
WARREN FINEGOLD INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Date of appointment PHILIP BALAAM TONY BATES NATASHA DILLON August 2017 President, Aviation Chief Financial Officer Chief People Officer Background and relevant experience Business Unit Warren was a member of the Vodafone Group Executive Committee for over 10 years, and for most of that time he was Group Strategy and Business Development Director.
Before that, Warren was a Managing Director of UBS Investment Bank where he was Head of the Technology Team in Europe: previously he was an Executive Director at Goldman Sachs International in New York and London PAUL GUDONIS PETER HADINGER ALISON HORROCKS focusing on mergers and acquisitions and raising capital.
Warren holds an MA in Philosophy, Politics and Economics President, Enterprise Chief Technology Officer Chief Corporate from Oxford University and a masters degree in Business Business Unit Affairs Officer and Administration from London Business School.
Company Secretary External appointments An advisor to the Vodafone Group, Member of the Supervisory Board of VodafoneZiggo Group Holding BV, Member of the Supervisory Board of Avast Holdings NV, Non-Executive Director of UBM Plc.
SUSAN MILLER JASON SMITH NICK THEXTON President and CEO Chief Operations Officer Chief Product Officer 13.
ALISON HORROCKS Inmarsat Government U. S. CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER AND COMPANY SECRETARY Date of appointment February 1999 RONALD SPITHOUT ANDY START Background and relevant experience Alison joined Inmarsat in 1999 and provides risk, President, Maritime President, Global compliance and corporate governance advice and has responsibility for our operations in China and India Business Unit Government Business Unit as well as legal and corporate marketing.
She acts as Company Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
She is a member of the Executive Management Board and Chairman of the Trustee Company responsible for the Inmarsat UK pension plans.
She was Group Company Secretary of International Public Relations plc, a worldwide public relations company, for 11 years prior to joining Inmarsat.
Alison is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
62 Governance | Leadership Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 LEADERSHIP During 2017, Andrew Sukawaty was Chairman.
Our Senior THE BOARD He did not meet the independence criteria Independent Director, Dr Abe Peled, was OVERALL SUMMARY STATEMENT on appointment as he had previously been appointed to this position in November 2015 ON GOVERNANCE an Executive Director.
Although the Code and plays a key role within the Company on any The Company is committed to the highest recommends that the Chairman is independent matters which may be raised of a governance standards of governance.
The Directors on appointment, the Board unanimously nature.
A copy of the UK Corporate Governance consider that the Company has, throughout believes that his wide experience means that Code can be found at www.
the year, complied with the provisions of the he remains extremely well qualified to lead UK Corporate Governance Code save as the Company as its Chairman and has the noted below.
skills and experience to ensure that the Board BOARD COMMITTEES CHAIRMAN: ANDREW SUKAWATY Key objectives: Leadership, operation and governance of the Board Setting the agenda for the Board INMARSAT PLC BOARD 12 Directors: two Executive Directors, the Chairman and nine Independent Non-Executive Directors Key objectives: Responsible for the overall conduct of the business: setting strategy TELECOMS AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS CHIEF REGULATORY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: CEO: Robert Ruijter Simon Bax Dr Abe Peled Andrew Sukawaty Rupert Pearce Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Oversight and Oversight Oversight and Oversight of Management review of financial and review of review of Board key regulatory of the business and operational remuneration, and senior challenges Implementation risk management, bonus and share management of strategy audit and internal plan issues appointments and policy control issues and succession planning EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD Chairman: Rupert Pearce Key objectives: To focus on strategy, financial performance, culture, succession planning, business growth, organisational development and adherence to Group-wide policies Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Leadership 63 HOW THE BOARD OPERATES investments and Reviewed and approved the Companys To ensure effective governance, your Board dividend policy, recommendations acquisitions and divestments has structured its governance framework and payments thereof as set out below.
The Board has an annual rolling plan of items Reviewed reports from the Companys for discussion which is reviewed formally The Board has established Committees corporate brokers following meetings with at Board meetings and adapted regularly to to assist it in exercising its authority.
shareholders and executive management ensure all matters reserved for the Board, The permanent Committees of the Board with other items as appropriate, are discussed.
Implementing governance are the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations There is an established procedure for the and ethics and monitoring risk: and Telecoms Regulatory Committees.
review of the agenda between the Chairman, Assessed the risks faced by the Group Each Committee has Terms of Reference Executive Directors and Company Secretary and received updates on internal controls under which authority is delegated by the in advance of each Board meeting.
Copies can be found on our website Reviewed regular reports on legal Board meeting there is a detailed report on at inmarsat.
Reports of the Committees and compliance matters from the current trading from the Chief Executive and can be found on pages 67 to 98.
Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer and detailed papers ROLE OF THE BOARD are provided on matters where the Board will Received reports from the Board Our Board is responsible for the overall conduct be required to make a decision or give approval.
Committee Chairmen of the Inmarsat Groups the Group business.
Where appropriate, specific responsibilities Discussed a summary of the comments It is the primary decision-making body are delegated to Board Committees or to from the 2016 Board evaluation exercise for all material matters affecting the Group.
committees convened for special purposes.
and resulting areas for focus It provides leadership and guidance and In 2017 we focused our attention on the sets our strategic direction.
Reviewed the Directors Conflicts following key areas: of Interest procedures Our Board is ultimately accountable to the Strategy review and development: shareholders for: Workplace reviews: Attended a Group strategy day, with members Received an annual health and safety the performance and proper conduct of the Executive Team and other senior report covering activity across the Group of the business executives, to consider key strategic priorities and the market environment and changes Received regular updates from the CEO being responsible for the long-term in some of our competitors focus about reorganisation and restructuring success of the Company, having regard activity taking place for the interests of all stakeholders and Discussed and approved the Group strategy Received a detailed update regarding being responsible for ensuring the Received regular strategy and business new People policies being introduced effectiveness and reporting on our development reports from the CEO, in the Company including improved system of governance Chief Strategy Officer and other senior training capabilities for all employees, management at each Board meeting Responsibility for implementing strategy within succession planning, identification the Groups operations and for day-to-day Reviewed strategic objectives and updates of high performing individuals management of the business is delegated on the operational performance for the Received updates on plans for the to the Chief Executive Officer who, as part Groups key business areas refurbishment of the Companys of the Executive Management Board, Received reports on technology and London headquarters cascades this responsibility through the Group.
innovation and related industry The CEO is empowered by the Board to handle Special business: developments all business activities up to a designated level Received multiple presentations on the of authorisation and to report to the Board Reviewed Group risk and cyber security aviation business with a specific focus for guidance, support and approval on other as part of the discussion on strategy on in-flight passenger connectivity matters which require Board input.
A list of and associated capex and opex costs Ensuring appropriate financial the members of the Executive Management and operational management: Reviewed the Groups capital Board is provided on page 61.
Received and discussed reports from funding structure A formal schedule of matters specifically the CEO on the performance of the Approved investment in the modernisation reserved for decision or consideration Groups operations of a multi-year programme to change by the Board as a whole has been agreed Received and discussed regular reports the billing and IT capabilities across by the Directors.
This schedule covers on the Groups financial performance the Group areas such as: Approved financial announcements the Groups business strategy for publication and long-term plans Discussed and approved the annual major capital projects budget and long range business plan 64 Governance | Leadership Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES are considered to be independent and free of any circumstances that could materially interfere THE CHAIRMAN ANDREW SUKAWATY serving as an intermediary for the with their ability to provide a strong and valuable The role of the Chairman is set out in writing other Directors contribution to the Boards deliberations, and agreed by the Board.
He is responsible for: or which could interfere with the individual reviewing the Chairmans performance Directors ability to also act in the best interests effective leadership, operation and with the Non-Executive Directors of the Group.
The Nominations Committee governance of the Board being available to discuss issues or additionally considers the independence ensuring the effectiveness of the Board concerns from our shareholders where carefully once a Non-Executive Director has they have been unable to resolve them served for nine years or more to assess whether setting the agenda, style and tone through existing channels for investor their contribution to the Board remains of Board discussions and communications and valuable and valid to support the Companys ensuring Directors receive accurate, strategic objectives.
convening regular meetings of the timely and clear information Non-Executive Directors Executive Management Board THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The Chief Executive chairs the Executive THE COMPANY SECRETARY RUPERT PEARCE Management Board which meets on a monthly ALISON HORROCKS The role of the Chief Executive is set out in writing basis for generally 1.5 2 days.
As part of its The Company Secretary acts as Secretary and agreed by the Board.
He is responsible for: remit, this team focuses on the Groups to the Board and its Committees and in strategy, financial reviews and long range doing so she: the day-to-day management of Inmarsats business planning, the competitive landscape, operations and its financial results assists the Chairman in ensuring that strategic updates from all areas of the business, all Directors have full and timely access recommending the strategic objectives risk reviews, culture, learning and development to all relevant information for the Inmarsat Group, for debate, and organisational development.
It has regular challenge and approval by the Board executive development days.
The Executive assists the Chairman by organising Management Board includes the Executive induction and training programmes responsibility for ensuring we meet the Directors, the Business Unit Presidents and milestones for our key programmes with a assists the Chairman with the annual the key functional heads.
The names of the priority to target revenue growth and deliver Board evaluation procedure Executive Management team are shown enhanced returns to shareholders and on page 61. is responsible for ensuring that the chairing the Executive Management Board correct Board procedures are followed GOVERNANCE AND CONDUCT and advises the Board on governance OF BOARD MEETINGS Mr Pearce is the Board sponsor for environmental matters and Our Board meets as often as necessary and social governance, community investment, to effectively conduct its business.
During and other corporate social responsibility matters, administers the procedure under 2017, the Board met eight times, with one as well as responsibility for Health and Safety.
which Directors can, where appropriate, of those meetings being held over two days obtain independent professional advice THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR in Washington DC.
The meetings in local at the Companys expense no requests DR ABE PELED offices provide the Board with exposure to for external professional advice were The Senior Independent Director is our staff and business operations outside received during the year responsible for: the London headquarters.
acting as a sounding board for the Chairman Key management are invited to attend all Board meetings to present on specific business issues which will include an operations update from each of the Business Units and central services divisions, covering commercial, technology and operational Independent Non-Executive Directors or ongoing independence as set out in the Code matters.
Unscheduled supplementary meetings The diverse experience and backgrounds and recommendations are made to the Board also take place as and when necessary.
of the Non-Executive Directors ensures that for election or re-election.
Following such At each meeting, the Chief Executive Officer they can provide a strong independent element review, the Board considers Sir Bryan Carsberg and Chief Financial Officer provide reports on the Board, debate and constructively to be now a non-independent Non-Executive to the Board.
The Board is therefore given challenge management both in relation to Director because of his length of service with the exposure to the next layer of management the development of strategy and review of the Company, and his tenure being alongside that at the Executive Board level and often to Groups operational and financial performance.
Despite this reclassification their direct reports.
This is helpful to the Board of Sir Bryans Non-Executive directorship, he To determine their independence, all as it provides it with additional insight into fulfils his responsibilities with an independent Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by internal talent and provides additional inputs view, providing critical thinking and contributions the Nominations Committee annually against for discussion for management succession.
and continues to act in the best interests of the any circumstances relevant to their current Strategy sessions are attended by several Company.
All other Non-Executive Directors Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Leadership 65 senior executives.
Elements of the business identified.
The Companys Articles of Association noted in the changing content and improved strategy and business development are reviewed contain provisions to allow the Directors to presentations presented to the Audit as appropriate at each Board meeting throughout authorise potential conflicts of interest so that Committee and Board.
the year ensuring that all Directors are kept a Director is not in breach of his her duty under The Board has annual updates on the up to date with discussions and activities.
As noted above and happens Companys policies for compliance with the All Committee Chairmen report verbally on the in practice, should a Director become aware UK Bribery Act and the U. S. Foreign Corrupt proceedings of their Committees at the next that they have an interest, directly or indirectly, Practices Act FCPA requirements and Board meeting.
Meeting proceedings and any in an existing or proposed transaction with health and safety.
As part of our commitment unresolved concerns expressed by any Director the Company, they are required to notify this to preventing bribery and establishing a culture are minuted by the Company Secretary.
Directors have a that does not tolerate corruption wherever continuing duty to notify any changes to their In instances where a Director is unable to attend and in whatever form it may be encountered, we conflicts of interest and to their external Board Board or Committee meetings, any comments have a formal Board-approved anti-corruption commitments to the Company Secretary and which he or she may have arising out of the policy and a summary of the anti-bribery policy any changes are noted in the conflicts register.
papers to be considered at the meeting are is included on our website.
We have appropriate relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE procedures in place to ensure compliance with or the Company Secretary who would then The attendance of the Directors at the Board current legislation.
An independently managed, report to the Board or Committee thereon.
meetings held in 2017 is shown in the next table.
confidential whistleblowing helpline email and Warren Finegold joined the Board in August telephone is available to employees to use.
The Senior Independent Director will convene 2017.
Attendance at Committee meetings There was no use of it during 2017.
Additionally, meetings with the Non-Executive Directors is shown in the relevant Committee reports.
the Board is updated on the Companys at least annually and on an ad-hoc basis as compliance with the recent legislation required to discuss Board balance, monitor NUMBER OF SCHEDULED BOARD MEETINGS concerning a Corporate Criminal Offence the powers of individual Executive Directors HELD AND MEETING ATTENDANCE IN 2017 relating to failure to prevent tax evasion.
and raise any issues between themselves Percentage as appropriate.
The Chairman will attend these The Company recognises the importance of Meetings attendance meetings but will not be in attendance where electronic information, systems and network Andrew Sukawaty Chairman 8 8 100% there is discussion about his own performance.
security cyber security and this is included as Rupert Pearce 8 8 100% an agenda item in its own right and also included INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS Tony Bates 8 8 100% in strategy discussions and other key projects.
Directors and Officers insurance cover has Simon Bax 8 8 100% We are increasingly required to be compliant been established for all Directors and Officers Sir Bryan Carsberg 8 8 100% with, or align to, various legal, contractual to provide cover against their reasonable actions 1 and regulatory standards and codes of practice Stephen Davidson 1 1 100% on behalf of the Company.
In accordance with 2 relative to information security governance and Warren Finegold 4 4 100% our Articles of Association and to the extent the preservation of the confidentiality, integrity 3 Kathleen Flaherty 2 2 100% permitted by the laws of England and Wales, and availability of customer or internal data Directors, the Company Secretary and certain General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 8 8 100% and services.
This is part of a broader programme employees who serve as directors of subsidiaries Phillipa McCrostie 8 8 100% supported by a dedicated cyber security team at the Groups request have been granted Dr Abe Peled 8 8 100% whose primary role is to safeguard the Company indemnities from the Company in respect of to meet its legal and regulatory obligations, Janice Obuchowski 8 8 100% liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
maintain business continuity and limit damage Robert Ruijter 8 8 100% Neither our indemnity nor the insurance to business interests by preventing and reducing Dr Hamadoun Tour 8 8 100% provides cover in the event that a Director is the occurrence of security incidents and their proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
1 Retired on 19 January 2017 impact upon business operations.
In recognition 2 Appointed on 1 August 2017 No amount has been paid under any of these of this importance, we have committed to seek 3 Retired on 2 March 2017 indemnities during the year.
certification to the ISO 27001 standard which requires us to have an information management CONFLICTS OF INTEREST RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS security procedure in place and also increased The Company has in place procedures for An overview of the Groups framework our investments on cyber security during 2017 managing conflicts of interest and is aware of for identifying and managing risk, both at in terms of resources and on tools.
any potential conflict through an annual review an operational and strategic level, is set out of the other commitments of its Directors.
on pages 50 and 51 in the Strategic Report.
There has been focus within the Company We are satisfied these commitments do not The Board has responsibility for managing during 2017 and into 2018 on the work required conflict with their duties as Directors of Inmarsat.
risk and although the Audit Committee to ensure compliance with the new General During the year, where there were agenda items has responsibility for the risk management Data Protection Regulation GDPR which being raised for discussion which could have process the Board does not delegate overall comes into effect in May 2018. the perception of a conflict of interest for responsibility for risk to either the Audit the individual Director, these were discussed Committee or management.
There has been at the relevant Board meeting and agreed additional work undertaken in 2017 on risk in each case there were no conflicts of interest processes and assessment and updates were 66 Governance | Leadership Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Internal controls Risk management: an overarching risk Information systems: information systems The Board acknowledges its responsibility management policy is in place which sets out are developed to support the Groups long-term for establishing and maintaining the Groups the tolerance for risk within the Group and objectives and are managed by professionally system of internal controls and it receives how this is measured across identified macro staffed teams.
Appropriate policies and regular reports from management identifying, and business risks.
As required by the policy, procedures are in place covering all significant evaluating and managing the risks within the management operates a risk management areas of the business.
The system of internal controls is process to identify, evaluate and report Contractual commitments: there are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, significant risks within the business and to clearly defined policies and procedures the risk of failure to achieve business objectives report to the Board on how those risks are for entering into contractual commitments.
and can provide only reasonable and not absolute being managed and mitigated.
Risks are These include detailed requirements that assurance against material misstatement or highlighted through a number of different must be completed prior to submitting loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the system reviews and culminate in a risk register, proposals and or tenders for work, both in of internal controls through reports received monitored by Risk Committees across respect of the commercial, control and risk from management, along with those from both the Group, which identify the risk area, the management aspects of the obligations internal and external auditors.
Management probability of the risk occurring, the impact being entered into.
Business plan approval continues to focus on how internal control and if it does occur and the actions being taken and procurement process procedures risk management can be further embedded to manage the risk to the desired level.
also strengthen the review of contractual into the operations of the business and to All the risk registers are reviewed by senior commitments before any such commitment deal with areas of improvement which come management and provided quarterly to the is agreed to.
to managements and the Boards attention.
Board and to the Audit Committee.
Details of the risk process and key risks are shown Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee The Company has an established Disclosure on pages 50 and 51 in the Strategic Report.
receives regular reports from the internal Committee with responsibility for reviewing and external auditors and assures itself that and approving controls and procedures over Management structure: there is a clearly the internal control environment of the Group the public disclosure of financial and related defined organisational structure throughout is operating effectively.
There are formal information and other procedures necessary the Group with established lines of reporting policies and procedures in place to ensure to enable the Chief Executive Officer and and delegation of authority based on job the integrity and accuracy of the accounting the Chief Financial Officer to provide their responsibilities and experience.
The delegation records and to safeguard the Groups assets.
certifications in relation to publicly disclosed policy has recently been updated to operate Significant capital projects and acquisitions information.
The Disclosure Committee in an improved clearer way for employees to and disposals require Board approval.
comprises the Chairman, both Executive understand how their levels of accountability There are formal procedures by which staff Directors, Company Secretary and other fit within the levels of approved authorisation.
can, in confidence, raise concerns about senior executives.
Within the business, senior management possible improprieties in financial and meetings occur regularly to allow prompt The Board and the Audit Committee have pensions administration and other matters discussion of relevant business issues.
carried out a review of the effectiveness of often referred to as whistleblowing A process of self-certification is used where the system of internal controls during the year procedures.
There is a worldwide anonymous Directors and senior managers are required ended 31 December 2017 and for the period whistleblowing programme in place and to detail and certify controls in operation up to the date of approval of the consolidated monthly reports are issued by the external to mitigate risk in key process areas.
financial statements contained in the Annual provider to the Company Secretary and The Presidents of the Business Units also Report.
The review covered all material controls, Head of Internal Audit.
No issues were confirm every quarter that they are not including financial, operational and compliance reported in the year.
Where there are any aware of any breach of key policies including controls and risk management systems.
The reports made, arrangements are in place for our sensitive information policy which Board confirms that the actions it considers proportionate and independent investigation relates to protection of partner data and necessary have been, or are being taken to and appropriate follow-up action with the any anti-bribery activities.
remedy any significant failings or weaknesses results being reported to the Audit Committee.
identified from its review of the system of Financial reporting: monthly management The annual anti-bribery and corruption internal control.
This has involved considering accounts provide relevant, reliable and training also highlights the ways in which the matters reported to it and developing plans up-to-date financial and non-financial an employee can raise an issue in a and programmes that it considers are reasonable information to management and the Board.
The Board also confirms Analysis is undertaken of differences between DIRECTORS REMUNERATION that it has not been advised of material actual results and the annual budget on Details of the Companys remuneration policy weaknesses in the part of the internal control a monthly basis.
Annual plans, forecasts, and Directors remuneration are contained system that relates to financial reporting.
performance targets and long-range business in the Directors Remuneration Report on plans allow management to monitor The key elements of the Groups system pages 76 to 98. the key business and financial activities, of internal controls, which have been in place and the progress towards achieving the throughout the year under review and up to financial objectives.
The annual budget is the date of this Report, include: approved by the Board, as is the long-range business plan.
The Group reports half-yearly based on a standardised reporting process, and in addition, also reports on a quarterly basis.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Report of the Nominations Committee 67 EFFECTIVENESS Report of the Nominations Committee DR ABE PELED EFFECTIVENESS CHAIRMAN, Report of the NOMINATIONS Nominations Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERS IN 2017 Scheduled meetings attended Dr Abe Peled Chairman 1 1 Andrew Sukawaty 1 1 Dr Hamadoun Tour 1 1 Independent Non-Executive Directors make The Nominations Committee will also make An area of continued focus up a majority of members of the Committee.
recommendations to the Board concerning The Nominations Committee meets as and the annual reappointment by shareholders for the Committee has been when necessary, generally formally twice of any Non-Executive Director as he or she Non-Executive Director a year although in 2017 the second meeting reaches their sixth year of reappointment was postponed to allow for further time for an and separately with a view to assessing succession planning, update on a detailed management succession their continuing independence thereafter, with the retirement of two planning to be given in 2018.
Dr Abe Peled particularly when Directors are seeking became Chairman in November 2015.
Other to be reappointed after serving nine years.
longer-term directors early members of the Committee are Andrew Sukawaty, The Committee also has responsibility for Stephen Davidson up to his retirement in approving any changes to Executive Directors in the year, an additional January 2017 and Dr Hamadoun Tour.
director joining in August The Committee has responsibility for nominating All currently appointed Directors will retire 2017 and a decision to candidates for appointment as Directors to at the 2018 AGM and offer themselves the Board, bearing in mind the need for diversity for election or re-election as appropriate.
propose the re-election including gender, nationality and experience As noted earlier in the Governance Report, of Sir Bryan Carsberg and ensuring a broad representation of skills the Committee has reviewed Sir Bryans across the Board.
In doing this, the Committee contribution and determined he participates to continue on the Board will give full consideration to succession planning effectively at Board meetings.
We are and the leadership needs of the Company.
recommending to shareholders therefore, as a non-independent The Committee also makes recommendations that he be re-elected as a non-independent, non-executive director to the Board on the composition of the Non-Executive Director.
The Committee Boards Committees and will review and make will review his continued appointment to recommendations in relation to the structure, the Board on an annual basis.
size and composition of the Board including the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, including the tenure of each Director.
68 Governance | Report of the Nominations Committee Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CONTINUED In considering the skills required for the new COMPOSITION INDUCTION AND ONGOING Non-Executive Director, there was focus on PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Our Board comprises Directors drawn from seeking an individual who had broad corporate, a wide range of professional backgrounds.
To ensure that each Director receives strategic and financial knowledge as we felt that All our Directors bring strong judgement to appropriate support on joining the Board, this would be additive to the current experience the Boards deliberations.
The Non-Executive they are given a comprehensive, formal of the Board and provide a complementary Directors we appointed in 2016 and more and tailored induction programme organised overlay to other Board members experience.
recently in 2017 have contributed very effectively through the Company Secretary, including Mr Finegolds 10 years experience on Vodafones to Board discussions and have demonstrated the provision of background material on the executive management team as Group Strategy their increasing knowledge of how the Company Company and briefings with each of the Executive and Business Development Director and with his operates and its business.
We took the decision Management Board members.
These meetings previous investment banking experience, met to appoint these additional Directors to will ensure that the on-boarding process for the requirements for the role.
We are delighted complement the skills of the existing ones so a new Director provides a view of each area that Warren decided to join Inmarsat.
As part that future succession planning is enabled on a of the business with the opportunity for further of the recruitment process, Warren met several smoother retirement basis.
In 2016 we appointed discussion as appropriate.
Each Directors people including the Chairman of the Board, Phillipa Pip McCrostie and in 2017 we individual experience and background is taken the CEO, CFO, Senior Independent Director appointed Warren Finegold.
Stephen Davidson into account in developing a programme and Chairman of the Nominations Committee, and Kathleen Flaherty both retired from the tailored to his or her own requirements.
Other members Board in January and March 2017 respectively.
The induction programme was reviewed and of the Board were also given the opportunity updated in 2017 for Mr Finegold and took place to meet him.
As at March 2018, the composition of over a number of days to allow sufficient time the Board is two Executive Directors, nine The Committee, when reviewing succession for each meeting.
Non-Executive Directors and a Non-Executive planning, considers diversity in its broadest Chairman.
With the exception of Warren Finegold, For professional ongoing development, sense and takes this into account in its all current Directors served throughout the Board receives presentations relevant recommendations to the Board.
The names of the Directors on our to the Companys business and updates on account the challenges and opportunities Board, their relevant skills and experience any changes in legislation which may affect facing the Company: diversity, including are set out in their biographical details and the Companys operations.
The Company gender: and what cultural experience, skills can be found on pages 58 to 61.
Secretary supplies all Directors with information and expertise are needed on the Board and on relevant legal and best practice.
As part from senior management in the future.
The composition of the Board and its various of their annual performance evaluation, Gender is one element of the considerations Committees is regularly reviewed and evaluated Directors are given the opportunity to discuss made in appointing senior management so as to reflect the balance of skills, knowledge, training and development needs.
Whilst the and Board members and as part of general diversity of which gender is one component, Chairman takes ultimate responsibility for this, recruitment practices across the Group.
experience and the ability of Directors to provide each Director is expected to ask about any The Committee has not set quotas for the sufficient time to fulfil their Board responsibilities.
They also take steps percentage of women in the workforce but is to ensure they are adequately informed supportive of the need generally to encourage SUCCESSION PLANNING about the Company and their responsibilities diversity when employees and Directors as a Director and attend external briefings Appointments to the Board are made on Executive and Non-Executive are recruited.
The Board is merit, against objective criteria and with The Committee gives full consideration to confident that its members have the knowledge, due regard to the benefits of diversity on the succession planning in the course of its work ability and experience to perform the functions Board.
This process is led by the Chairman and receives updated management succession required of a Director of a listed company.
of the Committee, with support of the Board plans which look at succession planning for Chairman, which, after evaluating the the Executive Management Board and identifies balance of skills, knowledge and experience the next layer of management below them of each Director, makes recommendations who are identified as those with potential for to the Board.
promotion to senior management positions.
During 2017 there was significant work In appointing Non-Executive Directors, undertaken by the Chief People Officer and the Boards practice is to use a combination her team in identifying a high performing of external consultants and personal referrals.
talent programme across the organisation The Non-Executive Director who was appointed which will contribute to an updated management in 2017 was through an external consultancy.
succession programme for presentation during 2018 to the Committee and the Board.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Report of the Nominations Committee 69 BOARD EVALUATION EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS In 2015 the Company undertook an external The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit evaluation, facilitated by Duncan Reed of of Executive Directors accepting non-executive Condign Board Consulting.
This was the second directorships of other companies in order to time Mr Reed had undertaken the external widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit evaluation.
Neither Mr Reed nor Condign of the Company.
All such appointments require Board Consulting have any other commercial the prior approval of the Board and the number relationships with Inmarsat.
The 2016 and of public company appointments is generally the most recent 2017 Board evaluation was limited to two.
Details of external appointments undertaken by the Company Secretary on for the CEO can be found in his biography behalf of the Chairman.
This took the form of on page 59.
There were no fees paid to the a questionnaire to all Directors and a meeting CEO for these duties.
between the Company Secretary and each of the Directors.
APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT We have continued to build on themes identified in the 2016 evaluation so that we ensure the The Directors may appoint additional Board and Committee meeting times are used members to join the Board during the year.
effectively and are focused on items which Directors appointed in this way will, upon the are strategic and key to supporting the recommendation of the Board, offer themselves Companys objectives.
for election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM after their Board presentations are more focused with appointment.
The reappointment of Directors delivery at Board meetings leading to discussion is subject to their ongoing commitment to at higher strategic levels.
Keeping this improved Board activities and satisfactory performance.
standard is noted as something from the 2017 All Directors will stand for re-election annually evaluation process to maintain.
in accordance with the provision of the Code Board agendas are sometimes lengthy and Mr Finegold will stand for election.
The and Board members have suggested that it Nominations Committee confirmed to the Board might be helpful for meetings sometimes to that the contributions made by the Directors run for an extra half day.
This will be considered offering themselves for re-election at the 2018 within the 2018 Board meeting schedule and AGM continue to benefit the Board and the for future years.
Company should support their re-election.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed initially Ensuring that the Board continues to receive for three years and all Non-Executive Directors early updates on proposals from management may not, unless agreed by the Board, remain on significant transactional issues is a theme in office for a period longer than six years, continued from the 2016 evaluation.
This allows or two terms in office, whichever is the shorter.
the Board to be informed and able to contribute as these matters develop up to decision stage.
As already set out earlier in this Report on page 67, one of our Non-Executive Directors, The main outputs from the exercise confirmed Sir Bryan Carsberg is being supported by the that the new Non-Executive Directors had Board for re-election at the 2018 AGM as performed well and the whole Board was a non-independent Non-Executive Director.
operating effectively, with mutual respect for each others experience and contributions.
The review completed by the Directors regarding the Board Chairmans own performance reflected their continued support of how he managed the Board, seeking to ensure that all Directors contributed to the discussion and that he managed the discussion effectively and fairly.
70 Governance | Report of the Telecoms Regulatory Committee Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 ACCOUNTABILITY Report of the Telecoms Regulatory Committee ANDREW SUKAWATY ACCOUNTABILITY CHAIRMAN, TELECOMS Report of the Telecoms REGULATORY COMMITTEE Regulatory Committee MEMBERS IN 2017 Scheduled meetings attended Andrew Sukawaty Chairman 2 2 Sir Bryan Carsberg 2 2 Janice Obuchowski 2 2 Dr Hamadoun Tour 2 2 The Committee was presented with updates Support the Company in various countries The focus for the Committee from senior regulatory experts about upcoming to secure authorisations for market access legislation and activities which could have an as identified by the Company was to contribute oversight impact on the Companys regulatory roadmap.
Obtain the advice and assistance of and guidance for the The Telecoms Regulatory Committee was any of the Companys executives having Companys activities created in May 2015, specifically to ensure particular expertise in such matters and there was focus from the Board on this key across the different global Review, and advise on, the ongoing area which affects all parts of the Companys appropriateness and relevance of regulatory activities with business operations.
The Committee comprised the Companys regulatory policy and a majority of independent Non-Executive which it is involved strategy as presented by the Companys Directors and meets as and when necessary, executives and provide guidance on generally twice a year.
Andrew Sukawaty proactive measures proposed by the is Chairman.
During 2017 the Committee Company to maintain its leading position met twice.
and competitiveness in the industry The Telecoms Regulatory Committee A key focus for the Company during 2017 was is authorised by the Board to: to receive updates from senior management Review key regulatory challenges facing regarding the current status of market access the business of the Company and the authorisations for the Ka-band Global Xpress strategy and action plans proposed services: updates on the focus and attention to meet such challenges of the FCC in the U. S. and any implications for our work: the current position of the EAN Discuss the Companys strategy licence acquisitions for our S-band licence for acquisition of spectrum and and the activities surrounding the discussions frequency rights with regulators about these and also about the planning and focus for resourcing for Facilitate high level engagement the WRC-19 conference.
with governments, regulatory bodies and international organisations as identified by the Company Review upcoming key regulatory meetings, the proposed agendas and events and the Companys plans to cover such events Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Report of the Audit Committee 71 Report of the Audit Committee ROBERT RUIJTER ACCOUNTABILITY CHAIRMAN, Report of the AUDIT COMMITTEE Audit Committee MEMBERS IN 2017 Scheduled meetings attended Robert Ruijter Chairman 5 5 Sir Bryan Carsberg 5 5 1 Stephen Davidson 1 1 Janice Obuchowski 5 5 Phillipa McCrostie 5 5 2 Warren Finegold 2 2 1 Mr Davidson retired in January 2017 2 Mr Finegold joined in August 2017 regularly with the internal and external auditors results include those from Inmarsat Government All members of the Audit and at the end of each Audit Committee meeting Inc. a proxy company based in the U. S. which there is a short meeting of just the Committee, is managed under a Proxy arrangement as Committee are independent Company Chairman and auditors which includes required by the U. S. Government to ensure it Non-Executive Directors and the internal auditor several times during the year is insulated from foreign ownership, control for an open discussion about the audit process or influence.
This company was acquired the majority have significant, and relationship with management.
in 2010 and has been operating under the recent and relevant financial Proxy arrangement since that time.
Deloitte The Audit Committee has particular is auditor to this company and our CEO attends experience.
The Board is responsibility for: their board meetings to listen to matters which he is able to participate in.
confident that the collective Monitoring the financial reporting process The Committees terms of reference have experience of the Audit The adequacy and effectiveness of the been updated to reflect best practice, and operation of internal controls and Committee members enables can be found on our website.
Details about risk management the Committees assessment are shown them, as a group, to act as The integrity of the financial statements.
This includes a review of significant issues an effective Committee There is a forward agenda used for the years and judgements, policies, and disclosures activities which focuses on: Keeping under review the scope and results The table shows who makes up the Audit Committee Review of the annual financial statements of the audit and its cost effectiveness and their attendance at meetings during 2017. and the results of the annual external Robert Ruijter became Chairman in November Consideration of managements response audit and review of the external auditors 2015.
All members, apart from Dr Obuchowski, are to any major external or internal audit quarterly and interim review work and considered financial experts.
Mr Finegold joined recommendations relevant quarterly and interim financial the Board in August 2017 and became a member reporting and the external audit plan of the Committee from that date.
Mr Davidson Being assured of the independence and stepped down from the Committee in January objectivity of the internal and external Review of risk management reports 2017 when he retired from the Board.
auditor and Consideration of new accounting In 2018 there will be particular focus on the By invitation, the meetings of the Audit standards and governance changes new IFRS 9, 15 and 16 accounting standards Committee may be attended by the Chairman, Review of the preparation of the viability and their implementation Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer statement for use in the 2017 Preliminary and the Head of Internal Audit and other senior The Board requested that the Committee Statement and Annual Report and finance members.
The Deloitte LLP Deloitte advise whether it believes the Annual Report audit engagement partner is present at Review of internal audit plans and findings and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full and recommendations balanced and understandable and provides communication of matters relating to the audit.
the information necessary for shareholders to The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
The financial 72 Governance | Report of the Audit Committee Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Audit Committee ensures that the external Monitor changes in the approach to the Board.
This enabled the Audit Committee audit process and audit quality are effective.
assessing the carrying value of goodwill to review and clarify the completeness of It does this by: and intangibles for possible impairment and financial reporting disclosures prior to their review the conclusions of the assessment release by the Board.
Monitoring the engagement between the Audit Committee Chairman and the Reviewing key accounting judgements SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING lead audit engagement partner which will relating to specific transactions as well as MATTERS generally be through face-to-face meetings changes to any accounting policies affecting the Groups financial position and During 2017, the Audit Committee considered Monitoring the reports which are brought to the significant accounting matters described the Committee by the lead audit engagement Regular monitoring of key programmes below.
In addressing these issues the Committee partner and other senior members of the across the Group including the plans for considered the appropriateness of managements audit team the implementation of a new billing and accounting estimates and key judgements, account payable system Monitoring the quality of the management outlined in note 4 to the consolidated financial responses to audit queries Reviews by the Committee of audit plans statements.
The Committee discussed these and risk reports include all Group operations.
with the external auditor during the year and, Monitoring meetings held by the CEO Detailed risk reporting is used for all Group where appropriate, details of how they have and the Chairman with the lead audit companies and business operations.
One of been addressed are provided in the Independent engagement partner which are reported our subsidiary companies, Inmarsat Group Ltd, Auditors Report on pages 105 to 111. to the Audit Chairman and Committee is required to produce quarterly financial CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES statements, as required by its loan agreements, Monitoring a review of independence An in-depth review of revenue accounting, lease which are reviewed and approved by the and objectivity of the audit firm and also accounting and financial instruments has been Committee.
The quarterly review of the risk the quality of the formal audit report completed in preparation for the implementation reports and the process adopted to manage given by the Auditor to shareholders and of IFRS 15, IFRS 16 and IFRS 9 respectively in 2018. risk is a key area of focus for the Committee.
IFRS 16 is to be early adopted in 2018 as the Seeking feedback from members of the With several significant changes to IFRS overall impact on the financial statements finance team, the Company Secretary and reporting being implemented, the Committee is considered low.
As part of the assessment, the Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee received detailed briefings and updates from management has outlined the Groups updated is considering the use of a formal auditor management regarding progress.
accounting policies to align with each of the assessment tool for future review of audit standards.
For revenue recognition, installation effectiveness The risk management process which had and Ligado revenue will have their recognition benefited from the Committees input during During the reporting year to 31 December 2017, policies updated and the comparatives will be 2016 continued to progress in being more the activities of the Audit Committee were: adjusted within the 2018 financial statements as focused on how mitigation activities would permitted by IFRS 15.
For lease accounting, a right To ensure a smooth running of the Audit be implemented.
This contributed to the to use asset will be recorded on the statement Committee following the addition of two quality of the viability statement review which of financial position with a corresponding lease new members over a 15-month period is contained in the risk section of this Annual liability, while changes in the income statement Report.
New requirements for publishing Confirming to the Board that the Annual will be mainly presentational.
For financial a tax statement and compliance with new Report and Accounts is fair, balanced instruments, there are no material changes governance regulations were also part and understandable expected.
Further details of the expected of the Committees work schedule.
adjustments are outlined in note 1. Review and endorsement, prior to submission Audit Committee meetings generally take to the Board, of half-year and full-year REVENUE RECOGNITION place just prior to a Board meeting to maximise financial statements, interim management The timing of revenue recognition is a key area of effectiveness and time planning efficiency of statements and results announcements judgement, especially in the telecommunications those attending.
The Groups accounting policy on Review and approval of internal audit reports, reports to the Board as part of a separate revenue recognition remains unchanged from and findings and recommendations arising agenda item, on the activity of the Committee the prior year, refer to note 2 for more details.
from the reports and matters of particular relevance to the The Groups Internal Audit team have kept Board in the conduct of their work.
All members Review and approval of risk management significant revenue systems, processes and of the Board have access to Audit Committee updates and the annual risk management recognition as a focus area during the year papers and minutes of meetings, and may, on process and the external auditor performed detailed request to the Chairman, attend the meetings.
audit procedures on revenue recognition, Agreement of external and internal annual with the findings of both being reported to the The Company Secretary, as Chairman of audit plans Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has the Disclosure Committee the role of which therefore concluded that the Groups revenue Receiving updates on management is detailed on page 66, reported on matters recognition policies continue to be in line responses to audit recommendations that affected the quality and timely disclosure with IFRS requirements.
of financial and other material information to Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Report of the Audit Committee 73 REVENUE IN RESPECT OF THE LIGADO the appropriateness of managements assets.
The key judgements involved in NETWORKS COOPERATION AGREEMENT views including the degree to which these are the capitalisation of space segment assets The Audit Committee continues to review the supported by professional advice from external and associated borrowings costs are: accounting treatment for the recognition of legal and other advisory firms.
This is also Whether the capitalisation criteria revenue and costs in respect of each phase of an area of higher audit risk and accordingly, of the underlying IFRS have been met the Ligado Networks formerly LightSquared the Committee received detailed verbal and Cooperation Agreement.
written reports from the external auditor Allocation of an appropriate asset on these matters.
Following these procedures, class and associated useful economic In March 2016, Ligado Networks agreed to the Audit Committee deemed the income life in accordance with Group policies take the 30MHz option the 30MHz Plan tax assets and liabilities balances for the year, under the Cooperation Agreement between the Whether an asset is deemed to be substantially as well as the Groups disclosure in respect companies.
In exchange for the deferral of some complete and as a result capitalisation of of income taxes and related liabilities, payments from Ligado to Inmarsat, the parties borrowing costs should cease and to be appropriate.
agreed to delay the transition to the 30MHz Whether an asset is ready for use and as a Plan, with Ligado providing Inmarsat enhanced To ensure that the Groups tax risk is managed result further capitalisation of costs should spectrum usage rights for its satellite operations conservatively and professionally, through cease and depreciation should commence for a minimum period of two years.
With this observing laws and meeting our compliance in mind, Ligado made quarterly payments to obligations in all territories in which we operate.
The external auditor examined the capitalisation Inmarsat of $111m during the course of 2017 and We seek to work proactively and collaboratively of development costs in the year, particularly will make aggregate payments of approximately with our stakeholders, including tax authorities in relation to the Global Xpress and S-band $118m in respect of 2018, payable in quarterly and colleagues within the business, whilst satellite programmes and reported its control instalments.
This revenue is currently recognised ensuring that the Groups tax strategy is aligned findings to the Audit Committee.
The Audit on an accruals basis.
Under IFRS 15, the allocation with the wider business and its commercial Committee is satisfied that space segment of the revenue over the contract period will strategy of generating sustainable value assets and associated borrowing costs have result in additional revenue of $4.5m being for our shareholders.
been capitalised correctly in the year.
recognised in 2018 when compared to the We acknowledge the Auditors advice and Our tax principles are a clear articulation of our tax current accounting policy.
will review how any weaknesses will be remedied mission statement.
These are subject to review during the coming year.
Deferred income in respect of Phase 1 from by the Board of Inmarsat plc on an annual basis.
Ligado continues to be carried on the balance Inmarsats tax function is committed to: VIABILITY STATEMENT sheet.
Although the cash has been received, the timing of the recognition of this deferred Observing all applicable laws, rules and The Audit Committee received a detailed income, together with any related future regulations in meeting our tax compliance paper from management setting out both costs and taxes, is dependent upon a number and reporting responsibilities everywhere the Directors obligation to include a viability of factors that continue to be uncertain.
we operate statement in the Annual Report and a The impact of the foregoing on the deferred detailed assessment of the Groups viability.
Applying diligent professional care and revenue balance of $181.8m at 31 December The Committee endorsed the selection of a judgement to ensure that the tax risk is 2017 carried by Inmarsat in respect of the costs three-year time horizon as a basis for the managed with a high degree of certainty of implementation of this agreement is still to statement and reviewed the detailed viability be determined.
During 2017, Inmarsat recognised Working positively, pro-actively and assessment including the assumptions that $16.0m of deferred income: $2.0m on a $ for transparently with tax authorities to minimise had been made in conducting the assessment.
$ basis against any costs incurred in freeing the extent of disputes, to achieve early Further detail on the assessment of viability and up spectrum for Ligado and $14.0m as revenue agreement on disputed issues when the viability statement are set out on page 55. to reflect the impact of the revenue deferral they arise and achieve certainty wherever arising under the revised transition agreement.
possible and INTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee has deemed the current Ensuring that tax strategy is aligned with Monitoring and review of the scope, extent accounting treatment of all phases of the the wider business and commercial strategy and effectiveness of the activity of the Internal Cooperation Agreement appropriate.
Audit Department is an agenda item at each The Groups tax strategy is available on TAXATION Committee meeting.
Moreover the Chairman our website.
The calculation of some of the Groups of the Committee meets regularly with the CAPITALISATION OF SPACE potential tax assets and liabilities involves a Internal Auditor.
SEGMENT ASSETS AND ASSOCIATED degree of estimation and judgement in respect Internal Audit prepares its annual audit plan BORROWING COSTS of certain items, whose tax treatment cannot based on the principal risks of the Company Space segment assets comprise satellite be finalised until resolution has been reached for the Committee to approve.
Internal Audit construction, launch and other associated with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, conducts reviews of business operations, costs, including ground infrastructure.
In through a formal legal process.
Issues can, financial and internal controls, IT and cyber addition, borrowing costs attributable to and often do, take a number of years to resolve.
security, and legal and regulatory compliance qualifying space segment assets are added etc.
It presents its reports at each meeting The Committee addresses these matters to the cost of those assets.
Given the nature covering updates on Internal Audit activities, through a range of reporting from senior of the Groups business, significant capital results of audits and follow-up actions required.
management and a process of challenging expenditure is incurred on space segment 74 Governance | Report of the Audit Committee Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED A formal policy is in place in relation to the In particular, the Committee considered EXTERNAL AUDITOR provision of non-audit services by the Auditor the same themes as it had in 2016: The Financial Reporting Council issued a guide to ensure that there is adequate protection of IS THE REPORT FAIR?
for Audit Committees to help them evaluate their independence and objectivity.
Inmarsats Is the whole story presented and has any auditor effectiveness.
There are several criteria policy is to adopt a strict 70% cap for allowable sensitive material been omitted that included within the report and the Committee non-audit services.
To ensure the policy should have been included?
is in the process of completing its work on this is adequately controlled, we adopt several assessment for the most recent audit work using processes, which were enforced during 2017.
Is the reporting on the business segments as a gauge for this the effectiveness guidelines Fees charged by Deloitte in respect of non-audit in the narrative reporting consistent with provided by Deloitte.
The Committee receives services require the prior approval of the Audit those used for the financial reporting in inputs from different sources such as the Committee, except where the fee is less than the financial statements?
Auditors themselves, as well as management and 50,000.
Any commitments above this amount Are the key messages in the narrative the input from the members of the Committee will require the Audit Committee Chairmans reflected in the financial reporting?
which assisted it to determine that the Auditor approval.
A summary is supplied to the Audit and its work were effective.
At each of the Audit Committee at each meeting where amounts Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate level Committee meetings, the Auditor would report have been committed below 50,000.
Separate based on the financial reporting and are they on any issues it perceived related to quality engagement letters are signed by our CFO the right ones to use to describe the business?
control and where it thought judgements had for each audit and non-audit engagement been applied by management and if it agreed IS THE REPORT BALANCED?
with these, or offered an alternative view if Is there a good level of consistency between No non-audit services for 2017 were received appropriate.
The findings and reports from the narrative reporting in the front and the from Deloitte compared to $0.2m in 2016. the Auditor help the Audit Committee make financial reporting in the back of the report, A breakdown of the fees paid to Deloitte during any assessments about the need to update and does the messaging reflected in each the year is set out in note 6 to the consolidated processes or undertake further review remain consistent when read independently financial statements.
work on any particular issues.
It is the Companys practice that it will seek Deloitte LLP were reappointed at the 2017 Is the Annual Report a document which quotes from several firms, which may include Annual General Meeting and will also be put is understandable by shareholders?
Deloitte, before work on non-audit projects forward for reappointment at the 2018 Annual Are the statutory and adjusted measures is awarded.
Contracts are awarded to our General Meeting.
Under the EU directive, Deloitte explained clearly with appropriate prominence?
suppliers based on individual merits.
The are now capable of being reappointed for a further Committee and the Companys management 10 years after the retender 2016, however Are the key judgements referred to in the are aware that the level of fees paid to Deloitte shareholder approval will be required each year.
narrative reporting and the significant issues for non-audit services compared to audit reported in this Audit Committee Report Auditor objectivity and independence is services was significantly higher several years consistent with the disclosures of key estimation safeguarded through a variety of mechanisms.
ago due to work undertaken regarding specialist uncertainties and critical judgements set To ensure the Auditors independence, the tax advice on certain transactions and has out in the financial statements?
Committee annually reviews the Companys worked to ensure that the non-audit fee levels relationship with Deloitte and receives How do these compare with the risks that have reduced over the last few years.
summaries at each Audit Committee meeting Deloitte plan to include in their audit report?
We receive advice from other firms for from the Auditor as to their independence.
specific projects and other long-term projects.
The Committee concluded that it continues to We have continued to use PwC, KPMG and EY Is there a clear and understandable have an objective and professional relationship for various projects some are new projects framework to the report?
with Deloitte and that there are sufficient controls and some have been continuing for several and processes in place to ensure the required Are the important messages highlighted years.
Areas where we have used other level of independence.
The External Auditor is appropriately throughout the document?
firms relate to the new IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 required to change the audit partner responsible standards and undertaking a review of our Is the layout clear with good linkage for the Group audit every five years.
In the prior current accounting standards manual.
throughout in a manner that reflects year, a new audit partner was identified and took We also use different firms to support us the whole story?
over as the lead for the 2016 reporting period on VAT and ad hoc PAYE issues.
During the year, Deloitte charged the Group $1.2m CONCLUSION 2016: $1.1m for audit and audit-related services.
FAIR, BALANCED AND Following its review, the Committee was of UNDERSTANDABLE the opinion that the 2017 Annual Report and NON-AUDIT SERVICES When forming its opinion as to whether the Accounts is representative of the year and Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced presents a fair, balanced and understandable The Companys Auditor may also be used and understandable, the Committee reflected overview, providing the necessary information to provide specialist advice where, as a result on the information it had received and its for shareholders to assess the Groups position, of their position as Auditor, they either must, or discussions throughout the year.
performance, business model and strategy.
are best placed to, perform the work in question.
