16 What we have been doing in 2017 Construction Services Financial review Construction Services continued to make significant progress during the course of the year.
The segment improved from an underlying loss of 21 million in 2016, to an underlying profit from operations of 72 million in 2017 primarily due to the 81% improvements at UK Construction.
Underlying revenue increased by 2% to 6,649 million 2016: 6,537 million, a 2% decrease at CER.
As expected, underlying Total revenue revenues in the UK fell by 7%, as improved bidding disciplines and selectivity adopted under Build to Last resulted in lower levels of 8.3bn activity in previous problem areas.
This was 4 2016 : 9.3bn more than offset by an underlying revenue Order book increase of 6% in the US 1% increase at CER and a 5% increase at Gammon 1% increase at CER.
6,649m The turnaround of underlying profit from 4 2016 : 6,537m operations at 72 million 2016: 21 million loss is primarily a result of the UK which Underlying revenue returned to underlying profit of 16 million 2016: 65 million loss.
Underlying profit in the US at 41 million and Gammon at 5,597m 15 million both improved year on year.
4 2016 : 5,612m The order book decreased by 11% 5% at Statutory revenue CER due to declines in the US and Gammon.
The 22% 14% at CER decrease in the US order book, although greater than anticipated, 72m is consistent with the Groups stated policy 4 2016 : 21 m of selective bidding for those projects best aligned with its capabilities.
Gammons order Underlying profit loss book decreased by 13% 7% at CER as the fromoperations timing of orders is more variable.
The overall reduction was, in part, offset by the UK order book increasing by 17% to 2.7 billion, 36m within the more disciplined and selective 4 2016 : 55 m approach to bidding.
The 2.5 billion Balfour Statutory profit loss Beatty 50% joint venture HS2 contracts fromoperations won in July2017 will not be included in the order book until the conclusion of the Early From continuing operations including Contractor Involvement ECI at the end of share of joint ventures and associates, 2018 or in early 2019. before non-underlying items.
4 Re-presented to classify the Groups The Group is continuing to manage 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC as problem contracts through to completion.
Each requires a high level of leadership involvement to ensure the best achievable The A21 Tonbridge to Pembury project outcome and a positive effect on customer provides drivers with a new dual relations.
In most cases, the positions taken carriageway to speed up journeys and boost the local economy.
are proving adequate, reecting, as expected, a mix of projects successfully closed out ahead of expectation, as well as others where the outcome, although disappointing, is being managed to its best conclusion.
A very limited number of contracts have disappointed outside of this expectation.
The largest of these is Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route AWPR which has experienced ongoing schedule and cost issues.
These contracts have impacted the underlying results of Construction Services.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 17 As these challenges reduce, new The UK Construction business is organised Mott MacDonald and WSP with standard contracts are coming on stream which into three business units consisting of: terms and conditions.
A community of were bid, won and are being executed and practice will bring designers and engineers Major Projects: focused on complex monitored within the Groups framework from the four companies together to nd projects in key market sectors such of contracting disciplines.
This means that solutions in key areas such as health and as transportation, heavy infrastructure the strong foundation created in the first safety through design, value engineering and energy 36 months of Build to Last will be reected and the use of more cost-effective Regional: private and public, civil increasingly in improved project delivery.
engineering, ground engineering, As this feeds through the business, The Major Projects business continues to mechanical and electrical engineering, management time can increasingly be pursue a number of major infrastructure and building, providing customers refocused onto the many opportunities in opportunities across core transportation with locally delivered exible and fully the pipeline which play to and energy markets.
Over the next few integrated civil and building services Balfour Beattys capabilities.
years HS2, new nuclear power stations Rail: civil engineering, track, power and In the construction portfolio there are a Hinkley, Wylfa and airport expansion electrication projects.
small number of long-term and complex Heathrow will all contribute to the UK projects where the Group has incorporated UK Construction is continuing to manage Governments investment in infrastructure, judgements over contractual outcomes.
historical problem contracts through which is forecast to rise from 0.8% of GDP The range of potential outcomes as a result to completion.
At the start of 2015, 89 in 2015-16 to over 1% of GDP by 2020-21. of uncertain future events could result in historical contracts were identied that had In addition, the highways market continues a materially positive or negative swing to a material negative impact on profitability to provide good growth opportunities profitability and cash ow.
As at the end of December 2017 following the UK Governments proposed are primarily within the major infrastructure 93% of these projects were at practical 35 billion funding for Highways business units in the UK, US and Gammon.
completion 90% at end December 2016 Englands first and second Roads with over 80% at financial completion Investment Strategies.
Operational review In June 2017, the Major Projects The Group is working constructively with business successfully completed work industry bodies and the UK Government to on the M3 four-lane smart motorway UK identify and manage any challenges caused between junction 4a for Farnborough by the UKs exit from the European Union.
The project 1,998m underlying revenue At this stage Balfour Beatty has not seen added an extra lane in both directions by an impact on the building market: however converting the hard shoulder into a trafc 2.7bn order book the Group remains vigilant to respond to lane increasing capacity and adding any changes in market conditions.
Underlying revenue in the UK fell by 7% technology that will make the road more to 1,998 million 2016: 2,143 million resilient for users.
In September 2017, During the year, Balfour Beatty continued but profit from operations remained work was completed on the A21 upgrade to focus on alignment of the Groups positive following the return to underlying project between Tonbridge and Pembury world-leading expertise to its key profit during the second half of 2016. which now provides drivers with a new customers requirements and providing The underlying profit from operations dual carriageway.
them with a single primary point of contact at 16 million equates to a PFO margin accountable for the work which is delivered During the year significant progress has of 0.8%, with the business targeting an for them, across the organisation.
In July, been made on agship projects.
The UKs industry-standard margin of 2%-3% in Balfour Beatty created an engineering biggest road construction project at the second half of 2018.
The UK order consultancy collaboration in the UK with present, the A14 in Cambridgeshire, had book increased by 17% to 2.7 billion as Atkins now SNC-Lavalin, Mott McDonald successfully completed more than a the business won a number of material and WSP.
This partnership will focus quarter of the projects main construction projects including Hinkley Point C and Balfour Beattys procurement of design work as it marked its first year of MECD the University of Manchesters consultants for its projects towards Atkins, construction in November.
Following the engineering campus development.
liquidation of Carillion plc, Balfour Beatty has assumed Carillions share of this project 4 with the revised three-way joint venture 2017 2016 Order Order working well together on the project.
At the 1,2 2 2 1,2 1,2 2 2 1,2 Rev PFO PFO book Rev PFO PFO book Norwich Northern Distributor Road NNDR Construction Services m m % bn m m % bn project, all bridge beams have now been US 3,634 41 1.1 4.3 3,427 33 1.0 5.5 installed along the new 20-kilometre road.
UK 1,998 16 0.8 2.7 2,143 65 3.0 2.3 At the Aberdeen Western Peripheral Gammon 1,017 15 1.5 1.3 967 11 1.1 1.5 3 Route AWPR project Balfour Beatty and Underlying 6,649 72 1.1 8.3 6,537 21 0.3 9.3 Galliford Try continue to move ahead with Non-underlying 30 36 153 34 the complex 58-kilometre project.
As a Total 6,679 36 0.5 8.3 6,690 55 0.8 9.3 result of the liquidation of previous joint 1 Underlying revenue and order book include share of joint ventures and associates.
venture partner Carillion, Balfour Beatty 2 From continuing operations.
has recognised a one-off non-underlying 3 Before non-underlying items Note 10. loss provision of 44 million which reects 4 Re-presented to classify the Groups 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC as the Groups additional loss on the contract.
A reconciliation of the Groups performance measures to its statutory results is provided in the Completion is now expected in the Measuring Our Performance section.
com AR2017 18 What we have been doing in 2017 Construction Services continued On Crossrail, Balfour Beattys three In July, Balfour Beattys 50:50 joint Balfour Beatty Ground Engineering: major projects: C510 Liverpool Street venture with VINCI was awarded two specialist geotechnical contractor and Whitechapel Station tunnels : major civil engineering lots Lots N1 and providing innovative piling and ground C512 Whitechapel Station : and C530 N2 for the two northern stretches of improvement solutions across all sectors Woolwich Station all made significant HS2 Phase 1, closest to Birmingham.
Balfour Beatty Kilpatrick: heavy progress during the year.
C510 is effectively Balfour Beatty VINCI will deliver Lot N1, mechanical and electrical M&E complete with the other two projects on valued at c. 1.32 billion, and Lot N2, installations and building services.
schedule for the December 2018 opening valued at c. 1.15 billion, between the The Regional business is focused on of the Elizabeth Line.
LongItchington Wood Green tunnel to opportunities across five sectors aviation, the Delta Junction Birmingham Spur and At the Thames Tideway Tunnel work buildings, civils, defence and energy.
from the Delta Junction to the West Coast continues on the 6-kilometre West section mainline tie-in respectively, in two-stage Within Regional, in line with the Groups which runs from Acton to Wandsworth.
The contracts strategy, the number of live projects has The first tunnel boring machines TBMs are included in awarded but not contracted now fallen from over 400 at December have been delivered in preparation for the ABNC as the first stage, a 16-month 2015 to around 225 by December start of tunnelling later this year.
The TBMs Early Contract Involvement ECI period, 2017.
The business is now focused on were transported along the Thames, in line commenced on 28 July 2017. fewer, larger contracts and continues to with Tideways commitment to transport reduce its exposure to contracts under over 90% of materials by river, thereby Also included in ABNC, the highways 5 million.
This allows the business to reducing the number of road vehicle business has been selected to deliver two focus on projects with better pricing and journeys needed.
Smart Motorway packages to upgrade risk dynamics, but also improves the sections of the M6 J2 J4 and M4 J3 During the year Major Projects won the span of control as it operates fewer sites.
Additionally, a contract from Highways tunnelling and marine works package for There has also been a shift towards a lower England for the construction of a proposed Hinkley Point C nuclear power station.
risk contract portfolio, with a reduction in lorry area near the M20 has been awarded The four-year package will include the the number of xed price contracts offset and is currently under consultation.
construction of three marine tunnels by an increase in target cost contracts and In February 2018, the M6 J2 J4 contract both onshore and offshore totalling over framework agreements.
Both target cost was formally awarded to Balfour Beatty.
9.5 kilometres in length and 7 metres in contracts and framework agreements diameter to form part of the vital cooling The Regional business comprises: require early contractor involvement ECI system.
This is the second major package with the customer to ensure greater clarity Regional Construction: four regions Balfour Beatty will deliver at Hinkley around scope, schedule and cost which, Scotland & Ireland, North & Midlands, PointC, following its appointment in 2015 in combination, reduces delivery risk for South and London providing public and to the power stations electrical works all parties.
private customers with locally delivered, package in joint venture with NG Bailey.
exible and fully integrated civil and building services HS2 Balfour Beattys 50:50 joint venture with VINCI will deliver the two northern stretches of HS2 Phase 1, closest to Birmingham.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 19 In 2017, the Regional business successfully Included in ABNC, at year end the Group US completed the Anchorsholme ood had been selected as preferred bidder for: prevention scheme in Blackpool to reduce the East Wick and Sweetwater residential 3,634m underlying revenue ood risk to around 5,000 properties.
development project: the Vine Street The new defences will help protect student accommodation project, London: 4.3bn order book Blackpools tourism and recreational and the Caernarfon bypass.
The Regional Underlying revenue in the US grew by income for the next 100 years, in addition business also continues to secure a 6% in the period 1% increase at CER to safeguarding Blackpools iconic number of significant engineering projects to 3,634 million.
The business reported seafront tramway, vital infrastructure and operated by Scape Group, which is open an underlying profit from operations for a major pumping station.
Other projects to all public sector bodies in the UK and the year of 41 million 2016: 33 million.
completed during the year included: covers projects ranging from road repairs, The underlying PFO margin at 1.1% is Foundry Courtyard, a 32 million student new bridges and coastal defence works to at the low end of the Groups Build to accommodation complex in Glasgow, light rail schemes and major road projects.
Last Phase Two target of 1%-2% for US which completed in the summer ahead of In the Rail construction business, Construction.
The trajectory is positive the start of the academic year: the Clyde underlying revenues were lower as track and market conditions are considered and Pen y Cymoedd windfarm projects and overhead line equipment projects favourable.
The 22% 14% at CER in Scotland and Wales, respectively: between Slough and Maidenhead decrease in the US order book, although the Barons Quay town centre retail for Crossrail substantially completed.
greater than anticipated, is consistent and leisure development in Northwich, These projects contributed to a profit with the Groups stated policy of selective Cheshire: Gatwick level 10, which involved improvement in this delivery unit.
bidding for those projects best aligned with improvements to check-in and bag-drop During the year, the Group was selected its capabilities.
In January 2018, the US facilities, utilising newer technology, by Network Rail to electrify a 40-mile train business was awarded, in joint venture, the in a better layout, to provide efficiency route as part of the Great Western mainline US$1.95 billion Los Angeles airport LAX gains and reduced queues: Lewisham upgrade.
Balfour Beatty will be responsible Automated People Mover project.
and Southwark College, comprising for the remainder of the electrication an extension to the college campus in Balfour Beatty continues to evolve its US between Cardiff and Bristol Parkway central London: and Project Zeppelin, organisation building on the standardisation and will utilise the latest technology the construction of a cryogenic storage and leaning out already delivered.
and innovations in design, construction tank, forming part of a new ethane import At the year end the decision was taken and rail plant to drive efficiencies and terminal facility on Teesside.
to promote two internal candidates, to improve safety.
lead the Buildings and Civils businesses Work commenced on the 150 million In February 2017, Balfour Beatty published respectively.
These appointments Madison Tower, a 53-storey residential its Staying on Track paper.
This lays out the will leverage the Groups market building in Canary Wharf, London, with Groups view that new funding models are positions while maintaining the new piling completed in May.
Other material essential to provide the UKs rail industry contracting disciplines.
ongoing projects include: upgrading with continuity of project ow in order to baggage screening and handling systems Even before the 2016 presidential election, support growth in innovation and skills.
for Heathrow airport: Redwood luxury there was a strong market outlook for Further, in October, the Group published retirement village for Audley: the renovation construction in the US.
In December its Fast Track to Digital Railway: Delivering and new-build scheme at No.
1 Palace 2015, the FAST Act Fixing Americas the Vision paper.
This sets out the Groups Street in St James, London: Forth Valley Surface Transportation, a US$305 billion views on the Digital Railway, a rail industryCollege, Scotland, and DRET secondary transportation bill was signed, providing wide programme encompassing a range of school in London.
This bill digitally enabled interventions to improve permits longer term project planning The Regional business had a number of the passenger experience by unlocking horizons in the public market and is leading successes in 2017. Notable new contract much needed capacity in the network to improved visibility for publicly funded awards in the period included: and delivering a railway system t for the projects that had been slow to come to 287 million contract for The University future, which will stimulate and strengthen market.
There are further opportunities of Manchester to construct the the UK economy.
being created with the number of state Manchester Engineering Campus backed infrastructure bonds US$35 billion Development MECD of education bonds in California, over 179 million contract for the University US$200 billion of multi-state transportation of Sussex, to construct new student bonds, and an increase in US public-private accommodation on campus which will partnership schemes.
provide bedrooms for 2,117 students, together with new student amenities and a Students Union building 124 million Wokingham Public Road project, awarded through Scape 63 million contract for Network Rail for the redevelopment of Glasgow Queen Street station 53 million contract for a retirement village at Runneymede for Audley Villages.
com AR2017 20 What we have been doing in 2017 Construction Services continued Since 2014, over half of the 50 US states The Buildings business had a number of Additionally during the year, significant have increased state gasoline tax.
In 2017 successes in 2017. Notable new contract progress has been made on key contracts.
alone, eight states passed legislation to awards in the period included: At Caltrain, a US$697 million contract for increase their respective state gasoline the electrication of the 52-mile rail corridor Matthews Southwest River Landing tax, which will raise around US$5 billion in between San Francisco and San Jose, the project, a US$260 million contract to new funding for infrastructure.
Additionally, Group started to place the foundations build the River Landing Shops and many counties in various states have raised for the conversion of the line from diesel Residences in Miami.
The mixed-use their sales tax from 0.5% to 1%, which trains to electric trains.
In Denver, Balfour project will offer over 2 million square will increase infrastructure funding by over Beatty is currently adding 2.3 miles and feet of retail and residences in Miamis US$2 billion per year.
three stations to the light rail line as part Civic Centre, including two residential of a design-build contract.
In California, In the US approximately 85% of buildings which will feature 475 the Group is currently on-site modernising revenues are generated from the general rental apartments and a five-storey the Rinconada water treatment plant by building market Buildings, with the civil shopping centre replacing and upgrading ageing facilities infrastructure market Civils accounting US$100 million contract for Cleburne and overhauling the treatment process.
Independent School District todeliver The Civils business had a number of a 500,000 square feet update and The Buildings business remains focused successes in 2017. Notable new contract expansion of Cleburne High School on working with repeat customers, in awards in the period included: known geographies where it can deliver US$130 million contract named Portals US$1.08 billion 25% equal four-way value.
In 2017, the Group closed its V, a 4-storey residential building with joint venture between Balfour Beatty, Houston ofce and continued to withdraw 292 apartments, 76 condominiums, and Flour Corporation, The Middlesex from bidding on most stick frame multi- 12,400 square feet of amenity space Corp. and Herzog Contracting Corp. family housing.
inWashington DC Green Line Extension design and US$95 million contract named Paseo The Buildings business is focused on build contract for the Massachusetts fide La Riviera, a mixed-use development specic geographies, known as The Bay Transportation Authority MBTA that will include a hotel, residences and Southern Smile.
This starts in the Pacic to design and build the new 4.7-mile retail in Coral Gables, Florida.
North West, runs through California, commuter rail extension, associated Texas, Florida and up through Georgia Included in ABNC, the business has been infrastructure and seven new rail stations and the Carolinas to Washington DC.
awarded: the US$260 million Harrison US$625 million 45% Balfour Beatty, The core markets remain as commercial Medical Centre project in Seattle: a 55% Fluor Corporation joint venture ofces, education, hospitality, residential US$150 million contract for an Atlanta contract to reconstruct and improve and healthcare.
airport hotel: and a US$70 million contract the Southern Gateway, an 11-mile for Disney in Orlando.
In 2017, Buildings completed a number stretch of road in Dallas, Texas.
of notable projects including: the The Civils business continues to create This contract followed the joint ventures redevelopment of Microsoft Buildings 30, value, operating in the largely regulated successful delivery of the adjacent 31 and 32 in Redmond: the 300 South Tryon markets of rail, water and road.
25-storey ofce tower in Charlottesville: Civils completed two notable road projects In January 2018, Balfour Beatty was the Alta Midtown, a midand high-rise the Dallas Horseshoe and Wilmington awarded the US$1.95 billion design, build, residential facility in Atlanta: the 500 East Bypass.
The Dallas Horseshoe, which finance, operate and maintain contract Morehead ofce building in Charlotte: follows a distinctive U-shaped path, was for the Automated People Mover at Los and the JM Alexander Middle School a design-build project upgrading 73 miles Angeles International Airport LAX for inHuntersville, North Carolina.
of roadway and 37 bridges to reduce Los Angeles World Airports LAWA.
The completion of the I-140 During the year significant progress This project will use expertise from each transportation loop around Wilmington, has been made on agship projects.
of the Buildings, Civils and Investments North Carolina, involved driving 184 36-inch In California, Balfour Beatty has started businesses.
The design and build element concrete piles into the Cape Fear River construction on a new US$38 million of the contract has been awarded to the to complete the three-mile bridge and performing arts and recreation centre LAX Integrated Express Solutions LINXS roadway project.
for Heart of Los Angeles HOLA joint venture comprising Balfour Beatty and completed its largest concrete 30%, Fluor Corporation 30%, Flatiron pour, involving 888 trucks, at a new West 20% and Dragados USA 20%.
US$276 million 42-storey residential tower The design and build works will include a at 500 Folsom in San Francisco.
In the 2.25-mile, above ground airport transport North West, Balfour Beatty is constructing system connecting the LAX central Portlands newest high-rise which will terminal area to the to-be-constructed reach 19 stories and includes a hotel and consolidated rental car facility as well as six 175,000 square feet of ofce space.
stations and a vehicle maintenance facility.
In North Carolina the US$101 million Hotel Bennett in downtown Charlestown is due to open in 2018.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 21 Gammon had a number of successes in Gammon 2017. Notable new contract awards in the period included: 1,017m underlying revenue HK$6.2 billion contract for the Highways 1.3bn order book Department of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative At Gammon, the Groups 50:50 joint venture Region to construct the Kai Tak West based in Hong Kong and Singapore, both section ofthe Central Kowloon Route in revenue and profit were up, but the order Hong Kong book declined as the timing of orders is HK$3 billion residential scheme for more variable.
During the year, two material Great Eagle involving the development contracts moved towards satisfactory of eight medium-rise residential blocks conclusion.
The Mideld Terminal project overlooking Tai Pos Tolo Harbour in reached an amicable settlement, without Northern Hong Kong the need for arbitration, and the West Kowloon Terminus North project is now HK$2 billion contract to create Hong close to completion.
Kongs first year round, all-weather water park at Tai Shue Wan for Ocean The Groups share of underlying Park Corporation.
Covering an area of revenue increased by 5% 1% at CER over 693,000 square feet, the Ocean to 1,017 million.
Underlying profit from Park Water World project includes operations increased to 15 million construction of the main building 2016: 11 million.
During the year, the structure and t-out and installation of joint venture made a dividend distribution various indoor and outdoor attractions to Balfour Beatty of 37 million 2016: nil.
S$230 million contract to construct The order book declined by 13% 7% at a data centre for Global Switch in CER to 1.3 billion, as timing of orders is Singapore.
This contract follows the more variable around a small number of construction of a data centre for Global large building and civils contracts.
The order Switch in Hong Kong book is spread across a number of public and private customers.
In Buildings HK$1 billion contract to construct the focus is on productivity, efficiency TheFullerton Ocean Park Hotel near and expanding the customer base on a theOcean Park water park at Tai Shue selective basis.
In Civils the strategy is Wan, Hong Kong.
to lever competitive advantage with a In January 2018, Gammon was awarded key area of future work likely to be from a HK$1.5 billion contract for the West expansion of the airport in Hong Kong and Kowloon Cultural District Authority other significant infrastructure programmes WKCDA in Hong Kong to deliver the such as the Central Kowloon Route in Hong extended basement and infrastructure Kong and the Rail Circle Line in Singapore.
In 2017, the Buildings business completed Since the start of 2015, Balfour Beatty the construction of: 33 Tong Yin Street has exited the Middle East, Indonesia residential towers and retail areas : and the and Australia.
In Canada, following the conversion of the ex-government Murray imminent completion of the BC Childrens building into a hotel.
and BC Womens hospitals in Vancouver, During the year work continued on itnow only holds Investments assets.
major Buildings projects including: the redevelopment of Somerset House into a 48-storey ofce building: the construction of the Lee Garden Three Project, which will include 20 oors of ofce space atop a five-level retail complex: and the construction of a 71,000 square metre data centre for Global Switch in Hong Kong.
Work has also continued in 2017 on a number of Civils projects in Hong Kong, including the West Kowloon Terminus North for the express rail link to Shenzhen, China, and the complex Tuen Mun-Chek Lap Kok TMCLK Viaduct project, which includes the design and construction of a dual two-lane sea viaduct.
com AR2017 22 What we have been doing in 2017 Support Services Financial review The Support Services segment comprises utilities and transportation businesses.
Utilities operates across power transmission and distribution and the gas and water sectors.
Transportation operates across rail, highways and managed road 13% schemes for local authorities.
Underlying revenue for the segment reduced by 4% to 1,061 million 2016: 1,103 million, as an increase in Total revenue utilities was more than offset by lower transportation revenues.
Underlying profit from operations increased to 41 million 3.1bn 2016: 34 million, with the 3.9% 2016: 3.1bn 2016: 3.1% underlying PFO margin in Order book the middle of the Build to Last PhaseTwo industry-standard margin target of 3%-5%.
The order book was stable at 3.1 billion 2016: 3.1 billion as growth 1,061m intransportation was offset by an 2016: 1,103m expecteddecline in utilities.
Underlying revenue Operational review 1,031m Underlying utilities revenue increased by 2016: 1,076m 3% to 608 million 2016: 590 million, Statutory revenue driven by a 10% increase at gas and water which is in the middle of the regulatory period.
The utilities order book fell 13% 41m due primarily tothe expected decline in 2016: 34m gasand water.
Underlying profit from operations The power transmission and distribution business had a disappointing 2017 as it underwent significant restructure and cost removal.
The business is eliminating 39m low-value works and areas which do not 2016: 22m align to its risk prole, including signicantly Statutory profit from operations reducing its reliance on volume-based and second-tier subcontracting projects.
From continuing operations including The actions taken will ensure that the share of joint ventures and associates, before non-underlying items.
business is focused on the most profitable areas of its market.
Gateshead Energy Centre In the period, power transmission and Balfour Beatty delivered this innovative distribution successfully completed the energy centre, generating and supplying power and heat for public buildings, Bhlaraidh-Bennuien windfarm connections homes, a college and businesses across project a combined overhead line, cabling the local area.
and substations contract near Fort Augustus in Scotland for SSE as well as the London Power Tunnels project for National Grid.
The business has commenced work on the Eleclink project in conjunction with the Rail business.
The installation of the HVDC interconnector will involve laying two 50-kilometre cables through the Channel Tunnel and connecting them to converter stations in Northern France and Kent.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 23 Balfour Beattys work, valued at The power and transmission distribution Underlying transportation revenues c. 140 million, has drawn on its extensive business has a stable underlying market reduced by 12% to 453 million experience in power transmission and with increased National Grid spend for 2016: 513 million, due to expected distribution, construction and rail to lead new nuclear offsetting a decline across volume declines from rail and highways.
the innovative design and installation of thedistribution market.
Highways revenues declined due to the this project.
end of a maintenance contract and lower In gas and water, the revenue increase in capital spend on a number of contracts.
The power and transmission distribution 2017 was due to the UK water regulatory The transportation order book grew by business had a number of successes in cycle, as new contracts continue to mature 12%, due to increased order intake in 2017. Notable new contract awards in the under AMP6 2015-2020.
Many water highways and from local authorities.
period included: contracts are extended over multiple AMP periods and the Group has already started In highways, the business was awarded 43 million contract for a major overhead to engage on the AMP7 planning cycle.
the following contract extensions during line refurbishment scheme for National The gas market is in the middle of the the year: Grid in South Wales RIIO-GD1 period, with no changes likely 115 million, 17-month extension for installation of a new 20 million overhead before early 2021.
Balfour Beatty Mott MacDonald, a 70:30 line to connect the Dorenell wind In the period, the business commenced joint venture, from Highways England to farm for SSE Networks using a new utility work on Heat Networks in continue its service delivery for Area 10 composite tower design, in addition Gateshead, as part of a Government in the Northwest of England to the award of a 10-kilometre cabling funded initiative, and continued to construct scheme for SSE 80 million five-year Highways Services the new Mayower water treatment facility Partnership contract extension by contract awarded by SSE Power for South West Water.
The Mayower Southampton City Council following Distribution for the initial works of the facility is under construction at a site near a history of good performance and design and refurbishment of five 132kV Roborough, north of Plymouth, and will collaborative working with the local overhead lines across Southern England.
replace the existing Crownhill facility, which authority.
The extension builds on This refurbishment will replace parts dates from the 1950s and has reached the the current 10-year contract which of the network that are coming to the end of its natural life.
commenced in October 2010, extending end of their working life, making it more it until the end of September 2025 The gas and water business expects a robust and resilient and minimising the peak volume year in 2018, as it represents risk of power cuts for customers in 36 million nine-year contract extension the middle of the current AMP RIIO cycles.
for the M1-A1 Link Road Lofthouse to Bramham on behalf of Connect Roads, Support Services 2017 2016 for ultimate customer Highways England.
1 Order book bn 3.1 3.1 The underlying highways market is positive 1 Revenue m 1,061 1,103 with a continued Government focus on 3 profit from operations m 41 34 highways, with its proposed 35 billion Non-underlying items m 2 12 funding for Highways Englands first and second Roads Investment Strategies.
Statutory profit from operations m 39 22 3 Underlying profit margin % 3.9% 3.1% In the rail businesss year end ABNC, rail was the preferred bidder for a four-year 1 Underlying revenue and order book include share of joint ventures and associates.
3 Before non-underlying items Note 10. contract worth more than 40 million A reconciliation of the Groups performance measures to its statutory results is provided in the for the operation and maintenance of Measuring our performance section.
Network Rails fleet of track maintenance Stoneblowers, and a seven-year contract worth in excess of 115 million for the supply, operation and maintenance of 13 track maintenance Tampers, also to Network Rail.
Post year end the Stoneblowers contract has subsequently been awarded to Balfour Beatty.
Balfour Beattys Track Partnership contract with London Underground, to deliver essential track renewal work across the network, is due for re-tender in 2018.
Track Partnership Balfour Beatty delivers essential track renewal work across the London Underground network.
com AR2017 24 What we have been doing in 2017 Infrastructure Investments Financial review The Investments business delivered another strong performance, having continued its strategy of optimising value through the disposal of operational assets, whilst also continuing to invest innew opportunities.
6% Underlying profit from operations at 116 million 2016: 89 million was higher than the prior year, predominantly due to an increase in profit on disposals.
Total revenue Pre-disposals underlying operating profit increased to 30 million 2016: 24 million 5 due to higher profit from the US, 1.24bn primarily due to growth in new projects 2016: 1.22bn and a non-recurring fee associated with Directors valuation military housing.
Net interest income remained broadly consistent year on year at 24 million 2016: 26 million with underlying profit before tax at 140 million 524m 2016: 115 million.
2016: 575m Underlying revenue Operational review In 2017, the Infrastructure Investments 288m business added three new projects, made 2016: 235m one full disposal and partially disposed of Statutory revenue one asset.
In the student accommodation sector the Group won a project for Purdue University 140m in Indiana which will provide a 835-bed 2016: 115m apartment complex on the campus.
In the Underlying profit before tax private rented and regeneration sector, the business acquired a 15% stake in a private rental housing portfolio covering three assets in Atlanta, Georgia, totalling 134m 882 units and encompassing 91 acres, 2016: 109m and a 50% stake in a 228-unit community Statutory profit before tax serving students enrolled at the University of North Carolina at Wilmington.
From continuing operations including share of joint ventures and associates, In June, the business disposed of its before non-underlying items.
interests in one residential housing project 5 Includes 62 million at 31 December at Carmendy, Florida for 2 million.
2017 relating to the 7.5% second partial disposal of the Connect Plus In December, the Group made a 12.5% M25 asset, as the disposal proceeds partial sale in Connect Plus, the company had not been received at year end.
The proceeds were subsequently which operates the M25 orbital motorway, received on 23 February 2018. for 103 million profit on disposal of 54 million.
In the last week of the year BC Childrens Hospital the Group subsequently sold an additional Balfour Beatty Investments-led project, 7.5% stake in Connect Plus for 62 million the BC Childrens and BC Womens profit on disposal of 32 million.
Only the Hospitals redevelopment scheme, ofcially began welcoming patients in initial 103 million of cash was received October 2017. before year end, with the further 62 million received in February 2018.
Additionally, in February 2018, the Group made a third partial disposal, selling 5% of Connect Plus for 42 million profit on disposal of 21 million.
In total, across the 2017 and 2018 financial years Balfour Beatty received 207 million for a 25% stake in Connect Plus.
The Group retains a 15% holding in theConnect Plus M25 asset.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 25 Financial close was reached on three new In addition, the Investments business projects where the Group invests equity: reached financial close on one fee-based the two private rented and regeneration student accommodation development projects acquired in 2017: and at Sussex project in Oklahoma.
In fee-based projects, University for new student accommodation no equity will be invested.
In January 2018, on campus which will provide bedrooms the business was named preferred bidder for 2,117 students, together with new on the Automated People Mover project student amenities and aStudents Union at Los Angeles airport.
At year end five projects had not own a 27% equity stake.
In January The Infrastructure Investments business 2018, financial close was reached continues to see significant opportunities atPurdue University.
for future investment in its chosen The business also closed on the second geographic markets in the UK and North phase of a mixed-use project for The America, including the US administrations University of Texas in Dallas.
In the second proposed PPP infrastructure phase, the development team will expand investment programme.
the Northside first phase development, delivering an additional 900 beds and more than 6,600 square feet of retail space.
2017 2016 Infrastructure Investments m m 3 Pre-disposals operating profit 30 24 3 profit on disposals 86 65 3 profit from operations 116 89 Net interest income from PPP concessions 24 26 3 profit before tax 140 115 Non-underlying items 6 6 Statutory profit before tax 134 109 3 Before non-underlying items Note 10.
Subordinated debt interest receivable and net interest receivable on PPP financial assets and non-recourse borrowings.
A reconciliation of the Groups performance measures to its statutory results is provided in the Measuring our performance section.
Los Angeles International Airport LAX Working in joint venture, Balfour Beatty has been awarded the design, build, finance, operate and maintain contract for the Automated People Mover at Los Angeles International Airport LAX.
