Board of directors See BPs board governance principles relating to director independence on page 275.
As at 29 March 2018 Carl-Henric Svanberg Bob Dudley Brian Gilvary Nils Andersen Chairman Group chief executive Chief financial officer Independent non-executive director Chair of the nomination and chairmans committees: attends Member of the audit and a SEEA, remuneration and chairmans committees geopolitical committees Paul Anderson Alan Boeckmann Admiral Frank Bowman Ian Davis Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Senior independent director director director non-executive director Member of the SEEA, geopolitical Chair of SEEA committee: member Member of the SEEA, Member of the remuneration, and chairmans committees of the remuneration, nomination geopolitical and chairmans geopolitical, nomination and and chairmans committees committees chairmans committees Professor Dame Ann Dowling Melody Meyer Brendan Nelson Paula Rosput Reynolds Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director director director director Chair of the remuneration Member of the SEEA, geopolitical Chair of the audit committee: Member of the audit, chairmans committee: member of the and chairmans committees member of the chairmans and and remuneration committees SEEA, nomination and remuneration committees chairmans committees Sir John Sawers David Jackson Independent non-executive Company secretary director Chair of the geopolitical committee: member of the SEEA, nomination and chairmans committees a Safety, ethics and environment assurance 60 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance Career Carl-Henric Svanberg Bob Dudley became group chief executive on 1 October 2010.
Chairman Bob joined Amoco Corporation in 1979, working in a variety of Tenure engineering and commercial posts.
Between 1994 and 1997 he worked Appointed 1 September 2009 on corporate development in Russia.
In 1997 he became general manager for strategy for Amoco and in 1999, following the merger Board and committee activities between BP and Amoco, was appointed to a similar role in BP.
Chair of the nomination and chairmans committees: attends the safety, ethics and environment assurance, remuneration and geopolitical Between 1999 and 2000 he was executive assistant to the group committees chief executive, subsequently becoming group vice president for BPs renewables and alternative energy activities.
In 2002 he became group Outside interests vice president responsible for BPs upstream businesses in Russia, the Chairman of AB Volvo Caspian region, Angola, Algeria and Egypt.
Age 65 Nationality Swedish From 2003 to 2008 he was president and chief executive officer of TNK-BP.
On his return to BP in 2009, he was appointed to the BP board Career and oversaw the groups activities in the Americas and Asia.
Between Carl-Henric Svanberg became chairman of the BP board on 1 January 2010.
23 June and 30 September 2010, he served as the president and chief He spent his early career at Asea Brown Boveri and the Securitas Group, executive officer of BPs Gulf Coast Restoration Organization in the US.
before moving to the Assa Abloy Group as president and chief executive He was appointed a director of Rosneft in March 2013 following BPs officer.
acquisition of a stake in Rosneft.
From 2003 until December 2009, he was president and chief executive Relevant skills and experience officer of Ericsson, also serving as the chairman of Sony Ericsson Bob Dudley has spent his whole career in the oil and gas industry.
As group Mobile Communications AB.
He was a non-executive director of chief executive, Bob has transformed BP into a safer, stronger and simpler Ericsson between 2009 and 2012.
He was appointed chairman and a business.
This approach, governed by a consistent set of values, has guided member of the board of AB Volvo in April 2012.
BP to a position of greater resilience, enabling it to continue delivering results in an uncertain economic environment.
Bob has demonstrated excellent He is a member of the External Advisory Board of the Earth Institute at leadership and vision throughout.
Bob continues to lead the development Columbia University and a member of the Advisory Board of Harvard of the groups strategy, as we adapt to the challenges of the transition to a Kennedy School.
He is also the recipient of the King of Swedens medal lower carbon economy.
Under Bobs leadership, BP successfully delivered for his contribution to Swedish industry.
Relevant skills and experience Bob Dudleys performance has been considered and evaluated by the Carl-Henric Svanberg is a highly experienced leader of global chairmans committee.
He has served as chief executive officer and chairman to several high profile businesses, leading them through both periods of growth and restructuring.
These experiences bring not only a deep Brian Gilvary understanding of international strategic and commercial issues, but the Chief financial officer skills to co-ordinate the diverse range of knowledge and perspectives Tenure provided by the board.
He therefore enables the board to present Appointed to the board 1 January 2012 clear and united leadership on behalf of shareholders.
Carl-Henric has successfully led the board for the past eight years and has announced Outside interests Non-executive director and member of audit committee his intention to stand down before the AGM in 2019. of LAir Liquide Carl-Henrics performance has been evaluated by the chairmans Non-executive director and vice chair of audit committee committee, led by Ian Davis.
of the Navy Board Vice chair of the 100 Group Committee Member of Trilateral Commission Bob Dudley Visiting professor at Manchester University Group chief executive Great Britain Age Group triathlete Tenure Age 56 Nationality British Appointed to the board 6 April 2009 Outside interests Career Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering Brian Gilvary was appointed chief financial officer on 1 January 2012.
Non-executive director of Rosneft The role includes responsibility for finance, tax, treasury, mergers Member of the Tsinghua Management University Advisory Board, and acquisitions, investor relations, audit, global business services, Beijing, China information technology and procurement.
He also has accountability for Member of the BritishAmerican Business International Advisory both integrated supply and trading, and the shipping division responsible Board for BP's tanker fleet.
Member of the US Business Council Member of the US Business Roundtable Brian joined BP in 1986 after obtaining a PhD in mathematics from the Member of the UAE UK CEO Forum University of Manchester.
Following a broad range of roles in upstream, Member of the Emirates Foundation Board of Trustees downstream and trading in Europe and the US, he became downstreams Member of the World Economic Forum WEF International commercial director from 2002 to 2005.
From 2005 until 2009 he was Business Council chief executive of the integrated supply and trading function, BPs Chair of the WEF Oil and Gas Climate Initiative commodity trading arm.
In 2010 he was appointed deputy group chief Member of the Russian Geographical Society Board of Trustees financial officer with responsibility for the finance function.
Age 62 Nationality American and British BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 61 He was a director of TNK-BP over two periods, from 2003 to 2005 and Paul Anderson from 2010 until the sale of the business and BPs acquisition of Rosneft Independent non-executive director equity in 2013.
He served on the HM Treasury Financial Management Review Board from 2014 to 2017.
Tenure Appointed 1 February 2010 Relevant skills and experience Brian Gilvary has spent his entire career with BP.
Brian has broad Board and committee activities experience across the group which gives him a deep insight into BPs Member of the safety, ethics and environment assurance, geopolitical assets and businesses.
This knowledge has been invaluable as BP has and chairmans committees implemented its strategy to transform into a value not volume based Outside interests business where trading is a key creator of value.
No external appointments His strong understanding of finance and trading has been vital in adjusting Age 73 Nationality American capital structures and operational costs while ensuring the group continues to be capable of meeting new opportunities.
Brian has been at the centre of the groups work on addressing cyber risk.
Career Paul Anderson was formerly chief executive at BHP Billiton and Brian Gilvarys performance has been evaluated by the group chief Duke Energy, where he also served as chairman of the board.
Having executive and considered by the chairmans committee.
previously been chief executive officer and managing director of BHP Limited and then BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, he rejoined Nils Andersen these latter two boards in 2006 as a non-executive director, retiring in Independent non-executive director January 2010.
Previously he served as a non-executive director of BAE Systems PLC and on a number of boards in the US and Australia, and Tenure was also chief executive officer of Pan Energy Corp.
Appointed 31 October 2016 Relevant skills and experience Board and committee activities Paul Anderson has spent his career in the energy industry working with Member of the audit and chairmans committees global organizations, and brings the skills of an experienced chairman Outside interests and chief executive officer to the board.
His specific experience of Non-executive director of Unilever Plc and Unilever NV driving safety-related cultural change throughout a business has Chairman of Dansk Supermarked Group A S been invaluable during his tenure as chair of the safety, ethics, and Chairman of Unifeeder Group A S environment assurance committee from 2012 to 2016, and he remains Chairman of Faerch Plast A S a valuable member of the committee.
Age 59 Nationality Danish Pauls experience of business in the US and its regulatory environment is a great asset to the geopolitical committee.
Career Paul Anderson will be retiring from the board at the 2018 AGM in May.
Nils Andersen was group chief executive of A. P. Mller-Mrsk from 2007 to June 2016.
Prior to this he was executive vice president Alan Boeckmann of Carlsberg A S and Carlsberg Breweries A S from 1999 to 2001, Independent non-executive director becoming president and chief executive officer from 2001 to 2007.
Tenure Previous roles include non-executive director of Inditex S. A. and William Appointed 24 July 2014 Demant A S. He has also served as managing director of Union Cervecera, Hannen Brauerei and chief executive officer of the drinks division of Board and committee activities the Hero Group.
Nils has been nominated for election as a member Chair of the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee: and chairman of the supervisory board of Akzo Nobel N. V. following his member of the remuneration, nomination and chairmans committees successful appointment at their AGM in April 2018.
Outside interests Nils received his graduate degree from the University of Aarhus.
Non-executive director of Sempra Energy Non-executive director of Archer Daniels Midland Relevant skills and experience Nils Andersen has extensive experience in consumer goods, retail and Age 69 Nationality American logistics, having led global corporations with integrated operations worldwide.
He has substantial skill, knowledge and experience C areer in marketing, brand and reputation issues.
He has broad shipping Alan Boeckmann retired as non-executive chairman of Fluor Corporation and upstream energy industry experience which aligns with BPs in February 2012, ending a 35-year career with the company.
His leadership earlier in his career focused on the 2002 and 2011 he held the post of chairman and chief executive officer, transformation of businesses, leaner organizations and increasing having previously been president and chief operating officer from 2001 competitiveness, as well as increasing transparency and communication to 2002.
His tenure with the company included responsibility for global with stakeholders.
Nils economics and broad financial background operations.
As chairman and chief executive officer, he refocused the make him well suited to his role on the audit committee.
company on engineering, procurement, construction and maintenance services.
After graduating from the University of Arizona with a degree in electrical engineering, he joined Fluor in 1974 as an engineer and worked in a variety of domestic and international locations, including South Africa and Venezuela.
62 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance Alan was previously a non-executive director of BHP Billiton and the Relevant skills and experience Burlington Santa Fe Corporation, and has served on the boards of Frank Bowmans exemplary safety record in running the US Navys the American Petroleum Institute, the National Petroleum Council, nuclear submarine program indicates his deep understanding of process the Eisenhower Medical Center and the advisory board of Southern safety and its implementation.
Frank makes a substantial contribution to Methodist Universitys Cox School of Business.
the safety culture within BP.
Combined with his specific knowledge of BPs safety goals from his work on the BP Independent Safety Review He led the formation of the World Economic Forums Partnering Panel and his special interest in climate change, he brings an important Against Corruption initiative in 2004. perspective to the board and the SEEAC.
He has led the oversight of BPs Relevant skills and experience compliance with the agreements with the US government stemming from Alan Boeckmann has worked in a wide range of industries including the Deepwater Horizon accident.
engineering, construction, chemicals and the energy sector.
He has Franks experience of the US and global political and regulatory systems is been involved in delivering very large projects particularly in the energy a valuable asset to the geopolitical committee.
In his senior roles he directed the focus of global corporations towards the advanced technology needed to remain competitive in response to the growth of the internet, e-commerce and the Ian Davis globalization of the workforce.
At the same time he actively promoted Senior independent non-executive director fairness, transparency, accountability and responsibility in business Tenure dealings through the Partnering Against Corruption initiative.
Appointed 2 April 2010 This overall experience makes Alan ideal to lead the SEEAC.
His Board and committee activities remuneration experience on other boards means that he makes a Member of the remuneration, geopolitical, nomination and chairmans strong contribution to the remuneration committee.
committees Outside interests Admiral Frank Bowman Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Independent non-executive director Non-executive director of Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC Non-executive director of Johnson & Johnson, Inc.
Tenure Non-executive director of Teach for All Appointed 8 November 2010 Age 67 Nationality British Board and committee activities Member of the safety, ethics and environment assurance, geopolitical and chairmans committees Career Ian Davis is senior partner emeritus of McKinsey & Company.
He was a Outside interests partner at McKinsey for 31 years until 2010 and served as chairman and President of Strategic Decisions, LLC managing director between 2003 and 2009.
Director of Morgan Stanley Mutual Funds Director of Naval and Nuclear Technologies, LLP Ian has a MA in Politics, Philosophy and Economics from Balliol College, Age 73 Nationality American University of Oxford.
Relevant skills and experience Ian Davis brings global financial and strategic experience to the board.
Career He has worked with and advised global organizations and companies in Frank L Bowman served for more than 38 years in the US Navy, rising to a wide variety of sectors including oil and gas and the public sector.
He commanded the nuclear submarine USS City of able to draw on knowledge of diverse issues and outcomes to assist the Corpus Christi and the submarine tender USS Holland.
After promotion board and its committees.
to flag officer, he served on the joint staff as director of political-military affairs and as the chief of naval personnel.
He served over eight years Ian led the boards oversight of the response in the Gulf and chaired the as director of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program where he was Gulf of Mexico committee from its formation in 2010 until it was stood responsible for the operations of more than 100 reactors aboard the down in 2016.
He was previously a non-executive director in the Cabinet US Navys aircraft carriers and submarines.
Office giving him an important perspective on government affairs which is an asset to both the board and the geopolitical committee.
After his retirement as an Admiral in 2004, he was president and chief executive officer of the Nuclear Energy Institute until 2008.
He served In his role as the senior independent director, Ian is responsible for the on the BP Independent Safety Review Panel and was a member of the annual evaluation of the chairmans performance and is leading the BP America External Advisory Council.
He holds two masters degrees search for the successor to the chairman.
in engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He was appointed Honorary Knight Commander of the British Empire in 2005.
He was elected to the US National Academy of Engineering in 2009.
Frank is a member of the US CNA military advisory board and has participated in studies of climate change and its impact on national security, and on future global energy solutions and water scarcity.
Additionally he was co-chair of a National Academies study investigating the implications of climate change for naval forces.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 63 Professor Dame Ann Dowling Melody Meyer Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Tenure Tenure Appointed 17 May 2017 Appointed 3 February 2012 Board and committee activities Board and committee activities Chair of the remuneration committee: member of the safety, ethics Member of the safety, ethics and environment assurance, geopolitical and environment assurance, nomination and chairmans committees and chairmans committees Outside interests Outside interests President of Melody Meyer Energy LLC President of the Royal Academy of Engineering Deputy vice-chancellor and professor of Mechanical Engineering Director of the National Bureau of Asian Research Trustee of Trinity University at the University of Cambridge Member of the Prime Ministers Council for Science and Technology Non-executive director of AbbVie Inc. Senior Advisor to Cairn India Limited Non-executive director of the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy BEIS Non-executive director of National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Age 65 Nationality British Age 60 Nationality American Career Career Dame Ann Dowling is a deputy vice-chancellor at the University of Melody Meyer started her career with Gulf Oil in Houston.
Gulf Oil Cambridge where she was appointed a professor of mechanical later merged with Chevron where Melody remained until her retirement engineering in the department of engineering in 1993.
She was head in 2016. of the department of engineering at the university from 2009 to 2014.
During her career with Chevron, Melody had key leadership roles in Her research is in fluid mechanics, acoustics and combustion, and she global exploration and production, working on international projects and has held visiting posts at MIT and at Caltech.
She chairs BPs technical operational assignments.
In 2004 Melody became the vice president advisory council.
for the Gulf of Mexico business unit, and in 2008 became president of the Chevron Energy Technology Company.
From 2011 Melody was Dame Ann is a fellow of the Royal Society and the Royal Academy president of Asia Pacific Exploration and Production, responsible for of Engineering and a foreign associate of the US National Academy the financial and operating performance of the upstream assets in nine of Engineering, the Chinese Academy of Engineering and the French countries in Chevrons Asia Pacific region.
Melody was the executive Academy of Sciences.
She has honorary degrees from 15 universities, sponsor of the Chevron Womens Network and continues as a mentor including the University of Oxford, Imperial College London and and advocate for the advancement of women in the industry.
She was the KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm.
recognized as a 2009 Trinity Distinguished Alumni, with the BioHouston She was elected President of the Royal Academy of Engineering Women in Science Award, was the ASME Rhodes Petroleum Industry in September 2014 and in December 2015 was appointed to the Leadership Award recipient and in 2018 as an Influential Woman Order of Merit.
Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Dame Ann is an internationally respected leader in engineering research Melody Meyer has spent her entire career in the oil and gas industry.
and the practical application of new technology in industry.
Her The breadth, variety and geographic scope of her experience is contribution in these fields has been widely recognized by universities distinctive.
Her career has been marked by a focus on excellence, safety around the world.
Her academic background provides balance to the and performance improvement.
She has expertise in the execution board and brings a different perspective to the SEEAC and nomination of major capital projects, creation of businesses in new countries, committee.
strategic and business planning, merger integration and safe and reliable Dame Ann became chair of the remuneration committee in 2015. operations.
Following an extensive consultation, a revised remuneration policy was Melody brings a world class operational perspective to the board, with approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
This was a direct result of a deep understanding of the factors influencing safe, efficient and Dame Ann's leadership of the committee.
Dame Ann will hand the chair commercially high-performing projects in a global organization.
of the committee to Paula Reynolds after the 2018 AGM.
Brendan Nelson Independent non-executive director Tenure Appointed 8 November 2010 Board and committee activities Chair of the audit committee: member of the chairmans and remuneration committees Outside interests Non-executive director and chairman of the group audit committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel Age 68 Nationality British 64 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance Career Her experience with international and US companies, including several Brendan Nelson is a chartered accountant.
He was made a partner of restructuring processes and mergers, gives her insight into strategic and KPMG in 1984.
He served as a member of the UK board of KPMG from regulatory issues, which is an asset to the board.
2000 to 2006, subsequently being appointed vice chairman until his Paula joined the remuneration committee in 2017.
Paula currently serves retirement in 2010.
At KPMG International he held a number of senior as the chair of the remuneration committee of BAE Systems positions including global chairman, banking and global chairman, Ltd and will take the chair of BPs remuneration committee after the financial services.
He served for six years as a member of the Financial Services Practitioner Panel and in 2013 was the president of the Institute of Sir John Sawers Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Independent non-executive director Relevant skills and experience Tenure Brendan Nelson has completed a wide variety of audit, regulatory and Appointed 14 May 2015 due-diligence engagements over the course of his career.
He played a significant role in the development of the professions approach to Board and committee activities the audit of banks in the UK, with particular emphasis on establishing Chair of the geopolitical committee: member of the safety, ethics and auditing standards.
He continues to contribute in his role as a member environment assurance, nomination and chairmans committees of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Outside interests This wide experience makes him ideally suited to chair the audit Chairman and partner of Macro Advisory Partners LLP Visiting professor at Kings College London committee and to act as its financial expert.
He brings related input Governor of the Ditchley Foundation from his role as the chair of the audit committee of a major bank.
His specializm in the financial services industry allows him to contribute Age 62 Nationality British insight into the challenges faced by global businesses by regulatory frameworks.
Career Brendan led the successful tendering of BPs audit services and Sir John Sawers spent 36 years in public service in the UK, working on joined the remuneration committee in 2017. foreign policy, international security and intelligence.
Sir John was chief of the Secret Intelligence Service, MI6, from 2009 to Paula Rosput Reynolds 2014 a period of international upheaval and growing security threats, Independent non-executive director as well as closer public scrutiny of the intelligence agencies.
Prior to that, the bulk of his career was in diplomacy, representing the British Tenure government around the world and leading negotiations at the UN, in Appointed 14 May 2015 the European Union and in the G8.
He was the UK ambassador to the Board and committee activities United Nations 2007-09, political director and main board member Member of the audit and chairmans committees of the Foreign Office 2003-07, special representative in Iraq 2003, Outside interests ambassador to Egypt 2001-03 and foreign policy adviser to the Prime Non-executive director of BAE Systems Ltd Minister 1999-01.
Earlier in his career, he was posted to Washington, Non-executive director of TransCanada Corporation South Africa, Syria and Yemen.
Non-executive director of CBRE Group Sir John is now chairman of Macro Advisory Partners, a firm that Age 61 Nationality American advises clients on the intersection of policy, politics and markets.
Relevant skills and experience Career Sir John Sawers deep experience of international political and Paula Rosput Reynolds is the former chairman, president and chief commercial matters is an asset to the board in navigating the executive officer of Safeco Corporation, a Fortune 500 property and geopolitical issues faced by a modern global company.
Sir John brings a casualty insurance company that was acquired by Liberty Mutual unique perspective and broad experience which makes him ideal to lead Insurance Group in 2008.
She also served as vice chair and chief the geopolitical committee.
His knowledge and skills related to analysing restructuring officer for American International Group AIG for a and negotiating on a worldwide basis are invaluable to both the board period after the US government became the financial sponsor from and the SEEAC.
Previously Paula was an executive in the energy industry.
She was David Jackson chairman, president and chief executive officer of AGL Resources Inc. Company secretary an operator of natural gas infrastructure in the US, now a subsidiary of Tenure Southern Company.
Prior to this, she led a subsidiary of Duke Energy Appointed 2003 Corporation that was a merchant operator of electricity generation.
She commenced her energy career at PG&E Corp. David Jackson, a solicitor, is a director of BP Pension Trustees Limited.
Paula was awarded the National Association of Corporate Directors US Lifetime Achievement Award in 2014.
Relevant skills and experience Paula Rosput Reynolds has had a long career leading global companies in the energy and financial sectors.
Her financial background and deep experience of trading makes her ideally suited to serve on the audit The ages of the board are committee.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 65
