Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 37 Across the Groups operations, employees Managing tax risk Tax strategy volunteered 12,400 hours for charitable There are a number of factors that affect causes.
This has brought multiple benets, the Groups tax risk and these arise both Balfour Beatty recognises that paying taxes including helping customer relationships, internally and externally.
Balfour Beattys arising from its activities is an important engaging with employees and supporting ability to control these factors varies and its part of how it contributes to the societies local communities.
internal tax team works to minimise these which it helps to build.
The Group makes risks to an acceptable level.
For example: The US Construction business contributed a major contribution to the tax revenues of over US$430,000 to charitable causes in new and developing tax legislation governments in the numerous territories in 2017.
Some of the organisations receiving is monitored and where it is which it operates.
For example, the Groups donations are: relevant Balfour Beatty participates tax contribution extends signicantly in consultations issued by the tax beyond corporation tax and the collection Bridges to Prosperity authorities.
When new or changed of substantial amounts of income tax American Heart Association legislation is announced, the impact and includes the payment of significant M ake-A-Wish Foundation on the Group is assessed and active employer social security contributions.
measures are taken to ensure there are Y MCA.
The Groups tax strategy, approved by adequate processes in place to comply In co-ordination with Bridges to Prosperity, the Board, is to sustainably minimise with any change an 11-member team of Balfour Beatty tax cost whilst complying with the law.
tax risks in relation to compliance and employees from across the US completed In doing so, it ensures it acts in accordance reporting are managed by meeting construction of a 100-metre suspended with BalfourBeattys ethics, values and regularly with professional advisers, footbridge in Bolivia.
The new footbridge Business Integrity programme.
industry groups and the tax authorities helps the local community to cross a The Group aims to meet all legal to both keep abreast of changes in these previously impassable river, providing requirements, ling all appropriate areas and to seek information on new access to healthcare, education and tax returns and making tax payments systems and software economic opportunities.
risk in relation to tax in general is In California, Balfour Beatty hosted its The Groups tax strategy applies to all managed by the internal tax team and annual Golf Classic that raised more territories in which it does business.
if a position is uncertain the Group may than US$135,000 for the Sharefest obtain third-party advice in order to gain 2017 Workday.
The tournament raised Tax governance clarity or support for a particular stance money for seven Workday sites, sending Balfour Beatty has clear tax policies, or approach.
230 low-income students to camp and procedures and controls in place which are providing five college scholarships to overseen by the Chief Financial officer.
Interaction with tax authorities local students.
Balfour Beattys approach to its tax A dedicated internal tax team, led by the In Texas, Balfour Beatty employees affairs is supported by an open, honest Group Head of Tax, is responsible for the volunteered to mentor high school students and positive working relationship with implementation of the Groups tax strategy as part of the ACE Mentor of Dallas the tax authorities, with regular dialogue.
They taught students how to Should any dispute arise with regard to the the tax team are highly experienced with develop construction milestone schedules interpretation and application of tax law, appropriate professional qualications and site logistics plans based on an actual the Group is committed to addressing the and experience which reect the 1.9 million square-foot, mixed-use project matter promptly and resolving it in an open responsibilities required for their roles.
Tax risk appetite In 2017, Gammon Construction and its The Group manages its tax affairs in a staff contributed to nearly 150 activities and proactive manner that seeks to maximise community events in Hong Kong, mainland shareholder value.
The Group does not China and Singapore and provided enter into articial arrangements that lack over HK$2.4 million in sponsorships, commercial purpose in order to secure a scholarships and charitable donations.
The aim is to ensure full Gammons Next Generation Sustainability compliance with all statutory obligations Panel and Young Professionals Group and as a consequence attempt to minimise co-organised a three-month renovation risk wherever possible.
project for the Fung Yuen Buttery Reserves footpath network.
Gammons Concrete Technology Department produced 2,700 paving bricks from waste concrete for the path renovations.
In December 2017, the Tuen Mun-Chek Lap Kok viaduct link project team received an Outstanding Award from the Hong Kong Student Aid Society in recognition of its voluntary work repairing the Tung Wan Mok Law Shui Wah school and island hostel that were damaged by typhoons.
