12 Our priorities Build to Last Lean When we deliver buildings Deliver value to our customers and infrastructure, we expect by improving operational them to survive the test of time.
efficiency and eliminating ForBalfour Beatty to remain at waste right through the the forefront of our industry we supply chain.
need to continuously improve efficiency, lead innovation and always operate safely.
Theseare the drivers of value for our customers.
Expert Ensure we have the best engineering, design and project management capabilities.
Trusted Be the construction partner of choice for our customers and supply chain by delivering on our promises.
Safe We must ensure the health and safety of everyone who comes into contact with our activities.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 13 Why is it important?
Our KPIs We want to make sure that our customers get the best value for their money: we need to be relentless in driving out unnecessary costs and work with our customers to ensure their money is spent 335m 196m 4 in the best way possible.
Providing customers with better value for 2016: 173m 2016 : 69m their money drives our competitiveness and provides Balfour Beatty Net cash excluding Underlying profit with the capital to invest back into developing our expertise.
Lean is non-recourse borrowings from operations measured against our financial returns: cash ow performance and profit from operations.
Read more on p14 Why is it important?
Our KPI We deliver world-class buildings and infrastructure for our customers by constantly driving innovation.
Our strongest differentiator is our engineering and project management 60% capabilities.
Having the best talent supported by the strongest 2016: 58% supply chain creates a virtuous circle that ensures we win the best Average employee and most exciting projects to deliver.
Expert is measured against engagement index score employee satisfaction.
Our KPI Customers must have confidence in our ability to deliver and to do what we say we will do.
A robust risk framework ensures that challenges are mitigated and projects are delivered in the right way.
94% satisfied customers provide us with the opportunities and projects 2016: 91% for the future.
Trusted is measured against customer satisfaction.
Average customer Read more on p15 satisfaction rating Why is it important?
Our KPI Health and safety is at the heart of everything we do we must protect our employees, our supply chain partners, our customers and the public.
Construction is an inherently dangerous business 0.17 and without the highest standards of safety we do not have a 2016: 0.22 licence to operate.
A safe and healthy workplace is also happier, Lost Time Injury Rate, more motivated and more efficient.
Safe is measured against our excluding international JVs commitment to Zero Harm.
Read more on p15 4 Re-presented to classify the Groups 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC as discontinued operations.
com AR2017 14 Our priorities Build to Last continued Balfour Beatty continues to evolve Lean its US organisation building on the Balfour Beatty launched its standardisation and leaning out already delivered.
At the year end Build to Last transformation The governance and processes introduced the decision was taken to promote during Phase One of Build to Last have programme in early 2015 as a two internal candidates, to lead driven improved performance in all the Buildings and Civils businesses business segments and put Balfour Beatty framework to drive continuous respectively.
These appointments on track to achieve industry-standard will leverage the Groups market improvement for all stakeholders margins in the second half of 2018. positions while maintaining the new against four goals Lean, The Group continues to re-engineer contracting disciplines.
processes to drive efficiencies, reducing Expert, Trusted and Safe In the UK, given the similar cost whilst maintaining or improving characteristics and requirements of key effectiveness.
As a result, costs were as measured by cash ow customers in the rail, power transmission reduced by a further 30 million in 2017, and distribution and gas and water and profit from operations, inaddition to the 123 million of annualised markets, the businesses serving cost savings delivered by Phase One employee engagement, customer these markets have been brought ofBuild to Last.
together under an experienced leader, satisfaction and Zero Harm.
Balfour Beattys UK operations continued to drive back-ofce standardisation to standardise systems with further while maintaining a strong market, upgrades to the Oracle R12 platform, operationaland safety focus.
Phase One consisted of 24 months including the introduction of an electronic self-help.
Rapid action was taken to remove In looking always to add to its depth of payment platform for suppliers.
In January management layers, upgrade leadership capability, Balfour Beatty was recently 2018, the US businesses migrated and strengthen governance within a pleased to recruit over 150 valuable staff onto a single JD Edwards platform.
In Phase Two members following the Carillion liquidation.
The successful completion of these 2017-2018 Balfour Beatty will return to These people had worked alongside moves and the investment made into industry-standard margins and in Phase Balfour Beatty staff on the Aberdeen these systems in the Groups two principal Three deliver a Group with market-leading Western Peripheral Route AWPR, A14 geographies over the last three years strengths and performance.
or Manchester Smart Motorway joint will be a significant driver of future value, ventures.
Their significant experience will During 2017, Balfour Beatty made as benets continue to ow in terms of bolster Balfour Beattys long-term capacity significant progress on its four goals: reduced cost, raising productivity and at a time of growing market demand.
The Group has developed competency frameworks for key operational job families Expert in the UK such as Project Management, Engineering and Commercial.
This enables employees experience and competencies Balfour Beattys customers buy the to be matched to contract risk and Groups capabilities through its expert complexity, providing them with a clear people to deliver their projects.
Therefore a career path and targeted development, priority is to recruit, train and retain the whilst identifying recruitment priorities.
A growing These assessments now cover essentially pipeline of major infrastructure projects, all of the Project Management and particularly in the UK and US markets, will Commercial workforce.
see increasing competition for skilled Balfour Beatty continues its sponsorship workers.
The Groups success in winning of The 5% Club, which encourages work on iconic and challenging engineering employers to provide earn and learn projects, such as HS2 and Hinkley Point C training opportunities to address the UKs in the UK and Dallas Southern Gateway skills gap and widen economic prosperity.
and the Los Angeles World Airports During 2017 Balfour Beatty recruited 124 Automated People Mover in the US, apprentices, 93 graduates and 35 trainees.
demonstrates the significant opportunities The percentage of the UK workforce in and unique potential for career earn and learn positions at year end stood development at Balfour Beatty.
Membership of The 5% Club The Group metric for Expert is employee now includes key clients and supply chain satisfaction.
In 2017 the Group engagement partners of Balfour Beatty all working to index score was 60% 2016: 58% in a build the future capability to support the period of continuing change and challenge.
Bench strength in leadership is essential to driving the business forward on a sustainable basis and to motivating high-quality employees.
Since the beginning of 2018 there have been further upgrades in this areawith the promotion of three leaders.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 15 The governance and controls now in place Trusted enable Balfour Beatty to: selectively bid Safe business to match capability: assess and price risk appropriately: track and thus Trusted is Balfour Beatty doing what Balfour Beatty intends that everyone who intervene on execution all the way through it says it will do and is measured by comes into contact with its work activities the lifecycle of a project, including the customer satisfaction.
defect period: and ultimately drive higher During the year, 3,375 customer Safety is actively managed and monitored margins for the Construction Services and satisfaction reviews were carried out through strong governance, a combination Support Services businesses.
of leading and lagging performance In May, Balfour Beatty was the first The Group customer satisfaction average indicators, training and competence and company in the world to complete the ISO increased to 94% 2016: 91%.
visible leadership working to establish a 20400 assessment, the 2017 international Zero Harm culture throughout the business.
The governance and controls introduced standard for sustainable procurement.
under Build to Last, including the Gated Each week senior management report and The standard ensures that key issues are Lifecycle, the Digital Briefcase and Project consider any accident, ill health or near considered in developing: a sustainable on a Page, create a disciplined, businessmisses that have occurred and a weekly procurement policy and strategy: guidance like contracting framework.
This provides report, available to all employees, shares in creating organisational conditions management with a clear, consistent line safety best practice as well as reporting on necessary to procure sustainably: of sight on all stages of work which is significant incidents and learning which can guidance in setting priorities in sustainable being bid and delivered, together with key be drawn from Balfour Beatty or elsewhere procurement: and suggestions on how tools for managing commercial risk and in the industry.
Notwithstanding this, it is to improve the procurement process project execution.
with deep regret that three people died as a whole.
Clients, particularly in the during the year whilst working on the The Gated Lifecycle, introduced in 2015, UK public sector, are increasingly taking Groups construction projects.
takes a project from the initial enquiry into account social value and other through to completion.
The process environmental factors when making In 2017, the indicators continued to trend reduces the risk of pursuing inappropriate procurement decisions.
positively, with the Group Lost Time opportunities and underbidding or Incident Rate excluding international joint accepting inappropriate levels of risk, ventures falling for the third successive including in respect of the cash prole of year to 0.17 2016: 0.22. projects.
As the open debate around risk and reward created by the Gated Lifecycle becomes a perceived enabler to future success, so the process becomes an inherent driver of the Groups culture.
All new UK sales opportunities and projects are now using the Digital Briefcase, a secure web-based platform which digitises governance and document control through all stages of the Gated Lifecycle.
Selected active projects were also installed retrospectively.
The Digital Briefcase helps to ensure that correct procedure is being followed and that documentation is more easily accessible in the event of claims or other issues.
In excess of 1,000 current or potential projects are now active on the system.
Over the last three years, the Group has derived more value-added business information through the use of business analytics.
Project on a Page allows projects to be monitored in a timely and consistent manner, enabling early intervention where signs of adverse trends are detected, thus reducing risk to the business and strengthening customer relationships.
