Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 63 Effectiveness Directors independence approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure At its meeting in January 2018, the Board considered the approving contracts, contract tenders and bid submissions above independence of the non-executive Directors against the criteria specified values or of an unusual nature or complexity specified in the Code and determined that each of them continues ensuring the necessary financial and human resources to be independent.
are in place to achieve objectives and review A non-exhaustive list of the key strengths of the Directors is management performance set outin the table below.
Details of their service agreements, setting the Companys values and ethical standards emoluments and share incentives are shown in the Remuneration approving policies and systems for risk management report starting on page 76. and assurance.
Following the performance evaluations of each of the The Board reviewed its list of reserved matters, most recently, at its non-executive Directors, it is confirmed that the performance meeting in July 2017.
The full list and the terms of reference of the ofeach continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment Board Committees are available on the Companys website: to the role.
com investors Responsibility and delegation The day-to-day management of the business is delegated to The Board is responsible for the success of the Company and executive Directors and the Groups senior management.
has aformal schedule of matters reserved for its decision which The Directors are experienced and inuential individuals from includes the matters summarised below: varied commercial, professional and international backgrounds.
determining the Groups strategic direction Their diverse and balanced mix of skills and business experience, approving annual budgets and financial reporting, including the asshown below, is key to the effective functioning of the Board annual and half-year results and interim management statements andits Committees, ensuring matters are fully and effectively debated and challenged.
approving interim, and recommending final, dividends Directors significant strengths Operating Financial Risk Ethics, performance Mergers management Experience of Health management values Strategic and and Business and Sectorinternational and and HR Stakeholder and Director development delivery acquisitions integration planning specic markets safety assurance management engagement culture Philip Aiken Stephen Billingham Stuart Doughty Iain Ferguson Philip Harrison Michael Lucki Barbara Moorhouse Leo Quinn Board and Committee meetings attendance Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board meetings and meetings of the Audit and Risk, Safety and Sustainability, Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the table below.
Safety and Board Audit and Risk Sustainability Nomination Remuneration Director 8 4 3 3 3 Philip Aiken 8 3 3 3 Stephen Billingham 8 4 1 1 Stuart Doughty 8433 Iain Ferguson 8 2 2 2 2 3 3 Philip Harrison 8 Maureen Kempston Darkes 3 3 1 1 1 2 Michael Lucki 5 5 1 1 1 1 Barbara Moorhouse 5 5 2 2 1 1 Leo Quinn 8 3 3 The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could attend during the year including as a result of changes to Committee memberships.
All servingDirectors attended the AGM held on 18 May 2017.
In addition to the information reported above, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer routinely attend meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Group Chief Executive also routinely attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee except when mattersrelating to his own remuneration are discussed.
Where Directors have not been able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulatedfor that meeting and provided their comments directly to the Chairman or the Committee chair, as appropriate.
com AR2017 64 Effectiveness continued Further information about the work of each of the Boards Key conclusions from the evaluation Committees may be found on pages 67 to 71 and pages 76 to 87.
Overall, Directors considered that the Board and its Committees are working effectively and that year-on-year performance Board development improvements are apparent.
The quality and timeliness of Induction management information continues to be good and the Directors undertake a thorough induction programme and receive relationships between executive and non-executive Directors a range of information about the Company when they join the has strengthened during the year.
There is a good knowledge Board, including access to a portal on which all Board papers are of the issues and opportunities facing the Group amongst the stored, Balfour Beattys Code of Conduct and processes for dealing non-executive Directors and the recent appointees are already in Balfour Beatty shares.
In addition, they take part in a series of contributing strongly to discussions.
All non-executive Directors one-to-one meetings with other members of the Board, senior are encouraged to make regular visits to project sites throughout executives in the businesses and the Companys external advisers, the UK and overseas and are individually and collectively involved which include briengs on the Groups business strategy, financial inproject reviews.
The Board will continue to undertake at least procedures, business development, legal and other key issues.
onevisit to the US each year, combining a series of presentations by the US leadership team with site visits.
The Directors induction programme also provides the foundation for continuing professional development.
This takes place Annual General Meeting and Class Meeting of throughout the year by way of a series of internal and external Preference Shareholders updates, including visits to operating companies to meet local The AGM will be held at Painters Hall, 9 Little Trinity Lane, London management and visits to Balfour Beatty projects, both in the UK EC4V 2AD on Thursday 24 May 2018 commencing at 11am.
Immediately following the AGM, a Class Meeting of the holders For a copy of the Code of Conduct see: of the Companys cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares will be held.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend these www.
com meetings and ask any relevant questions they may have.
Training and development In discussion with the Directors and Company Secretary, each year the Chairman determines whether there are any specic training needs identied by the Directors, which can be addressed by the topic being included at a future Board meeting.
Directors are also enrolled in the Deloitte Academy, a seminar-led programme for directors of UK listed companies, which provides regular updates throughout the year on the principal governance and other matters of which directors of a listed company should be fully aware.
Board evaluation Introduction In keeping with the Code, the Board undertakes external evaluations, typically every three years, with internal evaluations in the intervening two years.
The most recent external evaluation was carried out in early 2016, in respect of 2015, by Lintstock, anexternal facilitator.
For 2017, the evaluation has been conducted using internal resources and considered the performance of the Board and its Committees, as well as the Chairman and individual Directors.
2017 evaluation During October 2017, the Chairman conducted an evaluation review with all Board members, the results of which were summarised and presented to the Board for discussion in November 2017.
The review was tailored to the specic circumstances of Balfour Beatty and covered the composition, expertise and dynamics of the Board, the Boards management of time, the support afforded to the Board, the Boards oversight of strategy and succession planning.
Any reported comments made during the reviews were unattributed.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 65 Risk management and internal control Roles and responsibilities Risk management The Board is responsible for the implementation and oversight of An assessment of risk is central to the Groups strategic decisionBalfour Beattys risk management framework.
It sets the Groups making process and an essential part of meeting the requirements appetite for and attitude to risk in pursuit of its agreed strategic of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
By delivering effective risk objectives and therefore the level of risk that can be taken by Group, management and understanding its exposure to risk, the business strategic business unit and individual business unit management is better able to protect its reputation, ensure long-term viability and without specic Board approval.
Group policies, procedures and generate sustainable shareholder value.
Balfour Beatty maintains delegated authority levels set by the Board provide the structure an agile and comprehensive internal control environment.
Key risks in which risks are reviewed and escalated to the appropriate level are identied and a decision made to treat, tolerate, terminate within the Group, up to and including the Board, for consideration or transfer potential exposure dependent upon the Groups risk and approval.
For more information, refer to pages 48 to 56.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, The Board has applied principle C2 of the UK Corporate strategic business unit and individual business unit management Governance Code by embedding continuously evolving risk are set out below.
management processes throughout the Group at all levels which form an integral part of day-to-day business activity.
Board Responsible for the Groups Issues and reviews the Group risk systems of risk management and management policy internalcontrol Annually reviews effectiveness of Determines Group appetite for Group risk management and internal and attitude to risk in pursuit of its controlsystems strategicobjectives.
Reviews the Groups risk landscape, principal risks and risk responses.
Audit and Risk Committee Regularly reviews the effectiveness Receives regular reports on internal and of Group internal controls, including external audit and other assurance activities systems to identify, assess, manage Annually assesses Group risk management and monitor risks and internal control systems Agrees the Group Internal Audit Plan.
Reviews effectiveness of the Groups helpline and other channels for raising concerns about Code of Conduct breaches.
Safety and Sustainability Committee Reviews management of non-financial Receives regular reports on risks such as health andsafety, and implementation of Group policies and sustainability.
Group Tender and Reviews and approves tenders Critically appraises significant tender Investment Committee and investments, triggered by proposals and investment divestment certain financial thresholds or other opportunities, with a specic focus on risk.
Group management S trategic leadership Strategic plan and annual budget process Responsible for reviewing and Produces and tracks Group risk register implementing the Group risk Reviews risk management and assurance management policy activities and processes Ensures appropriate actions are taken Monthly quarterly finance and to manage strategic risks and other performancereviews.
Strategic business unit management Responsible for risk management Reviews key risks and mitigation plans and internal control systems within Reviews and challenges business units itsbusiness internal control environment Ensures that business units Reviews results of internal control testing responsibilities are discharged.
Escalates key risks to Group management and the Board.
4. Business unit management Maintains an effective system of risk Maintains and regularly reviews project, management and internal control functional and strategic risk registers within its business unit and projects.
Reviews mitigation plans Plans, executes and reports on internal control testing.
com AR2017 66 Effectiveness continued Risk management process annual review of the strategy and plans of each business and Balfour Beattys risk management policy requires that all business of the Group as a whole to identify risks to the achievement of units implement effective arrangements and management controls objectives and, where appropriate, any relevant mitigating actions across all operations for the management of risk.
The Groups specic policies set out in the Group Finance Manual covering approach to risk management is to reduce the likelihood of risk the financial management of the Group, including arrangements events occurring, mitigate the adverse impact of such events with the Groups bankers and bond providers, controls on and identify opportunities where taking risks might benefit the foreign exchange dealings and management of currency business.
Balfour Beatty is relentless in ensuring that a positive risk andinterest rate exposures, application of accounting policies management culture remains embedded at all levels.
andnancial controls When pursuing new opportunities, an assessment of risk forms risk management expectations which are embedded throughout a key part of the work winning process.
Risks are continuously the Group assessed to ensure potential exposure remains within an gateway reviews requiring risk, uncertainty and control accepted tolerance.
assessment at all stages of project development and at all levels Additionally, the Board sets and regularly reviews delegated of the business from business unit level to Board Committee if authority levels which act as triggers for the escalation of matters value, or perceived exposure, exceeds certain thresholds requiring approval.
In relation to work winning, this means projects reviews and tests by the internal audit function of critical business above a certain value, or those with unusual characteristics, such financial processes and controls and specic reviews in areas of asa move into new markets, require approval by the Group Tender perceived high business risk and Investment Committee or the Board, as appropriate.
reviews and authorising of proposed investment, divestment and Reporting structures ensure that risks are monitored continually, capital expenditure through the Board and Board Committees mitigation plans are reviewed and significant exposures which develop are reviewed within the business unit or by Group senior regular reporting, monitoring and review of the effectiveness management via the Executive Risk Steering Group.
of health, safety, environment and sustainability processes.
These processes are subject to independent audit and Effective risk management cannot stand still.
In 2017 significant certication to internationally recognised standards as appropriate improvements have been made to further align the Groups risk management and audit functions to bring greater focus on the legal and regulatory compliance risks which are addressed assurance mapping process.
This work will continue in 2018 through specic policies and training on such matters as ethics, aspartof the ongoing review of risk aggregation and escalation.
competition and data protection laws Review of the Groups business continuity arrangements will promotion of a culture of compliance with ethics and integrity ensure that Balfour Beatty remains resilient to the ever-changing responsibilities to help manage legal and reputational risks across threats it faces in delivering its business objectives.
An ethics helpline encourages staff to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible breaches of the Code of Conduct.
Internal control The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk There is also an independent internal audit function that executes management systems and internal control and regularly reviews a risk-based programme of audit throughout the entire Group.
The Groups systems and controls are designed All audit reports are shared with relevant business leaders in to ensure exposure to significant risk is managed appropriately.
addition to being reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee The Board recognises that any system of internal control is seepages 67 to 69. designed to understand and manage rather than eliminate the risk It is the expectation and requirement of the Board that business and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against leaders ensure this comprehensive internal control environment material misstatement or loss.
In addition, not all the material joint including internal audit is embedded within their business units.
ventures in which the Group is involved are treated, for these purposes, as part of the Group.
Where they are not, systems The Boards assessment of the risk management processes and of internal control and risk management are applied as agreed internal controls during 2017 is based on reports it received and between the joint venture partners.
those presented to the Audit and Risk Committee and the Safety and Sustainability Committee, including: Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes and framework for risk management.
These align with the Financial the results of the internal audit functions reviews of internal Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal financial controls Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and were a Group-wide certication that effective internal controls had in place throughout 2017 and up to the date of signing this report.
been maintained or, where any significant non-compliance or Guidance and policies have been issued and are continuously breakdown had occurred with or without loss, that appropriate monitored to provide an interlinked and comprehensive internal remedial action has been or is being taken control environment.
Such topics include but are not limited to: a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent a clear system of delegated authorities from the Board to and mitigation of significant risks and on the systems of management with certain matters reserved by the Board internal controls.
monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of Principal risks results and forecasts by executive Directors and management, The principal risks that could adversely impact on the Groups including particular areas of business or project risk.
This is used profitability and ability to achieve its strategic objectives are set out to update managements understanding of the environment in on pages 51 to 56. which the Group operates and the methods used to mitigate and control identied risks Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017
