24 Strategic Report | Business overview Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Humanitarian support Emergency response Status AID WORKER report CIVILIAN ENGINEER MEDIC LIVE-STREAM VIDEO UPDATE SATELLITE PHONE FOREIGN AFFAIRS HELPING GOVERNMENTS MAKE MISSION-CRITICAL DECISIONS DEFENCE AND INTEL Current operations ARMY NAVY AIR FORCE BORDER PROTECTION Coastguard Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Business overview 25 Humanitarian support BUSINESS Emergency response Status OVERVIEW AID WORKER report GOVERNMENT CIVILIAN ENGINEER MEDIC LIVE-STREAM VIDEO UPDATE In Government, we delivered MAKING A DIFFERENCE SATELLITE on our strategy to diversify our PHONE IN AIRBORNE SURVEILLANCE FOREIGN TRANSFORMING SAFETY AFFAIRS contractual revenue base and AND SECURITY AIRBORNE product base, supported by SURVEILLANCE Tactical Unmanned Air Vehicles UAVs are another excellent operational widely used for surveillance by military forces, performance in 2017 safety and security organisations and many enterprises.
But LALE low altitude long endurance HELPING GOVERNMENTS UAV operators have faced frustrating limitations because the satellite technology that could MAKE MISSION-CRITICAL extend sorties beyond line of sight BLOS has been too big, heavy and power-draining for DECISIONS the compact airframes.
Inmarsat SB-UAV couples a significantly reduced technical terminal with SwiftBroadband $366.7m always-on data up to 200 kbps with the only limit being the UAVs range.
Compression 2017 $366.7m software makes it possible to send high-quality 2016 $330.5m video in real-time, for full and immediate situational awareness.
SB-UAV is transforming airborne communications, no more so than at EBITDA sea where only satellite networks can reach.
DEFENCE AND INTEL $265.2m 2017 $265.2m 2016 $244.0m Current operations ARMY NAVY AIR FORCE BORDER PROTECTION Coastguard 1.45kg WEIGHT OF THE COBHAM AVIATOR UAV 200 26 Strategic Report | Business overview Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GOVERNMENT CONTINUED The resilience of satellite communications MARKET OUTLOOK Government and military continues to be a focus for policy attention The growth of Government and military and investment within NATO and Five-Eyes satellite communications satellite communications will be driven by countries.
Major government agencies global capacity revenues internationalisation of demand beyond have acknowledged the need to rely upon the established space-equipped nations, commercial satellite communications as part are expected to grow major events, budgetary stimulus, technology of an integrated satellite communications obsolescence and new opportunities emerging from around $800m in architecture.
This strategy focuses on from a structural shift from government delivering a global user experience, with unique 2017 to nearly $1.4bn procurement of proprietary space infrastructure government features, across all government to the acquisition by governments of off-the-shelf service platforms.
To meet this need, Inmarsat by 2025, on a wholesale services from commercial partners to replace provides trusted end-to-end managed basis source: NSR or complement proprietary capabilities.
We communications on a global basis SATCOM also believe that many governments will embrace as a Service to proactively support the power of space-based communications government customers desire for innovation in areas of high policy importance such as and agility in acquisition.
first response and emergency readiness and Inmarsat continues to work with its interoperability, e-citizenship, bridging the digital technology partners to deliver innovative divide, security and efficiency of infrastructure products and services built to meet the including energy and water systems and expanding requirements of the Defence and next generation transportation and logistics Intelligence Community as well as civilian networks.
Consequently, government agencies agencies, such as coast guard, immigration, operational reliance on  border protection, diplomatic, VIP, public space-based capabilities is expected to become safety and emergency responders.
an increasingly common feature of the industry.
Notable innovations have included Military-Ka Inmarsat is well placed to participate in this for manned unmanned Airborne Intelligence potential emerging new government market Surveillance & Reconnaissance AISR, segment over the long-term, having invested which delivers high data rates to and from significantly in MILSATCOM augmentation Ka-band-equipped U. S. aircraft, adding new in recent years, both in Ka-band and L-band, trusted capabilities for national security.
in particular to ensure that GX is fully fungible with In addition, the launch of new aeronautical the U. S. Governments proprietary satellite system terminals have expedited access to the in the future.
In particular, Inmarsats ability GX global network and provided a more to augment existing military satellite systems connected experience in the air and through the global availability of its end-to-end on the sea.
L-band and Ka-band networks is delivering highly resilient communication capabilities with Inmarsat has also extended its innovation in increased flexibility and robustness in support the high mobility government L-band market of mission-critical applications.
with products and services tailored to specific customers needs, further enhancing military By combining mission-focused product satellite systems.
Evidence of this is continued innovation with mature customer relationships high utilisation of Inmarsats unique L-band and understanding, we will continue to deliver Tactical Satellite service L-TAC a highly clear competitive differentiation and diversify resilient communication service that into new verticals and geographies.
11.0% GOVERNMENT BUSINESS RESULTS REVENUE GROWTH DELIVERED BY OUR GOVERNMENT BUSINESS Year ended 31 December IN 2017 2017 2016 $m $m Change Revenue 366.7 330.5 11.0% Direct costs 54.4 41.2 32.0% Gross margin 312.3 289.3 8.0% Indirect costs 47.0 45.3 3.8% EBITDA 265.3 244.0 8.7% EBITDA margin % 72.3% 73.8% Cash capex 9.9 6.1 62.3% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Business overview 27 provides robust, low-cost, beyond-line-of-sight mobile capability, using existing tactical radios.
In addition, micro antennas, as small as 12.5cm, are delivering extremely high data rates and are now operationally deployed to support small intelligence platforms.
PERFORMANCE IN 2017 Our Government business delivered revenue growth of 11.0% in 2017, reflecting another strong operational performance.
Despite several years of strong revenue growth in Government, budget and operational tempo headwinds persist with many of our core customers.
Consequently, near-term future revenue growth is expected to be modest, as the Boeing take or pay contract reduces to a normalised level, the exceptional revenues of 2017 are not repeated and contract wins continue to be lumpy and irregular.
U. S. Government revenues grew by 21.4% in 2017, driven by the impact of short-term higher operational tempo activity during Q3, a material new business win in Q2 and Head of State and VVIP aircraft communications approximately nine months of revenue from In an era of constant political scrutiny via social media and the 24 hour news cycle, the U. S. Navy Commercial Broadband Satellite Heads of State and senior government officials cannot afford to be offline when they are Program Satellite Services Contract CSSC.
They need office in the sky connectivity for multiple devices, voice and video, In addition, there was another full year of secure VPN, as well as IP TV and streaming ser vices, so they can stay informed and revenue from our Take or Pay contract with respond effectively to fast moving events.
Boeing, which is expected to decline to normalised levels that will be established Inmarsat Global Xpress delivers seamless, reliable high-speed broadband wherever they fly.
Combined with Eclipses Aero Flexibility solution, bandwidth can be assigned to different zones in the plane for example, accompanying journalists can pay to access data or Outside the U. S. Government revenues fell the whole allocation can be directed to the HoS if they are handling a crisis all without by 5.1% in 2017, mainly reflecting a material impacting safety services in the cockpit.
reduction in exceptional operational revenues outside the U. S. from Q3 2017, which had So today, global leaders are travelling safe in the knowledge they will never be in the dark.
Direct costs during 2017 increased by $13.2m, 32.0%, including an increase of $5.5m, due to the increased contribution from the CSSC contract, which is relatively low margin, and the challenging comparator, as outlined above.
Indirect costs increased by $1.7m, or 3.8% in the year.
EBITDA increased by $21.3m, 8.7%, in the year and EBITDA margin declined to 72.3% in 2017.
INMARSAT IS WELL PLACED TO PARTICIPATE IN EMERGING NEW GOVERNMENT MARKET SEGMENTS
