Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Report of the Directors 99 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS For the year ended 31 December 2017 From 6 April 2016 the Dividend Tax Credit ALISON HORROCKS CHIEF CORPORATE was replaced by a new Dividend Allowance AFFAIRS OFFICER AND in the form of a 0% tax rate on the first COMPANY SECRETARY 5,000 of dividend income per year.
INTEREST CAPITALISATION The Group capitalised $35.3m during the period under review.
The $35.3m of interest capitalised in the period has been treated as fully tax deductible in the UK.
BRANCHES The Group has activities operated through many jurisdictions.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES The Companys ordinary shares of Euro 0.0005 each are listed on the London Stock Exchange BUSINESS REVIEW, This Report has been LSE: ISAT.
L. Details of the issued share capital STRATEGIC REPORT AND of the Company, together with movements prepared in accordance with FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS in the issued share capital during the year, the requirements outlined A description of the Companys business model, can be found in note 24 to the consolidated strategy and factors likely to affect the Groups financial statements.
within the Companies Act future developments are incorporated into The Company has one class of ordinary share this Report by reference.
They are set out 2006 2006 Act and which carries no rights to fixed income.
On a poll, in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 55. each member is entitled to one vote for each Listing Rule 9.8.
4R and forms share of Euro 0.0005 held.
All 77,276 ordinary GOVERNANCE REPORT part of the management shares held by the Inmarsat Employee Share Ownership Trust carry voting rights.
Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, report as required under a requirement exists for certain parts of the There are no specific restrictions on the size Disclosure and Transparency Governance Report to be outlined in the of holding or on the transfer of shares, which are Report of the Directors.
This information is Rule 4 both governed by the general provisions of the laid out in the Governance Report on pages Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any arrangements Certain information that fulfils the requirements between shareholders that may result in restrictions of the Report of the Directors is incorporated POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
into the report by reference and is referred No person has any special rights of control There were no such events required to below.
over the Companys share capital and all to be disclosed.
issued shares are fully paid.
The purpose of this Report is to provide information to the Companys shareholders.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Report contains certain forward-looking GOING CONCERN The results for the year are shown in the statements based on knowledge and information Despite the recent rerating of the satellite Consolidated Income Statement on page 112. available at the date of preparation of the sector and increased competitive environment, Report.
These statements involve uncertainty A final dividend of 12.00 cents US$ will be paid coupled with a continuing uncertain economic since future events and circumstances can on 25 May 2018 to shareholders on the share outlook, the Directors believe that the Group cause results and developments to differ from register at the close of business on 20 April 2018. has a resilient business model and is compliant those anticipated.
Nothing in this Report Dividend payments are made in Pounds Sterling with all its financial covenants.
In making their should be construed as a profit forecast.
or in shares using an exchange rate derived assessment of going concern, the Directors from the WM Reuters GBP USD 9am fix considered the Board-approved budget, RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT London time four business days prior to the the rolling forecast, the cash flow forecast and date of announcement of the scrip reference the most recent five-year long-range business The Responsibility Statement made by price.
Explanatory documentation in respect plan.
In addition, the Directors considered the the Board regarding the preparation of the of the operation of the scrip dividend is maturity profile of existing debt facilities, other financial statements is set out on page 103. available on our website.
liabilities as well as actual and forecast covenant calculations.
Furthermore, the forecasts and 100 Governance | Report of the Directors Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED covenant calculations were stress tested on the scale of carbon generators.
The satellite EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND by applying a set of downside scenarios.
launch industry is reviewing how it becomes EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT After making enquiries, the Directors have a more accountable for carbon generation through Details of the employment policies and reasonable expectation that the Group has innovative new satellite launch techniques and we employee involvement are provided in the adequate resources to continue in operational will work with them to see how we can benefit from resources and relationships section and existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, improved techniques for our future launches.
are also in the Governance Report.
Inmarsat continues to adopt the going We have provided details of our objectives for concern basis in preparing the consolidated how we manage our environmental activities on LONG-TERM INCENTIVE SCHEMES financial statements.
The following information summarises the report generated over the year regarding Details of the long-term incentive schemes can our actual performance.
VIABILITY STATEMENT be found on pages 89 and 92 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Our environmental impacts include the use of The viability statement containing a broader natural resources, the consumption of energy assessment by the Board of the Companys HEALTH AND SAFETY and water, the production of a variety of waste, ongoing viability is set out on page 55. as well as staff and visitors who travel extensively.
The Group is committed to maintaining high ON-MARKET PURCHASE standards of health and safety for its employees, All energy and waste management activities are AUTHORITY customers, visitors, contractors and anyone controlled by the Business Environment team affected by its business activities.
During 2017, which is based in London and are supported by The Directors authorities are determined by we continued to work closely with our subsidiary inputs from colleagues across the Group.
UK legislation and the Articles of Association.
companies to harmonise health and safety At the 2017 AGM, the Directors were authorised GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS best practice.
Rupert Pearce, our CEO, is the by shareholders to allot ordinary shares up This section has been prepared in accordance with Director designated for health and safety matters to agreed limits and to have the ability to our regulatory obligation to report greenhouse at Board level.
One of the objectives for the make market purchases of ordinary shares.
gas GHG emissions pursuant to Section 7 of CEO includes how health and safety is managed Shareholders are being requested to renew the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and across the Company.
these authorities at the 2018 AGM.
The table below shows our greenhouse gas emissions ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE for the years ended 31 December 2017, 2016 AND STRATEGY and 2015.
We are in the process of having Details of the Directors and Officers liability our emissions independently verified to the We operate in over 50 locations with a combined insurance and the indemnities provided to ISO 14064-3 standard to ensure continuous workforce of approximately 2,000 staff.
Due to the Directors, Company Secretary and certain improvement of our GHG reporting.
our diversity of activities the Company recognises employees where they serve as directors it has impacts affecting the local and global of subsidiaries at the Groups request are Methodology environment.
However, it should be noted that provided on page 65 in the Governance Report.
We quantify and report our organisational the satellite industry and our own business is low GHG emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Consumption data has been collated by our sustainability consultant, Carbon Credentials, and has been converted GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS into CO equivalent using the UK Government 2 Greenhouse gas emissions tCO e 2017 2016 2015 2 2017 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 1,047 1,164 978 and the International Energy Agency international Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for our own use electricity conversion factors in order to calculate Scope 2: location-based 10,870 11,743 12,141 emissions from corresponding activity data.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for our own use This report has been prepared in accordance Scope 2: market-based 8,664 10,559 14,010 with the GHG Protocols Scope 2 Guidance: we Other indirect emissions Scope 3 20,647 13,568 15,681 have therefore reported both a location-based We have restated our Scope 3 figures due to improved data quality and accuracy and market-based Scope 2 emissions figure.
Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK and Scope 2 emissions calculated using the market-based approach The Scope 2 market-based figure reflects using supplier specific emission factors are calculated and reported in tCO2e emissions from electricity purchasing decisions that Inmarsat has made.
When quantifying METHODOLOGY emissions using the market-based approach Location-based approach Market-based approach we have used a supplier specific emissions factor Greenhouse gas emissions tCO2e 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 where possible.
If these factors were unavailable, a residual mix emissions factor was then used, Total Scope 1 and 2 11,918 12,907 13,118 9,712 11,724 14,988 and as a last option the location-based grid tCO e per full-time 2 emissions factor was used.
This approach equivalent FTE is in line with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 employee 6.9 6.8 7.0 5.6 6.2 8.0 Data Hierarchy.
The emissions intensity calculation is based on a figure of 1,737 employees in 2017, 1,900 employees in 2016 and 1,864 employees in 2015.
We have restated our total Scope 1, 2 and 3 figures due to improved data quality and accuracy within Scope 3 emissions Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Report of the Directors 101 TOTAL EMISSIONS 2017 tCO e 2 The table on page 100 shows our total emissions RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT and our emissions as a metric for the year ended The Group continues to invest in new services and 31 December 2017 using the two different technology necessary to support its activities Scope 2 accounting methodologies.
through research and development programmes.
Performance In 2017 we set an interim target to reduce absolute POLITICAL DONATIONS Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 10% compared to During the year, no political donations were 2016.
We have over-achieved this target with made.
It remains the policy of the Company not our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions having 30,358 to make political donations or incur political decreased by 17% since 2016, and 35% since 2015 expenditure.
There are occasions when the using the market-based Scope 2 accountancy Company will sponsor dinners and take tables at method.
We continue to expand the number of dinners and we have carefully assessed whether low emissions sources of electricity across the these fall to be classified as political donations Group and during 2017 we switched to a renewable and are satisfied they do not, however we are electricity supply at our London Head Office, being transparent that we participate in these our largest  site.
The Directors recognise however that Our emissions intensity has decreased by 9% from occasions arise where it may be in the best Scope 1 1,047 6.2 to 5.6 tCO e FTE using the market-based 2 interests of shareholders for the Company Scope 2 market-based 8,664 Scope 2 accounting approach.
to be able, if appropriate, to participate in Scope 3 20,647 public debate and opinion-forming on matters We have also chosen to voluntarily disclose which affect its business.
To avoid inadvertent a selection of our Scope 3 emissions, including infringement of the requirements of the water, waste, business travel and WTT electricity Companies Act 2006, shareholders are asked emissions.
We have increased the scope of EMISSIONS INTENSITY SCOPE 1 AND 2 annually to give authority at the Annual General our reporting in 2017 to also include emissions MARKET-BASED tCO e FTE Meeting for the Company to make political associated with the transmission and distribution 2 donations and to incur political expenditure.
As such our Scope 3 emissions have increased by 52%.
This is due to the increase 5.6 INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS in reporting boundary as well as an increase in business travel.
2017 5.6 As at 6 March 2018, the Company had 2016 6.2 been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 In 2018 we will be working with Carbon Credentials of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure to assess our full value chain Scope 3 emissions and Transparency Rules, of the following with the ambition of setting a science-based significant interests: emission reduction target in line with the UKs commitment under the UN Paris Agreement, Scope 2: Purchased electricity consumption Percentage of voting rights thereby contributing to the global effort to prevent for our own use over ordinary shares of the worst consequences of climate change.
Shareholder 0.0005 each Scope 3: Business travel, water, waste, and Lansdowne Partners Limited 12.06% Reporting boundaries and limitations well-to-tank and transmission & distribution We consolidate our organisational boundary electricity emissions Capital Group Companies, Inc. 9.95% according to the operational control approach Artemis Investment Management 5.30% Assumptions and estimations and have adopted a materiality threshold Jupiter Asset Management Limited 4.97% In some cases, missing data has been estimated of 5% for GHG reporting purposes.
As a result, Openheimer Funds, Inc 4.90% using either extrapolation of available data from emissions from locations with fewer than 15 the reporting period or data from previous Aberdeen Asset Managers 4.88% staff on-site have been reasonably estimated years as a proxy.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.38% as immaterial and are thus excluded from our GHG disclosure.
Emissions for all significant sites Allianz SE 3.02% PRINCIPAL RISKS have been disclosed, which includes our top five AND UNCERTAINTIES Voting rights are based on the information highest consuming locations: London, Burum, submitted via TR1 forms from shareholders Auckland, Paumalu and Perth.
The GHG sources Details of principal risks and uncertainties to the Company, adjusted for the issued share that constitute our operational boundary for are provided on pages 50 to 55. capital of 457,659,212 as at 6 March 2018. the 2017 reporting period are: FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Scope 1: Natural gas combustion within boilers, gas oil combustion within generators, road Details of the financial risk management fuel combustion within owned and leased objectives and policies of the Group, including vehicles, and fugitive refrigerants from hedging policies and exposure of the entity to air-conditioning equipment price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are given in notes 3 and 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
102 Governance | Report of the Directors Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED RULES GOVERNING ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION DIRECTORS APPOINTMENTS The Articles of Association can only be amended Shareholders can appoint or remove Directors by special resolution of the shareholders.
by an ordinary resolution in a general meeting but specific conditions on vacation of office AUDITOR apply where a Director becomes prohibited Each of the Directors has confirmed that: by law or regulation from holding office: or where a Director becomes bankrupt, mentally so far as the Director is aware, there is incapacitated or persistently absent from no relevant audit information of which Directors meetings.
Further information the Companys Auditor is unaware and on Directors appointments are provided on the Director has taken all the steps that page 69 of the Governance Report.
he she ought to have taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant DIRECTORS POWER audit information and to establish that the General powers of the Directors are provided Companys Auditor is aware of that information by the Companys Articles of Association This confirmation is given and should be and the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
interpreted in accordance with the provisions The powers are subject to limitations imposed of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. by statute and directions given by special resolution of the shareholders applicable at A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP a relevant time.
Details of Directors powers as Auditor of the Company and to authorise are provided on pages 62 to 64 of the the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors Governance Report.
to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS 2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING A full list of the individuals who were Directors of the Company during the financial year The Annual General Meeting will be held ended 31 December 2017 is set out below: on 2 May 2018 at 10.00am at 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX.
The Notice of Meeting, Andrew Sukawaty, Rupert Pearce, Tony Bates, which sets out the resolutions to be proposed Stephen Davidson, Janice Obuchowski, at the forthcoming AGM, is contained in Kathleen Flaherty, General C. Robert Kehler Rtd, a separate circular and is enclosed with this Sir Bryan Carsberg, Dr Abe Peled, Robert Ruijter, Annual Report.
At this AGM, shareholders Simon Bax, Dr Hamadoun Tour, Phillipa McCrostie will also be asked to vote on a related party and Warren Finegold.
transaction and details of this special resolution Stephen Davidson and Kathleen Flaherty are contained in the AGM Notice of Meeting.
retired as Directors on 19 January 2017 and By order of the Board 2 March 2017 respectively.
Details of the interests of each Director and their connected persons in the Companys ordinary ALISON HORROCKS FCIS shares and share awards held are set out in full in CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER the Directors Remuneration Report on page 97.
AND COMPANY SECRETARY Details of the Directors conflicts of interest 9 March 2018 policy are provided on page 65.
