14 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 In focus One specialist lender Gross new organic lending OSB also provides funding lines to other going out of our way for our clients, lenders.
The funding lines business is we received the Best Specialist Lender secured against pools of loan collateral award at The Mortgage Strategy Awards with indirect access to certain highand Specialist Lender of the Year from 14% yielding, specialist sub-segments, Mortgage Introducer Awards.
2017: 2.6bn 2016: 2.3bn such as asset finance and residential bridging finance.
To support this manual and bespoke approach, in 2017 we implemented new 2016 2017 Intermediary relationships technology to reduce administrative Access to our specialist products and burdens on our underwriters and multiple brands is via intermediaries.
This provides Relationships are key and partnerships a simple and speedy solution to enable continue to flourish with our panel landlords and brokers to meet the PRAs of selected specialist mortgage underwriting standards for portfolio intermediaries, who are leaders in landlords.
Implemented in October their sub-sectors.
2017, the system provides valuations and verifications of entire portfolios in We listen to and work with the seconds, giving our underwriters high intermediaries to develop new levels of confidence in their valuations.
opportunities and bespoke solutions for our clients.
In the year, we developed No case is too complex for us and for joint marketing and education those borrowers with more tailored or campaigns and provided dedicated larger borrowing requirements our marketing support.
Transactional Credit Committee meets We focus on specialist twice a week and in 2017 met 103 Our sales team was awarded The Best times to demonstrate our mortgage lending to consumers, Business Development Team in 2017 by responsiveness to broker needs.
entrepreneurs and SMEs in subThe Mortgage Strategy Awards.
sectors of the UK market where What we will do Inorganic growth We will continue to develop our sales we have identified opportunities The Group is focused on organic and underwriting teams through for high returns on a risk-adjusted origination as its core growth strategy.
attracting the top talent and then basis and where we can take In addition, we continue to evaluate nurturing it through training and selective inorganic opportunities that coaching programmes.
We will also a leading position.
ensure that our relationships with provide long-term value and meet our intermediaries continue to flourish strategic objectives.
In 2017, the Group Sub-sector market specialisation and that we deliver a high quality, made no portfolio acquisitions as The markets we focus on are: differentiated service for our clients.
market pricing did not meet the Groups Buy-to-Let stringent return conditions.
commercial and semi-commercial residential development Bespoke underwriting bespoke specialist residential All of our loans are underwritten by second charge residential experienced and skilled underwriters.
shared ownership, and At OSB, we do not use automated or bridging and short-term loans.
We take each loan on its own merits, responding quickly and flexibly to offer the best solution for each of our customers.
For this bespoke approach, expertise and Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 15 Our strategy in action Be a leading specialist lender in our chosen markets Further deepen marketing and underwriting, 2017 was an important year relationships to make sure that our support for me in the newly and reputation is demonstrated through our established role of National for delivery with service rather than just words.
Our strategy intermediaries is to continuously improve our working relationships with our Of course, this also meant large corporate clients and in demonstrating how Kent 2017 we had a particular focus Reliance can help as the on the regulatory and market Buy-to-Let market becomes changes that brokers are more focused on professional currently facing.
landlords and the different demands that this will bring.
EMILY MACHIN We were recognised by our NATIONAL ACCOUNT intermediaries for being able MANAGER to assist even in the most complex of cases.
One of the things that I am most proud of Our support is how we coordinate our goes way efforts across different parts of the Bank, including beyond words
