62 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Executive team Top row from left to right: Jason Elphick: Jens Bech: Hasan Kazmi: Richard Davis: John Eastgate.
Bottom row from left to right: Richard Wilson: Lisa Odendaal: Clive Kornitzer.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 63 Jason Elphick John Eastgate Group General Counsel and Sales and Marketing Director Company Secretary Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Jason joined the Bank in June 2016.
He has John joined the Bank in 2012.
John has over 25 over 20 years of legal private practice and years experience in financial services and prior to in-house financial services experience.
joining the Bank he was Sales & Marketing Director at Saffron Building Society from 2008 until 2012.
Jasons private practice experience was primarily in Australia with King & Wood Mallesons and in New York Between 2003 and 2008, John was Head of with Sidley Austin LLP and he has been admitted to Banking, Head of Mortgages and Group Account practice in Australia, New York and England and Wales.
He held the position of Practice Manager Financial Services at BroadVision UK Jasons in-house financial services experience Limited from 2001 until 2002.
Between 1999 and was most recently as Director and Head of Bank 2001, John was a Senior Manager at Barclays.
Legal at Santander in London.
Prior to this Jason held various roles at National Australia Bank, including General Counsel Capital & Funding, Head of Governance, Company Secretary and General Counsel Product, Regulation and Resolution.
Jens Bech Richard Wilson Group Commercial Director Group Chief Credit Officer Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Jens joined the Bank as Chief Risk Officer in 2012, Richard joined the Bank in 2013. before becoming Group Commercial Director in 2014.
Prior to joining the Bank, Richard was head of the Jens joined the Bank from the Asset Protection credit function for Morgan Stanleys UK origination Agency, an executive arm of HM Treasury, where business and subsequently looked after Credit and he held the position of Chief Risk Officer.
Prior to Collections strategy within their UK, Russian and Italian joining the Asset Protection Agency, Jens spent businesses.
Between 1988 and 2006, Richard held nearly a decade at management consultancy Oliver various roles at Yorkshire Building Society, including Wyman where he advised a global portfolio of the position of Mortgage Application Centre Manager.
financial services firms and supervisors on strategy and risk management.
Jens led Oliver Wymans support of Iceland during the financial crisis.
Hasan Kazmi Lisa Odendaal Chief Risk Officer Group Head of Internal Audit Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Hasan joined the Bank in September Lisa joined the Bank in April 2016 as Group Head of 2015 as Chief Risk Officer.
Prior to joining the Bank Lisa worked for Grant Thornton where she was an Associate Hasan has over 19 years of risk experience having Director within their Business Risk Services division.
worked at several financial institutions, including Barclays Capital, Royal Bank of Canada and Standard Lisa has over 20 years of internal audit and Chartered Bank.
Prior to joining the Bank, Hasan operational experience gained in the UK, UAE was a Senior Director at Deloitte within the Risk and and Switzerland having worked at several Regulatory practice with responsibility for leading financial institutions, including PwC, Morgan the firms enterprise risk: capital, liquidity, recovery Stanley, HSBC and Man Investments.
Hasan graduated from the London School of Economics with a MSc in Systems Design and Analysis and a BSc in Management.
Richard Davis Clive Kornitzer Chief Information Officer Group Chief Operating Officer Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Richard joined the Bank in 2013.
Richard has worked Clive joined the Bank in 2013.
Clive has over 25 years of for 20 years in financial services rising to Chief financial services experience, having worked at several Information Officer at GE Money UK in 2004. financial organisations including Yorkshire Building Society, John Charcol and Bradford and Bingley.
He subsequently helped launch MoneyPartners an Investec subsidiary, as IT Director, through Prior to joining the Bank, Clive spent six years at to the eventual sale to Goldman Sachs.
Prior to Santander where he was the Chief Operating Officer joining the Bank, Richard worked for four years for the intermediary mortgage business.
Clive at Morgan Stanley covering IT, Projects and has also held positions at the European Financial Transaction Management for the European Management Association and has been the Chair of Residential business as an Interim Director.
the FS Forums Retail Banking Sub-Committee.
Clive is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
