Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 49 Viability statement In addition, the Group identifies a range of catastrophic In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate stress scenarios, which could result in the failure of its current Governance Code, the Board of Directors have assessed the business model.
Business model failure scenarios reverse prospects and viability of the Group over a three-year period stress tests are primarily used to inform the Board and by comprehensively assessing the principal risks and executive management of the outer limits of the Groups risk uncertainties to which it is exposed and have concluded that profile.
Reverse stress tests play an important role in helping they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be the Board and its executives to identify potential recovery able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall options under a business model failure scenario, and form an due over that period.
important aspect of the Companys recovery and resolution plans prescribed by the regulator.
During the year a number The three-year time period was selected for the ofreverse stress test scenarios were analysed including an following reasons: extreme macroeconomic downturn 1 in 200 severity, a The Groups operating and financial plan covers cyber-attack leading to a loss of customer data which is used a three-year period for fraudulent activities, extreme regulatory and taxation The three-year operating and financial plan considers, among other matters: the Boards risk appetite: macrochanges impacting Buy-to-Let lending volumes and a liquidity economic outlook: market opportunity: the competitive crisis caused by severe market conditions combined with landscape: and sensitivity of the financial plan to volumes, idiosyncratic consequences.
margin pressures and capital requirements The Board believes that there is sufficient visibility over the The ongoing monitoring of all principal risks and uncertainties economic and regulatory landscape and the market outlook that could impact the operating and financial plan, together offered by the three-year time horizon to make a reasonable with the use of stress testing to ensure that the Group could assessment of viability: and survive a severe but plausible stress, enables the Board to Uncertainty in the UK economic outlook over the medium to reasonably assess the viability of the business model over long term following the EU referendum outcome.
The Company is authorised by the PRA, and regulated by the FCA and PRA, and undertakes regular analysis of its risk profile and assumptions.
It has a robust set of policies, procedures and systems to undertake a comprehensive assessment of all the principal risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed on a current and forward-looking basis as described in Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 39 to 44.
The Group manages and monitors its risk profile through its strategic risk management framework, in particular through its risk appetite statement and risk limits as described in the Risk review on pages 32 to 38.
Potential changes in its risk profile are assessed across the business planning horizon by subjecting the operating and financial plan to severe but plausible macroeconomic and idiosyncratic scenarios.
Stress testing is a vital discipline, which underpins the Groups ICAAP and ILAAP.
The Group has developed a bespoke macroeconomic model which identifies the most predictive macroeconomic variables and their relative relationship to arrears, collateral valuations and loan losses.
As a secured mortgage lender, the Group is most sensitive to changes in house price movements, unemployment and Bank of England base rate changes.
The Groups stress testing capability then leverages the developed macroeconomic variable relationships to conduct detailed scenario analysis over a range of stress scenarios which feed key risk processes such as the setting of risk appetite, loan loss forecasts and ICAAP and ILAAP stress testing activity.
In addition, the Company identified a suite of credible management actions that would mitigate the impact of the stress scenarios.
The Board and executive management use the outcome of the stress test analysis to evaluate the Companys management options and adequacy of the Companys capital and liquidity resources to withstand an extreme but plausible stress scenario.
The Company holds sufficient capital to withstand such a stress scenario.
