Board activity in 2017 Role of the board The board is responsible for the overall conduct of the groups business.
Directors have duties under both UK company law and BPs Articles of Association.
The primary tasks of the board include: Active consideration and direction Monitoring of BPs Ensuring that the principal risks and Board and executive 1 of long-term strategy and approval performance against the uncertainties to BP are identified and that management of the annual plan strategy and plan systems of risk management and control succession are in place Strategy Performance and monitoring During the year the board It received regular reports on the The board reviews financial and The board reviews the quarterly provided input on the groups progress and implementation of operational performance at each and full-year results, including strategy to senior management.
the strategy through updates meeting.
It receives regular the shareholder distribution This included a two-day strategy from management and by updates on the groups policy.
The 2017 annual report session in September where it means of a strategic performance for the year across was assessed in terms of the examined developments in the performance scorecard which a range of metrics as well as the directors obligations and wider environment and debated is discussed at each full board latest view on expected full-year appropriate regulatory strategic themes relating to BPs meeting.
segments, key functions and the scorecard measures.
Updates The board monitored the The board monitors employee impact of the lower carbon are also given on various companys performance against transition on the groups opinion via an annual pulse components of value delivery for the annual plan for 2017 and business model.
The board survey which includes BPs business.
Regular reports discussed the transition to a approved the forward measurement of how the BP presented to the board include: lower carbon world frequently framework for the annual plan values are incorporated into during the year.
culture around our global Group performance report.
The board reviewed the BP Group financial outlook.
Energy Outlook, updated Effectiveness of investment in February 2018, which looks at review.
long-term energy trends and Quarterly and full-year results.
projections for world energy Shareholder distributions.
Risk Succession The board, either directly The board reviewed the group The board, in conjunction with Cynthia Carroll and Andrew Shilston stood down from or through its monitoring risk of cyber security in 2017 the nomination and chairmans the board at the 2017 AGM.
committees, regularly reviews with the audit committee and committees, reviews succession the processes whereby risks SEEAC assessing elements of plans for executive and nonMelody Meyer was elected are identified, evaluated and cyber security risk in their work executive directors on a regular as a director at the 2017 AGM.
The board needs to ensure On appointment she joined allocation of the group cyber that potential candidates are the SEEA and geopolitical Activities include: security risk to the board with identified and evaluated as committees.
Assessing the effectiveness of additional monitoring by the current directors reach the end the groups system of internal Brendan Nelson and Paula audit and SEEA committees of their recommended term of control and risk management Reynolds joined the remains unchanged for 2018. office, including in the event as part of the review of the remuneration committee in of a director leaving The group risks allocated to the BP Annual Report and Form May and September 2017 unexpectedly.
committees for review over the 20-F 2017. respectively.
year are outlined in the reports The board employs executive Identification and allocation Paul Anderson will retire of the committees on pages search firms when it concludes of risks to the board and from the board at the 2018 77-89. that this is an effective way of monitoring committees the AGM.
In audit, SEEA and geopolitical Further information on BPs Ann Dowling will step down 2017 we appointed Egon Zehnder committees for 2017, and system of risk management is from the remuneration confirmation of the schedule to assist in the search for outlined in How we manage risk committee after the for oversight.
Information about 2018 AGM, having served BPs system of internal control is three years as chair, and on page 113.
Paula Reynolds will then assume the role.
72 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance Skills and expertise In order to carry out its duties on behalf of shareholders, the board needs to manage its non-executive membership and continuously maintain its knowledge and expertise to benefit the business.
It does this through four activity sets: Succession planning to Diversity including skills, Training including Evaluation ensure future diversity experience, gender, ethnicity site visits and induction and balance and tenure of new directors Background and diversity Non-executive director Background Diversity Oil & gas Engineering Financial Safety Brand Regulatory Female Non Tenure extractives technology expertise marketing government UK US years energy reputation affairs 2 Nils Andersen 8 Paul Anderson 4 Alan Boeckmann 7 Frank Bowman 8 Ian Davis 6 Ann Dowling 1 Melody Meyer 7 Brendan Nelson 3 Paula Reynolds 3 John Sawers 9 Carl-Henric Svanberg Diversity Independence BP recognizes the importance of diversity, including gender, at the board Non-executive directors NEDs are expected to be independent and all levels of the group.
We are committed to increasing diversity in character and judgement and free from any business or other across our operations and have a wide range of activities to support the relationship that could materially interfere with exercising that development and promotion of talented individuals, regardless of gender judgement.
It is the boards view that all NEDs, with the exception and ethnic background.
of the chairman, are independent.
The board operates a policy that aims to promote diversity in its The board is satisfied that there is no compromise to the independence composition.
Under this policy, director appointments are evaluated of, and nothing to give rise to conflicts of interest for, those directors against the existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the who serve together as directors on the boards of other entities or who board, with directors asked to be mindful of diversity, inclusiveness and hold other external appointments.
The nomination committee keeps meritocracy considerations when examining nominations to the board.
the other interests of the NEDs under review to ensure that the Implementation of this policy is monitored through agreed metrics.
effectiveness of the board is not compromised.
During its annual evaluation, the board considered diversity as part of Appointment and time commitment the review of its performance and effectiveness.
The chairman and NEDs have letters of appointment.
There is no term At the end of 2017, there were three female directors 2016 3, 2015 3 limit on a directors service, as BP proposes all directors for annual on our board of 13.
Our nomination committee actively considers re-election by shareholders a practice followed since 2004. diversity in seeking potential candidates for appointment to the board.
While the chairmans letter of appointment sets out the time The board looked at gender and wider diversity across the group as part commitment expected of him, those for NEDs do not set a fixed-time of its annual review of HR, capability and talent management.
commitment, but instead set a general guide of between 30-40 days The remuneration committee and the board reviewed and discussed per year.
The time required of directors may fluctuate depending on BPs data and report on the UK gender pay gap prior to its publication in demands of BP business and other events.
They are expected to February 2018.
Focus was given to the data in the report, and what allocate sufficient time to BP to perform their duties effectively and action BP is taking to address the gap and the broader issue of diversity make themselves available for all regular and ad hoc meetings.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 73 Executive directors are permitted to take up one external board Board evaluation appointment, subject to the agreement of the chairman.
Fees received BP undertakes an annual review of the board, its committees and for an external appointment may be retained by the executive director individual directors.
The chairmans performance is evaluated by the and are reported in the directors remuneration report see page 90. chairmans committee and his evaluation is led by the senior Neither the chairman nor the senior independent director are employed independent director.
The evaluation operates on a three-year cycle, as an executive of the group.
with one externally led evaluation followed by two subsequent years of internal evaluations carried out using a questionnaire prepared by an Training and induction external facilitator.
To help develop an understanding of BPs business, the board continues Activity following prior year evaluation to build its knowledge through briefings and site visits.
In 2017 the board Actions arising from the 2016 evaluation and how these were received training on ethics and compliance.
addressed included: NEDs are expected to visit at least one business a year as part of their Focus on implementing the strategy, in particular the opportunities learning programme.
In 2017 the board visited the groups response relating to the transition to a lower carbon economy: reporting on the information centre in Sunbury, operations of Aker in Norway and the implementation of the strategy was further developed and as a result trading business in London.
Members of the SEEAC and other directors the board receives updates from management and a strategic also visited the Cherry Point refinery in the US and the Glen Lyon FPSO progress report at each meeting.
The board held a number of vessel in the North Sea.
discussions on the transition to a lower carbon economy, including a session at the strategy away day, with further sessions scheduled for Newly appointed NEDs follow a structured induction process.
The groups quarterly results announcement was amended in includes one-to-one meetings with management and the external 2017 to include narrative on the implementation of strategy.
auditors and also covers the board committees that they join.
More detailed examination of the financial performance of the business, in particular capital allocation and returns: the board discusses financial performance at each board meeting and reviews Director induction programme the proposed disclosures and investor presentation for each quarters results.
A return on average capital employed measure was included in the 2017 remuneration policy and the board reviews this as part of its performance monitoring.
A review of the groups capital allocation BP executives devoted process and investment effectiveness was also held during the year.
substantial time to ensure Obtaining a better understanding of the groups ability to effectively a high quality induction.
deliver the strategy, including technology, digital and big data: this included a deep dive into technology trends and their potential impact on the groups business model.
Melody Meyer Bringing wider perspectives into the board room and gaining deeper Non-executive director insight into shareholder views: the board considered output from BPs remuneration engagement programme as well as broader governance Melody Meyer, appointed in 2017, followed a issues from investor meetings held throughout the year.
Feedback tailored induction process, which also covered from institutional investors on the groups performance and strategy compiled by an independent third party was discussed with the the SEEAC and geopolitical committee.
The board following the strategy update.
programme of topics included: Continued emphasis on improving operational excellence: the board Communications and Board and governance received data and commentary on BPs operations through monthly BPs board governance model, corporate reporting reports and updates from management: and operational measures Group audit directors duties, interests and were included in the annual bonus scorecard as part of the potential conflicts.
External audit remuneration assessment for the year.
BP womens network Business introduction Legal.
2017 evaluation BPs business SEEAC specific Upstream exploration, The evaluation was undertaken through a questionnaire facilitated by an development, production, Safety and operational risk external consultant Lintstock and individual interviews between the S&OR, BPs operating overview of our operations chairman and each director.
The results of the evaluation and feedback Downstream refining, management system from the interviews were collectively discussed by the board including: OMS and environmental marketing and lubricants Investment decisions: continue focusing on capital allocation and the Alternative Energy performance way in which investment decisions are taken.
Operational, safety and Strategy and planning Lower carbon transition environmental reporting Longer-term vision and strategy: extend the timeframe of strategic Group security and crisis BPs performance relative discussions, including challenges faced by BPs core business and the to its competitors.
Functional input Geopolitical committee Geopolitics: consider how to further optimize the output of the work Human resources, including specific undertaken by the board, geopolitical committee and the international capability and reward BPs regional businesses advisory board.
Ethics and compliance Government affairs.
Improve the boards understanding of employees views: expand Research and technology the existing ways employee views are disseminated to the Investor relations board to include more local and business based feedback.
Trading 74 See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance Site visits Non-executive directors are expected to visit at least one business per year, as part of their learning programme.
In 2017 the board visited partner operations in Tranby, Norway and BPs trading business in London.
Members of the SEEAC and other directors visited operations in the North Sea and Washington state, and the audit committee visited our global business services offices in Hungary.
The board met local management at each visit, and after each one, the board or appropriate committee was briefed on the impressions gained by the directors during the visit.
Tranby, Norway The board heard about the research being The board visited Akers Tranby technology undertaken in subsea trees, workover centre near Oslo to see the manufacture systems and subsea pumps and saw new of subsea well heads and the research and digital technologies to integrate engineering development centre.
The Tranby site has and manufacturing processes being tested.
been an established centre of excellence for subsea equipment manufacturing for over a decade.
Washington state, US Members of the SEEAC and other directors visited the Cherry Point refinery in Blaine, Washington in June.
The visit focused on operating procedures and safety and risk mitigation.
Investment was discussed, including technology enhancements to produce ultra-low sulphur diesel, increasing logistical optionality and a coker heater project.
Other discussions included the cultural and environmental outreach projects in the area.
They also took a tour of the refinery, control room, the operator training simulator and dock area.
North Sea, UK In July members of the SEEAC and other directors visited Glen Lyon the floating, production, storage and offloading vessel for our Quad 204 major project start-up in the North Sea.
The committee was the first to visit the vessel following production start-up.
Discussions on board the vessel covered project completion and future plans including reviews of production efficiency, operational management, safety, risk mitigation and OMS conformance.
They Global business also visited key areas of the vessel services, Hungary including the control room and riser tower.
The audit committee visited BPs global business service GBS centre located in Budapest in September, where Integrated supply standardized business services including and trading, London finance, procurement, HR, trading settlement and tax are delivered for Members of the board visited BPs trading businesses across the BP group.
operations in London in December to gain an insight into the groups approach The committee received presentations on to trading, oil and gas market fundamentals, the GBS strategy, business model and risk profile and strategy.
They also met local presentations from traders and originators on staff across a range of job levels, including the trading floor and deepened their those involved in diversity and inclusion understanding of the groups oil products initiatives such as LGBT and working parent and LNG business models.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 75
