Key responsibilities Remuneration committee The committee undertakes its tasks in accordance with applicable regulations, including those made from time to time under the Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code and the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules in relation to the remuneration of directors of quoted companies.
Determine the remuneration policy for the chairman and the executive directors.
Review and determine the terms of engagement, remuneration and termination of employment for the chairman and the executive directors as appropriate and in accordance with the policy, and be responsible for compliance with all remuneration issues applicable to them.
Prepare the annual remuneration report to shareholders to show how the policy has been implemented.
Approve the principles of any equity plan that requires shareholder approval.
After extensive shareholder Approve the terms of the remuneration of the executive team engagement, we were pleased to including pension and termination arrangements as proposed receive strong support for our new by the group chief executive.
remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM.
Approve changes to the design of remuneration, for BP group leaders as proposed by the group chief executive.
Monitor implementation of remuneration for group leaders to ensure alignment and proportionality.
Engage independent consultants or other advisers as the committee may from time to time deem necessary, at the expense of the Chairs introduction company.
I am pleased to report on the work of the committee in 2017.
Following substantial engagement with our shareholders in 2016 and early 2017, we were pleased to receive their support at the 2017 AGM.
We applied Members our new remuneration policy from the start of 2017 and during the year Ann Dowling Member since July 2012 and have been addressing some transitional arrangements from old to the chair since May 2015 new policies.
We also reviewed BP pay below the executive team by region, job level and sector to give additional context to our decisions on Alan Boeckmann Member since May 2015 executive pay.
Ian Davis Member since July 2010 Having served on this committee for six years, and as chair for the last Brendan Nelson Member since May 2017 three, I am stepping down from the committee after the 2018 AGM.
Paula Reynolds, who joined the committee in September 2017, will take Paula Reynolds Member since September 2017 the chair.
She is currently chair of the remuneration committee at BAE Andrew Shilston Member since May 2015: Systems plc and has served on that committee since 2015. retired from the committee During the year, Deloitte LLP had to stand down as our independent May 2017 adviser following their forthcoming appointment as auditor.
Following a competitive tender process, we appointed PwC LLP in their place.
Meetings and attendance Professor Dame Ann Dowling Carl-Henric Svanberg and Bob Dudley attend meetings of the Committee chair committee except for matters relating to their own remuneration.
Bob Dudley is consulted on the remuneration of other executive directors, the executive team and more broadly on remuneration across the wider employee population.
Both the group chief executive and chief financial Role of the committee officer are consulted on matters relating to the groups performance.
The role of the committee is to determine and recommend to the board The group human resources director attends meetings and other the remuneration policy for the chairman and executive directors.
In executives may attend where necessary.
The committee consults other determining the policy, the committee takes into account various board committees on the groups performance and on issues relating to factors, including structuring the policy to promote the long-term the exercise of judgement or discretion.
success of the company and linking reward to business performance.
86 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
