Executive team As at 29 March 2018 Tufan Erginbilgic Andy Hopwood Chief executive, Downstream Executive vice-president, chief operating officer, Executive team tenure strategy and regions, Upstream Appointed 1 October 2014 Executive team tenure Outside interests Appointed 1 November 2010 Independent non-executive director of GKN plc Outside interests Member of the Turkish-British No external appointments Chamber of Commerce & Age 60 Nationality British Industry Board of Directors Member of the Strategic Advisory Board of the University Career of Surrey Andy Hopwood is responsible for BPs upstream strategy, portfolio and leadership of its global regional presidents.
Age 58 Nationality British and Turkish Andy joined BP in 1980, spending his first 10 years in operations in Career the North Sea, Wytch Farm and Indonesia.
In 1989 Andy joined the Tufan Erginbilgic was appointed chief executive, Downstream on corporate planning team formulating BPs upstream strategy and 1 October 2014. subsequent portfolio rationalization.
Andy held commercial leadership positions in Mexico and Venezuela before becoming the Upstreams Prior to this, Tufan was the chief operating officer of the fuels business, planning manager.
accountable for BPs fuels value chains worldwide, the global fuels businesses and the refining, sales and commercial optimization Following the BP-Amoco merger, Andy spent time leading BPs functions for fuels.
Tufan joined Mobil in 1990 and BP in 1997 and has businesses in Azerbaijan, Trinidad & Tobago and onshore North held a wide variety of roles in refining and marketing in Turkey, various America.
In 2009 he joined the Upstream executive team as head of European countries and the UK.
portfolio and technology and in 2010 was appointed executive vice president, exploration and production.
In 2004 he became head of the European fuels business.
Tufan took up leadership of BPs lubricant business in 2006 before moving to head the group chief executives office.
In 2009 he became chief operating officer Bernard Looney for the eastern hemisphere fuels value chains and lubricants businesses.
Chief executive, Upstream Executive team tenure Bob Fryar Appointed 1 November 2010 Executive vice president, Outside interests safety and operational risk Fellow of the Royal Academy Executive team tenure of Engineering Member of the Stanford Appointed 1 October 2010 University Graduate School of Outside interests Business Advisory Council No external appointments Fellow of the Energy Institute Age 54 Nationality American Age 47 Nationality Irish Career Career Bob Fryar is responsible for strengthening safety, operational risk Bernard Looney is responsible for the Upstream segment which management and the systematic management of operations across consists of exploration, development and production.
He is group head of safety and operational risk, with Bernard joined BP in 1991 as a drilling engineer, working in the North accountability for group-level disciplines including engineering, health, Sea, Vietnam and the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2005 he became senior vice safety, security, remediation management and the environment.
In this president for BP Alaska before becoming head of the group chief capacity, he looks after the group-wide operating management system executives office in 2007. implementation and capability programmes.
In 2009 he became the managing director of BPs North Sea business Bob has over 30 years experience in the oil and gas industry, having in the UK and Norway.
At the same time, Bernard became a member joined Amoco Production Company in 1985.
Between 2010 and of the Oil & Gas UK Board.
He became executive vice president, 2013, Bob was executive vice president of the production division, developments, in October 2010, and in February 2013 became chief accountable for safe and compliant exploration and production operating officer, production, serving in the role until April 2016. operations and stewardship of resources across all regions.
Prior to this, Bob was chief executive of BP Angola and also held several management positions in Trinidad, including chief operating officer for Atlantic LNG and vice president of operations.
Bob has also served in a variety of engineering and management positions in onshore US and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
66 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance Corporate governance The executive team represents the principal executive leadership of the BP group.
Its members include BPs executive directors Bob Dudley and Dr Brian Gilvary whose biographies appear on pages 61-65 and the senior management listed on these pages.
The ages of the executive team are correct as at 29 March 2018.
Lamar McKay Dev Sanyal Chief executive, alternative Deputy group chief executive energy and executive vice Executive team tenure president, regions Appointed 16 June 2008 Executive team tenure Outside interests Appointed 1 January 2012 No external appointments Outside interests Age 59 Nationality American Independent non-executive director of Man Group plc Member of the Accenture Global Energy Board Career Member, International Advisory Board of the Ministry of Petroleum Lamar McKay is accountable for group strategy and long-term and Natural Gas, Government of India planning, safety and operational risk and group technology.
In addition Member of the Board of Advisors of the Fletcher School of Law and to supporting the group chief executive, he also focuses on various Diplomacy, Tufts University corporate governance activities including ethics and compliance.
Age 52 Nationality British and Indian Lamar started his career in 1980 with Amoco and held a range of technical and leadership roles.
Career During 1998 to 2000, he worked on the BP-Amoco merger and served Dev Sanyal is responsible for alternative energy and for the Europe and as head of strategy and planning for the exploration and production Asia regions and functionally for risk management, government and business.
In 2000 he became business unit leader for the central North political affairs, economics and policy.
In 2001 he became chief of staff for exploration and production, Dev joined BP in 1989 and has held a variety of international roles in and subsequently for BPs deputy group chief executive.
Lamar became London, Athens, Istanbul, Vienna and Dubai.
He was general manager, group vice president, Russia and Kazakhstan in 2003.
He served as a Former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, prior to being appointed chief member of the board of directors of TNK-BP between February 2004 executive, BP Eastern Mediterranean Fuels in 1999. and May 2007.
In November 2003 he was appointed chief executive officer of Air In 2007 he was appointed executive vice president, BP America.
In 2008 BP International and in June 2006 was appointed head of the group he became executive vice president, special projects where he led BPs chief executives office.
He was appointed group vice president and efforts to restructure the governance framework for TNK-BP.
During this period, he was also chairman of Lamar was appointed chairman and president of BP America, serving as BP Investment Management Ltd and was accountable for the groups BPs chief representative in the US.
In January 2013, he became chief aluminium interests.
Until April 2016, Dev was executive vice president, executive, Upstream, responsible for exploration, development and strategy and regions.
production, serving in the role until April 2016.
Helmut Schuster Eric Nitcher Executive vice president, Group general counsel group human resources Executive team tenure Executive team tenure Appointed 1 January 2017 Appointed 1 March 2011 Outside interests Outside interests No external appointments Non-executive director of Ivoclar Age 55 Nationality American Vivadent AG, Germany Age 57 Nationality Austrian Career Career Eric Nitcher is responsible for legal matters across the BP group.
Helmut Schuster became group human resources HR director in Eric began his career in the late 1980s working as a litigation and regulatory March 2011.
In this role he is accountable for the BP human resources lawyer in Wichita, Kansas.
He joined Amoco in 1990 and over the years function.
has held a wide variety of roles, both within and outside the US.
He completed his post graduate diploma in international relations and his In 2000, Eric moved to London to work in the mergers and acquisitions PhD in economics at the University of Vienna and then began his career legal team where he played a key role in the formation of the Russian joint working for Henkel in a marketing capacity.
Since joining BP in 1989 venture TNK-BP.
Eric returned to Houston in 2007 where he served as Helmut has held a number of leadership roles.
He has worked in BP in special counsel and chief of staff to BP Americas chairman and president.
the US, UK and continental Europe and within most parts of refining, Most recently he played a leading role in the settlement of the Deepwater marketing, trading and gas and power.
Horizon government claims and resolution of most of the remaining private Before taking on his current role, his portfolio of responsibilities as vice claims being litigated in New Orleans.
president, HR included the refining and marketing segment of BP and corporate and functions.
That role saw him leading the people agenda for roughly 60,000 people across the globe that included businesses such as petrochemicals, fuels value chains, lubricants and functional experts across the group.
Outside of his role, Helmut is a non-executive director of Ivoclar Vivadent.
Additionally, he is an alumni and advocate of AFS, an international exchange organization.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 67
