72 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Nomination and Governance Committee Report Responsibilities Dear Shareholder, The specific responsibilities and duties of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference which are available on our I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination and website www.
Composition of the Board and its Committees Membership and meetings The Committee conducted a review of the composition of The Committee met nine times during 2017. the Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees: and its own composition during 2017, carefully considering the skills of I would like to welcome David Weymouth, Chairman of the the existing members and looking at any skills gaps applicable Board, who became a member of this Committee on to each Committee.
During the year, David Weymouth was 1 September 2017.
The other members are myself Rod Duke appointed Chairman of the Board and Margaret Hassall was and Mary McNamara.
I would also like to thank Tim Hanford, appointed as a member of the Audit Committee.
who retired from the Board on 31 December 2017, for his contribution to this Committee.
In addition, the Committee discussed and considered the size of the Board and acknowledged the benefit of maintaining the Appointment of the Chairman Board at its current size.
The previous Chairman, Mike Fairey, retired at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
In anticipation of his retirement, the Committee 1 Succession planning had instructed Per Ardua to conduct an extensive search for The Committee considered both Board and Executive level candidates with strong financial services experience.
The remit succession planning during 2017.
This included the progress was to provide, where possible, a 50 50 split of female and of employees identified as part of the talent development male candidates.
The search was thorough and refined by programme which was rolled out the prior year.
Executives preliminary interviews, to a diverse shortlist of high quality are also regularly invited to attend Board and Committee candidates.
David Weymouth was selected on merit as our meetings as part of their development.
preferred candidate following a number of interviews, meetings, mutual due diligence and regulatory approval.
David was Diversity appointed Chairman of our Bank with effect from 1 September Our Bank recognises and embraces the benefits of having 2017.
Davids biography is included on page 60, which a diverse Board and workforce, and sees diversity at Board demonstrates his extensive financial services experience in top level as an essential element in maintaining a competitive executive, and non-executive board roles.
We are satisfied that the composition of the Board is operating well, and we will advantage.
We believe that a truly diverse Board and continue to monitor Board and Committee membership in Company workforce will include and make good use of 2018.
Further details on the composition and balance of the differences in the skills, regional and industry experience, Board and its Committees are provided below.
background, race, gender and other distinctions between people.
The Board recognises for itself that diversity is the Rod Duke key to better decision making and avoiding group think.
Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee and Senior Independent Director These differences are considered in determining the optimum 15 March 2018 composition of the Board and when possible will be balanced appropriately.
All Board appointments are made on merit, in the context of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge which the Board as a whole requires to be effective.
Does not have any other connection with the Company.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 73 The Committee regularly reviews diversity initiatives including Governance The Committee reviewed changes in the regulatory landscape, its annual review of the Equality and Diversity policy.
The particularly the proposals on Corporate Governance Reform, Board remains committed to the Women in Finance Charter the governments nine point action plan and the Companys and has introduced measurable objectives with our aim approach to addressing them.
continuing to be that 30% of senior management positions within the Groups UK population will be undertaken by female Activities during 2017 employees by the end of 2020.
Currently, 33% of our Board In last years report the Committee identified six key priorities.
Our Bank has also appointed a Diversity Champion to promote a series of diversity initiatives such as our A summary of actions taken and outcomes are set out in the commitment to those with a disability, mental health in the table below: workplace and unconscious bias training.
Further details relating to diversity and inclusion are set out on page 53.
Objective Action taken 2 Review and embed Board effectiveness The recommendations from the Promontory Report have been 2 recommendations from the Promontory Report implemented and the Committee will continue to monitor and ensure that they are embedded.
Chairman search The Committee spent a considerable amount of time searching for a new Chairman.
A new Chairman has been appointed with effect from 1 September 2017.
Succession planning for senior executives The Committee considered succession planning of senior executives.
Developing the talent pipeline The Committee considered reports on the talent pool and the actions being taken to develop and retain key talent.
Development of corporate purpose and The Group has enhanced its environmental policy.
This will continue sustainability to be an area of focus in 2018.
Oversee the successful implementation of diversity A number of diversity initiatives relating to disability, mental health initiatives and unconscious bias were introduced throughout the Group.
Focusing on the attainment of the Women in With an Executive Committee and senior management team that Finance Charter target by 2020 to date have seen little attrition, we are aware that this target is something that will take time to achieve.
To address our current position we are introducing a range of initiatives, including seeking to interview equal numbers of male and female candidates at first round interview stage for all vacant roles at management level and above.
Promontory Financial Group LLC, does not have any other connection with the Company.
Priorities for 2018 The Committees priorities for 2018 are: Continue to focus on fulfilling our commitment to the Women in Finance Charter Oversee the development and implementation of our action plan for Gender Pay Gap Reporting Oversee a revised approach to cultural engagement within the Group Corporate governance reform Corporate purpose and sustainability Board and Committee succession planning Embedding diversity initiatives Board and Committee effectiveness Oversee development of the talent pipeline
