Corporate governance The committee met eight times during the year.
All directors attended Geopolitical committee each meeting that they were eligible to attend, either in person or by telephone, except that Alan Boeckman was not able to attend a telephone meeting on 27 February in 2017.
Activities during the year In the period before the 2017 AGM, the committee focused on finalizing the proposed new remuneration policy and outcomes for 2016.
This involved reviewing directors salaries and the groups performance outcome which in turn determined the annual bonus and the performance share plan.
From the 2017 AGM, the committee focused on implementing the new policy, in particular looking more broadly at remuneration of employees below the executive team and the measures that could be used to reflect the transition to a lower carbon world.
It also considered the implications of the transition from the 2014 to the 2017 policies, in particular aspects relating to share grants, and reviewed potential outcomes for 2017 at the end of the year.
Chairmans introduction Following the appointment of Deloitte as the groups statutory auditor I am pleased to report on the work of the geopolitical committee from 2018 subject to shareholder approval and the need for the firm in 2017, which continued to develop and evolve during the year.
In to be independent prior to the transition of the audit, the committee addition to our regular meetings, we visited the groups response appointed PwC as its independent adviser effective September 2017. information centre in Sunbury, where we were briefed on the groups The committee continued to monitor developments in potential practices and procedures.
During 2017 I also joined discussions of the regulation and legislation and held early discussions on the possible international advisory board.
It also considered the companys disclosure on the UK gender pay gap.
Cynthia Carroll and Andrew Shilston stood down from the board at the 2017 AGM, and Melody Meyer joined the committee in May.
In each of its meetings, the committee focused on the overall quantum Other board members joined our meetings from time to time.
of executive director remuneration and its alignment to the broader group of employees in BP.
It has sought to reflect the views of Sir John Sawers shareholders and the broader societal context in its decisions.
Committee chair Shareholder engagement There was substantial engagement with shareholders and proxy voting Role of the committee agencies ahead of the 2017 AGM, primarily carried out by the chair of The committee monitors the companys identification and management the committee, supported by the chairman and company secretary.
committee chair tested proposals and sought support for the new policy put to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
In order to understand evolving Key responsibilities issues particularly around climate change engagement continued throughout the year, primarily with larger shareholders and Monitor the companys identification and management of major and representative bodies.
correlated geopolitical risk and consider reputational as well as financial consequences: Committee evaluation Major geopolitical risks are those brought about by social, We undertook an internally facilitated evaluation to examine the economic or political events that occur in countries where BP has committees performance in 2017.
The evaluation concluded that material investments.
the committee had worked well and continued to evolve after its Correlated geopolitical risks are those brought about by social, intense work leading up to the 2017 AGM.
economic or political events that occur in countries where BP may Focus areas for 2018 included improving oversight of stakeholders or may not have a presence but that can lead to global political views on remuneration and in particular, deepening the committees instability.
understanding of remuneration below the executive level.
In Review BPs activities in the context of political and economic addition, we focussed on staying up to date with external developments on a regional basis and advise the board on these developments and emerging best practice and improving elements in its consideration of BPs strategy and the annual plan.
See page 90 for the Directors remuneration report.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 87
