10 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our business model The Group leverages our unique business model to differentiate ourselves from the competition, offering well-defined propositions in our chosen markets.
We apply a specialist, personal and flexible approach to our intermediary and customer relationships, focusing on delivering long-term value.
What we do and relationships Brands and heritage Attractive We have a family of specialist retail savings lending brands supported by We deliver straightforward our savings franchise with products that meet a150-year heritage.
customer needs for cash savings.
We offer good and consistent value to attract and retain a loyal customer Employees base, without having to Our team of highly-skilled price at the top of the best employees possess expertise buy tables.
andin-depth knowledge of the Our proven retail savings propertyand savings markets.
performance provides a stable, long-term funding platform to grow our loan book.
Infrastructure We benefit from cost Specialist How we do it advantages provided by our Our channels: wholly-owned subsidiary Online OSBIndia.
lending 36% business Relationships with intermediaries We have strong and deep Direct relationships with the mortgage intermediaries who distribute ourproducts.
41% Financial High street branches We have a strong equity Tier 1 capital ratio which can support significant loan book growth.
23% Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 1.
25% of underlying profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders.
Retention is defined as monthly average ratio of maturing contractual retail deposits which withdraw their funds on maturity.
Outcomes and value creation For shareholders Unique We aim for strong EPS growth operating and a dividend payout of at least 25% of underlying earnings.
model We capitalise on our crossEPS DPS company expertise, operating 51.1p 12.8p under a common operational framework that supports our key lending brands.
Distribution, We focus on specialist For employees sales, credit and risk processes mortgagelending to consumers, We invest in training and operate under a simple, entrepreneurs and SMEs in coordinated management development and employee sub-sectors of the UK market structure giving us the ability to where we have identified engagement activities to make present our multiple lending opportunities for high returns on a OSBthe best workplace it brands with great efficiency.
risk-adjusted basis and where we can be.
We put customer needs Employees Employees who firstand drive continuous We adopt an expertise-based, promoted in 2017 attended learning customer-focused bespoke and manual approach to events in 2017 improvement through our underwriting in each market flexible and cost-effective sub-sector, specifically geared to 76 685 operating platform.
We do not use automated or scorecardbased processes for underwriting How we do it For customers newloans.
We provide a great customer Our customer service administrative functions experience and deliver high How we do it arebased in our wholly-owned levels of customer satisfaction.
Our segments are: 2 Customer NPS Customer retention Cost to income ratio 62 90% Buy-to-Let SME lending 77% For communities 27% We have well-established community services Residential lending programmes in the UK 23% andIndia.
