Corporate governance Directors statements The parent company financial statements, prepared in accordance Statement of directors responsibilities with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice, give a The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
performance and cash flows of the company.
The directors are required by the UK Companies Act 2006 to prepare The management report, which is incorporated in the strategic report financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view and directors report, includes a fair review of the development and of the financial position of the group and the parent company and the performance of the business and the position of the group, together financial performance and cash flows of the group and parent company with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Under that law they are required to prepare the C-H Svanberg consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Chairman Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union 29 March 2018 EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Risk management and internal control and United Kingdom accounting standards United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice.
In preparing the consolidated financial Under the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, the board is statements the directors have also elected to comply with IFRS as responsible for the companys risk management and internal control issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In discharging this responsibility the board, through its governance principles, requires the group chief executive to operate the In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: company with a comprehensive system of controls and internal audit to Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
identify and manage the risks that are material to BP.
In turn, the board, Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
through its monitoring processes, satisfies itself that these material risks Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that are identified and understood by management and that systems of risk provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable management and internal control are in place to mitigate them.
systems are reviewed periodically by the board, have been in place for Provide additional disclosure when compliance with the specific the year under review and up to the date of this report and are consistent requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the with the requirements of principle C. 2 of the Code.
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance.
The board has processes in place to: State that applicable accounting standards have been followed, Assess the principal risks facing the company.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Monitor the companys system of internal control which includes parent company financial statements.
the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it principal risks.
is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
Review the effectiveness of that system annually.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that Non-operated joint ventures and associates have not been dealt with as disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of part of this board process.
the group and company and enable them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 A description of the principal risks facing the company, including those of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements that could potentially threaten its business model, future performance, comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for solvency or liquidity, is set out in Risk factors on page 57.
During the safeguarding the assets of the group and company and hence for taking year, the board undertook a robust assessment of the principal risks reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other facing the company.
The principal means by which these risks are irregularities.
managed or mitigated are set out in How we manage risk on page 55.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware, In assessing the risks faced by the company and monitoring the system there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of the of internal control, the board and the audit, safety, ethics and Companies Act 2006 of which the companys auditors are unaware, environment assurance and geopolitical committees requested, and the directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to received and reviewed reports from executive management, including make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to management of the business segments, corporate activities and establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
functions, at their regular meetings.
A report by each of these committees, including its activities during the year, is set out on The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: pages 77-89.
The consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with During the year, the committees also met with management, the group IFRS as issued by the IASB, IFRS as adopted by the EU and in head of audit and other monitoring and assurance functions including accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, give a true group ethics and compliance, safety and operational risk, group control, and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss group legal and group risk and the external auditor.
Responses by of the group.
management to incidents that occurred were considered by the appropriate committee or the board.
This page does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 113 An audit committee meeting in February 2018 carried out an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In considering this system, the audit committee noted that it is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This review included a report from the group head of audit which summarized group audits consideration of the design and operation of elements of BPs system of internal control over significant risks arising in the categories of strategic and commercial, safety and operational and compliance and control and considered the control environment for the group.
The report also highlighted the results of internal audit work conducted during the year and the remedial actions taken by management in response to failings and weaknesses identified.
Where failings or weaknesses were identified, the audit committee was satisfied that these were or are being appropriately addressed by the remedial actions proposed by management.
At its meeting in March 2018, the board considered the review undertaken by the audit committee and the proposed disclosures outlining the companys risk management and internal control systems prior to publication of the annual report and accounts.
A statement regarding the companys internal controls over financial reporting is set out on page 275.
Longer-term viability In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the directors have assessed the prospects of the company over a period significantly longer than 12 months.
The directors believe that an assessment period of three years is appropriate based on managements reasonable expectations of the position and performance of the company over this period, taking account of its short-term and longer-range plans.
Taking into account the companys current position and its principal risks on page 57, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over three years.
The directors assessment included a review of the financial impact of the most severe but plausible scenarios that could threaten the viability of the company and the likely effectiveness of the potential mitigations that management reasonably believes would be available to the company over this period.
In assessing the prospects of the company, the directors noted that such assessment is subject to a degree of uncertainty that can be expected to increase looking out over time and, accordingly, that future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Going concern In accordance with provision C. 1.3 of the Code, the directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Fair, balanced and understandable The board considers the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
114 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
