08 Market review Gathering momentum in key infrastructure markets Construction Services Backed by strong government support, UK and US infrastructure spend is accelerating.
Key Medium-term market outlook Growth Infrastructure Buildings UK & Ireland Flat US Contraction Far East UK & Ireland The infrastructure market is forecast to rise to double-digit percentage growth in 2019.
This is backed by a government commitment to increase spending on infrastructure to over # 1%ofGDP by 2020-2021.
The building market is expected to remain at over the coming three years.
However, there are regional variations, with growth in the South East and North of England, but weakness in London.
Balfour Beatty will continue to react to market changes by bidding selectively.
US Public spending and legislation continue to provide favourable tailwinds in the US civils market, with the FAST Act and Transportation Bonds driving a high level of state investment over the coming years.
In the building market, urbanisation is contributing to growth of the construction market in Balfour Beattys chosen geographies.
More broadly, the market is entering a mature phase of expansion, following rapid growth in recent years.
Far East Hong Kong continues to deliver a strong pipeline of infrastructure and construction projects, benefiting from high public and private sector demand.
Over the medium term, the Hong Kong and Singapore markets that the Group operates in will show continued good growth.
# Construction Forecast Feb 2018, Construction Services p16 Construction Products Association.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 09 Support Services Infrastructure Investments Medium-term market outlook Medium-term opportunity levels Power Gas WaterHighways Rail PPP PFI Other UK & UK & Ireland Ireland Power US Regulated transmission networks and Offshore Transmission Owners OFTOs are expected to drive growth in the market.
UK Balfour Beattys investment opportunities in the years to 2020 are Gas expected to arise principally in student accommodation and OFTOs.
The industry is currently in the middle of the RIIO GD1 regulatory period: there are unlikely to be any significant shifts in the market US until 2020-2021.
Student accommodation and military housing continue to offer significant investment opportunities in the US market, and there are Water a number of attractive major infrastructure projects in the pipeline.
Stable market with incremental changes as AMP6 ramps down through 2018, and AMP7 ramps up from 2019.
Highways Highways England is forecasting significant increases in expenditure, representing a significant opportunity in the coming years.
Rail 2018 is likely to see a reduction in spend as CP5 contracts draw to a close.
However, 2019-2020 is likely to see an upswing in expenditure as CP6 ramps up.
Support Services p22 Infrastructure Investments p24 balfourbeatty.
