How we run our business From the deep sea to the desert, Business model foundations from rigs to retail, we deliver energy products and services Safe and reliable operations Talented people to people around the world.
We strive to create and maintain a safe We work to attract, motivate, develop and operating culture where safety is front and retain the best talent the world offers and We provide customers with fuel for transport, centre.
This is not only safer for people equip our people with the right skills for energy for heat and light, lubricants to keep and the environment it also improves the the future.
Our performance and ability to engines moving and the petrochemicals reliability of our assets.
thrive globally depends on it.
products used to make everyday items such as paints, clothes and packaging.
See Safety and security on page 47.
We have a diverse portfolio across businesses, resource types and geographies.
Having upstream and downstream businesses, along with well-established trading capabilities, helps to mitigate the Finding oil and gas impact of commodity pricing cycles.
Our geographic reach gives us access to growing markets and new resources, as well as diversifying exposure to geopolitical events.
We believe that our long history, well-recognized brands and customer offers, combined with our unique partnership with Rosneft, help differentiate us from our peers.
Developing and extracting oil and gas Our role in society Creating shareholder value The energy we produce helps to support economic growth and improve quality Finding oil and gas We also seek to grow or extend the life of of life for millions of people.
We strive to New access allows us to renew our portfolio, existing fields such as our Quad 204 major be a world-class operator, a responsible discover additional resources and replenish project which aims to unlock additional corporate citizen and a good employer.
We focus our resources from the Schiehallion area exploration activities in the areas that are of the UK North Sea.
We believe that the societies and competitive in the portfolio, and develop and communities we work in should benefit use technology to reduce costs and risks.
Transporting and trading from our presence.
In supplying energy We move oil and gas through pipelines and we contribute to economies around the Developing and extracting by ship, truck and rail.
We also trade a variety world by employing local staff, helping oil and gas of products including oil, natural gas, liquefied to develop national and local suppliers, We create value by seeking to progress natural gas, power, carbon products and and through the taxes we pay to hydrocarbon resources and turn them into currencies.
BPs traders complete around governments.
Additionally, we aim proved reserves or divest them if they do not 550,000 transactions and serve more to create meaningful, sustainable and fit with our strategic priorities.
We develop than 12,000 customers across some positive impacts in those communities the resources that meet our return threshold, 140 countries in a year.
Our customers through our social investments.
and produce hydrocarbons that we then sell range from independent power producers bp.
com society to the market or distribute to our downstream to utilities and municipalities.
In addition we are facilities.
Our upstream pipeline of future helping to meet LNG demand in Asia including projects gives us choice about which we developments in China and Vietnam.
4 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic report overview Technology, innovation and venturing Partnerships and collaboration Governance and oversight New technologies are enabling us to produce We aim to build enduring relationships Our risk management systems and policy energy safely and more efficiently.
We with governments, customers, partners, provide a consistent and clear framework selectively research and invest in areas with suppliers and communities in the countries for managing and reporting risks.
The board the potential to add greatest value to our where we operate.
regularly reviews how we identify, evaluate business now and in the future.
See Innovation in BP on page 44.
See How we manage risk on page 55.
Marketing fuels and products Transporting and trading Manufacturing Generating renewable energy We use our market intelligence to analyse Our lubricants business has premium Generating renewable energy supply and demand for commodities across brands and access to growth markets.
We have been investing in renewables our global network.
This helps us deliver It also leverages technology and customer for many years and our focus today is on what the market needs, when it needs it, relationships, all of which we believe gives biofuels, biopower, wind energy and solar identify the best markets for BPs crude us competitive advantage.
We operate a biofuels business in oil, source optimal raw materials for our automotive, industrial, marine and energy Brazil, using one of the worlds most refineries and provide competitive supply markets across the world.
sustainable and advantaged feedstocks to for our marketing businesses.
produce both low carbon ethanol and low And in petrochemicals our proprietary carbon power.
We provide renewable power technology solutions deliver leading cost Manufacturing and marketing fuels through our significant interests in onshore positions compared to our competitors.
and products wind energy in the US, and develop In addition to our own petrochemicals We produce refined petroleum products at and deploy technology in our wind business plants, we work with partners and license our refineries and supply distinctive fuel and to drive efficiency.
Through our acquisition of our technology to third parties.
convenience retail services to consumers.
Clean Energys renewable natural gas Our advantaged infrastructure, logistics business, we are helping to power vehicle network and key partnerships help us to fleets from organic waste.
And in solar have differentiated fuels businesses and energy we will target the growing demand deliver compelling customer offers.
for large-scale solar projects worldwide, including with our partner Lightsource.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 5 5
