Our strategy Our industry is changing at a pace Growing gas and not seen in decades.
Oil, gas and renewables are becoming more advantaged oil in abundant and less costly.
the upstream Through new technologies, energy will be produced more efficiently and in new ways, helping to meet the expected rise in demand.
And the world is working towards a lower carbon future.
Our strategy allows us to be competitive at a time when prices, policy, technology and customer preferences are evolving.
Invest in more gas and We believe having a balanced portfolio oil, producing both with with advantaged oil and gas, competitive downstream and low carbon activities, increasing efficiency.
as well as a dynamic investment strategy give us resilience.
With the experience we have, the portfolio we have created and the flexibility of Key highlights Major project start-ups our strategy, we can embrace the energy Started up seven major projects, making a transition in a way that enhances our significant contribution to the 900,000 barrels investor proposition, while meeting per day of expected new production by 2021. the need for energy today.
Exploration successes Made six potentially commercial discoveries two in the UK, two in Trinidad, one in Egypt and one in Senegal with our partner Kosmos Energy.
See page 27 Seismic success Found significant additional oil resources at our Atlantis field in the Gulf of Mexico using a new seismic imaging technique.
Enduring relationships Extended our contract in the Azeri-ChiragGunashi field in Azerbaijan for a further 25 years, continuing our long-term advantaged More information oil production.
Financial framework How this underpins our commitment to sustain the dividend for our shareholders.
See page 25 12 See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic report strategy Market-led growth Venturing and Modernizing in the downstream low carbon across the whole group multiple fronts Innovate with advanced Pursue new opportunities Simplify our processes and products and strategic to meet evolving technology, enhance our productivity retail partnerships.
Convenience partnerships Advancing biofuel technology Automating well construction Continued the rollout of our convenience Acquired the Nesika ethanol plant in Kansas, Launched DrillPlan a new technology partnership model across our retail network with joint venture partner DuPont, to to automate the entire well construction adding more than 220 sites in 2017, bringing commercialize Butamax bio-isobutanol process at our Khazzan field in Oman, the total to 1,100. technology.
Retail sites in Mexico Investing in artificial intelligence Serving customers digitally Became the first global brand to enter Invested in AI software for the oil and gas Launched a range of digital apps to the Mexican retail fuels market since industry with venture partner Beyond Limits.
enhance our customers experiences, deregulation opening more than 120 such as BPMe and in partnership with BP-branded retail sites during the year.
Speedier solutions Began a multi-year project to move our electronic information from physical data centres to the cloud.
See page 33 See page 46 Renewable gas Lower carbon products Acquired Clean Energys renewable Expanded our lower carbon products natural gas business giving BP access to its portfolio with Castrol EDGE BIO-SYNTHETIC network of gas transport customers and now available in the US, the supply of jet helping to make biogas, made from organic biofuel in Sweden and Norway, and our PTAir See page 23 waste, more accessible to natural gas brand now available globally.
Carbon trading High-quality lubricants Used our powerful market insights and Generating solar energy innovative platforms to help generate over Announced plans to build a high-quality Partnered with Lightsource Europes largest 12 million tonnes of CO reductions through 2 lubricants blend plant in China.
solar development company to help propel carbon offsetting projects to help customers its continuing and rapid expansion worldwide.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary 13
