Corporate governance Committee reports Role of the committee Audit committee The committee monitors the effectiveness of the groups financial reporting, systems of internal control and risk management and the integrity of the groups external and internal audit processes.
Key responsibilities Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management or mitigation of financial risks is appropriately addressed by the group chief executive and that the system of internal control is designed and implemented effectively in support of the limits imposed by the board executive limitations, as set out in the BP board governance principles.
Reviewing financial statements and other financial disclosures and monitoring compliance with relevant legal and listing requirements.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the group audit function, BPs internal financial controls and systems of internal control and risk management.
Overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and The committee continued to review the performance of the external auditor and the integrity of the audit process as a whole, including the engagement of the external auditor integrity of the groups disclosures by to supply non-audit services to BP.
challenging and debating the Reviewing the systems in place to enable those who work for BP to judgements made by management.
raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other issues and for those matters to be investigated.
Members Chairmans introduction Brendan Nelson Member since November 2010 and chair since April 2011 Last years report highlighted our monitoring of the groups financial performance in light of the demanding external environment.
While this Nils Andersen Member since October 2016 focus remains, the committee has continued to review the integrity of Paula Reynolds Member since May 2015 the groups financial reporting by challenging and debating the judgements made by management, including the estimates which are Andrew Shilston Member since February 2012: made.
We receive reports from management and the external auditor retired May 2017 each quarter highlighting significant accounting issues and judgements Brendan Nelson is chair of the audit committee.
He was formerly and have used these to inform our debate on whether BPs financial vice chairman of KPMG and president of the Institute of Chartered reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
Currently he is chairman of the group audit In 2017 the committee focused on the effectiveness of the group audit committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and a member of function.
We reviewed its longer-term vision and capability and oversaw the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
The board is satisfied that he is an externally facilitated review of its performance, the results of which the audit committee member with recent and relevant financial we discussed in a joint session with colleagues from the SEEAC.
We experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code and will continue to focus on the actions arising from the review in 2018. competence in accounting and auditing as required by the FCAs Corporate Governance Rules in DTR7.
It considers that the committee Following the 2016 tender process for the statutory audit, the as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of commercial, committee has overseen the transition to Deloitte from EY in time for financial and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to 2018.
We met with both EY and Deloitte during 2017 and monitored address, as well as competence in the oil and gas sector.
The board also Deloittes progress towards independence in time for their shadowing determined that the audit committee meets the independence criteria of the 2017 year-end audit.
provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and The committee visited one of the groups global business service that Brendan may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert as centres, located in Budapest, enabling us to see first hand the work defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F. undertaken by this growing part of BPs operations and to meet local staff.
We found this direct contact added an important additional Meetings and attendance dimension to our review and understanding, and intend to hold further site visits in 2018.
There were 13 committee meetings in 2017, of which six were by teleconference.
All directors attended every meeting during the period Andrew Shilston retired from the committee in May 2017.
I would like in which they were committee members.
to thank Andrew for his service to the committee, and for the challenge and perspective he provided as a member.
Regular attendees at the meetings include the chief financial officer, group controller, chief accounting officer, group head of audit and Brendan Nelson external auditor.
Committee chair BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 77
