HEAD 0 2ND LINE DIreCtorS' rePort Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 DIreCtorS' rePort Introduction the Directors present their annual report of the business and the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2017. the Directors report is required to be produced under the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
the financial Conduct Authoritys fCA Disclosure Guidance and transparency rules Dtrs and Listing rules Lrs also require the Company to make certain disclosures.
the purpose of the Directors report is to provide shareholders with certain statutory information about the Company, its Directors and its operations.
the Strategic report informs shareholders of and helps them assess how the Directors have performed in their duty to promote the success of the company.
other information that is relevant to this report, and which is also incorporated by reference, including information required in accordance with the Act and Lr 9.8.
4r, can be located as follows: Disclosure Section Pages Directors emoluments Directors remuneration report page 57 Long term Incentive schemes Details of the Groups employee share schemes are set out in Note23 of the consolidated financial statements and also on pages 65 and 66 of the Directors annual report on remuneration.
Details of the shares held by the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc employee Benefit trust can be found In the Directors report on pages 35 and 36 and in Note30 of the Consolidated financial Statements on page 135 Interest capitalised by the Group Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements page 108 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary None Contract of Significance with a controlling shareholder None Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Note 33 of the consolidated financial statements page 137 Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash None Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major None subsidiary undertakings Agreements with the controlling shareholder Corporate governance statement page 46 employee involvement and policies Corporate responsibility page 18 Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate responsibility page 20 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 35 Company status should stand for election or re-election by credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc is a shareholders every year, all members of are set out in Note 22 to the consolidated public limited company incorporated the Board will retire and seek election or financial statements.
under the laws of england and Wales.
It re-election at this years annual general has a premium listing on the London Stock meeting.
the eligibility requirements for Greenhouse gas emissions exchange main market for listed securities directors to be appointed at a general All disclosures concerning the Groups and is a constituent of the ftSe 250 index.
meeting are specified in the Companys greenhouse gas emissions can be found Articles of Association.
in the Corporate responsibility report on Strategic Report pages 19 to 21. this report is prepared by the Directors A Director may be removed by the and is found on pages 4 to 30. the Company in certain circumstances as set Employee involvement and disabled Strategic report is required by the Act to out in the Companys Articles of Association persons provide a fair review of the Companys or the Directors appointment agreement, We value highly the rich ethnic and business, including an analysis of the including by an ordinary resolution of cultural diversity of our people.
the Group development and performance of the the Company, upon being given written operates in 27 countries and employs an Companys business during the year and notice to resign signed by all of the other average of 11,602 employees worldwide.
the position of its business at the end of the Directors or in the event the Director We are an equal opportunities employer year and a description of the Companys becomes prohibited by law from acting as and our objective is to ensure that no strategy and business model.
employee or other worker or job applicant receives less favourable treatment, directly Board of Directors Results and dividends or indirectly, on the grounds of age, the names and biographical details of the the results of the Group for the year ended disability, gender reassignment, marital Directors holding office as at 31December 31 December 2017 are set out on pages 80 or civil partner status, pregnancy or 2017 are shown on pages 32 to 33. to 149. maternity, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, sex or except for Martin Leitch and Christian An interim dividend for the year ended sexual orientation.
fide Charnac, who were appointed as 31December 2017 of 2.08p per share was Independent Non-executive Directors with paid on 29 September 2017. the Directors further, our policies encourage the effect from 22 May 2017 and 16 August 2017, are recommending a final dividend of employment, training and advancement respectively, all other Directors who held 4.42 p per share 2016: 5.66p, which, if of disabled persons, having regard to office at 31 December 2017 served on the approved at the annual general meeting their particular aptitudes and abilities, Board during the entire year.
on 4 May 2018, will be paid on 11 May 2018 provided that they can be employed in to shareholders on the register on 16 March a safe working environment.
Suitable Directors shareholdings 2018. employment would, if possible, be found Details of the Directors shareholdings for any employee who becomes disabled at the year-end are shown on page 60.
Political donations and expenditure during the course of employment.
No change to these shareholdings has No donations were made by the Group for occurred between 31 December 2017 and political purposes and the Group did not the Group values the engagement of the date of this report.
incur any political expenditure during the its employees and endeavours to keep year 2016: nil.
the Company operates employees informed about matters of Appointment and removal of Directors a politically neutral policy with regard to concern to them and the performance A Director may be appointed to fill a any political donations and expenditure of the Company, whether through casual vacancy or as an additional it may elect to make.
See the Corporate management presentations, global Director by an ordinary resolution of responsibility review on page 16 for details and regional intranet sites and other shareholders.
In addition, the Directors of the Companys non-political charitable communications.
Likewise, the Group may appoint a Director to fill a casual activities.
seeks to consult with employees on a vacancy or as an additional Director, regular basis so that their views can be provided that the individual retires at the Financial instruments taken into account.
the Group operates next annual general meeting.
An indication of the Groups financial risk an HMrevenue & Customs compliant Save management objectives and policies in as You earn Scheme in the UK which is an In line with the Code, which provides respect of the use of financial instruments all employee share plan for employees that all directors of ftSe 350 companies and exposure of the Company to price risk, in the UK, and Long term Incentive plan, HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CoNtINUeD Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 DIreCtorS' rePort CoNtINUeD executive Share plan and Deferred Share Significant agreements None of the Companys shares carry Bonus plan for certain levels of executives there are no significant agreements to special rights with regard to control of globally.
the primary aims of these which the Company is a party that take the Company.
Neither the Companys plans are to incentivise and engage our effect, are altered or terminate upon management nor its Directors are aware employees and align their interests with the a change of control of the Company of any agreements between shareholders Groups performance.
further details on following a takeover bid.
However, as that could result in restrictions on the employee benefits are set out in Note 23 to mentioned in the Payment for loss of transfer of shares or voting rights.
office section in this Directors report, the Companys share plans include change of Employee share schemes Future developments control provisions.
the Company has in place a discretionary the Groups strategy and business model employee Benefit trust known as the including proposed future developments Share capital and related matters Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc can be found in the Strategic report on the Companys issued share capital at employee Benefit trust 2006 the eBt, pages 4 to 30.
31December 2017 consisted of 324,760,755 which is funded by the Company and fully paid ordinary shares of 30 pence was established to acquire shares in the Research and development each.
the shares are traded on the Main Company for the benefit of employees Whilst we continue to review ways to Market of the London Stock exchange.
participating in the Companys shareimprove our service and product offering, During 2017, 25,190 new shares were issued based incentive schemes.
Details of the Group did not conduct significant under employee share plans.
further shares held by the eBt at 31 December research and development activities details of the changes to the ordinary 2017 are set out on page 135.
issued share capital during the year 22,028shares were released from the eBt are shown in Note 29 to the Companys in respect of share schemes for employees.
the trustee of the eBt has the power to the Company did not have any branches exercise all voting rights in relation to the outside the UK during the year.
Rights attaching to shares Companys shares held within the eBt, but rights and obligations attaching to the generally abstains from voting.
Going concern Companys ordinary shares are set out the Directors, having made appropriate in the Companys Articles of Association, Payment for loss of office enquiries, have a reasonable expectation a copy of which can be obtained from the Company does not have an agreement that the Group has adequate resources to Companies House or from the Companys with any Director or employee that would continue in operation for the foreseeable investor relations website at provide compensation for loss of office or future which for this purpose is a period https: investors.
com employment resulting from a takeover bid.
of at least 12 months from the date of corporate-governance policies.
each However, all of the Companys employee approval of these financial statements.
ordinary share of the Company ranks share plans contain provisions relating to Accordingly, they continue to adopt the equally in all respects.
a change of control pursuant to a general going concern basis of accounting in offer, scheme of arrangement or similar preparing the consolidated financial the voting rights attached to the event.
on such a change of control, statements of the Group.
further details on Companys ordinary shares are not options and awards granted to employees this assessment are included on page87, restricted and there are no restrictions under the Companys share plans may vest within Note 2 to the Group financial on the transfer of the Companys shares and become exercisable, subject to the statements.
aside from certain restrictions which may satisfaction of any applicable performance from time to time be imposed by laws and conditions at that time.
Amendment to the Companys Articles of regulations, such as insider dealing laws.
Association In addition, pursuant to the Companys the Companys Articles of Association may share dealing manual, the Companys only be amended by special resolution of Directors and persons discharging its shareholders in accordance with the managerial responsibility are required to Act.
seek approval to deal in the Companys shares.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 37 further details about payments to be the Co-operation Agreement described premium segment of the official List of made to Directors for loss of office can be further below contains a provision the London Stock exchange and should found in the Directors remuneration report that requires the Company to use all terminate should CDL cease to be a on page 59. reasonable endeavours to ensure that any controlling shareholder as defined in the issue of voting securities for cash other Lrs.
Power of Directors than pursuant to an employee or executive the Directors may exercise all the share option scheme which takes place the Company confirms that during the year Companys powers that are not required while the Company is on the official List it has complied with the independence by the law or the Companys Articles of of the London Stock exchange, is carried provisions included within the CoAssociation to be exercised in a general out in a manner that provides CDL with an operation Agreement and, in so far as meeting.
In particular, the Directors may opportunity to acquire additional ordinary it is aware, CDL has complied with such exercise all the powers of the Company to shares at the time of such proposed issue provisions as well.
borrow money, issue shares, appoint and for cash in such amounts as are necessary remove directors and recommend and to enable it to maintain its voting rights the Co-operation Agreement allows CDL declare dividends.
in the Company at the same percentage to appoint up to five Directors to the Board.
level as is held immediately prior to such As at the date of this report, CDL has Allotment of shares issue.
these pre-emption rights are put to appointed three Directors.
Under the Act, Directors may only allot a vote of shareholders each year and most shares or grant rights to subscribe for, recently were approved at the Companys Directors indemnities or convert any security into, shares if Annual general meeting in May 2017. the Articles of Association of the Company authorised to do so by shareholders at permit it to indemnify the Directors of the the Companys annual general meeting.
Controlling shareholder independence Company or any Group company against the authority conferred on the Directors disclosure liabilities incurred by them in relation to at the Companys 2017 annual general As of the date of this report, CDL is the or in connection with their duties, powers meeting under Section 551 of the Act controlling shareholder of the Company.
or office, to the extent permitted by law.
will expire at the Companys next annual As required under Lr 9.2.
2ADr, the the Company has provided each of its general meeting or 30 June 2018 whichever Company and CDL have entered into the Directors with a qualifying third-party is earlier.
At the Companys 2018 annual Amended and restated Co-operation indemnity, as defined in section 234 of general meeting shareholders will be Agreement dated 14 November 2014 the the Act.
In addition, the Company has asked to renew this authority for Directors Co-operation Agreement, which is provided qualifying pension scheme to allot equity shares representing at least intended to ensure that the Companys indemnities to the directors of Millennium one-third of the issued share capital as controlling shareholder complies with the & Copthorne Pension trustee Limited, at the latest practicable date prior to the independence provisions set out in the Lrs.
which acts as trustee of the Groups UK publication of the notice of annual general pension plan, and qualifying third-party meeting.
further details of this resolution In accordance with Lr 6.5.
4r the Coindemnities to the directors of its european and other resolutions are contained in the operation Agreement establishes, among subsidiary companies.
the indemnities do 2018 notice of annual general meeting.
other things, that CDL and its associates not apply in the event the relevant Director shall i conduct all transactions and is proved to have committed a criminal Purchase of own shares arrangements with the Company and offence or otherwise where indemnification the Company was authorised by its subsidiaries at arms length and on is prohibited by law.
these indemnities shareholders at its 2017 annual general normal commercial terms: ii not take any remain in force as at the date of this report.
meeting to purchase its own shares on the action which would have the effect of market within certain limits.
In the period preventing the Company from complying In 2017, the Company purchased and since the 2017 annual general meeting, the with its obligations under the Lrs: and maintained Directors and officers liability Company has not exercised this authority.
iii not exercise any voting or other rights insurance coverage, which has been the Board will seek shareholder approval and powers to propose or procure the renewed for the current year.
No claim at the 2018 annual general meeting to proposal of a shareholder resolution which was made under any such indemnity or renew this authority to make market is intended or appears to be intended insurance policy during the year.
purchases of the Companys shares.
to circumvent the proper application of the Lrs.
the Co-operation Agreement will continue in operation as long as the Companys shares are listed on the HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 DIreCtorS' rePort CoNtINUeD Annual general meeting all Directors, to re-appoint KPMG LLP as might cause temporary disruption, none the 2018 annual general meeting will auditors, and to authorise the Directors of the arrangements is, individually, be held at the Millennium Hotel London to approve their fees.
In addition, considered to be essential to the Groups Knightsbridge, 17 Sloane St, Knightsbridge, shareholders will be asked to renew both business.
London SW1X 9NU on 4 May 2018 at the general authority of the Directors to 10.00a.
m. the Notice of Meeting which will issue shares and to authorise the Directors Re-appointment of auditor contain notes explaining the business to be to issue shares without applying the KPMG LLP has expressed their willingness transacted at the meeting, will be sent to statutory pre-emption rights.
In this regard, to be reappointed as auditor of the shareholders under a covering letter from the Company will continue to adhere to Company.
Upon the recommendation the Chairman and together with a copy of the provisions in the Pre-emption Groups of the Audit Committee, resolutions the Annual report and Accounts.
to reappoint them as auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine their At the meeting, resolutions will be Essential contracts remuneration will be proposed at the 2018 proposed to, among other things, declare the Group has contractual and other annual general meeting.
a final dividend, to receive the Annual arrangements with numerous third parties report and Accounts, to approve the in support of its business activities.
Whilst Directors remuneration report, to re-elect the termination of some of these contracts Significant holdings As at the date of this report, the Company had been notified, under Dtr 5.1.
2, of the following interests of three per cent or more in its total voting rights: # of ordinary Notified Significant shareholder shares Interest % Nature of holding City Developments 211,749,487 65.2 Indirect holding through various Limited subsidiaries International Value 22,815,011 7.03 Investment advisor Advisers, LLC Standard Life 13,724,147 4.22 Discretionary investment manager on Aberdeen plc behalf of multiple managed portfolios MSD Capital, L. P. 16,394,202 5.05 Discretionary investment manager on behalf of multiple managed portfolios HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 39 Corporate Governance Statement Approval of Directors report In compliance with Dtr 7.2.
1r, the the Directors report and Corporate disclosures required by Dtr 7.2.
7r Governance Statement were approved by are set out in this report of the Directors the Board on 28 March 2018. and in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to 47 which By order of the Board together with the Directors Statement of responsibilities are incorporated by reference into this report of the Directors.
Jonathon Grech Group General Counsel and Statement of the Directors as to disclosure Company Secretary of information to the auditor In accordance with Section 418 of the 28 March 2018 Act, each Director who held office at the date of approval of the Directors report confirms that: So far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
