90 Governance report Directors report The Directors present their report together with the audited consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
As permitted by legislation, the following statements required under company law, the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules are set out elsewhere in this Annual Report and are incorporated into this report by reference: Disclosure Location Disclosure Location Board of Directors Board of Directors pages 50 Human rights and equal Strategic report page 43 and 51 opportunities Results for the year Consolidated Income Related party transactions Note 36 to the Consolidated Statement page 102 Financial Statements page 151 Dividends Strategic report page 1 Business activities Strategic report pages 18 to 35 and performance DTR 7 Corporate Governance Corporate governance Financial position Strategic report pages 18 to 35 Statement excluding report pages 52 to 59 DTR 7.2.
6, which is covered by this Directors Report Directors share interests Directors Remuneration Key risk analysis Strategic report pages 36 to 41 Report pages 69 to 89 Financial instruments Note 26 to the Consolidated Loans and other provisions Notes 23 and 24 to the Financial Statements Consolidated Financial pages 134 to 138 Statements pages 132 and 133 Viability statement Strategic report page 35 Issued Share Capital Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements page 139 Going concern statement Strategic report page 35 Future developments Strategic report pages 12 to 17 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic report Statement of Directors Page 94 pages 38 to 41 responsibility Listing Rule 9.8.
4 disclosure The trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust waived its rights to receive dividends on shares held by them.
Information regarding long-term incentive schemes is contained within the Directors Remuneration Report pages 69 to 89 and incorporated into this report by reference.
Otherwise than as indicated, there are no further disclosures to be made under Listing Rule 9.8.
Post balance sheet events In January 2018, the Group announced the acquisition of SCS Commodities Corp SCS.
Initial cash consideration was US$8m 6m and deferred contingent consideration is payable through to the third anniversary of completion.
The acquisition includes 26 brokers who provide clients with continuous coverage of energy markets around the world including pre-trade intelligence and execution expertise of high volume trades, including blocks, inter-commodity spreads and complex option strategies.
Further details regarding the transaction can be found in Note 30 c to the Financial Statements page 143.
Directors Each of the current Directors is included in the Biographies section of the Annual Report, set out on pages 50 and 51.
Each of these Directors served throughout the year except for Edmund Ng who was appointed on 1 November 2017 as a Non-executive Director and Michael Heaney who was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 15 January 2018.
Andrew Baddeley also served as a Director during the year, stepping down on 3 November 2017.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 91 Directors conflicts The Directors are required to notify the Company of any potential conflicts of interest that may affect them in their roles as Directors of TPICAP.
All potential conflicts of interest are recorded and reviewed by the full Board at least annually.
Directors indemnity arrangements The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors, which remain in place at the date of thisreport.
The principal employer of the Tullett Prebon Pension Scheme has given indemnities to the Directors who are trustees of that Scheme.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
Appointment and replacement of Directors With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders and were last amended at the Companys AGM in May 2017.
At each AGM, all the Directors who held office on the date seven days before the Notice of that AGM must retire from office and each Director wishing to continue to serve must submit themselves for election or re-election by shareholders.
Share capital and control The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The voting rights of the ordinary shares held by the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 are exercisable by the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The right to receive dividends on these shares has been waived.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Restriction on transfer of securities and voting rights There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, both of which are governed by the provisions in the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights, nor are there any arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of those securities.
Powers of the Directors As granted by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, the Directors have the authority to allot shares and to buy the Companys shares in the market.
At the last AGM, resolutions were passed to authorise the Directors to allot up to a nominal amount of 92,355,445 subject to restrictions specified in the relevant resolutions and to purchase up to 55,413,267 ordinary shares.
These authorities are set to expire so similar authorities will be proposed at this years AGM.
At the date of this Annual Report, no shares had been purchased in the market under the authority granted at the 2017 AGM.
The allotment and buy-back authorities will expire at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM or, if earlier, on 1 July 2018, unless renewed before that time.
Further powers of the Directors are described in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, which is available on the Companys website.
com 92 Governance report Directors Report continued Significant agreements and change of control The Companys banking facilities give the lenders the right not to renew loans and to cancel commitments in the event of a change of control.
The Companys Share Schemes contain provisions relating to change of control, subject to the satisfaction of relevant performance conditions and pro ration for time, if appropriate.
The Company is not aware of any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, nor any agreements with the Company and its employees or Directors for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Research and development The Group uses various bespoke information technology in the course of its business and undertakes research and development in order to enhance that technology.
Substantial shareholders As at 31 December 2017, and at the date of this Annual Report, the following table shows the holdings of the Companys total voting rights attached to the Companys issued ordinary share capital, that have been notified to the Company in accordance with DTR 5: 31 December 13 March 2017 2018 % % Schroders plc 9.86 9.86 Jupiter Asset Management 8.57 8.57 Blackrock, Inc. 7.32 7.32 Old Mutual plc 7.10 7.10 Silchester International Investors LLP 5.04 5.04 Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. 5.01 5.01 Greenhouse gas emissions TP ICAP, as an office-based business, is not engaged in activities that are generally regarded as having a high environmental impact.
However, the Board has agreed that it will seek to adopt policies to safeguard the environment to meet statutory requirements or where suchpolicies are commercially sensible.
The estimated Group greenhouse gas emissions for 2016 and 2017 are set out below: Tonnes of CO e 2 2017 2016 Combustion of fuel, vehicles, fugitive emissions scope 1 3,377 629 Purchased electricity scope 2 10,722 8,977 Total 14,099 9,606 Total emissions per employee 2.7 3.4 The emission statistics were calculated by Sustain Limited using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition 2015.
The analysis included all material sources of emissions for which the Group is directly responsible.
Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions including combustion of fuels and owned vehicles.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions resulting from generating electricity purchased for office buildings.
The estimate covers all TP ICAP operations that are consolidated in the financial statements.
Data was collected for the Groups representative sites of different sizes in each region approximately 56% of the total TP ICAP offices and were used in an extrapolation exercise to estimate the consumption across the rest of the Groups global operations.
Data was also collected for the Groups managed or owned transport activity.
This activity data was then converted to greenhouse gas estimates using the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2017 and the International Energy Agencys Overseas Electricity factors for overseas electricity consumption.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 93 Political donations It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions to any political party.
However, within the normal activities of the Group, there may be occasions when an activity might fall within the broader definition of political expenditure contained within the Companies Act 2006.
During 2017, no political donations were made by the Group 2016: nil.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors Statement regarding their responsibility for preparing the Annual Report is set out on page 94.
Auditor Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at 12.45pm on 10 May 2018.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in aseparate Notice of Meeting together with explanatory notes set out in a separate circular.
The Notice of Meeting will be sent to all shareholders entitled to receive such notice.
Only members on the register of members of the Company as at close of business on 8 May 2018 or two days before any adjourned meeting, excluding non-business days will be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM.
Any proxy must belodged with the Companys registrars or submitted to CREST at least 48 hours, excluding non-business days, before the AGM or any adjourned meeting thereof.
Resolutions dealing with the authority to allot shares, disapplication of pre-emption rights, authority to buy back shares and to convene general meetings other than annual general meetings on no less than fourteen days notice will be put to the AGM as special business.
By order of the Board Richard Cordeschi Company Secretary 13 March 2018 www.
com 94 Governance report Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for In the case of the Parent Company Financial Responsibility statement preparing the Annual Report and Statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors confirm that to the best the Financial Statements in accordance of their knowledge: select suitable accounting policies with applicable law and regulations.
andapply them consistently: the Financial Statements, prepared in Company law requires the Directors to make judgements and estimates accordance with the relevant financial prepare Financial Statements for each thatarereasonable and prudent: reporting framework, give a true and fair financial year.
Under that law, the Directors state whether applicable UK Accounting view of the assets, liabilities, financial are required to prepare financial statements Standards have been followed, subject to position and profit or loss of the Company for the Group in accordance with any material departures disclosed and and the undertakings included in the International Financial Reporting Standards explained in the Financial Statements: and consolidation taken as a whole: IFRS as adopted by the European Union prepare the Financial Statements on the Strategic report includes a fair review and Article 4 of the International Accounting thegoing concern basis unless it is of the development and performance Standard IAS Regulation and have chosen inappropriate to presume that the ofthe business and the position of the toprepare the parent company financial Company will continue in business.
Company and the undertakings included statements in accordance with United in the consolidation taken as a whole, The Directors are responsible for keeping Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting together with a description of the adequate accounting records that are Practice United Kingdom Accounting principal risks and uncertainties sufficient to show and explain the Standards and applicable law, including that they face: and Companys transactions and disclose with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
the Annual Report and Financial reasonable accuracy at any time the Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, Under company law, the Directors must financial position of the Company and balanced and understandable and not approve the accounts unless they are enable them to ensure that the Financial provide the information necessary for satisfied that they give a true and fair view Statements comply with the Companies shareholders to assess the Companys of the state of affairs of the Company and Act 2006.
They are also responsible for position, performance, business model of the profit or loss of the Company for safeguarding the assets of the Company and strategy.
and hence for taking reasonable steps forthe prevention and detection of fraud On behalf of the Board In the case of Group Financial Statements, and other irregularities.
IAS 1 requires that directors: John Phizackerley The Directors are responsible for the Chief Executive select and apply accounting maintenance and integrity of the corporate 13 March 2018 policies properly: and financial information included on the present information, including accounting Companys website.
Legislation in the United policies, in a manner that provides Kingdom governing the preparation and relevant, reliable, comparable and dissemination of financial statements may understandable information: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users tounderstand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017
