Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Board and Governance The Board has a comprehensive corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities to safeguard long-term shareholder value and provides an effective platform to realise the Group's strategy.
Board and Governance structure Board of Directors Corporate Audit Nomination Remuneration Group Risk Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Approvals and Executive Investment Allotment Committee Committee Committee Board of Directors Committee comprised Committee comprised of Executive Board members solely of Board members and senior management Scheduled Board Meetings Notes: Attendance 1 1 The Board held eight formal meetings during 2017 and a meeting to eligibility consider the strategic direction of the Group.
2 Kirsty Bashforth 3 3 2 Kirsty Bashforth was appointed to the Board, the Remuneration 3 Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 15 Edward J. Casey, Jr 8 8 September 2017.
Mike Clasper 8 8 3 Edward J. Casey, Jr stood down from the Board on 31 December 2017.
Angus Cockburn 8 8 4 Ralph D. Crosby Jr stood down from the Board on 1 July 2017.
4 Ralph D. Crosby, Jr 4 4 5 Ian El-Mokadem was appointed to the Board, the Group Risk Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 1 July 2017.
5 Ian El-Mokadem 4 4 6 Lynne Peacock was appointed to the Board, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2017.
She was later appointed as Chair Sir Roy Gardner 8 8 of the Remuneration Committee on 15 September 2017 and as a member of the Nomination Committee on 1 November 2017.
Rachel Lomax 8 8 7 John Rishton was unable to attend the September 2017 meeting due to an 6 Lynne Peacock 4 4 unavoidable scheduling conflict.
7 John Rishton 7 8 8 Angie Risley stood down from the Board on 15 September 2017.
8 Angie Risley 5 5 In addition to the above, Rupert Soames, Angus Cockburn and Ed Casey attended all Executive Committee meetings held during 2017 and formed the Rupert Soames 8 8 quorum of Investment Committee and Approvals and Allotment Committee meetings as required.
During the year, ten meetings of the Executive Committee were held.
91 Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Board and Governance continued Board evaluation Appointment, induction and training An external evaluation of the Board and its Committees The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that an was due to take place in 2017 however, as stated appropriate induction is given to new Board members.
on page 88, the Board determined that, due to the The induction programme is specifically tailored to the number of new Non-Executive Directors appointed in needs of the incoming Director and includes circulation of the latter half of 2017, it would be sensible to allow the the Board policies and procedures, meetings with senior new Directors time to settle into their new roles before management and contract site visits.
During 2017, the arranging an external evaluation.
Directors received advice and training on the following: The 2017 Board evaluation process was conducted Regulatory developments and changes to the internally, led by the Chairman and facilitated by the UK Listing Rules and Corporate Governance: Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Training on inside information, including the A comprehensive questionnaire evaluating the Market Abuse Regulations MAR 2016: performance of the Board and each of its Committees Anti-bribery and corruption: was completed by all Directors.
The evaluation covered a number of areas including: Board structure, Committees Money laundering: and their operation: induction and development: Crisis management: and, interaction with the business: and risk management and Update on new accounting standards internal control.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, i. e. IFRS 9, 15 and 16. led by the Senior Independent Director, together with views from the Executive Directors, conducted the External Directorships performance evaluation of the Chairman who was The Company has adopted a policy which allows found to be stewarding the Board effectively.
the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other quoted companies provided that they have Following completion of the evaluation, the Board obtained the prior permission of the Chairman.
discussed the outcome of the questionnaire in detail.
In accordance with the Code, no Executive Director The results of the evaluation concluded that, overall, would be permitted to take on more than one Nongood progress had been achieved in most areas Executive Directorship in a FTSE 100 company or identified in previous evaluations and that the Board, the Chairmanship of such a company.
together with its Committees, had continued to work effectively.
However, the Board identified the following During the year, Angus Cockburn held the position areas of improvement to be considered in 2018: of Non-Executive Director of GKN plc and was appointed as Senior Independent Director of Provide new members of the Board with additional GKN plc with effect from 20 February 2018. background briefings ahead of discussions on strategy at Board meetings: Conflicts of interest Every Director has a duty to avoid a conflict between Arrange more discussion at Board meetings in relation their personal interests and those of the Company.
to medium and long term measures to be achieved The provisions of Section 175 of the Companies Act from the Group's strategy and to improve the content 2006 and the Company's Articles of Association of discussions focused on strategy and growth: permit the Board to authorise situations identified by Further discussion surrounding Executive succession a Director in which he or she has, or may have, a direct plans in particular the role of the Chief Executive and or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with ensuring the Board and its Committees continue to the interests of the Company.
The Board continues work effectively following the departure of the Chief to undertake regular reviews of the outside positions Operating Officer: and interests or arrangements with third parties held Review how the Board engage with shareholders: and, by each Director and, were appropriate, to authorise those situational conflicts following consideration.
The Chairman, with the Group General Counsel Notwithstanding the above, each Director is aware and Company Secretary, to re-evaluate the Board of their duty to notify the Board should there be training agenda.
any material change to their positions or interests during the year.
Directors do not participate in Board In advance of the scheduled external evaluation of the discussions or decisions which relate to any matter in Board in 2018, a number of options and priorities will which they have, or may have, a conflict of interest.
be considered to support continued transparency and best practice.
92 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
