HEAD 0 2ND LINE BoArD of DIreCtorS Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 BoArD of DIreCtorS N University in the US, and an honorary doctorate from oxford 1 1 Kwek Leng Beng Brookes University in the UK.
He also serves as a member of the Chairman of the Board and Chair of the Nominations INSeAD east Asia Council.
Committee Mr Kwek has distinguished himself in property investment Kwek Leng Beng has been the Chairman of Millennium & and development, hotel ownership and management, financial Copthorne Hotels plc since its incorporation.
He is also the services, and industrial enterprises.
He was presented the executive Chairman of City Developments Limited and Chairman, Lifetime Achievement Award at the Asia Pacific Managing Director of Hong Leong finance Limited and the entrepreneurship Awards 2017 organised by enterprise Asia, a executive Chairman of Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte.
Ltd, regional non-governmental organisation for entrepreneurship.
the immediate and ultimate holding company of City the accolade was in recognition of his outstanding Developments Limited.
He also was the Non-executive Chairman achievements, visionary leadership and steadfast dedication of Hong Leong Asia Limited until its annual general meeting in that has led to the successful growth of the Hong Leong Group April 2017, when he stepped down as its Chairman and as a for over five decades.
He leads a business empire worth over Director.
Mr Kwek was also the Chairman and Managing US$32b in diversified premium assets worldwide and Director of City e-Solutions Limited until he stepped down in companies traded on 6 of the worlds stock markets.
Mr Kwek September 2016 after it ceased to be a subsidiary of City heads a worldwide staff of over 40,000 across a range of Developments Limited.
businesses in Asia-Pacific, the Middle east, europe, and North Mr Kwek holds a law degree, an honorary doctorate in America.
Business Administration in Hospitality from Johnson & Wales Rc 2 Kwek Eik Sheng 2 Non-Executive Director Kwek eik Sheng was appointed to the Board in April 2008.
He has been with the Hong Leong Group of companies in Singapore since 2006 and joined City Developments Limited in 2009, where he currently serves as the Group Chief Strategy officer.
Mr Kwek holds a Bachelor of engineering in electrical and electronics engineering from Imperial College of Science, technology and Medicine and a MPhil in finance from Judge Business School, Cambridge University.
N 3 Kwek Leng Peck 3 Non-Executive Director Kwek Leng Peck was appointed to the Board in february 1995, prior to the flotation of the Company on the London Stock exchange.
He holds directorships on most of the listed companies within the Hong Leong Group of companies, including City Developments Limited, Hong Leong finance Limited, and China Yuchai International Limited.
He also serves as an executive Chairman of Hong Leong Asia Ltd, and is Non-executive Chairman of tasek Corporation Berhad.
NR As executive Vice President, he held several senior 4 His Excellency Shaukat Aziz 4 management positions in Citibank, including Head of Independent Non-Executive Director and Senior Institutional Banking for Central eastern europe, the Middle east Independent Director and Africa, and later for Asia Pacific, followed by Chief Shaukat Aziz was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
He was executive of their global wealth management business.
A elected as Prime Minister of Pakistan and served between 2004 renowned public speaker on economic and geopolitical affairs, and 2007, having previously held the post of finance Minister Mr Aziz is a member of several boards and advisory boards of for 5 years.
various commercial and non-profit entities around the world.
After graduating from Gordon College, rawalpindi in 1967, Mr Aziz gained a MBA degree from the Institute of Business Administration, University of Karachi.
An internship at Citibank marked the beginning of a 30 year career in global finance, encompassing roles globally.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 33 Committee membership: A - Audit Committee N - Nominations Committee r - remuneration Committee rc - risk Committee RRcA Mr Desbaillets has extensive hospitality experience.
He has 5 Daniel Desbaillets 5 been in the hospitality industry since 1973 holding senior Independent Non-Executive Director positions with InterContinental Hotel Group, Hilton and Daniel Desbaillets was appointed to the Board in September Shangri-La.
He was appointed to the boards of CDLHt as an 2016.
Prior to his appointment Mr Desbaillets was an Independent Non-executive Director in July 2010.
Independent Non-executive Director of M&C reIt Management Limited, the manager for CDL Hospitality real estate Investment trust H-reIt, and also of M&C Business trust Management Limited, the trustee-manager for CDL Hospitality Business trust HBt.
Both H-reIt and HBt are comprised as a stapled group in CDL Hospitality trusts CDLHt which is listed on the Singapore exchange Securities trading Limited.
RN 6 Susan Farr A specialist in business development and marketing, Ms farr 6 Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the previously held a number of senior management positions at Vauxhall Motors, the BBC and thames television.
She is also Remuneration Committee the former chair of the Marketing Society and the Marketing Susan farr was appointed to the Board in December 2013.
She Group of Great Britain.
was a business Director of Chime Communication Limited formerly Chime Communication plc from 2003 until 2015 and serves as a special adviser on a part time basis.
She also serves as a Non-executive Director of British American tobacco p. l. c. Dairy Crest plc, Accsys technologies plc.
Susan farr stepped down from the Board of Dolphin Capital Investors Limited in January 2018.
ARc 7 Gervase MacGregor last 25 years, first as an auditor of international five star 7 Independent Non-Executive Director and hotels, and more recently in investigations and disputes in Chair of the Risk Committee the sector.
Gervase MacGregor is a fellow of the Institute of Gervase MacGregor was appointed to the Board in Chartered Accountants in england and Wales, and is a December 2014.
He has been a partner in BDo LLP since graduate of the University of Liverpool, and has a Masters 1991, where he is currently the Head of International from HeC in Paris.
Advisory, risk and Quality Services, specialising in forensic investigations, and expert witness services.
Prior to joining BDo LLP, Mr MacGregor worked as a petroleum geologist in the North Sea, Australia and West Africa.
He has experience in the hospitality sector over the A 8 Christian fide Charnac US and europe, and has considerable experience in 8 Independent Non-Executive Director advising listed companies.
He began his banking career at Christian fide Charnac was appointed to the Board in Bank of America, working in its Multinational Division.
He has over 40 years of global experience in merchant, corporate and institutional banking.
Most recently he was Ceo, Investment Banking Asia Pacific, for BNP Paribas based in Hong Kong.
He has since 1980 led various divisions of the bank working in Singapore, Hong Kong, Seoul, Los Angeles, taipei, tokyo, Paris and London.
Mr fide Charnac has been involved in numerous financing and advisory transactions for clients throughout Asia, the AN 9 Martin Leitch conjunction with his recent advisory work, Martin was appointed 9 as a Director of Accrol Group Holdings plc on 4 february 2018 Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the where he holds the position of Interim Cfo.
He began his Audit Committee corporate career at Pepsi-Cola International in 1993, having Martin Leitch was appointed to the Board and as a member of worked for Price Waterhouse in both the UK and US between the Audit and Nominations Committees in May 2017.
He is an 1979 and 1993. international finance executive with over 30 years experience of both publicly quoted and private equity owned groups.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has since 2013 provided finance, strategy, corporate finance and other services to a number of international businesses, including Volac International and Constantia flexibles.
Before that he was Chief financial officer at Innovia films, Quest International and Antalis Group.
