Strategic Report Viability Statement In accordance with provision C2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over the three-year period to 31 December 2020.
The Directors believe that a three-year period is Good progress has been made on the five-year plan appropriate since it reflects the fact that: however the ability of the Group to harvest fully the benefits of the transformation are still largely The Group has limited visibility of contract bidding unproven.
Management has previously highlighted the opportunities beyond three years.
dependence on the external market and its ability to win new contracts whilst reducing its cost base.
Market Approximately 50% 2016: 40% of the current year rates of growth have been declining in recent years and revenue relates to contracts where the contract for the next few years revenues are likely to be flat, but term potentially comes to an end within three years.
margins are expected to increase as the Transformation phase is extended and growth comes from cost The United Kingdoms withdrawal from the reduction and increased efficiency.
The Directors European Union in March 2019 could potentially expect this to deliver the target margin increases which delay timeframes for public service outsourcing has been set although achieving this will take longer.
whilst politicians and civil servants focus on the timetable for Brexit and any potential transition The Board and the Group Risk Committee continue to arrangement.
monitor the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten the execution of its strategy, There is also significant political uncertainty in a business model, future performance, solvency and number of our other markets.
Management and mitigations of those The strategic plan set out in March 2015 significantly principal risks have been taken into consideration changed the direction of the Group as was necessary when considering the future viability of the Group.
given its recent history as explained in previous The Groups principal risk review, as set out on shareholder communications and the onerous pages 22 to 27, considers the impact of these principal contracts which exist.
The Group prepares a five-year risks and the mitigating controls that are in place.
business plan each year to establish whether it is on In assessing the prospects of the Group over the target to achieve its medium term goals.
However, the three-year period, the Directors have also considered financials for the last two years of this period are largely the Groups current financial position as well as its extrapolations of key assumptions as there is insufficient financial projections in the context of the Groups debt certainty, as discussed above, for conclusions to be facilities and associated covenants.
These financial drawn on the future prospects of the Group and for projections are based on a bottom up Budget exercise sensitivities and mitigation strategies to be overlaid.
for 2018 and 2019 which has been approved by the Therefore, whilst the strategic plan continues to be Board, and an extrapolation to 2020 using higher level developed, it remains a goal for the Group and is a not assumptions based on local market growth rates and a forecast based on known assumptions and a proven identified opportunities.
track record of performance: this makes assessing the longer term viability a challenge.
The Groups covenant net debt balance at 31 December 2017 is 179m.
The Groups base projections indicate that debt facilities and projected headroom are adequate to support the Group over the next three years.
In testing the headroom available under the key sensitives modelled, the Directors have assumed that the Group refinances the portion of the RCF maturing in April 2020 under similar terms.
30 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The Groups financial plan has been stress-tested Subject to these risks and on the basis of the against key sensitivities which could materialise as analysis undertaken, the Directors have a reasonable a result of the crystallisation of one or many of the expectation that the Group will be able to continue in Groups principal risks, the objective being that the operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over future viability of the Group is tested against severe the three-year period of their assessment.
In doing but plausible scenarios.
The sensitivities tested include so, it is recognised that such future assessments are a reduction in the win rates for rebids, extensions and subject to a level of uncertainty that increases further the pipeline of new opportunities, a delay in delivering out in time and, therefore, future outcomes cannot be margin improvements and a potential penalty arising guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
The Directors from risks such as contract non-compliance, major have made the following key assumptions in connection information security breach or a material legal and with this assessment: regulatory compliance failure.
The ability for the Group There is no significant unexpected contract attrition to absorb these sensitivities within its exiting finance of existing work that becomes due for extension or arrangements drove the assumptions below which the rebid over the next three years: Directors felt appropriate to disclose in making this viability statement.
There is no significant reduction in scale of existing contract operations or future bid pipeline as a It is unlikely, but not impossible, that the crystallisation result of customer policy or other changes: of a single risk would test the future viability of the Group: however, unsurprisingly, and as with many There is no significant deterioration in new bid win companies, it is possible to construct scenarios where rates from those anticipated: either multiple occurrences of the same risk, or single occurrences of different significant risks, could put The Group is able to complete the execution of pressure on the Groups ability to meet its financial its strategy, including further transformation in covenants.
At this point, the Group would look to 2018 and 2019, and making progress to revenue address the issue by exploring a range of options growth and further margin improvement from 2019 including, amongst others, a temporary or permanent onwards: and renegotiation of the financial covenants, disposals of The Group is not subject to any material penalties parts of the Groups operations to reduce net debt and or raising additional capital in the form of equity, or direct and indirect costs and or losses arising from the current SFO investigation.
subordinated debt or other such instruments.. 31
