Directors' Report Directors' Report Annual Report and Accounts Authority for the purchase of shares The Directors present the Annual Report and Accounts As at the date of this report authority granted at the of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Companys AGM in May 2017 remains in force, as set out Comparative figures used in this report are for the year in the 2017 Notice of Meeting which is available on our ended 31 December 2016 unless otherwise stated.
com The Corporate Governance Report, including the Dividends Remuneration Report, set out on pages 86 to 143, No interim dividend was paid in respect of the forms part of the Directors Report.
The Directors do not The Chairmans Statement on pages 6 to 8 and the Chief recommend a final dividend to be paid for 2017 2016:nil.
Executive's Review and Divisional Reviews on pages Directors 32 to 49 report on the activities during the year and likely future developments.
The information in these The current members of the Board together with reports, which is required to fulfil the requirements of biographical details of each Director are set out on the Business Review, is incorporated in this Directors pages 86 and 87.
On 24 May 2017, the Company announced that Ralph Articles of Association Crosby, Jr would retire as Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 1 July 2017.
Lynne Peacock The rules relating to the appointment and replacement and Ian El-Mokadem were appointed as Non-Executive of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles Directors of the Company with effect from 1 July 2017. of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association On appointment, Lynne Peacock became a member of must be approved by the shareholders in accordance the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees with the legislation in force from time to time.
and Ian El-Mokadem became a member of the Group Share capital Risk and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
On 4 The issued share capital of the Company, together with July 2017, the Company announced that Angie Risley the details of shares issued during the year, is shown in would also be retiring from her position as NonNote 34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Executive Director with effect from 15 September 2017.
Lynne Peacock was appointed as Chair of the The powers of the Directors to issue or buy back shares Remuneration Committee on 15 September 2017 and are restricted to those approved at the Companys was appointed a member of the Nomination Committee Annual General Meeting.
Kirsty Bashforth subsequently joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director with At the Annual General Meeting in May 2017, pursuant to effect from 15 September 2017.
She became a member Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders of the Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility approved the issue of shares for cash up to 5% of the Committees on appointment.
On 20 October, it existing issued share capital and an additional 5% only was announced that Ed Casey, would retire as Chief to be used in connection with an acquisition or specified Operating Officer with effect from 31 December 2017. capital investment in each case without the application of pre-emption rights.
The authority granted continues As in previous years, and in accordance with the UK until the earlier of the AGM planned to be held in May Corporate Governance Code, all other Directors will 2018 or close of business on 30 June 2018. stand for annual re-election at the AGM in May 2018.
Rights attaching to shares Directors interests Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote With the exception of the Executive Directors service at general meetings of the Company.
There are no contracts and the Non-Executive Directors letters restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the of appointment, there are no contracts in which any capital of the Company other than certain restrictions Director has an interest.
which may from time to time be imposed by law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Certain change of control conditions are included Conduct Authority, certain employees are required to in the service contracts of Directors, which provide seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
compensation or reduction of notice periods in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreement between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
144 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Details of the Directors interests in the ordinary shares expire 20 years from the date of acceptance of the and options over the ordinary shares of the Company completed New Grafton Correctional Centre by the as at 31 December 2017 are set out in the Directors State.
Both the project deed and the operator subRemuneration Report on pages 142 and 143.
Between contract contain change of control provisions that 1January 2018 and the date of this report there were provide that any change of control to an unrelated nochanges in the Directors' interests in ordinary shares third-party that has not been approved by the State and options over ordinary shares.
of New South Wales would be a major default.
A major default under either the project deed Directors indemnities or operator sub-contract, if not cured, could result Directors and officers insurance cover has been in a termination of that contract.
established for all Directors to provide cover against Australian Immigration Services: On 11 December their reasonable actions on behalf of the Company.
2014, Serco Australia Pty Limited entered into a As permitted under the Articles of Association and in contract with the Commonwealth of Australia acting accordance with best practice, deeds of indemnity have been executed indemnifying each of the Directors and through the Department of Immigration and Border Company Secretary of the Company in respect of their Protection for the provision of detention services positions as officers of the Company as a supplement at all onshore immigration facilities in Australia.
to the Directors and officers insurance cover.
The The contract has an initial five-year term, with two indemnities, which constitute a qualifying third party two-year extension options available.
In the event of indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the a change in control or ownership of Serco Australia Companies Act 2006, remain in force for all current Pty Limited, which in the reasonable opinion of the Directors and the Company Secretary of the Company.
Commonwealth adversely affects the Companys ability to perform the services, the contract may be Branch offices terminated by the Commonwealth.
In certain jurisdictions, the Group will operate through AWE: Serco Holdings Limited is a shareholder in a branch of one of its subsidiary companies.
These AWE Management Limited the AWE JV.
Serco include the following countries: Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Holdings Limiteds joint venture partners and the Belgium, Dubai, France, Germany, Greenland, other shareholders in the AWE JV are UK subsidiary Guam, Iraq, Italy, Luxembourg, Qatar, Singapore andSouthAfrica.
companies of Lockheed Martin Corporation and Jacobs Engineering Group.
The AWE JV oversees the Significant agreements that take effect, alter or design, development, maintenance and manufacture terminate upon a change of control of warheads for the UKs strategic nuclear deterrent.
Given the  nature of many This work is carried out by the AWE JV under a of the services provided by the Company and its management and operation contract with the subsidiaries, many agreements contain provisions Secretary of State for Defence the AWE Contract.
entitling the other parties to terminate them in the The AWE Contract was entered into on 1 December event of a change of control, which can be triggered by 1999 and has a 25-year term.
Under the terms of the a takeover of the Company.
The following agreements AWE Contract, any change in shareholding or the are those individual agreements which the Company identity of a shareholder in the AWE JV requires the considers to be significant to the Group as a whole consent of the Secretary of State for Defence.
In that contain provisions giving the other party a specific the event that there is a change of control of Serco right to terminate if the Company is subject to a Holdings Limited, it is required to transfer its entire change of control: shareholding in the AWE JV to the Serco Group or Material contracts another wholly owned subsidiary of the Serco Group New Grafton Correctional Centre: On 14 June 2017, prior to such change of control.
In the event that NorthernPathways Project Trust of which Serco there is a change of control of Serco Holdings Limited Australia Pty Limited is a member entered into a without its entire shareholding in the AWE JV first Project Deed with the Australian State of New South being transferred to another member of the Serco Wales to design, construct and operate a new build Group or if there is a change of control of the Serco prison named the New Grafton Correctional Centre.
Group then the other shareholders in the AWE JV are The prison is expected to become operational in entitled subject to the approval of the Secretary of 2020.
Also, on 14 June 2017, Serco Australia Pty State and applicable regulatory approvals to purchase Limited entered into an operator sub-contract with the AWE JV shares and loans held by Serco Holdings Limited and any other member of the Serco Group.
The operator sub-contract will 145 Directors' Report Directors' Report continued CMS Eligibility Support Services ESS : On 1 July Agreements, if a change of control of the Company 2013, Serco Inc. entered into a contract with the occurs it is required to offer to prepay the entire United States of America acting through the Centers principal amount of the notes together with interest for Medicare and Medicaid Services CMS for the to the prepayment date but without payment of any provision of support for the Exchanges implemented make-whole amount.
to provide affordable health insurance and insurance Share plans affordability programmes.
The contract had an initial The Companys share plans contain provisions in base term of one year, with four options of one year relation to a change of control.
In the event of a change in control or ownership and awards may vest and become exercisable on a of Serco Inc. which in the reasonable opinion of the change of control of the Company, in accordance with U. S. Government adversely affects the Company's the rules of the plans.
ability to perform the services, the contract may be terminated by the U. S. Government.
Annual General Meeting SSA: In order to bid and perform on certain classified The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company contracts involving US national security, Serco Inc. will be held at Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank was required to mitigate its foreign ownership Street, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5JJ on Thursday 10 May 2018 at 11.00am.
through a Special Security Agreement SSA between the US Government, Serco Inc. and Serco Group plc.
Financial risk policies The effective date of the SSA is 18 June 2008.
The A summary of the Groups treasury policies and U. S. Department of Defense may terminate Serco's objectives relating to financial risk management, SSA in the event of the sale of the Corporation to a including exposure to associated risks, is on company or person not under Foreign Ownership, pages 207 to 212.
Employment policies Financing facilities The Board is committed to maintaining a working Revolving credit facility: the Company has a environment where staff are individually valued and 480,000,000 revolving credit facility dated 28 March recognised.
Group companies and Divisions operate 2012 amended and restated 12 March 2015 with within a framework of human resources policies, the Bank of America Securities Limited, Barclays practices and regulations appropriate to their own Bank PLC, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Credit market sector and country of operation, whilst subject Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, DBS to Group-wide policies and principles.
Bank Limited, HSBC Bank PLC, J. P. Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank PLC, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Diversity UFJ Limited and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC as The Group is committed to ensuring equal mandated lead arrangers, and Barclays Bank PLC opportunity, honouring the rights of the individual, and fostering partnership and trust in every working as Facility Agent.
The facility provides funds for relationship.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, general corporate and working capital purposes, training and career development promote diversity, and bonds to support the Groups business needs.
respect for human rights, and equality of opportunity The facility agreement provides that in the event of a regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital change of control of the Company each lender may, status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and within a certain period, call for the prepayment of ethnic or national origin.
the amounts owed to it and cancel its commitments under the facility.
The Group promotes diversity so that all employees are US notes: the Company has notes outstanding able to be successful regardless of their background.
under three US Private Placement Note Purchase The Group gives full consideration to applications Agreements the USPP Agreements dated 9 May for employment, career development and promotion 2011, 20 October 2011 and 13 May 2013, respectively.
received from the disabled, and offers employment The total amount of the notes outstanding under when suitable opportunities arise.
If employees become disabled during their service with the Group, the three USPP Agreements was $352,192,038 at 31 arrangements are made wherever practicable to December 2017, and their maturity is between 9 May continue their employment and training.
Under the terms of the USPP 146 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The Group recognises the importance of protecting Research and development human rights.
We seek to respect and uphold the Serco undertakes a limited amount of research and human rights of individuals in all aspects of our development R&D, given that our primary business operations wherever we operate.
Our Human Rights model is the delivery of public services through our Group Standard demonstrates this commitment people.
In 2017, we spent 1.7m on R&D on IT-related and the significance of human rights for a diverse projects, compared to 3.6m in 2016. global organisation.
It also sets out expectations for Political donations individual and corporate behaviour across our business in regards to human rights.
We use International During the year neither the Company nor the Group Human Rights Standards such as the United Nations made political donations and they intend to continue Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights with this policy.
However, it is possible that certain 2011 UN Guiding Principles as frameworks to assist routine activities may unintentionally fall within our decision-making and constructive engagement: the broad scope of the Companies Act provisions to identify, assess, and manage adverse human rights relating to political donations and expenditure.
As in impacts: and to integrate and act on findings, track previous years, the Company will therefore propose to responses, monitor effectiveness and communicate shareholders that the authority granted at the AGM in how impacts are addressed.
May 2017 regarding political donations be renewed.
Details will be included in the Notice of AGM.
Employee Engagement Within the US business there exists a Political The Group remains proud of its record of managing Action Committee PAC, which is funded entirely employee relations and continues to believe that the by employees and their spouses.
The Serco PAC structure of individual and collective consultation and and its contributions are administered in strict negotiation is best developed at a local level.
Over the accordance with regulatory requirements.
Employee years, the Group has demonstrated that working with contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure trade unions and creating effective partnerships allows is placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, improvements to be delivered in business performance an employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the as well as in employment terms and conditions.
employees choose not to belong to a trade union, employee communication forums such as works councils Financial statements exist to ensure involvement of staff within the business.
At the date of this report, as far as each Director is The Group has been proactive in providing employees aware, there is no relevant audit information of which with information on matters of concern to them as the Groups Auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken employees.
These mechanisms ensure employees' all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a views are considered in decision-making and that they Director in order to make himself or herself aware of have a common awareness of Group strategy, matters of any relevant audit information and to establish that the concern to them and the financial and economic factors Groups Auditor is aware of that information.
affecting the performance of the Company.
Auditor Participation by staff in the success of the Group is The Company undertook a formal competitive tender encouraged by the availability of long-term incentive exercise for external audit services during 2016, as arrangements for senior management, which effectively detailed in the 2016 Notice of Annual General Meeting.
aligns their interests with those of shareholders by As a result of this tender process KPMG LLP was requiring that Company-level financial performance appointed as the Companys External Auditor by the criteria are achieved as a condition of vesting.
Board on 27 May 2016 and Deloitte LLP resigned as Corporate responsibility Auditor on the same date.
The Group recognises that operating in a responsible The appointment of KPMG LLP for the 2018 financial manner helps drive Serco's success.
Our commitment year will be subject to shareholder approval at the next to corporate responsibility is supported by defined AGM in May 2018.
Further details are set out in the policies embedded in our Serco Management System.
Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders.
More information on Corporate Responsibility, including greenhouse gas emission reporting, can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 69 to 84.
147 Directors' Report Directors' Report continued Going concern In assessing the basis of preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, the Directors have considered the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, 2014: namely assessing the applicability of the going concern basis, the review period and disclosures.
The Groups principal debt facilities at the year-end comprised a 480m revolving credit facility, and 261m of US private placement notes.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had 741m of committed credit facilities and committed headroom of 588m.
Assessment of going concern The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment of going concern and liquidity taking into account financial forecasts.
In order to satisfy ourselves that we have adequate resources for the future, the Directors have reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the committed funding and liquidity positions under our debt covenants, and our ability to generate cash from trading activities.
Review period In undertaking this review the Directors have considered the business plans which provide financial projections for the foreseeable future.
For the purposes of this review, we consider that to be the period ending 30 June 2019.
The Directors have also reviewed the principal risks considered on pages 20 to 29 of the Strategic Report and taken account of the results of sensitivity testing.
Assessment The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to operate within the level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Interests in voting rights At 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares: Number of shares % held millions at date at date of Nature Notifying person of notification notification of holding Azvalor Asset Management S. G. I. I. C. S. A 54.9 5.00 Direct Blackrock Inc 34.8 3.17 Indirect 5.5 0.50 Securities Lending 45.3 4.12 Contract for Difference 85.6 7.79 Total FIL Limited 73.2 6.66 Indirect 0.2 0.01 Stock Loan 73.4 6.67 Total Lancaster Investment Management LLP 70.0 6.37 Swap Majedie Asset Management Limited 56.0 5.09 Direct Marathon Asset Management LLP 58.3 5.31 Indirect MSD Partners, L. P. 109.9 10.0 Indirect Orbis Group 54.5 4.96 Indirect Tameside MBC re: Greater Manchester Pension Fund 34.1 3.11 Direct UBS Asset Management Traditional and IFS, UBS Group AG 55.3 5.04 Indirect Notes: Between 1 January 2018 and the date of this report, the Company has been advised of the following changes of interests in shares: on 25 January 2018 UBS Asset Management Traditional and IFS, UBS Group AG notified that their interest in voting rights had fallen below the notifiable threshold.
148 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Index of Directors Report disclosures The information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report can be found in this Annual Report on the pages listed below.
4C, the information required to be disclosed in the Annual Report under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is marked with an asterisk.
Amendment of the Articles Page 144 Appointment and replacement of Directors Page 144 Board of Directors Pages 86 and 87 Change of control Pages 145 and 146 Community Page 74 Corporate responsibility Pages 69 to 84 Directors insurance and indemnities Page 145 Directors inductions and training Page 92 Directors responsibilities statement Page 150 Disclosure of information to Auditor Page 156 Diversity Page 73 and 104 Dividends Pages 36 and 144 Employee involvement Page 147 Employees with disabilities Page 73 Financial risk management Pages 207 to 212 Future developments of the business Page 9 to 17 Going concern Pages 148 and 163 Greenhouse gas emissions Page 83 Independent Auditors' Report Pages 152 to 157 Long-term incentive plans under Listing Rule 9.4.
3 Pages 122 to 140 Political donations Page 147 Powers for the Company to issue or buy back its shares Page 144 Powers of the Directors Page 108 Research and development activities Page 147 Restrictions on transfer of securities Page 144 Rights attaching to shares Page 144 Risk management and internal control Pages 20 to 29 and 95 Share capital Page 144 Significant agreements Pages 145 and 146 Significant related party agreements Page 224 Significant shareholders Page 148 Statement of corporate governance Pages 108 and 109 Strategic Report Pages 4 to 84 Viability Statement Page 30 to 31 Voting rights Page 144 Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 21 February 2018 149
