Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code For the year ended 31 December 2017, the Company has complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code with the exception of provision B.
A copy of the Code can be found at www.
uk The notes below are intended to assist with the evaluation of the Groups compliance during 2017 and forms part of the Corporate Governance Report as a whole.
Mike Clasper was Senior Independent Director B.
The responsibilities of the A full, formal and tailored induction programme Senior Independent Director include meeting is provided to all Directors appointed to A.
1 The Role of the Board major shareholders as an alternative contact the Board, which takes into account their The Board is responsible to Sercos to the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or qualifications and experience.
shareholders for promoting the long-term Group Chief Financial Officer.
The role is The Chairman reviews and agrees Directors' success of the Company and the operation clearly established and a description of the key training and development needs.
It responsibilities is published on our corporate oversees and agrees the Groups strategy and website www.
com During 2017, the Board received briefings ensures that necessary resources are available, from their advisers of relevant topics The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive and that the appropriate risk management designed to update Directors skills and Directors without the Executive Directors controls, processes and culture are in place to knowledge in particular areas.
At least annually, the Non-Executive deliver it.
As well as oversight, responsibility the Non-Executive Directors also undertook Directors, led by the Senior Independent for financial performance, internal control and a programme of individual contract visits and Director, meet without the Chairman present.
risk management of the Group, there is a clear Divisional management meetings to support schedule of matters reserved to the Board During the year, the Directors had no unresolved familiarity with the Groups operations, and visit which is published on our corporate website concerns about the running of the Company or reports were shared with all Board members.
It is Company policy that B.
5 Information and support any such unresolved concern must be recorded The Board meets formally on a regular basis.
The Directors have full access to the advice and in the Board minutes.
All Directors are expected to attend all Board services of the Company Secretary and may and relevant Committee meetings in addition obtain independent professional advice at the to general meetings of the Company, including B.
Effectiveness Companys expense if they believe it may be the AGM.
Details of the number of Board required in the furtherance of their duties.
meetings held during 2017 and the Directors B.
1 Composition of the Board The Company Secretary is responsible to the attendance are shown on page 91.
As at the date of this report, there are six NonBoard on a number of issues and full details Executive Directors, in addition to the Chairman All Directors are covered by the Groups on the Company Secretarys responsibilities and two Executive Directors on the Board.
Directors and Officers Insurance policy.
are published on our corporate website During the year as part of the Boards internal www.
2 Division of responsibilities evaluation process, the Board reviewed of the Company Secretary is a matter for the The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive the overall balance of skills, experience, Board as a whole.
are separate and full descriptions, including independence and knowledge of Board and key responsibilities of each, are published on The Chairman, in conjunction with the Committee members and their diversity, our corporate website www.
com Company Secretary, ensures that all Board including gender.
members receive timely, accurate and effective Sir Roy Gardner, the Chairman, leads and is The Board considers all of its Non-Executive information.
responsible for the balance and composition Directors to be independent and free of any of the Board and its Committees, and ensures B.
6 Evaluation business relationships that could compromise its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
In 2017, performance evaluations of the Board, the exercise of independent and objective Rupert Soames, the Group Chief Executive, its Committees and individual Directors were judgement.
In accordance with the Code, leads the business to develop and deliver the carried out internally.
Further details of the the Board undertakes an annual review of the Groups strategy and business plans as agreed evaluation can be found on page 92. independence of its Non-Executive Directors.
Following the evaluation, the Directors B.
3 The Chairman concluded that the Board and its Committees Lynne Peacock and Ian El-Mokadem were The Chairman manages the Board and, in operated effectively and that each Director appointed as Non-Executive Directors on consultation with the Company Secretary, sets contributes effectively and demonstrates 1July 2017.
Kirsty Bashforth was appointed as the Boards agenda for the year.
Meetings are commitment to their role.
a Non-Executive Director on 15 September arranged to ensure sufficient time is available 2017.
The appointment was led by the External evaluation last took place in early 2015 for the discussion of all items.
The Chairman Nomination Committee, who recommended and it is the Boards intention to carry out an facilitates open and constructive dialogue all three appointments to the Board.
Further externally facilitated evaluation in 2018. during the meetings.
The Chairman was details regarding the appointment process independent on appointment.
7 Election Re-election are available in the report of the Nomination Each Director is subject to election at the first A.
4 Non-Executive Directors Committee on page 102.
AGM following their appointment, and reNon-Executive Directors are urged to B.
3 Commitment election at each subsequent AGM.
Accordingly challenge constructively and help develop The time commitment of Non-Executive Lynne Peacock, Ian El-Mokadem and Kirsty proposals on strategy, scrutinise the Directors is defined on appointment and Bashforth will stand for election at the 2018 performance of management in meeting regularly evaluated.
The Board is satisfied AGM.
The Directors unanimously recommend agreed goals and objectives, and monitor that the current external commitments of its the election re-election of all Board members the reporting of performance.
They are Chairman, Senior Independent and other Nonat the 2018 AGM.
Full biographical details for all responsible for determining the remuneration Executive Directors do not conflict with their Directors can be found on pages 86 and 87. of the Executive Directors and have a key role duties and time commitments as Directors of in the appointment and succession planning of the Company.
It is the Companys policy to allow Executive roles.
each Executive Director to accept one nonexecutive directorship of another company.
108 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements C. Accountability D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders C. 1 Financial and business reporting D. 1 The level and components E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders A statement of the Directors responsibilities of remuneration The Board recognises that meaningful regarding the financial statements, including The Remuneration Report on pages 110 to 143 engagement with its institutional and retail the status of the Company as a going concern, outlines the activities of the Committee during shareholders is integral to the continued is set out on page 150 with an explanation of the 2017 and sets out the Directors Remuneration success of the Group.
The Executive Directors Groups strategy and business model together Policy table, including relevant remuneration and the Investor Relations team regularly with the relevant risks and performance metrics components and how they support the meet with analysts and major investors to set out on pages 13 to 29. achievement of the strategic objectives of maintain effective dialogue.
The Chairman is the Group.
The Annual Remuneration Report available and has met with a number of major A further statement is provided on page 150 outlines the implementation of remuneration investors.
Throughout 2017 there has been confirming that the Board considers that during 2017 including salary, bonus and active engagement with shareholders through the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a shareawards.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for The Remuneration Policy will be put to a E. 2 Constructive use of the AGM shareholders to assess the Groups position and binding shareholder vote at the AGM in 2018 The AGM will be held on Thursday 10 May 2018 performance, business model and strategy.
in accordance with the requirements of the UK and is an opportunity for shareholders to vote Companies Act.
The Board believes that the in person on certain aspects of Group business.
The Audit Committee report on pages 96 to Groups proposed Remuneration Policy has The Board values the AGM as an opportunity 101 sets out the details of the Committees a responsible approach to Directors pay and to meet with those shareholders able to attend responsibility for ensuring the integrity of the that the Remuneration Policy as proposed is and to take their questions.
The Notice of AGM financial reporting process and the key matters appropriate and fit for purpose.
is made available to all shareholders either considered during the year in respect of its electronically or, where requested, in hard oversight of financial and business reporting.
D. 2 Procedure copy and is available on our corporate website The Board has delegated a number of C. 2 Risk management and internal www.
com responsibilities to the Remuneration control Committee, including the setting of the Groups The Board, through the Group Risk Committee, overall remuneration policy and strategy, as has carried out a robust assessment of the well as the remuneration arrangements for principal risks facing the Company, including the Executive Directors and the Executive those that would threaten its business model, Committee.
Full details are set out in the terms future performance, solvency or liquidity.
of reference for the Committee published on Further details about these risks and how they our corporate website www.
com and the are managed and mitigated can be found on activities of the Committee are set out in the pages 20 to 29.
The Viability Statement on page Directors Remuneration Report on page 114.
30 explains how the Directors have assessed No Director is involved in setting his or her the prospects of the Company and concluded own remuneration.
that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
The Board determines the Companys risk appetite and has established risk management and internal control systems.
At least annually, the Board undertakes a review of their effectiveness.
Further details are set out on pages 20 to 29 and 93 to 95.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors The Audit Committee report on pages 96 to 101 sets out details of the composition of the Committee, including the expertise of members, and outlines how the Committee discharged its responsibilities during 2017.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee, including oversight of the Groups financial reporting processes and management of the External Auditor.
Full details are set out in the terms of reference for the Committee, published on our corporate website www.
