2 Strategic report Integration and future growth We have made good progress in integratingTullett Prebon and ICAP.
The costs to Over the next 12 months, the integration will The acquisition of ICAP and formation achieve these synergies were 79m, which focus on the transformation of our services ofTPICAP in December 2016 was compares to an original target of 40m.
aswe build for the future.
This will involve transformational for our stakeholders.
One of Although we are ahead of our initial thedelivery of a more efficient and scalable the driving factors behind the transaction was guidance we reiterate our synergy target IT and operations structure as well as the potential for the combined Company to of100m synergies by 2020 as many of consolidating our real estate footprint.
This successfully integrate and generate significant thesynergy savings in 2017 have been will further enhance our ability to service our synergies and cost savings.
These cost savings accelerated from 2018. customers in an efficient manner.
We are also are focused on our support and infrastructure planning to further increase headcount in our Our approach to the integration has been to areas and the process of the integration will Belfast Support Services Centre as part of bring the two broadly similar global support take three years to achieve, with 2017 being the second phase of the integration, which functions together in a manner that ensured the first year of the integration.
will further enhance our IT capabilities and and enhanced delivery of service and in a improve efficiency within the organisation.
As we stated last year, our synergy target is way that improves efficiency and reduces for 80m of synergies by 2019 and a further costs.
For example, we have created single As a result we anticipate that, whilst total 20m of annualised synergies from process support functions in Finance, Legal, Risk, synergies will be in line with our 100m target, optimisation by the end of 2020.
Our initial Compliance and HR by removing duplication greater synergies are expected to be achieved target was to achieve 10m of synergies in and successfully co-locating staff.
The outside IT than previously anticipated.
2017 followed by 50m in 2018 and 20m in management structure of the Company 2019.
In 2017, we achieved synergy savings hasalso been unified so that there are and reduced costs of 27m, compared with singleleaders for all divisional, functional proforma 2016, and annualised run rate and corporate support areas.
Year 1 Year 23 Focus on Corporate business services integration transformation Bring together two businesses Look to optimise processes.
and capture simple Integrate IT and improve its scalability.
Deliver efficiencies from HR, Legal, Risk, Compliance and Finance, Agree governance, leadership including process efficiency and IT platforms.
Become world leaders in broker operations by increasing efficiency.
Build upon our Belfast operation and optimise our third party spend.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 3 Future Growth We plan to build on this success in 2018 and Data & Analytics The acquisition of ICAP has opened up a expand our Electronic Markets team that is On completion of the ICAP acquisition number of growth opportunities for the responsible for improving hybrid platform TPICAP became the leading provider of combined business as we leverage our scale functionality: developing pure-electronic over the counter OTC pricing data in and position as the largest interdealer broker services: and enhancing our clients theworld.
This is an important part of in the world.
We are focused on integrating workflows.
Through the evolution of these ourbusiness and we have for the first time the two businesses but it is also important solutions, we continue to work hard to disclosed the gross operating margin on the that we continue to evolve and expand our provide our customers with more efficient 112m of revenues we achieved in 2017.
The Company to adapt and compete in a fast and effective ways of trading via multiple gross operating margin of the business was changing financial services market place.
protocols, such as Central Limit Order 62% in 2017 2016: 67%.
This data margin Books CLOB, Volume Matching, Crossing reflects minimal cost of sales.
The reduction Global Broking Solutions and Request for Quote RFQ.
in the margin in 2017 reflects the investment For our Global Broking division we are the business has made for MiFID II and to planning to invest in new client facing Institutional Services develop a market data distribution platform.
technology that will improve the speed Our Institutional Services division has recently andease of execution for our customers as been established to focus on providing In 2017, we hired Eric Sinclair from the well as making our brokers more productive.
brokerage and execution services for buy-side Toronto Stock Exchange where he spent During 2017, we invested in a number of clients such as hedge funds, asset managers 16years building out their data business.
newproducts that achieved these aims.
We believe that Ericnow runs Data & Analytics at TP ICAP.
included TP US credit, a volume matching there is a need in capital markets for a high We are in a unique position as TP ICAP as solution that is purely electronic and has quality agency sales and execution services wehave highly valuable proprietary OTC generated 1.2m of revenues during the business, that does not take balance sheet data.
As part of our overall strategy, we period.
We have also added hybrid volume risk, but acts as a key source of liquidity.
arelooking to expand our data offering matching capability in UK gilts, and Wecan source this liquidity from traditional andtake advantage of the numerous electronic capabilities in US high yield bonds.
and non-traditional pools that may not be opportunities that present themselves, available to the buy-side and importantly fromregulation to advanced analytics wecan do this without conflicts of interest andcloud based technologies.
Data & Analytics and on an anonymous basis.
Gross operating margin Energy & Commodities We have made good progress in expanding TP ICAP is the worlds largest Energy & 67% this business with the acquisition of COEX Commodities broker with offices in 20 62% Partners in November 2017.
COEX provides locations globally, and coverage of a broad trade and execution services in listed set of energy and commodities products derivatives and OTC FX for a range of hedge across the three brands we operate Tullett funds, asset managers and other clients.
Our strategy is to Institutional Services division will continue continue to grow our presence through tofocus on expanding the business both recruiting more brokers and through bolt-on 2017 2016 organically and inorganically over the next 12 acquisitions.
At the start of 2018, we months as it looks to capitalise on a growing acquired SCS Brokers, a US-based oil and demand for high-quality execution services.
softs brokerage company, and we will continue to look for further value-enhancing 27m opportunities in a consolidating market.
Atthe same time, we will look to make the In 2017 we achieved 27m of synergies business and our brokers more efficient by investing in our technology platforms so as toexploit our leading market position.
52m 2017 year end annualised run rate of synergy savings 1 See note 2 on page 1. www.
