44 Strategic report ICAP Charity Day 25 years of giving For 25 years, ICAP Charity Day has made an Since 1993, thanks to the efforts of our around the world.
Each ICAP office supports enormous impact by giving away 100% customers, staff and suppliers, ICAP Charity local charities registered in their own country.
ofICAP revenues and commissions on just Day has made a big difference to a diverse Read about the projects ICAP Charity Day one day.
During this time it has positively range of charities around the world and has has supported in the Success Stories changed the lives of hundreds of thousands enabled us to fund entire projects across a sectionof the website.
On 5 December 2017, 4.7 million range of charitable causes.
com success-stories was raised globally, bringing the total On Charity Day the workforce comes amount raised over 25years to almost together with one aim, and one goal to 140million.
raise as much money as possible for charities Below HRH, The Duchess of Cornwall, Patron of Medical Detection Dogs, in the London office.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 45 Watch the highlights of the ICAP Charity Day 2017 at: 4.7m 2,400 www.
com ICAPCharityDay On 5 December 2017, 4.7 million In 2017, 2,400 staff in 27 ICAP offices, www.
com ICAPCharityDay was raised globally.
140m 2,300 The total amount raised over This year we supported more than 100 25 years is almost 140 million.
charities globally, bringing the total number for charities supported since 1993 to 2,300.
Top left The Childrens Hospital at Westmead, Sydney.
Top right Drew Barrymore in the New York office on behalf of Baby2Baby.
Middle left Desmond Lee, Singapore Minister for Social and Family Development and Second Minister in the Ministry of National Development.
Bottom London staff volunteer day with Rays of Sunshine at Evelina Childrens Hospital.
It has been a privilege totake over responsibility for ICAPs Charity Day and to launch the Groupwide TPICAP charitable initiative.
John Phizackerley Chief Executive www.
com 46 Strategic report Resources, relationships and responsibilities We aim to manage our business responsibly.
moved to CV-blind assessment centres and Employee numbers, gender pay anddiversity This is reflected in our ongoing commitment away from historic reliance on the annual We are focused on addressing the challenge to maintaining a professional culture with campus recruitment rounds.
We proved of diversity in our organisation which, like sound business practices and relationships in2017 that we can attract high calibre many businesses in the financial services aswell as developing all our employees.
Through sectors, has a lower ratio of female to male acombination of hiring strategies, we employees, particularly in broking roles.
Supporting employees achieved our goal of adding 52 trainee As a new business formed from the Since the creation of TP ICAP in December brokers to the Group.
We aim to hire another combination of Tullett Prebon and ICAP, 2016, we have taken steps to address the 50 trainees in 2018.
Asia Pacific is the TPICAP has created two forums to improve imbalance, including the appointment priority for 2018 as we continue to focus the support we offer our employees.
The first of a diversity champion on our GEC and onincreasing the overall diversity of new is our employee engagement forum named, introducing CV-blind recruiting in our broker trainee cohorts.
involve, apermanent body made up of recruitment process which is a first in our elected employee representatives, who act We have also been busy in lateral hiring as sector.
This has transformed the way we as a collective voice, speaking on behalf we actively seek to attract a diverse pool recruit trainee brokers at TP ICAP.
The ofemployees on important issues in the ofcandidates using low and no fee sources.
Company will report its Gender Pay Gap workplace.
The forum gives a voice to data in line with regulations.
Learning and talent development employees around collective consultation, Through the change programmes sponsored At 31 December 2017, the TP ICAP Board information and communication and by HR, we have given employees across comprised two women and six men, employee feedback.
The second is connect, theGroup ways to manage stress and be thesame as last year.
The mix of senior our employee-led engagement network resilient.
Early this year we were able to managers at 31 December 2017 was 18% which brings together employees from release our learning management system to women and 82% men.
Overall employee around the world to create networks and all employees across the Group.
This means numbers on 31 December 2017 were 22% development opportunities, as well as there is a consistent one place to access women and 78% men.
eventsto talk about topical issues and content related to development, whether encourage the diversity of our Group.
These Culture that be on-line mandatory training or two programmes help drive employee During 2017 we have been articulating our performance-related documents such as engagement to help us achieve the aim of culture at TP ICAP and describing what we setting objectives and doing annual reviews.
being the leading employer in our sector.
In summer 2017, we We have provided employees access to were able get our first full set of employee To support our employees, we have training calendars with courses covering engagement feedback which told us how globalpolicies in place to ensure we keypersonal effectiveness skills.
We have engaged employees are and asked respectthe backgrounds, beliefs and cultures scheduled additional programmes when questionsabout how they perceive our of all employees, and that the working courses are oversubscribed to meet culture.
Collating this feedback is one environment is free from discrimination, employee demand.
2017 also saw the rollout wayofgauging employee sentiment and harassment and bullying.
In the event that of a rebranded TPICAP Respect@Work wellbeing.
Communicating and acting an employee becomes disabled, the Groups course.
Originally released to Tullett Prebon onthe feedback gives our employees a policy is to make reasonable adjustments, employees in 2015, this course has been voiceand the ability to shape our culture.
including arranging training, to enable the refreshed and relaunched in 2017 across employee to continue working for the Group.
Social media and online policy theGroup.
The course focuses onus as At TP ICAP we understand the importance Recruitment individuals, reinforcing that we each ofsocial media and its impact on society Our resourcing team has been successful in contribute to the environment and culture andour employees.
Our Group policy for recruiting new trainee brokers within the atTP ICAP and that every one of us is social media and online activity is designed USand the UK as part of the Early Careers accountable for it.
The course is a reminder to safeguard our brand, reputation and Programme.
In both locations we have that all employees should feel empowered employees when communicating on social toreport unacceptable behaviour.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 47 Our policy has clear rules on the use of social TP ICAP strives to maintain the highest Environment media and onlinecommunications and has standards of honesty, openness and TP ICAP recognises it has a responsibility to been communicated to our employees.
accountability and recognises that all those help protect and preserve the environment.
who work with or within the Group have an Tothis end, we try to carry out all reasonably We also have a social media best practice important role to play in achieving this goal.
practical measures to meet our responsibilities guide and monitor all the mainstream social Accordingly, the Group has implemented to reduce our impact on the environment.
media channels toensure compliance with aglobal whistleblowing policy which Responsibility for environmental matters rests our standards.
encourages employees and third parties, with the Board, and is included in its terms of toreport suspicion of wrongdoing in reference.
The Chief Executive is the Board Working with government and regulators relationto TP ICAP activities including: member responsible for corporate social We work with governments and regulatory criminal activity, failure to comply responsibility, and as such, is responsible authorities to maintain a detailed, up to withlegalor regulatory requirements, for the Companys environmental policy.
date, understanding of any legislation and miscarriages of justice, danger to health regulation that affects us and our customers.
As an office-based business we do not andsafety, damage to the environment, This allows us to respond efficiently to generate a large environmental impact.
The bribery, financial fraud, negligence, breach change.
It is the Groups policy not to make main impact of our business is greenhouse of TP ICAPs policies and unauthorised cash contributions to any political party.
gas emissions as a result of office-based disclosure of confidential information.
During 2017, no political donations were business activities and from business travel.
Tax and other social payments Statistics relating to these are set out in the In December 2017, the Group published a Directors Report, on page 90, where wealso Whistleblowing, anti-money Group tax strategy.
This is available on publish our annual carbon footprint figures.
laundering and bribery and corruption TPICAPs website, www.
The TP ICAP recognises its responsibility TP ICAP makes a commitment to: Group tax strategy explains that the Group tofullymeet its legal and regulatory iscommitted to complying with tax laws in requirements to protect the integrity ensure compliance with all current aresponsible manner and to having open andstability of the financial markets environmental legislation: and constructive relationships with tax andmakes a commitment to: identify forthcoming environmental authorities wherever we operate, and legislation to ensure timely compliance thatthe Groups tax risk appetite is low.
not being used by criminals to launderthe with such new legislation: proceeds of crime or by sanctioned improve its management of energy, The Group made payments to tax authorities individuals and entities: emissions, use of resources and waste for 2017 of 281m 2016:215m, comprising help combat terrorist financing: performance to prevent pollution and corporation tax, premises taxes, employers comply with economic and trade provide resources to support social security payments, income taxes and sanctions issued by relevant governments effectiveimprovement opportunities: social security paid on behalf of employees and organisations in every jurisdiction monitor and report the Groups annual in the UK and the USA the main jurisdictions in which we operate: energy usage and greenhouse in which it operates, and VAT sales taxes.
prohibit the acceptance, or offering gasemissions, as appropriate: and In addition, the Group makes further tax of a bribe in any form: adopt sustainable procurement practices payments to the tax authorities in other prohibit the solicitation of business, and work with customers and suppliers to taxjurisdictions in which it operates.
by the offering of any form of bribe: improve energy performance throughout prohibit the offering of employment, HM Treasury has adopted the requirements the Companys supply chain.
withthe intention of receiving an set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital improper business advantage: and The 2017 Strategic report, from pages 1 to 47, Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting prohibit the making of has been reviewed and approved by the Regulations 2013.
Board of Directors on 13 March 2018. the publication of additional information, including certain tax payments, in respect John Phizackerley ofthe year ended 31 December 2017, by Chief Executive 31December 2018.
This information will beavailable by this date on TP ICAPs Robin Stewart website, www.
Interim Chief Financial Officer www.
