4 Strategic report Our business model We provide our clients with a wide choice of execution services, data products and analytics.
How we create value Value of hybrid voice The Groups business model is primarily Discretion based on generating a return from providing Size Discovery an intermediation service to clients, enabling Market Colour them to trade efficiently and effectively.
This Multi-legged cross service can be provided without actively asset execution taking credit and market risk.
As well as Regulated Venue Liquidity Venues providing an intermediary service, we also have a Data & Analytics business that sells OTC pricing data that is generated from our broking activities.
This data is proprietary aswell as neutral.
Order Capture Our business is structured along business division see pull-out and regional lines, andis operated under competing brands as this provides our clients with different sources of liquidity.
The intermediary service we Price Volume Distribution provide is across a wide range of financial and commodity products, which are traded in numerous markets and geographies.
These trades may be bespoke in nature, complex and of high nominal value so the access our brokers have to the largest pools of liquidity Trade Capture provides us with a competitive advantage.
Our brokers relationships with market participants, together with the operations and infrastructure they are provided with, are key determinants of the ongoing success of the Group and a key source of value.
Trade Enrichment The graphic opposite shows the way we operate across voice execution, electronic execution and hybrid voice execution.
For themajority of the products that we trade, External Messaging TPICAP operates electronic venues.
Every aspect of an electronic trade, from order capture to external messaging, is offered electronically to our clients who will choose the most efficient form of execution for the product they are trading.
At TP ICAP we add the voice broking element to our electronic capabilities as our highly skilled brokers can Value of data add real value through the lifecycle of a trade.
Global Neutral Data Capture Market position Proprietary OTC Data To read our financial and operating review see p18 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 5 This hybrid form of execution takes place Executing Broker onregulated venues where our emphasis The remainder of the Groups broking onregulatory compliance and appropriate revenue is derived from operating as an conduct and culture are paramount.
By Executing Broker, where the Group executes providing market insight and the ability to transactions on certain regulated exchanges source liquidity for large and complex trades as per client orders, and then gives-up the we believe that our brokers will continue to trade to the relevant client or its clearing be central to the trading of OTC derivatives.
The majority of the Groups revenue generated under the Executing Name Passing Broker model relates to listed equity Around three quarters of the Groups broking derivatives and listed interest rate futures revenue is derived from Name Passing and options.
activities, where the Group identifies and introduces a buyer and seller who wish to Our people transact but is not a counterparty to the Our workforce includes a truly global range trade itself, and where its exposure to a of nationalities and backgrounds of skilled clientis limited to outstanding invoices and specialist brokers and data experts forcommission.
Almost all of the Groups whohave extensive product and industry activities in derivatives, such as forward FX, experience and deep and trusted FX options, interest rate swaps, interest rate relationships with clients.
options, credit derivatives, and the vast They work in close partnership with our majority of the Energy & Commodities technology developers who are experienced business are transacted under the Name at developing applications, software and Passing model.
electronic platforms that are tailored to the Matched Principal client needs of the markets in which we focus.
Around one fifth of the Groups broking Our businesses are supported by our finance, revenue is derived from Matched Principal operations, risk, compliance, legal, HR and activities, where the Group is the counterparty facilities functions.
to both the buyer and the seller of a matching trade.
The vast majority of the Groups We pride ourselves on our dynamic, activities conducted under the Matched professional, ambitious and collaborative Principal model are in government and culture.
Our values of Honesty, Integrity, agency bonds, municipal bonds, mortgage Respect and Excellence underpin everything backed securities, and corporate bonds.
Wehave a zero tolerance approach to TheGroup bears the risk of counterparty regulatory and professional ethics violations.
default during the period between executionand settlement of the trade.
To read our financial and operating review see p18 www.
