Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Our Business Serco has deep expertise: overlaid on our private sector techniques, drive and energy is a public service ethos that means that we can help deliver government services efficiently, but in a way that recognises the need for public accountability, transparency and trust.
What we do, and how we do it with the law, with the police and judiciary acting as Serco delivers services to governments and enforcers of behaviour.
An example of this would be a other institutions who serve the public or policy that required a speed limit of 20 mph near schools, protect vital national interests.
We focus on which can be enforced by the police in the normal course five sectors: Defence, Justice & Immigration, of law enforcement.
Other policies require substantial Transport, Health and Citizen Services, specialist workforces to be employed to deliver them.
and deliver them in the UK, Europe, North One example would be a policy that pending the America, Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
adjudication of their applications, asylum seekers should be housed in the community, rather than in detention: Sercos origin dates back to 1929, when the Radio such a policy requires the government to employ Corporation of America established a UK subsidiary directly or indirectly the people required to manage providing technical services to cinemas.
In the years housing and welfare services.
Another example of a leading up to 1987, the UK subsidiary diversified its policy that requires a dedicated workforce to deliver it services to cover facilities management, systems would be air traffic control, which requires highly qualified engineering and support services.
Following a staff to be deployed, often to remote locations.
management buy-out in 1987, the Company was subsequently listed on the London Stock Exchange as Public services require people Serco Group plc.
Throughout the eighties and nineties, The delivery of many areas of government policy is Serco was at the forefront of the emerging outsourcing labour intensive, and the number of people involved in market in the UK, pioneering in areas such as large scale the delivery of government services vastly outnumbers transfers of staff and in being the operations contractor those involved in developing policy: in some countries, for new public infrastructure and services.
government is the largest employer.
For example, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Serco delivers services to Government through nearly twice as many people 22 million are employed people, supported by processes, technology and by local, state and federal government as are in skilled management.
Our customers define what manufacturing 12 million.
outcomes or services they need to deliver, and we develop new and more effective ways to deliver them.
The labour intensive nature of government service We deliver innovative solutions to some of the most delivery demands strong management of the processes complex challenges facing governments, bringing our to recruit, organise and oversee the hundreds or experience, capability and scale to deliver the service even thousands of people required to deliver a public standards, cost efficiencies and policy outcomes service.
Many public servants are talented managers, governments want.
In this way we make a positive but all governments find it hard to attract and retain in difference to the lives of millions of people around the numbers required to deliver services in the face of the world, and help keep nations safe.
private sector competition for these skills.
Serco helps government by being a bridge between the drive, energy Governments have two basic responsibilities: to develop and innovation of the private sector, and the very specific policies, and to ensure that those policies are delivered.
Some policies can be delivered simply by enacting legislation, relying on individuals and corporations to deliver the policy themselves by acting in accordance 09 Strategic Report Our Business continued Public services and delivery by the private sector Sercos breadth and structure Governments have used private contractors to deliver As well as providing a bridge between the private and public policy, often in very sensitive areas, for centuries.
public sector, Serco also provides the international and In medieval times, fighting wars and tax collection were inter-departmental sharing of ideas and best practice often outsourced, in whole or part, to private enterprise.
which governments often find hard to achieve.
New The transportation of prisoners from the UK to Australia, approaches for running prisons and reducing youth rewhich started in 1788 and continued until 1868, was carried offending in the UK come from Australia: hospitals we out entirely by private contractors.
Today, in the UK, manage in the Middle East use processes developed in frontline medical services by the National Health Service the UK: likewise our Defence business in the Middle East are provided by general practitioners, the vast majority serves Australian armed forces.
We transfer our insights, of whom are employed by private partnerships and skills and processes from one sector or region to another, companies.
Some of the most sensitive and secret defence so we can anticipate and meet new challenges for work, such as developing and supporting strategic nuclear customers.
In our markets we are a rarity: a company that weapons, is carried out by private companies.
offers services covering front, middle, and back office requirements across multiple areas of government policy Some services which governments need in order to delivery, internationally.
deliver public policy are similar or identical to those required in the private sector, and suppliers can happily We focus our activities in five areas of government operate in both markets.
Running payroll, providing service: Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, telecoms networks and IT centres is not vastly different Health and Citizen Services.
Between them, these sectors in the public and private sectors.
But some government account for a very large proportion of government services such as running prisons or providing air expenditure and employ significant numbers of people traffic control are unique to government and have no in service delivery.
Many government services We structure ourselves with three types of function: are bought only by government, and providing them Divisions, Group, and Shared Services.
All operational is a specialist business, quite different from anything delivery is executed through four geographic Divisions: found in the private sector.
However, many of them can UK & Europe, the Americas, Asia Pacific and the Middle be run efficiently on behalf of government by private East.
Within their domains, Divisions are responsible for companies using techniques, management, technology everything involved in winning and delivering contracts: and processes developed in the private sector.
97% of our employees work in these Divisions.
A lean Unique demands of public service delivery Group function provides governance, strategy, asset allocation, policy-setting and oversight, as well as Providing government services to citizens, funded certain specialist consolidation and functional roles in by taxpayers, is different, and in many ways more Finance, Risk and HR: the Group also manages Centre demanding, than providing services to the private sector of Excellence CoEs which provide focused expertise or consumers.
Politics, transparency and accountability and support to the Divisions, and enable sharing of best to multiple stakeholders are seen only dimly in the practice and the development of common propositions private sector, but are writ large in the public sector, and in areas such as Transport, Justice & Immigration and need careful management.
Serco has deep expertise Health.
Shared Services provide common functional and in providing this bridge: overlaid on our private sector processing support in areas such as IT, HR and finance to techniques, drive and energy is a public service ethos the Divisions.
that means that we can help deliver government services efficiently, but in a way that recognises the need for public accountability and trust, and the fact that we are often looking after some of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged in society.
10 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Our Strategy However, despite what is now a more mature and As managers, our job is to ensure Serco difficult market than it was around the turn of the delivers value to the people and institutions century, the business of providing services to who have an interest in our success: to our government has attractions.
We believe that the market customers and service-users, by providing will continue to grow, albeit at a slower rate than high-quality, resilient and innovative previously, because of two fundamental truths.
First, public services: to our shareholders, by that in many areas of public service provision, private providing sustainable and growing returns companies, properly managed, can deliver services of higher quality and lower cost than governments can on capital: to our lenders, by providing themselves.
Second, that governments will continue to them with a solid and secure credit: and to face huge pressure to deliver more and better public our colleagues, by enabling them to have services, for less, and that this will lead them to focus interesting and rewarding careers.
relentlessly on value for money and the quality of service provision.
This pressure comes from what we We believe that good strategies are simply expressed.
call the Four Forces comprising: Our strategy is to be a superb provider of public services, by being the best-managed business in our sector.
The relentless increase, at rates above GDP growth, We are a B2G Business to Government business, of demand for public services across important areas specialising across five sectors: Defence, Justice & of government.
Examples are the pressures on health Immigration, Transport, Health and Citizen Services.
and social care driven by ageing populations, and We deliver these services in four regions: UK & Europe, growing prison populations.
North America, Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
The need to reduce public debt and expenditure The decision to focus on being a B2G business was deficits.
taken in 2014, and was a change from the previous Rising expectations of service quality amongst public strategy which had been to serve both private and service users.
The strategy was changed as a result of the need to recapitalise the business following The unwillingness of voters and corporate taxpayers a troubled diversification into private sector outsourcing to countenance tax increases.
and the realisation that Serco had taken on a number of The challenge facing governments worldwide can, like very heavily loss-making contracts.
As a result of this the our strategy, be simply expressed: to deliver more, and management team was changed in 2013 and 2014, and better, for less.
over 700m was raised by way of an equity Rights Issue in early 2015 and the disposal of non-core businesses In all of our markets the degree to which government later in that year.
should use private companies to provide public services is one debated, sometimes fiercely, and the Focusing the business on the public sector market pendulum can swing quite sharply.
By way of example, was, in effect, going back to our roots.
For some 20 the elections in Western Australia in 2017 saw a Labor years up until 2010, the company had delivered rapid government committed to reducing private sector growth and very significant value creation by being participation replace a Liberal administration which had largely focused on the public sector.
In recent years overseen the introduction of private sector companies the public sector market has become more difficult as into the prison and healthcare systems: on the other governments struggled with the effects of the financial side of the country, however, in New South Wales, the crisis in 2008, slowdowns in military spending, and the administration is a sophisticated user of private sector election of governments committed to reducing public services, as is the Federal Government.
In the US, the expenditure.
Furthermore, governments have become Obama administration was notably seen as less private much more skilled at contracting and focused on risksector friendly, while the new Trump administration is transfer: as a consequence margins and risk-adjusted considered the reverse.
Recently, in the UK, the collapse returns earned by many suppliers to government are of Carillion has reignited debate, with the two main much lower today than they were ten years ago.
political parties taking sharply divergent views.
This two-way street is well established, but on a smaller scale, in the commercial outsourcing market, where on a daily basis some companies decide to outsource, and others decide to insource.
11 Strategic Report Our Business continued We believe, however, that the long-term pressures to An international footprint also helps us build customer deliver value-for-money, increasing demand for services, interest and confidence.
The fact that we are involved and the need to improve service delivery will ensure that in running major urban rail infrastructure in the UK and the role of the private sector in the delivery of public Dubai helps us in rail bids in North America: our proven services will remain robust.
track record in reducing recidivism amongst offenders in Australia is of interest to authorities in the UK.
But, There are other factors that make the public sector more broadly, when governments are considering marketplace attractive to us: whilst some niches may be awarding us an important project, the fact that other disrupted by technology or other exogenous factors, governments trust us to help them manage some of we can be very confident that the world will still need their most critical and secret areas of national security prisons, will still need to manage immigration, and infrastructure is helpful in building confidence.
provide healthcare and transport, and that these services Market size will be highly people-intensive for decades to come.
The bank teller or shop assistant may be rightly fearful People ask: how large is the market for the private sector that technology will disintermediate their role, but provision of public services?
This is hard to determine a prison custody officer can sleep soundly in the with precision, as the boundaries of the market are knowledge that his or her skills will be required for fiendishly hard to define.
Does the maintenance contract years to come.
for a mainframe computer operated by the government fall within the definition of the market?
How should we Risk management is central to our thinking at both a treat services provided by government-owned agencies strategic and an operational level.
In terms of strategy, operating on an arms-length basis?
Within Defence, do although being a focused and specialist B2G business, we count supply and support of, say, missile systems, we think it beneficial, and a competitive advantage, to or just the types of services we currently as opposed diversify our exposure to individual governments and to could supply?
And how do we disentangle the very sectors.
Governments can be capricious: decisiondifferent definitions of, and accounting for, expenditure making processes regularly come to a halt around used by the various governments with whom we deal?
elections: the attitude to using private companies can be volatile: political priorities can change in the blink of In 2016 we did a lot of work to try and size the market an eye, switching discretionary resources from defence in the sectors and geographies we currently operate to immigration to healthcare and back again.
In this in, which are clearly a subset of the global market.
Our environment, being diversified both by sector and best guess is that the total annual value of government geography reduces risk and volatility.
Most companies services in our target segments and geographies which operating in our market are heavily focused in either a could be provided by the private sector is around particular sector, or within a geography: in our market, 300bn, of which around 100bn is delivered by private Serco is a rare beast, operating amongst five sectors companies.
Rather than concentrate on the absolute and four regions.
number, some key conclusions from our work are: But management of risk is only one reason we favour a the market for private sector delivery of government strategy of operating across a number of jurisdictions services is very large: and sectors.
Governments across the world face similar the supply-side is fragmented: as a leading challenges, and we believe that we can gain competitive international supplier, our market share within our advantage and deliver value to customers by operating existing footprint, at around 3%, is small, although internationally.
At a detailed operational level, providing it is larger in some specific segments within certain cleaning and catering services in a hospital is very similar sectors: and in Western Australia and in Abu Dhabi.
In terms of there is significant opportunity for growth, given capability, many of our contracts employ hundreds, and that around two-thirds of the services that could be some, thousands, of people: so recruitment, training, staff rostering and time management are key capabilities provided by the private sector are currently selfapplicable across all our sectors and geographies.
The same is true of project and case management: we are also able to adopt consistent approaches to key operational tools such as Continuous Improvement.
12 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Our business model Our drivers: What we do: How we add value: Values Efficiency & commercial nous Trust Care Justice & Public service ethos Immigration Health Superb Transferable global experience Innovation Pride Defence public Services Transport Full service integration Citizen Services Purpose A trusted partner of Expert & empowered people governments, delivering superb public services, that transform outcomes and make a positive difference for our fellow citizens Trusted partnership Deliverables The Four Forces: long-term structural growth drivers Transformational capability Revenue growth Growing costs: healthcare, ageing 57% population and infrastructure Citizen-centred, outcome focused Need to balance public income Trading margin and expenditure, and reduce debt 56% Ability to test and innovate Rising expectations of service quality Employee engagement Strong governance & Voters unwilling to tolerate 60% and increasing risk management higher taxation Our core sectors Our business is focused across five core sectors and four geographies, with revenue in 2017 including share of joint ventures and associates of 3,310m Justice & Defence Transport Health Citizen Services Immigration 973m 29% 559m 17% 559m 17% 348m 11% 871m 26% Key Services Base and operational Custodial services Rail and ferries Non-clinical support Contact centres and support services case management Immigration Road traffic Engineering, detention and management Patient administration Middle and back management and services and contact office services: IT Air traffic control information services services Detainee transport Maritime services and monitoring Employment and skills services 13 Strategic Report Our Business continued Implementing our strategy We combine people, processes and technology to deliver superb services.
Serco is not a consultancy or a technology business: we use process and technology as enabling tools, not as products to sell.
Furthermore, since processes and technology depend entirely on people, it can be simply said that the success of our strategy will depend upon how well we manage, organise, motivate, develop and select people.
is: by being the best-managed business in our sector.
Having such an ambition may sound trite, but we believe that it is a worthy and value-creating aspiration, and one that we can use to inspire our management teams and customers.
In any given circumstances, and whatever the slings and arrows of fortune, well-managed businesses do better than poorly-managed businesses, and the bestmanaged businesses do best of all.
We are great believers in succinctness and simplicity.
Accordingly, we have managed to fit our strategy and performance framework of what is a very complex and diverse business into a single graphic that we use throughout the business: Our performance framework Our values Trust Care Innovation Pride Our purpose what we want to be A trusted partner of governments, delivering superb public services that transform outcomes and make a positive difference for our fellow citizens Our organising principles Flair, agility, innovation Rigour, discipline Loose Tight management Empowerment Common processes Disciplined entrepreneurialism Decentralisation of execution Centralised intent Our method Winning good business A place people are proud to work Being the best-managed company in the sector Executing brilliantly Profitable and sustainable Our deliverables Employee engagement Revenue growth Trading margin 60% and increasing 57% 56% 14 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The purpose of the performance framework is to Our organising principles provide a structure which will deliver value to our Our organising principles have to reflect the fact that customers, shareholders, and to the people who work many of the things our customers want are mutually in the business.
exclusive: they want excellent and resilient services, delivered by highly motivated staff, but they want Our values them to be low cost: they want local accountability and Whilst we use technology and processes, the core of our flexibility, but they also want strong governance and business is people many thousands of them delivering risk management.
As a management team, we believe public services.
It is of central importance to our success in the principle of subsidiarity: that decisions should be that our colleagues, many of whom are former public taken by managers who are as close to the customer as servants, and our customers, believe that we have values possible.
But we are also conscious of the fact that many appropriate to a company delivering services funded of our contracts carry with them risks that need careful by taxpayers to often vulnerable and disadvantaged management and supervision.
So we describe our citizens.
Working at the leading edge of technology organising principles with two concepts: 'loose-tight', may be inspiring to people working for IT businesses, but and 'disciplined entrepreneurialism'.
Neither of these they are not reasons why a prison officer makes a cup of is our own invention: they are based on the work of, tea for a suicidal prisoner at two oclock in the morning: respectively, Tom Peters and Jim Collins.
They describe why a housing officer leaves the comfort of an office to in subtly different ways an approach to management guide a nervous asylum seekers child to school on their which recognises the need for both local management first day: why an engineer crawls into that impossibly autonomy and strong governance.
Two quotations from small space in the foetid bowels of an aircraft-carrier to their works give a taste of the type of organisation we make sure the cable-ties are secured just right so they are trying to achieve: will stay in place in storm or battle.
It is because they care about their work, they recognise the importance of Loose-Tight is the co-existence of firm central direction what they do, and they take immense pride in it.
Before and maximum individual autonomy.
Organisations our customers will give us sensitive work, they have to that live by the loose-tight principle, are on the one hand trust us.
And to win business we have to come up with rigidly controlled, yet at the same time allow indeed insist innovative solutions which will enable governments to on, autonomy, entrepreneurship, and innovation from deliver more, and better, for less.
"This is why our Values their people. """
Tom Peters: In Search of Excellence of Trust, Care, Innovation and Pride are so important.
Avoid bureaucracy and hierarchy and instead create a We dont pretend to be saints, or to be holier-than-thou: culture of discipline.
When you put two complementary we are not so nave as to believe that in a workforce of forces together a culture of discipline with an ethic over 50,000 people there will not be some uncaring bad of entrepreneurship you get a magical alchemy of eggs.
But the overwhelming majority of our colleagues superior performance and sustained results.
are decent, hard-working, committed, and want to Jim Collins: Good to Great make a positive difference to those they serve.
In this, we reflect the values of our customers, which they call a public service ethos, and we call our Values.
Our method The method we use to deliver our aspiration to be the best-managed business in our sector and to deliver our strategy is to concentrate on doing four things really well.
These are the things we want Serco to be famous for: Being a place people Being profitable Winning good business Executing brilliantly are proud to work and sustainable We try to make sure that everything we do improves our performance against one or more of these objectives, and start from a position where we know we can do much better.
We can improve the way we bid and manage contracts: develop innovative propositions: measure performance: reduce the cost and improve the quality of our administrative systems and processes.
None of these comes easily or quickly, and we need to steer a tricky course between the urgent need to reduce our costs in line with reduced revenues in the short term and investing in systems and processes that will produce sustainable benefits in the long term.
15 Strategic Report Our Business continued Our performance framework continued Our deliverables Progress to date The tangible evidence of our success or otherwise will In terms of progress towards our goals, in 2014 we be a return to industry rates of growth and margins.
In identified three distinct phases in the implementation of recent years our revenues have been shrinking and our our strategy.
The first phase Stabilisation recognised underlying trading margins are far too low at around the urgent need to recapitalise the business and restore 23%.
Our challenge, and our opportunity, is to get back customer confidence and employee morale following to long-term industry rates of Revenue growth, which in the very significant write-downs following the realisation the past were around 57%, and Trading Profit margins that Serco had a number of very heavily loss-making across Sercos mix of business in the range of 56%.
This phase was largely completed in 2014, the last two years the rate of growth in our markets has although the fundraising and essential stabilisation of our probably declined as the UK, which is our largest region balance sheet did not take place until 2015 after which by revenues, having seen reduced expenditure in key further rebuilding of customer confidence and trust government departments driven in part by the necessary could then follow.
The Transformation phase gathered focus on the challenge of Brexit.
However, there is no pace in 2016 and 2017, and in practice will continue reason to believe that the long term future rate of growth through into 2018 and 2019, and will be an essential should be any different from the long term historic rate underpin as we progressively move into the Growth of growth.
If this turns out to be correct, and markets stage.
When we launched the plan, it was conceived turn out as expected, we believe that after a period of that Growth would refer to both revenues and profit.
restructuring and transformation, it will be possible to However, more recently, we believe that market rates increase growth rates and margins towards the historic of growth have been declining and certainly for the average of our industry and to levels necessary to deliver next few years revenues are likely to be flat, but margins appropriate returns.
will increase as we extend our Transformation phase and see more growth coming from cost reduction and increased efficiency.
Nature does not draw lines she smudges them, and the same applies to our strategy implementation, where the phases of Stabilisation, Transformation and Growth necessarily overlap.
Our Ambition To be a superb provider of public services by being the best-managed business in our sector Stabilise: 201415 Hire new management Transform: 201519 Identify issues Develop strategy and implementation plan Strengthen balance sheet Roll out corporate Rebuild confidence and trust renewal Grow: 2018 and beyond Undertake Contract & Improve risk management Balance Sheet Review Rationalise portfolio Stabilise morale Harvest benefits Mitigate loss-making contracts of transformation Planned Outcome savings Re-build business development Further leverage scale and pipeline and capabilities Chosen sectors will grow Strengthen sector propositions Capture improvement at 57% Build differentiated capability in market demand Industry margins in our Improve execution and cost Build out geographical sectors 56% efficiency footprint Move into new Employee engagement 60% sub-segments Continuously review portfolio 16 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements In terms of progress in the Transformation phase: We have succeeded in reducing the businesses' operating costs: in 2017 they were more than 1bn We have successfully strengthened our balance sheet, lower than in 2014.
The majority of this reduction following the Rights Issue completed in April 2015 relates to costs removed from contracts which have and the disposal of our private sector BPO business: ended and businesses disposed of, but it is certainly together these raised over 700m, and our Net Debt: an achievement to have reduced costs broadly in EBITDA now stands at 1.4x, with period-end net debt line with revenues.
Importantly, our cost reduction reduced from 745m at the end of 2013 to 141m at also includes over 100m removed through our the end of 2017. programmes to deliver savings by reducing the We have made further excellent progress rebuilding number of management layers, implementing better confidence and trust with our major customers, procurement and driving greater efficiency in the in large part due to greatly improved operational operation of shared services.
Summary Portfolio rationalisation has been completed, We believe we have the right strategy for our business, concluding with the disposal of the majority of our and over the last three years we have delivered in each private sector BPO business at the end of 2015. year results which have been in line with our plan, which is no mean achievement.
So far, so good, but the real We continue to mitigate the impact of loss-making test of the strategy will be our ability to start growing contracts: we have always regarded our Onerous again.
The market is currently growing at rates below Contract Provisions as a portfolio, knowing that the historic trend, and we think that the growth we expect to actual out-turn on individual contracts would almost achieve in 2018 and 2019 will come more from increasing certainly be different from the original estimates cost efficiency and transformation than from growing made at the end of 2014.
Up to the end of 2017, actual revenues.
It is nevertheless the case that if we can deliver expenditure against the 447m of Onerous Contract the margin growth we are targeting over the coming Provisions has been very close to the original estimate.
years, this will of itself drive very considerable growth We continue to strengthen our sector propositions, in profits.
most particularly through the work carried out by our CoEs covering Health, Justice & Immigration, and Transport.
These CoEs have been heavily involved in developing propositions to support major bids such as Barts Health NHS Trust won in 2016, and Grafton prison in Australia our largest ever order, worth 1.5bn, won in 2017.
Our order intake has grown very substantially, and in 2017 was for the first time since 2012 ahead of our revenues, resulting in an increase in our order book, which at the end of 2017 stood at 10.7bn.
