86 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Reputation & Responsibility Committee report Reputation & Responsibility Committee role Committee Chairman Linda Lorimer The Committee forms an important part of the Boards oversight Members Vivienne Cox, Linda Lorimer, of the broader governance environment, working to advance Harish Manwani and Lincoln Wallen Pearsons reputation across a range of stakeholders and to maximise the companys positive impact on society and the communities in which we work.
The Committees agenda includes discussion of reputation, critical issues and initiatives, including those identified as material to Pearsons stakeholders and long-term sustainability, and consideration of immediate risks or opportunities.
We are committed to promoting Pearsons 2020 sustainability plan, Committee responsibilities include oversight of: and the Committee works in alignment with the companys Pearsons reputation among major Responsible Business Leadership Council which comprises Reputation stakeholders, including governments, senior leaders from across the business.
investors, employees, customers, learners and the education community.
Read more about our 2020 sustainability plan on p2433.
Oversight of Pearsons approach to Risk Changes to the Committee reputational risk, including ensuring that clear roles have been assigned for management.
Lincoln Wallen joined the Committee with effect from 1 January 2017, in place of Josh Lewis who stepped down from the Committee Oversight of 2020 sustainability plan and Sustainability at the end of 2016.
I was pleased to take over the chairmanship of performance against sustainability goals the Committee at the start of the year from Vivienne Cox, who and commitments.
remains a valuable member of the Committee.
Management of the Pearson brand to ensure Brand & that its value and reputation are maintained and Areas of focus during 2017 culture enhanced.
Pearsons approach to monitoring As part of Pearsons 2020 sustainability plan, the company has and supporting the values and desired identified a shortlist of issues that are most relevant to the behaviours that form our corporate culture.
The Committee has an integral role Ethical business standards, including Pearsons Ethics in the oversight and governance of these issues, and during 2017 approach to issues relevant to its reputation held a number of deep dives to consider specific issues, in particular as a responsible corporate citizen.
considering the public goals and targets the company is setting Strategies, policies and plans related to to address these issues, and examining their associated Strategy reputation and responsibility issues and the reputational impacts.
people, processes and policies that are in At our August meeting, we reviewed proposals for Pearsons new place to manage them.
global editorial policy, designed to ensure we consistently publish high-quality content and prevent errors.
The Committee considered Terms of reference appropriate positioning and communication of the policy and The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out discussed plans for training to be rolled out to content creators and its authority and duties.
These are reviewed annually and can be editorial staff.
We also discussed ways in which Pearson could adapt found on the company website www.
com governance and modify its content to reflect local and cultural norms, while Attendance still being true to our values and purpose.
During the year we also considered access enabled by affordability, particularly in the Attendance by Directors at Reputation & Responsibility Committee US higher education courseware market, and discussed plans to meetings throughout 2017: ensure our products meet the needs of learners, educators and Meetings attended administrators in accessing learning and teaching materials from Vivienne Cox 4 4 anywhere, at any time.
In addition, the Committee considered Linda Lorimer 4 4 reports on other material sustainability issues, namely greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, 21st century skills and lobbying Harish Manwani 4 4 and public policy.
Lincoln Wallen 4 4 Read more about our material sustainability issues and our global editorial policy on p2526.
During the year we reviewed the progress made by Pearsons ongoing social impact initiatives and partnerships.
We focused on developing the next phases of Project Literacy and for the Pearson Affordable Learning Fund as well as studied the plans for Tomorrows Markets Incubator.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Engagement 87 87 Reputation & Responsibility Committee report Brand strategy is an important part of the Committees mandate, Committee evaluation and we assessed the progress in rolling out the new Pearson brand In 2017, the Committee evaluation was undertaken by Heidrick & and the recent market campaigns in North America.
We have been Struggles JCA Group as part of the wider Board evaluation process.
attentive to how the communications are migrating more to digital Overall, the responses illustrated a collaborative and engaged dissemination to align with our customers practices and Committee, and that the work of the Committee is increasingly preferences.
aligned with the strategic agenda.
The assessment indicated that The US is our largest market, so it is important for the Committee to there may be opportunity to evolve the Committee further by follow Pearsons reputation and brand in the US particularly.
In particular, some overlap with the Audit likely impact of the US 2016 elections was outlined for us early in Committee was identified.
As a result, oversight on efficacy, health 2017, and we have received updates on issues and initiatives in our and safety and safeguarding will be lodged with this Committee higher education business as they related to reputation.
Pearson rather than shared with the Audit Committee.
will be reporting publicly, starting in 2018, on the efficacy of our Committee aims for 2018 products and services to demonstrate their measurable impact.
Throughout 2017, the Committee monitored the progress of our Over the next year we will continue to explore Pearsons material external reporting plans: we looked at how we are aligning our sustainability issues, including employability and 21st century skills efficacy goals with our wider business strategy, and considered as well as affordability, health and safety and safeguarding.
We will examples of product efficacy reports.
We were joined for our hold a deep dive into sustainability considerations relating to our efficacy sessions by PwC, which is providing external assurance supply chain and review our 2018 efficacy reporting activity and for the efficacy reporting process.
We will also review our Group-wide approach to reputational risk management and will consider culture and In our report to shareholders last year, we noted that, as a employee engagement, bearing in mind challenges and Committee, we would continue to monitor the Pearson culture and opportunities presented by the ongoing transformation and employee engagement, particularly in light of the changes and simplification across the business.
rationalisations throughout the business in 2016.
However, due to the importance of this topic, it was instead considered by the full Board in 2017.
Culture and engagement continues to fall within the remit of the Committee, and we will consider the matter as Linda Lorimer appropriate during 2018.
Chairman of Reputation & Responsibility Committee Reputation & Responsibility Committee meeting focus during 2017 Area of responsibility Activity Issue management customer and media engagement in UK and US Reputation Global editorial policy: meeting learner expectations North American markets new US administration and approach to government affairs and public policy Sustainability report Sustainability Tomorrows Markets Incubator initiative Efficacy reporting plans Greenhouse gas emissions and climate change Brand strategy Brand & Marketing campaigns culture Review of any incidents Access and affordability of US higher education courseware Strategy Community investment plan, including Project Literacy updates One story and digital narrative 88 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Stakeholder engagement Engaging with shareholders Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Chairman meets regularly with shareholders to understand any issues and concerns Access to capital is key to the long-term performance of our they may have.
This is in accordance with the Code and consistent business.
We work to ensure that our investors, analysts and other with the duties of investors under the UK Stewardship Code.
The investment professionals have a good understanding of our Non-Executive Directors meet informally with shareholders both strategy, performance and purpose.
before and after the AGM and respond to shareholder queries and requests as necessary.
The Chairman ensures that the Board is kept Pearson has an extensive programme of communication with informed of investors and advisers views on strategy and corporate all of its shareholders large and small, institutional and private.
At each Board meeting, the Directors consider Shareholder outreach In 2017, we continued with our commentary from advisers on major shareholders positions and shareholder outreach programme, conducting over 300 meetings Pearsons share price.
In addition, the Nomination & Governance and in the UK, US, Canada and Continental Europe with over Remuneration Committees consider shareholder views on corporate 260 investment institutions.
governance and remuneration matters, respectively, as required.
Trading updates There are five trading updates each year and the The 2017 financial year has been one of significant engagement Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer present our preliminary with our shareholders.
Sidney Taurel, Elizabeth Corley and our and interim results.
They also attend regular meetings throughout senior management team also consulted with our major the year with investors in the UK and around the world, tailored shareholders and with shareholder representative bodies on our to investor requirements, to discuss the performance of approach to Directors remuneration following the vote against the company, the companys strategy, our change programme, our Directors remuneration report at our 2017 AGM.
structural and cyclical changes in our markets, and risks Further details regarding Directors remuneration can be found and opportunities for the future.
on p90105 The investor relations team Led by Joanne Russell, SVP Investor Relations, who joined in June 2017 after six years as Head of Investor Private investors Institutional investors holdings in Pearson account for around 90% of total shares outstanding, but private Relations at Whitbread plc.
The IR team met with investors investors represent over 80% of the shareholders on our throughout the year, including attending several investor register and we make a concerted effort to engage with them conferences, and addressed regular investor and analyst enquiries.
Shareholders who cannot attend the AGM are Non-Executive Director engagement Save the Children, Jordan Vivienne Cox Digital Advisory Network Lincoln Wallen Last September, Vivienne Cox accompanied Kate James For Pearson, tackling a major social need making education Chief Corporate Affairs and Global Marketing Officer and other more accessible and effective is why we exist and how we Pearson colleagues to Amman, Jordan, on behalf of Pearson, create value for our shareholders.
In a world where work is to launch the next phase of Pearsons Every Child Learning increasingly disrupted by machine intelligence, the need to partnership with Save the Children.
The team launched a be always learning is greater now than ever.
It is also a great new pilot education project in Jordan, in partnership with the challenge, as the legacy analogue businesses that still Jordanian Ministry of Education, to help Syrian refugees, generate a lot of Pearsons profits are themselves being and local children living in host communities, to improve disrupted by technology.
their learning outcomes, to build resilience and to help make At this pivotal time in the digital transformation of education, their schools safer.
Pearson launched the Digital Advisory Network to bring together As part of the trip, the Pearson team: a diverse cross-section of people with experience and knowledge of disruption in other industries and to help us apply lessons V isited a community centre in East Amman which over the learned and insights to shape Pearsons business strategy for previous 12 months had given us access to learners with whom the Board.
to develop the maths learning app.
The team met some of the refugee children and ran a focus testing group on the latest Lincoln Wallen has been an instrumental leader since the version of the app Networks inception and participated in the first Network Summit in October 2017.
Lincoln continues to serve as a leader and T ook part in an official launch of our pilot education project adviser to both the Network and the Pearson Executive.
at the Al Emama Al Shafee School with officials from the Jordanian Ministry of Education, British Ambassador and Save the Children.
The team met children, parents, teachers and Save the Children Jordan Field Staff who were taking part in our pilot education project V isited Zaatari refugee camp to see various aid programmes run by Save the Children.
Section 4 Governance Engagement 89 89 Stakeholder engagement invited to e-mail questions to the Chairman in advance at chairman-agm@pearson.
com We encourage our private shareholders to become more informed investors and have provided a wealth of information on our website about managing Pearson shareholdings.
We also encourage all shareholders, who have not already done so, to register their e-mail addresses through our website and with our registrar.
This enables them to receive e-mail alerts when trading updates and other important announcements are added to our website.
See Shareholder information on p196 or visit our website https: www.
com corporate investors  Cox engaging with refugee children at a community centre in shares.
html East Amman, Jordan during Every Child Learning visit.
Annual General Meeting Engaging with all stakeholders Our AGM, on 4 May 2018, is an opportunity for all shareholders We post all company announcements on our website, to meet the Board and to hear presentations about Pearsons www.
com, as soon as they are released, and key businesses and results.
shareholder presentations are made accessible via webcast or conference call.
Our website contains a dedicated investor relations Share dealing service section with an extensive archive of past announcements and Due to its continued popularity, we intend to provide shareholders presentations, historical financial performance, share price data with smaller holdings the opportunity to use our registrars low-cost and a calendar of events.
It also includes information about all share dealing service, giving them the chance to add to or reduce of our businesses, links to their websites and details of our their stake in Pearson at significantly reduced dealing rates, or to sustainability policies and activities.
Learn more about our donate shares to charity with ease.
We believe it is important approach to Sustainability on p2433 that our employees have a shared interest in the direction and achievements of Pearson and are pleased to say that a large number of our employees are shareholders in the company.
Engagement in action Industry & Employees Franchisees Customers marketplace Non-Executive Directors Josh Lewis The Board met with local staff and The Board had an opportunity The Board heard from faculty and and Linda Lorimer were engaged senior management during 2017 to interact with an audience of students about the challenges and instrumental in redefining the visits to So Paulo and Boston.
800 people from the Pearson and opportunities they face with go-to-market strategy for Pearsons Dinners with senior local franchisee sales team at the digital teaching and learning at Online Program Management management and breakfasts Wizard sales convention in the Digital Teaching & Learning business, working alongside with key talent allowed the So Paulo, Brazil Customer Panels in Boston senior management Non-Executive Directors to share During this event, the Board This session enabled the Board to their experience and expertise The Board attended a discussion learned about the Wizard understand the customer context with employees as well as allowing event on Future of Skills: strategy, marketing campaigns to our higher education strategy the Directors to better understand Employment in 2030, at which and training provided to the employees abilities and they considered the future of franchisee sales team.
The event motivations, helping them to work and implications for also included recognition for assess the companys prospects education.
The Board was joined high-performing employees and plans for succession at the event by external business, policy and thought leaders from Non-Executive Directors the Boston area Elizabeth Corley and Vivienne Cox participated in Women in Read more about the Future of Leadership and Learning network Skills: Employment in 2030 on p10 WILL meetings, giving virtual talks to employees on professional development
