106 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Additional disclosures Pages 62109 of this document comprise the Directors report In line with those priorities, the Board decided that we would use the for the year ended 31 December 2017. proceeds from the transaction to maintain a strong balance sheet and invest in our business in addition to returning 300m of surplus Set out below is other statutory and regulatory information capital to shareholders following the closing of the transaction.
that Pearson is required to disclose in its Directors report.
The Board considered investor views on preferred methods of cash Going concern return, the amount being returned and other factors and concluded a share buyback was the most appropriate methodology to return The Directors have made an assessment of the Groups ability that capital to our shareholders at that time.
to continue as a going concern and consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
We launched a 300m share buyback, beginning on 18 October 2017 and completed the programme on 16 February 2018 Viability statement repurchasing a total of 42,835,577 shares at an average price of 700p.
The reduction in average shares outstanding as a result of As set out on p60, the Board has also reviewed the prospects the buyback increased 2017 adjusted earnings per share EPS by of Pearson over the three-year period to December 2020 taking less than 1%, but will have a larger impact on 2018 adjusted EPS.
account of the companys strategic plans, a severe but plausible downside case and further stress testing based on the principal Major shareholders risks set out on p5060.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial Based on the results of these procedures, and considering the Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR is companys strong balance sheet, the Directors have a reasonable published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the expectation that Pearson will be able to continue in operation and companys website.
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending December 2020.
Further details of the Groups liquidity are shown As at 31 December 2017, the company had been notified under in Financial review see p3440.
DTR 5 of the following holders of significant voting rights in its shares.
Share capital Number Percentage Details of share issues and cancellations are given in note 27 to of voting as at date of rights notification the consolidated financial statements on p170.
The company has a single class of shares which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p Schroders plc 108,691,682 13.63% each.
The ordinary shares are in registered form.
As at 31 December Silchester International Investors LLP 89,160,115 11.18% 2017, 802,053,752 ordinary shares were in issue.
At the AGM held Lindsell Train Limited 41,393,237 5.17% on 5 May 2017, the company was authorised, subject to certain Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 41,236,375 5.02% conditions, to acquire up to 82,258,685 ordinary shares by market 1 purchase.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at Libyan Investment Authority 24,431,000 3.01% the AGM on 4 May 2018.
Based on notification to the Company dated 7 June 2010.
We have been notified of no change to this holding since that date.
Assets belonging to, Share buyback or owned, held or controlled on 16 September 2011 by the Libyan Investment Authority and located outside Libya on that date, are frozen in accordance In July, we announced the sale of a 22% stake in Penguin Random with Article 5 4 of Regulation 2016 44 of the Council of the European Union.
House to Bertelsmann and recapitalisation of the business, Between 31 December 2017 and 14 March 2018, being the latest generating total net proceeds of approximately $1bn.
practicable date before the publication of this report, t he company The partial divestment of our stake in Penguin Random House received further notifications under DTR 5, with the most recent was in line with our strategy for simplification and allowed us positions being as follows: to crystallise some of the significant shareholder value created Schroders plc disclosed a holding of 14.04% through our successful partnership with Bertelsmann over the prior four years.
Silchester International Investors LLP disclosed a holding of 11.14%.
We have set out clear capital allocation priorities as follows: 1.
M aintaining a strong balance sheet and solid investment Annual General Meeting grade credit ratings through an appropriate capital structure.
The notice convening the AGM, to be held at 12 noon on Accordingly, we intend to maintain a year end net debt EBITDA Friday 4 May 2018 at IET London, 2 Savoy Place, London of less than 1.5x WC2R 0BL, is contained in a circular to shareholders to be 2.
Simplifying our portfolio and investing in the business to dated 28 March 2018. drive sustainable organic growth Registered auditors 3.
Delivering shareholder returns through a sustainable and In accordance with section 489 of the Act, a resolution proposing progressive dividend policy, returning surplus cash to the reappointment of  LLP as auditors shareholders where appropriate through buybacks or to the company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level special dividends.
of remuneration to be agreed by the Audit Committee.
Section 4 Governance Additional disclosures 107 Additional disclosures Amendment to Articles of Association Voting at general meetings Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the company Any form of proxy sent by the shareholders to the company in the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the company the Act by way of a special resolution.
via its registrars, whether in written or electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting Rights attaching to shares or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the Articles.
A shareholder whose name appears on the companys The Board may decide that a shareholder is not entitled to attend or register of members can choose whether his her shares are vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise evidenced by share certificates i. e. in certificated form or held any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he she or any electronically i. e. uncertificated form in CREST the electronic person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under settlement system in the UK.
section 793 of the Act which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may attend shares and he she or any interested person failed to supply the any general meeting of the company and, on a show of hands, company with the information requested within 14 days after every shareholder or his her representative who is present at delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide, where the a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, relevant shareholding comprises at least 0.25% of the nominal every shareholder whether an individual or a corporation present value of the issued shares of that class, that no dividend is payable in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 25p of nominal in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any share capital held.
A resolution put to the vote at a general meeting default shares shall be registered.
is decided on a show of hands unless before, or on the declaration of the result of, a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded.
A poll Pearson operates an employee benefit trust to hold shares, can be demanded by the Chairman of the meeting, or by at least pending employees becoming entitled to them under the companys three shareholders or their representatives present in person employee share plans.
There were 5,993,536 shares held as at and having the right to vote, or by any shareholders or their 31 December 2017.
The trust has an independent trustee which representatives present in person having at least 10% of the total has full discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
A dividend voting rights of all shareholders, or by any shareholders or their waiver operates on the shares held in the trust.
representatives present in person holding ordinary shares on which Pearson also operates two nominee shareholding arrangements an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least 10% of the total sum which hold shares on behalf of employees.
There were 2,561,000 paid up on all ordinary shares.
At this years AGM, voting will again shares held in the Sharestore account and 432,375 shares held in be conducted on a poll, consistent with best practice.
the Global Nominee account as at 31 December 2017.
The beneficial Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing an ordinary owners of shares held in Sharestore are invited to submit voting resolution but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the instructions online at www.
co. uk and Global Nominee amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim participants are invited to submit voting instructions by e-mail to dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates nominee@equiniti.
If no instructions are given by the beneficial and for the periods they decide.
In all cases the distributable profits owner by the date specified, the trustees holding these shares will of the company must be sufficient to justify the payment of the not exercise the voting rights.
Transfer of shares The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, offer any shareholder the right to elect to receive The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent of their cash dividend.
dealings in shares in the company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it of a certificated share unless: i the instrument of transfer is lodged, became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the company to the company, unless the Directors decide otherwise.
or any other place decided by the Board, and is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among transferor to make the transfer: ii it is in respect of only one class the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company and of shares: and iii it is in favour of not more than four transferees.
he she can value assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different classes of Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same sanction, CREST and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing such trusts for the benefit of the shareholders.
108 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Additional disclosures Variation of rights Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the Board has resolved that all Directors should offer themselves for re-election If at any time the capital of the company is divided into different annually, in accordance with the Code.
classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be varied or revoked either: The company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his her term of office.
In addition, the i With the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal Board may terminate an agreement or arrangement with any value of the issued shares of the relevant class or Director for the provision of his her services to the company.
ii With the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate Powers of the Directors general meeting of the holders of the shares of the relevant class.
Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by special Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the resolution, the business of the company will be managed by the holders of any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be Board who may exercise all the powers of the company, including issued with such preferred, deferred or other special rights, or such powers relating to the issue and or buying back of shares by the restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital company subject to any statutory restrictions or restrictions or otherwise as the company may from time to time by ordinary imposed by shareholders in general meeting.
Significant agreements Appointment and replacement of Directors The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling The Articles contain the following provisions in relation to Directors: the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the Directors shall be no less than two in number.
Directors may be event of a change of control of the company: appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
Under the $1,750,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement A Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the dated August 2014 which matures in August 2021 between, next AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment, but shall among others, the company, Barclays Bank plc Agent and not be taken into account in determining the Directors or the the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
the Facility, any such bank may, upon a change of control of the The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to company, require its outstanding advances, together with accrued hold Executive office with the company for such period subject to interest and any other amounts payable in respect of such Facility, the provisions of the Act and upon such terms as the Board may and its commitments, to be cancelled, each within 60 days of decide and may revoke or terminate any appointment so made.
notification to the banks by the Agent.
For these purposes, a change The Articles provide that, at every AGM of the company, at least of control occurs if the company becomes a subsidiary of any other one-third of the Directors shall retire by rotation or, if their number company, or one or more persons acting either individually or in is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third.
The first concert obtains control as defined in section 1124 of the Directors to retire by rotation shall be those who wish to retire and Corporation Tax Act 2010 of the company.
not offer themselves for re-election.
Any further Directors so to Shares acquired through the companys employee share plans retire shall be those of the other Directors subject to retirement rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
by rotation who have been longest in office since they were last For legal and practical reasons, the rules of these plans set out re-elected but, as between persons who became or were last the consequences of a change of control of the company.
re-elected on the same day, those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
In addition, any Director who would not otherwise be required to retire shall retire by rotation at the third AGM after they were last re-elected.
Section 4 Governance Additional disclosures 109 Additional disclosures Other statutory information The Audit Committee is also available to advise the Board on certain aspects of the report, to enable the Directors to fulfil Other information that is required by the Companies Act 2006 their responsibility in this regard.
The Directors consider that the the Act to be included in the Directors report, and which is annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced incorporated by reference, can be located as follows: and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, Summary disclosures index See more business model and strategy.
Dividend recommendation p35 The Directors also confirm that, for each Director in office at the Financial instruments and financial risk management p156158 date of this report: Important events since year end p40 So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Future development of the business p832 information of which the Group and companys auditors Research and development activities p2223 are unaware Employment of disabled persons p28 They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Employee involvement p2528 Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant Greenhouse gas emissions p29 audit information and to establish that the Group and the companys auditors are aware of that information.
With the exception of the dividend waiver described on p107, there is no information to be disclosed in accordance with Directors in office Listing Rule 9.8.
The following Directors were in office during the year and up until No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure signing of the financial statements: incurred by the company or its subsidiaries during the year.
E P L Corley H Manwani Fair, balanced and understandable reporting and disclosure of information V Cox T Score J J Fallon S Taurel As required by the Code, we have established arrangements to S J Lewis L Wallen ensure that all information we report to investors and regulators is fair, balanced and understandable.
A process and timetable for L K Lorimer C Williams the production and approval of this years report was agreed by M M Lynton appointed 1 February 2018 the Board at its meeting in December 2017.
The full Board then had The Directors report has been approved by the Board on 14 March opportunity to review and comment on the report as it progressed.
2018 and signed on its behalf by: Representatives from financial reporting, corporate affairs, company secretarial, legal and internal audit, compliance and risk are involved in the preparation and review of the annual report to ensure a cohesive and balanced approach and, as with all of our financial reporting, our Verification Committee conducts a thorough verification of narrative and financial statements.
We also have procedures in place to ensure the timely release of Stephen Jones inside information, through our Market Disclosure Committee.
