Strategic Report | Centrica Business Centrica Business Turning energy into an opportunity With advances in technology, the energy market hasevolved.
Power increasingly lies in the hands ofour customers, turning energy from a simple commodity into a critical source of business advantage.
Customers are starting to use energy togain a competitive edge, increase their resilience, improve operational efficiency and tohelp to futureproof their businesses.
Helping St Georges Hospital todeliver operational efficiency St Georges Hospital in Tooting is the An energy centre is being installed to largest healthcare provider in South West replace the existing 40-year-old system.
It serves 1.3 million people and This comprises a new combined heat 800,000 patients, as well asbeing a andpower plant, efficient boilers and teaching hospital and advanced medical lighting alongside heating, ventilation research centre.
Itemploys over 8,500 andair conditioning systems.
During 2017, we continued energy useis optimised through working to deliver thehospital with endabuilding management system.
to-end solutions that improve their energy efficiency andoperational performance, while reducing carbon emissions.
24 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Powering Britain There has never been a more important time forus to work with businesses and other large energy users to develop solutions for them whichcan unlock new revenue streams, become asource of competitive advantage and drive Each year the St Georges Hospital project is growth.
Our report, Powering Britains Economic projected to save: Future, set out to measure those impacts and demonstrate the benefits of distributed energy solutions.
It assessed the potential economic benefits to the UK if three major sectors 1m Industrial, Health, and Hospitality & Leisure, Cost savings whichtogether represent over a quarter of the UK economy were to adopt a range of solutions including battery storage, on-site power 6,000tCO e generation and energy saving devices.
2 Carbon emissions It found these solutions could generate 1 The energy centre will in the UK : deliver recurring savings in energy costs year-on-year 980m which can be redirected into Saving on annual energy bills patient care.
It also helps StGeorges Hospital meet 18.5bn their goal of reducing their Gross value added to economy carbon footprint.
1 Centrica Business Solutions research supported by FTI Consulting, Modelling 2017.
Alan Barlow Director UK & Ireland Read more in Responsible Business Distributed Energy Pages 32 to 38 Read the full report at .
com poweringbritain Link to Business strategic framework Energy optimisation Energy solutions Link to Business strategic framework Energy supply Explore how distributed energy and power works .
com powerinyourhands Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 25 Strategic Report | Centrica Business By capturing a variety of Increasing energy usage data, we are able efficiency for to obtain a keen sense Pittsburgh Cityof consumption patterns and behaviour trends County building that will allow us to make The historic City-County building has stoodin downtown Pittsburgh since 1917.
Find out more about how more strategic decisions Panoramic Power works Direct Energy is helping to bring it into the related to energy .
com energyinsight 21st century by optimising its energy use efficiency and capital andimproving its resilience.
Link to In January 2017, we installed our energy Business strategic framework insight solution, Panoramic Power, on the Grant Ervin Energy insight sixth floor of the building which houses part Chief Resilience Officer for the of the citys government offices and data City of Pittsburgh centre.
The system uses sensors and cloudbased analytics to transmit real-time data onenergy use to the customers dashboard.
This can be viewed on a desktop or mobile device and provides actionable insights to improve operational efficiency.
26 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 This is a bold, imaginative Empowering scheme that means 24 7 Gateshead Council wecan also store and Battery available to the grid 24hours aday, to cope with local sevendays a week release energy when wechoose, as well as energy spikes supporting the National Centrica has installed one of the countrys 3MW largest commercial battery storage schemes Grid, which helps raise Battery capacity for Gateshead Council, giving it greater more income to support flexibility in managing its energy.
battery facility is equivalent to one million Link to AAbatteries and forms the final part of the Business strategic framework Councillor John McElroy Energy solutions Gateshead District Energy Centre, which Cabinet Member for Environment and also includes a pair of 2MW combined heat Transport, Gateshead Council and power units.
Centrica will manage the battery project under a 10-year contract.
This scheme will help keep the national electricity network inbalance by responding to any fluctuations onthe system in less than a second.
Intime, it will also be used to strengthen Gatesheads energy resilience by providing electricity to council-owned buildings through a private wire.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 27 Strategic Report | Centrica Business Acquiring REstore, Europes leading demand-response aggregator Whether its reducing energy usage at One example of how these efforts are certain times, supplying energy back into helping our customers is Lineage Logistics thegrid or increasing consumption when Europe formerly known as Partner Logistics, thegrid is over-supplied, demand response a frozen food warehousing company in the is helping energy markets to become more UK.
REstore works with theteam to reduce flexible.
Last year, we strengthened our the use of the cold store compressors and ambitions in this area byacquiring REstore fans for short periods during peak demand NV.
It delivers cloud-based demand-side without affecting overall operations.
In return, management software and demand Lineage Logistics Europe receives a reward response services to over 150 of Europes from the electricity transmission system largest energy users, such as ArcelorMittal operator for being flexible, and the and Total.
Withthese capabilities, we are arrangement also helps thebusiness to now playing a leading role in reducing meetits own sustainability objectives.
pressure on the electricity grid.
This will be a significant growth area for us as global markets for demand response evolve.
850MW Flexible power capacity to grid operators Link to Business strategic framework Energy optimisation 28 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Helping the Government of Canada to achieve its energy ambitions We are helping the Government of Canada to realise itsenergy ambitions through a new 10-year contract.
Under this, we will supply up to 10 billion cubic feet ofgasannually and secure access to new sources of renewable biomethane gas.
We will also provide strategic counsel, including a detailed procurement strategy, budget preparation, billing and data management.
Ourcomprehensive data amalgamation capabilities willallow detailed tracking and analysis of energy use.
This will help to identify efficiency improvements, which the Government of Canada can make to reduce its Entering a pioneering energy costs and carbon footprint.
contract with Europes single biggest onshore We are pleased to be a part of this collaboration effort to wind installation reduce natural gas consumption Providing a route-to-market for renewable power and cost while supporting generators is one of the distinctive capabilities of Neas Energy, part of our Energy Marketing & Trading business.
green energy to lower our Neas has signed a landmark, long-term balancing and carbon footprint.
hedging contract with Europes biggest onshore wind farm, Markbygden ETT in Sweden.
The agreement Honourable Ralph Goodale includes the management of price risks in the Nordic Minister of Public Safety and electricity and certificate market, as well asthe physical Emergency Preparedness sale and balancing of power production in the Nordic wholesale market.
Underpinning this contract is a 19-year fixed volume corporate Power Purchase C$8m Agreement PPA with Norsk Hydro, aleading global aluminium producer, where Centrica isofftaking power 4.7m for the first year and subsequently 77% of the power Value of contract willbe bought by Norsk Hydro as acorporate PPA andthe remainder will be sold on the power markets.
Link to Business strategic framework Energy supply Energy optimisation 650MW Wind farm supported 497,000tCO e 2 Carbon emissions avoided Link to Business strategic framework Wholesale energy Energy optimisation Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 29
