Strategic Report | Our View on Taxation Our View on Taxation 22% The Group takes its obligations to pay andcollect Adjusted effective tax rate see page 50 thecorrect amount of tax very seriously.
Responsibility for tax governance and strategy lieswith the Group 102m Chief Financial Officer, overseen by the Board and Corporate income tax paid the Audit Committee.
In the UK we maintain a transparent and Our approach Statutory tax rates on profits constructive relationship with Her Majestys Wherever we do business in the world, Group activities % Revenue & Customs HMRC.
This includes wetake great care to ensure we fully comply UK supply of energy and services 19 regular, open dialogue on issues of with all of our obligations to pay or collect UK oil and gas production 40 significance to HMRC and Centrica.
taxes and to meet local reporting and Norway oil and gas production 78 Ourrelationship with fiscal authorities disclosure requirements.
Netherlands oil and gas production 50 inothercountries where we dobusiness We fully disclose information on ownership, isconducted on the same principles.
United States supply of energy 35 transactions and financing structures to the 1 and services We carefully manage the tax risks and costs relevant tax authorities.
Our cross-border tax Canada supply of energy and services 26 inherent in every commercial transaction, reporting reflects the underlying commercial andoil and gas production inthe same way as any othercost.
However, reality of our business.
Denmark energy services 22 we do not enter into artificial arrangements We are committed to providing disclosures Republic of Ireland supply of energy 12.5 inorder to avoid taxation nor to defeat the and information necessary to assist andservices stated purpose oftax legislation.
understanding beyond that required by As at 31 December 2017.
We actively engage in consultation with lawand regulation.
1 US tax rate is 21% from 1 January 2018. governments on tax policy where we believe We ensure that income and costs, we are in a position as a Group toprovide includingcosts of financing operations, Tax charge compared to cash valuable commercial insight.
areappropriately recognised on a fair tax paid andsustainable basis across all countries The Groups tax charge, taxes Current tax Cash tax paid where the Group has a business presence.
paid and the UK tax charge charge credit recovered We understand that this is not an exact m m The Groups businesses are subject to science and we engage openly with tax UK 9 88 corporate income tax rates as set out authorities to explain our approach.
inthestatutory tax rates on profits table.
Europe 53 169 The overall tax charge is therefore North America 13 21 dependent on the mix of profits and the Total 49 102 taxrate to which those profits are subject.
During the year, the UK received a cash refund oftaxoverpaid in periods prior to 2015: inEurope, SpiritEnergy made a payment of tax in respect of2016Norwegian profits.
These items contributed todifferences between the current tax charge and taxespaid during 2017.
For details on the Groups effective tax rate and abreakdown between relevant jurisdictions and segments, see the Group Financial Review on pages48to51.
Further information on the tax charge is set out in note 9 Pages132 to 134 Read more in the Group Financial Review Pages 48 to 51 Our Group Tax Strategy, a more detailed explanation of the way the Groups tax liabilityis calculated and the timing of cash payments, is provided on our website at centrica.
com responsibletax Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 39
