Governance | Senior Executives Senior Executives Full biographies can be found at Disclosure DC Committee centrica.
com seniorexecutives CHARLES CAMERON GRANT DAWSON Director of Technology Group General & Engineering Counsel & Company and Centrica Secretary Innovations DC Charles was appointed Director of Grant was appointed Group General Technology & Engineering on 1 January Counsel & Company Secretary in 2016 and Chairman of Centrica Innovations February1997.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Grant joined British Gas plc in October 1996 Charles has extensive technology and and has been Group General Counsel & engineering experience and has held Company Secretary of Centrica plc sincethe corporate roles in marketing, planning and demerger of British Gas plc on 17February M&A.
Before joining Centrica, he was head 1997.
He was called to the Bar in 1982 and of technology, downstream at BP plc and has spent most of his career inindustry, was a member of the downstream joining the legal department of Racal executiveteam.
Electronics plc in 1984, then STC plc as legal adviser in 1986 until it was taken over in 1991 Prior to his time at BP, Charles spent 23 by Northern Telecom Limited.
Between 1991 years with the French Institute of Petroleum and 1996, he was the associate general and their catalyst, technology licensing and counsel for Nortel in Europe, Africa and the engineering service business, Axens.
MIKE YOUNG JILL SHEDDEN, MBE Group Chief Information Group Human Officer Resources Director Mike was appointed Group Chief Information Jill was appointed Group Director, Human Officer on 1 November 2016.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Mike brings a wide range of experience in Jill joined British Gas plc as a graduate in managing global information systems 1988 and has since held a wide range of functions in partnership with customer-facing senior HR roles across the Group.
Prior to units and using big data and digital her appointment as Group HR Director technologies to drive revenue growth and Jillwas HR Director in British Gas Business, improve the customer experience.
Before British Gas Energy and Centrica Energy.
joining Centrica he was group chief In2017 Jill was awarded an MBE for services information officer with the media and digital to women and equality in recognition of her marketing company Dentsu Aegis Network.
work with, amongst other organisations, the Womens BusinessCouncil.
66 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
