Strategic Report | Centrica Consumer Centrica Consumer Creating a fairer, lasting deal for energycustomers We want to create a fairer, more competitive and sustainable energy market for our customers.
Our commitments to customers We have been listening to our customers and stakeholders.
We froze our prices in the UK through the entire winter of 2016 17 until last August, longer than any other supplier, and introduced a loyalty reward scheme.
But we recognise that we need togofurther.
On 20 November 2017, we announced Our actions alone wont improve seven commitments to customers, the market.
So, we have asked which we are working to deliver.
the UK Government and Ofgem to: Wewill: 1.
End Standard Variable Tariffs SVTs 2.
Level the playing field on social and for new customers environmental policy costs which are included in energy bills 2.
Engage customers already on SVTs and offer them better deals 3.
Move the funding of all government policy costs away from energy bills 3.
Offer a choice of competitive fixed-term tariffs at the end of their contract 4.
Make the smart meter roll-out more efficientand effective 4.
Introduce a new fixed-term default tariff 5.
Be more consistent in the way vulnerable 5.
Provide new offers to respond to customers are treated customerschanging needs 6.
R emove strict rules making energy 6.
B ring in simple, no-nonsense bills billscomplicated for all our customers 7.
R efresh the calculation of the price cap 7.
C ontinue improving our customer service forcustomers on pre-payment meters and our own efficiency We feel these changes will be more effective than further government intervention inthe shape of temporary price controls.
18 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Rewards Inspired by the success of the Bord Gis Energy Rewards Club in Ireland, the Centrica UK Consumer business launched British Gas Rewards.
This programme gives customers highly personalised offers, giveaways and monthly prize draws as our way of saying thank you.
So far, the benefits Digital engagement range from a free boiler service and a Hive We want to create better digital experiences, Active Light Pack, to10% off at Waitrose because our customers want and expect us to.
Loyalty days provide Webchat means we can respond to customers customers with a number of days of free online queries more quickly and at a time convenient energy each year, linkedto how long they to them.
Our British Gas Chatbot allows customers have been with us.
to seek help or book smart meter appointments without needing to call us up.
They can also now interact with British Gas byusing voice commands through Amazon Alexa.
Our energy insight 8 platforms My Energy Live in the UK and Direct Increase in net promoter score NPS for Your Energy in the US help customers who have BritishGasRewards members compared smart meters to gain greater insights intotheir tonon-Rewards customers energy use with just a few taps on their smartphone.
We are currently trialling our next generation app, for roll-out later this year, which will include a range 5.5m of enhanced functions, including tailored insights and alerts to help give customers more control over Number of offers shown to our British Gas their spending.
Rewards members by the end of 2017 70% More than 70% of visits to britishgas.
co. uk are now from mobile devices Link to Consumer strategic framework Energy supply Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 19 Strategic Report | Centrica Consumer Putting our customers atthe heart of everythingwe do Through our customer knowledge, insight and experience, we are putting customers in control ofhowthey run their homes, helping to make theirlives simpler and smarter.
Having full control of your Bringing Connected central heating and hot Home to customers water in the palm of your in new markets hand, its so simple to use We have grown the Hive ecosystem, and the money it saves expanding the range of products and you over the 12 months services that make our customers isawesome.
UK Hive Active Heating customer In 2017, Connected Home launched newsubscriptions plans across the UK, Ireland and North America, to enable our customers to choose the package that 1.6m works for their home.
This includes smart Connected Home cumulative products sold bulbs and plugs, door and window sensors and a new smart home security camera.
In the UK, we launched the Hive Leak Plan, 39 asubscription service featuring the new HiveLeak Sensor.
This monitors water flow NPS for UK Hive customers around the home, notifying the customer ofpotential leaks through the Hive app and connecting the customer with a British Gas engineer, who can repair the problem.
We are bringing the benefit of our Hive products to customers across the world including Ireland, North America and Italy.
InItaly, this is through our five-year partnership with energy supplier, Eni gas eluce.
This has the potential to enable Eniseight million customers to access Link to Consumer strategic framework anduse our products.
Partnerships like Peace of mind thiswill increasingly be the focus for growing Home energy management Home automation our Connected Home business.
20 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Local Heroes goes nationwide We know its important for customers to getquick and easy access to reputable tradespeople if they need help with household breakdowns and other problems.
Following a successful pilot, in June 2017 welaunched a digital platform service in the UK that helps people to find trusted local tradespeople to complete jobs in the home and also helps tradespeople to source local work.
It is quick and easy to use and has a 12-month guarantee backed byBritish Gas.
By the end of 2017, more than 7,000 Local Heroes had signed up to the platform and completed nearly 25,000 jobs.
The service provides us with access to the large and growing on demand market and has high customer satisfaction ratings.
Building workplace 8.6m Came out in less than capabilities fit for Invested in engineer and apprentice training an hour, called me 20 the future minutes before arrival We are making long-term investments in our andfixed the job in engineers capabilities and tools so they are 11,000 better equipped to serve our customers.
Engineers and apprentices in the UK In2017, we invested 8.6 million in training Local Heroes customer anddeveloping the skills of our 11,000 strong UKnetwork of engineers and apprentices.
Link to Consumer strategic framework Together, they completed over 385,000 In-home servicing hours of training last year.
This equates to 25,000 nearly one week per year for each engineer Jobs completed for Local Heroes customers and will help them deliver a better customer bythe end of 2017 experience across our full range of products and services from boiler repairs to Connected Home devices.
81 We are also investing in technology so our Average NPS for Local Heroes customers engineers and technicians have the right tools at their fingertips.
We have provided ourengineers with smartphones so they Link to canwork more easily on the go.
Our labs Consumer strategic framework In-home servicing continue to develop new technologies and Peace of mind in2017, we enhanced our diagnostic tool, XSOL, improving its ability to identify problems.
It now provides our engineers withfull diagnostic information across nearly1,000 different types of boilers enabling ustoreduce the time taken to fixour customers boilers by 8%.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 21 Strategic Report | Centrica Consumer The Direct Energy Back Supporting our Office team was on the Texan colleagues ground helping customers and customers who really needed our personal attention after through Hurricane the devastation from Harvey Hurricane Harvey.
The In August 2017, Texas was hit by Hurricane best part was seeing the Harvey.
We worked hard to support our people, customers and communities relief on their faces.
throughthis difficult time and help them Tara Norris rebuild their lives.
Direct Energy We delivered hurricane preparedness Assistance Program Coordinator checklists and evacuation information before the hurricane struck, via bill inserts and direct mail.
Our aim was to help customers to be US$100,000 asprepared as possible.
To cushion the financial impact of the event, we suspended 77,720 late payment fees and disconnections for Total donation to help those affected by customers in affected areas and offered HurricaneHarvey them flexible ordeferred payment plans.
Our own people wanted to help too.
So, we Watch our video about how our people launched a Direct Energy donation page for responded to Hurricane Harvey them to pledge money to the American Red centrica.
com video hurricaneharvey Cross who were co-ordinating the support effort in the hardest hit areas of Houston and Link to Corpus Christi.
This raised over US$50,000 Consumer strategic framework 38,860 and Direct Energy made a Energy supply In-home servicing matching donation.
22 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Im very proud of Adams Going above and actions which reinforce beyond to help just how brilliant ourcustomers ourpeople can be.
Our engineers and technicians make Andrew Reaney thousands of visits to our customers homes Installations Director, every week.
In 2017, across our business, UK Field Operations our engineers made nearly 11 million visits tocustomers homes.
On one of those visits, British Gas installations 11m engineer, Adam Downend, rang the bell and Number of engineer visits to customers didnt get an answer.
He called the phone homeseach year number and could hear the phone ringing Adam Downend upstairs.
Adam walked around the house and looked through the window to find the Installations Engineer Link to Consumer strategic framework elderly customer lying on the sofa.
After In-home servicing trying to get a response by banging on the Peace of mind window and shouting through the letter box, Adam then decided to gain access through an open bedroom window upstairs.
Putting his ladder up to the window, he secured it safely and climbed in.
When he got downstairs he found that the customer was barely conscious, so he put her in the recovery position and called for anambulance.
Adam then followed the instructions of the operator to keep her conscious while waiting for the paramedics to arrive and take her to hospital for treatment.
When she got home, the customer thanked Adam for his help and quick thinking.
We are in a real position to help our customers through the millions of visits wemake to their homes each year.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 23
