Strategic Report | Our Business Model Our Business Model Our business model is designed to deliver returns and growth through afocuspredominantly on our customer-facing businesses.
Our Energy Supply, Services, ConnectedHome, Distributed Energy Our customer-facing businesses are supported by the common &Power and Energy Marketing & Trading businesses are organised operating functions of Customer Operations and Field Operations.
into two global customer-facing divisions: Centrica Consumer These functions are where we interact with the customer and are isdesigned to support the needs of residential consumers and fundamental to our success.
Centrica Business is designed to support the needs of the business Our remaining two business units, Exploration & Production and customer.
Eachdivision has a strategic framework built around Centrica Storage, are operated separately and continue to play fivepillars and these are set outin the diagram below.
animportant role in our portfolio.
Our Central Power Generation business is included within the To ensure our model remains efficient and scalable, all businesses Centrica Business division, given its role in the management and are supported by a number of centre-led Group Functions that are optimisation of central power generation and its interface with responsible for setting boundaries and standards which allow usto wholesale markets.
effectively manage risk and ensure a strong system of internal control.
Our customer-facing strategic framework Centrica Consumer 1.
H ome Gas supply servicing Home insurance management automation Electricity supply Cover products Home security and Energy insight Home control protection plans, monitoring Energy efficiency Appliance control warranties Remote diagnostics Energy optimisation On demand repair Energy solutions and maintenance Installation heating and air con Read more about Centrica Consumer Pages 18 to 23 and 41 to 42 Centrica Business 1.
E nergy Gas supply energy insight optimisation solutions Electricity supply Trading partner Energy resource Asset optimisation Multi-technology management solutions Energy Aggregation and and monitoring commodities optimisation of Design, install, and risk products Operational insights distributed energy maintain and from energy data resources service Central power generation Preventative Access to energy, Business services maintenance capacity and flexible markets Read more about Centrica Business Pages 24 to 29 and 43 to 45 12 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our Group Priorities Our stakeholder commitments Customers We are focused on five key priorities to deliver Help customers save time and money by delivering excellent our strategy and we align performance and customer service alongside innovative products and services.
riskmanagement processes around these, Employees Create a great place to work with a diverse and inclusive including our Key Performance Indicators.
culturewhere our people feel motivated and able to achieve Safety, compliance theirfullpotential.
andconduct Investors Deliver long-term shareholder value through financial returns Customer satisfaction and andgrowth.
 Society Provide competitive energy prices and support for those who Cash flow growth and struggle to pay for their energy.
strategic momentum Regulators and government Cost efficiency and Secure a more affordable and clean energy future through engagement while contributing positively to economic growth simplification and tax receipts.
People and building Suppliers capability Treat our suppliers fairly and maintain high social, ethical and environmental standards in the products and services we buy.
Read more about Key Performance Indicators Pages 30 to 31 Read more about Responsible Business Pages 32 to 38 Read more about Risk Pages 52 to 62 Read more about Remuneration Pages 78 to 97 Our long-term financial goals Our long-term financial goals are delivered Adjusted operating cash flow Capital reinvestment AOCF Investment 70% through a clear financial framework that enables of AOCF 3-5% us to deliver long-term shareholder value through Limited to returns and growth.
Dividend 1.2bn Progressive in line The risks to achieving the Groups strategy are monitored and per annum from 2018 20 reported regularly.
For more information on managing our exposure with AOCF to risk see Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 52 to 62.
1 Controllable costs Credit rating Our priorities also ensure that progress in delivering performance Cost growth inflation Strong investment grade inSafety, Customer Satisfaction, Operational Excellence and People Baa1 BBB or above is a core part of the overall Group performance, which is then measured through individual employee scorecards.
Return on average capital employed post-tax 10-12% 1 Controllable costs comprise controllable cost of sales costs which management deem can be directly influenced and excluding items such as commodity costs and transmission and distribution costs and adjusted operating costs excluding depreciation and amortisation, smart metering and solar expenses, dry hole costs, profit on fixed asset disposals, business performance impairments, the impact of portfolio changes and foreign exchange movements.
Like-for-like controllable costs are controllable cost of sales, excluding the impact of portfolio changes, foreign exchange movements and growth investment in Connected Home and Distributed Energy & Power, and adjusted operating costs, excluding growth investment in Connected Home and Distributed Energy & Power.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 13
