04 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 About Pearson Pearson is the worlds learning company, providing a range of products and services to help people across different learning stages make measurable progress in their lives.
We operate in 70 markets worldwide, with a focus on those below.
Where we operate We report by geography because this is how we deliver learning: through providing a range of educational products and services to institutions, governments, professional bodies and individual learners in our key markets around the world, helping people everywhere Sales by geography aim higher and fulfil their true potential.
North America Core markets Growth markets Sales Sales Sales 2,929m 815m 769m Our largest market including Our international business Our growth markets in all 50 US states and Canada.
in established and mature emerging and developing education markets including economies, with investment the UK, Australia, Italy, priorities in Brazil, India, France, Germany, Spain, South Africa, Mexico, Poland, Singapore, Hong Kong & China, Malaysia and Vietnam.
Section 1 Overview 05 05 We provide content, assessment and digital services to schools, colleges What we offer and universities, as well as professional and vocational education to learners to help increase their skills and employability prospects.
Increasingly, we do this through partnership models where we bring investment, expertise and scale to help deliver better learning outcomes.
Sales by products and services Courseware Assessment Services Sales Sales Sales 49% 30% 21% We provide world-leading We provide assessment We provide integrated educational content services to measure and services that help educational for use in both traditional validate learner progress, institutions improve and digital learning.
Courseware Assessment Services Higher Education Schools Online Program Management Our personalised course content and digital We partner with US educators and districts to Pearson helps higher education institutions resources help educators build knowledge and develop new, personalised ways of learning launch or expand online degree programs unlock learners potential.
We increasingly through effective, scalable assessments that enabling them to increase enrolments, sell direct to consumers and to educational measure 21st century skills and inform instruction support online learning, boost graduation institutions so students can come to class for all learners.
In the UK, Pearson is a marketrates and deliver on completely prepared from leading, award winning organisation offering employability.
This helps drive academic and vocational qualifications.
Were better learning experiences leading the adoption of AI Artificial Intelligence and outcomes.
in assessment to support better learning.
Virtual schools See case study, p15 See case study, p45 Connections Education is an accredited provider of high-quality, highly accountable Schools Professional certification virtual education solutions for students Our content business for schools in the US, We help organisations measure and make in grade K12, including UK and globally provides educational improvements to ensure the success of online schools, online instructional resources, curriculum materials, employees and learners.
Test owners and courses, instructional digital learning tools and assessments to test takers across the world choose us to tools and more.
help to educate children across the world.
help develop, manage, deliver and grow their See case study, p17 Going forward, we are focusing computer-based testing programmes.
With the our school content business on industrys most secure testing environments, Fully integrated programmes markets outside the US.
were the leader in computer-based testing.
See case study, p42 Our sistemas businesses offers a complete package of products and services for private and public K-12 schools in Brazil.
We provide Clinical assessment courseware, educational assistance, professional We provide assessment solutions to help development, management consulting and professionals through the identification and marketing support, as well as digital content.
management of barriers to learning and In India we offer similar whole-school academic functioning in daily life.
Our wide range of partnerships called MyPedia.
assessment and intervention products are used See interview on p47 by psychologists, speech language pathologists, English occupational therapists, counselors, human resources and talent management professionals.
English Pearson English language teaching develops courses, qualifications and learning tools Leading the English learning market in Brazil, to make teaching English easier.
we offer a diverse methodology in a franchising English based model to help learners improve their Our fast-growing test, Pearson Test of English lives by learning a second language.
Academic, is the worlds leading computer-based test of English for study abroad and immigration.
1 2 Link to strategic priorities Grow share through digital transformation Invest in structural growth markets See Our strategy, p1321
