Governance | Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Good corporate governance alone cannot guarantee business performance, but it is a necessary precondition sustainable business success is not possible without sound corporate governance.
Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman Dear Shareholder As I set out in my statement on pages 4 to 5 of this Annual Report, we are proposing some changes to our governance arrangements I am pleased to confirm that your Company has fully complied within Centrica.
I have asked our Non-Executive Director Joan Gillman withthe principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance to undertake a review of employee engagement and, oncerecruited, Code the Code throughout the year and the following pages set our new Non-Executive Director to review the needs of customers, out in detail how wehave done so.
and to ensure the voice of these key stakeholder groups is heard I should like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to Lesley Knox inthe boardroom.
As a company withover 30,000 employees and who stepped down at the end of the year after six years service as a millions of customers, these stakeholders interests have always been Non-Executive Director of Centrica.
We are grateful for Lesleys wise integral to our discussions in Board meetings.
These reviews will, counsel around the board table and for her excellent stewardship as however, build upon this and further sharpen our focus.
I believe chair of the Remuneration Committee.
We are currently conducting a these steps willalso work with the grain of the corporate governance search for a new Non-Executive Director and more detail on that can reforms contemplated by Government and the FRC.
be found in the report of the Nominations Committee on page 77.
Good corporate governance alone cannot guarantee business 2017 was another busy year for UK Corporate Governance more performance, but it is a necessary precondition sustainable widely.
The Corporate Governance Reform Green Paper atthe business success is not possible without sound corporate beginning of the year focused on three aspects where Government governance.
This section describes the governance arrangements saw the need for further reform executive pay, corporate within Centrica and I hope readers will find it interesting and informative.
governance in large privately-held businesses, and thesteps that company boards take to engage and listen to employees, suppliers and other groups with an interest in corporate performance.
At the time of writing, the Financial Reporting Council FRC was consulting Rick Haythornthwaite on proposed changes to the Code aimed at addressing some of Chairman these issues.
21 February 2018 I believe that since its introduction over 20 years ago, the Code has been, and remains, the foundation of excellence in how companies are run, and has helped the UK achieve a leading position in corporate governance.
The Code has been successful, however, precisely because it has always been an evolving set ofbest practice guidelines, not a static list of rules.
We therefore welcome the latest evolution and will work to support its aims.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 67 Governance | Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued Our Governance Structure The Board The Board is responsible for promoting the overall success of The Board delegates authority to the Group Chief Executive for the Company.
In doing so, it delegates certain responsibilities to the execution of strategy and the day-to-day management of the Board Committees and executive management.
The Board oversees, guides and challenges executive Board Committees and their activities during the year are set out management in the execution of these activities.
R ead more about Our Strategy and Our Business Model Pages 10 to 11 and 12 to 13.
Matters reserved exclusively for the Board There are certain key responsibilities that the Board does not approving interim dividend payments and recommending delegate and which are reserved for its consideration.
The full final dividend payments: and Schedule of Matters Reserved is available on our website, the appointment and removal of Directors and the butkey features include: Company Secretary.
the development of strategy and major policies: Read more at approving the annual operating plan, Financial Statements centrica.
com role-of-the-board and major acquisitions and disposals: Board composition and roles Group Chief Group Chief Financial Independent NonSenior Independent Group Executive Chairman Executive Officer Executive Directors Director Directors Responsible for the Responsible for the Responsible for Responsible for Acts as a sounding Responsible for leadership and executive leadership providing strategic contributing sound board for the Chairman executive leadership management of the and day-to-day financial leadership of judgement and and serves as a trusted and day-to-day Board.
In doing so, he is management of the the Company and dayobjectivity to the Boards intermediary for the management of relevant responsible for Company, to ensure the to-day management of deliberations and overall otherDirectors, as well business units in promoting high ethical delivery of the strategy the financefunction.
decision-making as shareholders as support of the Group standards, ensuring the agreed by the Board.
Chief Executive and the effective contribution of constructive challenge, delivery of the strategy all Directors and, with and monitoring the agreed by the Board.
support from the Group Executive Directors General Counsel & delivery of the strategy Company Secretary, within the Boards risk best practice in and governance corporate governance.
Committees Safety, Health, Environment, Security Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee and Ethics Committee Disclosure Committee Read more on Read more on Read more on Read more on Read more on Pages 72 to 75 Page 77 Pages 78 to 79 Page 76 Page 77 The role and responsibilities of each Committee is set out in its Terms of Reference found on the Companys website.
com board-committees 68 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code compliance During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, Effective corporate governance provides an essential foundation met frequently without management present.
In addition, the Senior forthe long-term success of the Company.
This report sets out the Independent Director met with the Non-Executive Directors in the key elements of Centricas corporate governance arrangements, absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
including how we have sought to apply the principles and provisions The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for reappointment of the Code.
The Board confirms that, up to the date ofthis report, at each Annual General Meeting AGM.
Copies of the Executive itfully complied with the Code.
Directors service contracts and letters of appointment for the NonThe Board further confirms that, through the activities of the Audit Executive Directors are available for inspection by shareholders and Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committees, ateach AGM and during normal business hours at theCompanys described on pages 72 and 76, it has reviewed the effectiveness registered office.
ofthe Companys system of risk management and internal controls.
Director independence and conflicts The Code and associated guidance are available on the Financial All of our Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent Reporting Council website at frc.
uk against the criteria in the Code and free from any business interest which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
In Board meetings addition, the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive Director isable The Board held nine meetings in 2017, seven of which were in person to dedicate the necessary amount of time to the Companys affairs.
and two by scheduled telephone conferences.
Each year the Board seeks to combine one or two meetings with visits to the Groups In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the Act and the operations and in 2017 visited the Barrow Gas Terminal in March Companys Articles, Directors are required to report actual or potential conflicts of interest to the Board for consideration and, andthe Groups US Headquarters in Houston in September.
Details of these visits can be found on page 71. ifappropriate, authorisation.
If such conflicts exist, Directors recuse themselves from consideration ofthe relevant subject matter.
The Board members attendance forthe year ended Company maintains a schedule of authorised conflictsof interest 31December2017 which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman 9 9 Board composition Iain Conn 9 9 Jeff Bell 9 9 33% Margherita Della Valle 9 9 Executive four Directors Mark Hanafin 9 9 66% Joan Gillman 9 9 Non-Executive Stephen Hester 9 9 eight Directors Mark Hodges 9 9 1 7 9 Lesley Knox 2 Carlos Pascual 8 9 Steve Pusey 9 9 Scott Wheway 9 9 Tenure 1 Lesley Knox was unable to attend two Board meetings due to unavoidable diaryclashes.
17% 2 Carlos Pascual was unable to attend one Board meeting due to the earthquake 69 years inMexico.
two Directors Directors 50% During the year under review the Board comprised 12 Directors, 03 years 33% six Directors ofwhom four were Executive and eight, including the Chairman, were 36 years Non-Executive.
Lesley Knox stepped down from the Board with four Directors effect from 31 December 2017.
As we announced in February 2017, Scott Wheway succeeded Lesley as Remuneration Committee Chairman in May 2017.
While the Company believes strongly in the benefits of regularly refreshing Board membership, it was felt that having appointed five new Non-Executive and three new Executive Directors over the 2015 to 2016 period, no further changes to Board composition were required in 2017.
Further information on the background, experience, current tenure, Committee membership and other appointments of each Director can be found in the individual biographies on pages 64 and 65.
In line with best practice, the roles of our Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate, formalised in writing and have been approved by the Board.
A summary of these and other roles are shown in our governance structure on page 68.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 69 Governance | Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued Directors induction Gender All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive induction programme.
These include briefings from members of 25% theExecutive and management teams covering key areas of the Female business, an overview of the Groups risk management processes, three Directors 75% the internal audit function and the corporate governance framework Male within Centrica.
The induction programme also includes a series nine Directors ofsite visits for new Directors to familiarise themselves with the Groups businesses.
Training and support for Directors Ongoing training is provided for all Directors, including formal and informal briefings, meetings with management and visits to the Groups operations.
As part of this approach, two formal Board insight and training sessions are held each year.
In 2017, these Employee and senior management diversity sessions covered Our Code the replacement for Centricas former Centricas policies and practices reflect and encourage a culture Business Principles and other codes of conduct that existed across where decisions are based on individual ability and potential the business in July and, in November, a briefing from Deloitte on inrelation to the needs of the business.
We promote equal changes to Accounting Standards and on Internal Controls and Risk opportunities and diversity to create an inclusive working Management.
In addition, the Directors have full access to the advice environment that attracts and retains the best people and enables and services of the Group General Counsel &Company Secretary, everyone in Centrica to fulfil their potential.
In 2017, we started to who is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, roll-out unconscious bias training as part of a wider effort to remove oncorporate governance matters.
They arealso able to seek barriers to employment and ensure all individuals are treated in independent professional advice at the Companys expense in anon-discriminatory manner at all stages of their employment, respect of their duties.
including recruitment and selection, promotion and performance Key issues considered by the Board management.
We are committed to creating an inclusive workplace in which all employees are able to thrive.
Bydelivering on this we During the year, the Board considers a comprehensive programme areable to: of regular matters covering operational and financial performance reporting, strategic reviews and updates and various governance attract and retain a diverse range of talent: reports and approvals.
In addition, each Board meeting features enhance our employer brand: deep dives into a specific operation or topic.
In2017, these create an inclusive environment so that everyone feels safe discussions included: tobring their whole self to work: and Strategic reviews for Centrica Consumer ensure people receive career opportunities based on merit : sothatwe have the best talent in the right jobs.
the adoption of Centricas new Values: At the senior management level 28% of our people are female.
Process Safety: Forother employees that figure is 29%.
Centrica continues to offer a Group Brand architecture and reputation: range of initiatives including coaching and mentoring of diverse talent.
IT, Technology and Innovation: We also participate in the 30% Clubs cross-company, cross-sector the Competitive Landscape: mentoring scheme for mid-career women.
We are excited to be developing a programme aimed at enabling women to return to the Exploration & Production portfolio and pipeline: and workplace who have been out of work for two years or longer, which People and Capability.
Board diversity This year we launched a new Disability and Wellbeing Network Centrica recognises the benefits of diversity in all its forms, at Board DAWN.
Alongside our existing networks in the UK Women, Carers, level and throughout the Group.
During 2017, 25% of the Board were LGBT and in the US Women, LGBT, BOLD Black Organisation women and comprised Directors from the UK, US, Canada and Italy Leadership Development and HONOR for Veterans, this will with a wide range of backgrounds and expertise.
Centrica supports continue to grow and support our employees.
As a mark of the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Review and is Centricas commitment to diversity and inclusion, we achieved continuing to develop the skills, experience and knowledge of a Bronze recognition in the annual Business in the Community diverse pipeline of talent.
Our Nominations Committee is committed benchmarking survey.
The Managing Director of Distributed Energy to ensuring and promoting a diverse blend of skills, backgrounds and &Power, Jorge Pikunic, was also named among the Top 100 nationalities on theBoard.
Executives in the Financial Times 2017 OUTstanding Leading LGBT Nationality 8% & Ally Executives and LGBT Future Leaders lists.
This year, for the Italian first time in our history, we celebrated National Inclusion Week 8% one Director Canadian bringing together all our diversity groups and acknowledging the one Director benefits of inclusion.
In 2017, we worked toward achieving Disability Confident level 1 67% status and we are pleased that this has been accredited for 2018.
17% British American eight Directors In addition, we are delighted to be recognised in the 2017 Stonewall two Directors Workplace Equality Index, where we were ranked in the 66th percentile.
70 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 We support the UK Governments gender pay gap reporting requirement.
In the UK our gender pay gap is 12% mean and 30% 1 median.
The gap is not driven by unequal pay but by the uneven distribution of men and women across the business and the type of roles they do.
Like other employers in our sector, we have a greater proportion of men inhigher paid, traditionally male-dominated technical roles such as engineering, which form a significant portion of our workforce.
By contrast, we have a larger number of women inlower paid, lesstechnical roles such as administration.
We are focused onclosing the gap by building a gender balanced talent pipeline through initiatives to attract, develop and retain women.
1 Data based on a 5 April 2017 snapshot of UK employees.
View our Gender Pay Statement centrica.
com genderpay Breakdown by gender Site visits While the bulk of the Boards work is necessarily conducted Senior management 72% 28% around the Boardroom table, Directors recognise the 2017 Male Female importance of visiting the coal face and seeing the Groups 0 20 40 60 80 100 operations first-hand.
During 2017, the Board visited 719 278 operations at the Barrow Gas Terminal in the UK andthe Groups North America headquarters in Houston.
74% 26% 2016 Male Female In February 2017, a decision was made to stop production 0 atBarrow and take a Stand Down for Safety focused on 20 40 60 80 100 maintenance, streamlining the management of change 788 284 process and development of improved operating procedures.
Other employees 71% 29% The Board visited in March 2017 to understand better how 2017 Male Female process safety risks are managed and to bring to life real 0 20 40 60 80 100 examples of process safety in action within a highhazard 22,349 9,246 operation.
The visit, over two days, involved presentations from local management, discussions with employees and 71% 29% anin-depth tour of the facility.
2016 Male Female 0 In September 2017, the Board visited Centricas North 20 40 60 80 100 America headquarters in Houston, Texas.
The visit comprised 24,782 10,009 a scheduled Board meeting and discussions with the North Board evaluation American leadership team on strategy and performance but, In accordance with the Code, Centrica conducts an annual most importantly, afforded an opportunity for Directors to evaluation of Board performance, which is facilitated by an meet with North American colleagues and understand how independent third-party at least once every three years.
they were faring in the immediate aftermath of the hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Whilst the impact had been devastating As reported last year, the results of the 2016 internal evaluation andmany of our employees affected, it was heartening to see exercise were considered by the Board and Committees in February the way in which our people, the city of Houston and the State 2017 and the topics where Directors had indicated a need for further ofTexas had pulled together in adversity.
Moreover, the wider discussion new growth markets and the competitive landscape Centrica family had come together, with offers of help and were incorporated into the 2017 Board programme.
generous donations to theCentrica Employee Relief Fund The 2017 independent third-party evaluation is being conducted by from employees across the Group.
This exercise, which was ongoing at the date of R ead more about supporting our Texan colleagues this Annual Report, comprised online questionnaires, interviews with and customers through Hurricane Harvey all Directors, a review of Board papers and observation of a Board Page 22 meeting.
The results of the evaluation will be reviewed by the Board atits meeting in March 2018 and any findings built into an action plan.
The Senior Independent Director, Stephen Hester, conducted theevaluation of the Chairmans performance through a series ofindividual discussions with Directors and Senior Executives.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 71 Governance | Directors and Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee managing the relationship with the Groups external auditors on behalf of the Board including the policy on the award of non-audit Audit services: Committee to conduct a tender for the external audit contract at least every10 years and make appointment recommendations to the Board: and to consider and review legal and regulatory compliance issues, specifically in relation to financial reporting and controls, and together with the Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee SHESEC, maintain oversight of the arrangements in MARGHERITA DELLA VALLE place for the management of statutory and regulatory compliance Chairman of the Audit in areas such as financial crime.
Committee Report of the Committee Chairman This report aims to provide a summary of the workings and activities Audit Committee members attendance for the year of the Committee during 2017, outlining how we discharged our ended 31 December 2017 dutyto provide oversight of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk Margherita Della Valle Chairman 7 7 management systems, the considerations we gave to matters of Stephen Hester 7 7 financial risk and control and the key accounting judgements reached.
Lesley Knox 7 7 The Committee has developed its agenda to enable, over the course Steve Pusey 7 7 of a year, active oversight of all key areas of responsibility and to facilitate deeper dives into topics of particular importance or Role of the Committee pertinence.
In 2017 this agenda included regular reports on Risk, The role of the Committee is primarily to assist the Board Control and Assurance, Ethics and Compliance and Centrica infulfilling its corporate governance obligations in relation tothe Storage compliance with its undertakings, together with periodic Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management items reviewed at fixed points annually for example, interim and final systems, as well as providing oversight of the internal audit financial results, internal and external audit plans, etc..
In addition, function and the external auditors.
there were deep dives during the year covering, among other things, the Group Risk Universe, financial controls maturity, including Margherita Della Valle, as deputy group chief financial officer of benchmarking against other organisations and Deloitte first year Vodafone Group Plc, is considered by the Board to have recent observations, lessons learned from external examples of control and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
failures in large corporations and Finance transformation initiatives TheBoard is satisfied that the Committee has the resources and and staff rotations.
In its November meeting, the Committee expertise to fulfil its responsibilities.
discussed the emerging accounting issue in the North America Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman ofthe Business unit and held a further meeting by teleconference shortly Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial after to fully understand the scope of the issue, remedial actions Officer, the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, the taken and lessons learned.
Following a thorough review of the issue Group Head of Corporate Finance and the Head of Internal Audit, anumber of enhancements are being implemented to internal Risk & Control, none of whom do so as of right.
Other Senior controls in the North America Business unit.
The Committee also Executives will attend as required to provide information on mettwice with the SHESEC Committee to jointly consider the matters being discussed which fall into their area of responsibility.
Groups System of Risk Management and Internal Control: in the first The external auditors, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, also attended each quarter to assess the systems effectiveness and in the fourth quarter meeting.
The Committee meets individually with the external to look prospectively at plans for 2018.
More detail on the key issues auditors, the Group Chief Financial Officer and the Head of considered by the Committee in 2017 are given below.
Internal Audit, Risk & Control at each meeting without other I believe that the Committee has performed effectively in 2017.
Compliance with the Code, including the risk management and the Responsibilities of the Audit Committee: viability statement requirements, isset out on pages 61 to 62. to support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation Areas of focus and training tomaintaining effective governance and oversightof An annual schedule of training is designed to provide Directors with theCompanys financial reporting, internalcontrols and practical training and insight into specific areas of interest.
In 2017, riskmanagement: these sessions covered Our Code the replacement for Centricas to provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report former Business Principles and other codes of conduct that existed and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and across the business in July and, in November, a briefing from Deloitte understandable and provides all the necessary information on changes to Accounting Standards and on internal controls and forshareholders to assess the Companys performance, risk management.
In February 2018, the Committee also received business model and strategy: training on the practical application of the certain re-measurements monitoring and reviewing the operation and effectiveness accounting and exceptional item policy.
ofthe Groups Internal Audit function, including itsindependence, strategic focus, activities, plans andresources: the appointment and, if required, the removal of the Head ofInternal Audit, Risk & Control: 72 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management and internal controls In addition, to ensure the independence of the external auditors and Internal audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK &Ireland The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the Accounting Practices operation and effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function, Board and as a matter of best practice, Deloitte has confirmed its including its independence, strategic focus, activities, plans and independence as auditors of the Company.
The appointment and removal of the Head of Internal confirmation and report on its approach to audit quality and Audit Risks and Controls is also a matter for the Committee.
transparency, the Committee concluded that Deloitte demonstrated appropriate qualifications and expertise and remained independent The Committee approved the Groups annual Internal Audit plan of the Group and that the audit process was effective.
which was primarily risk-based focusing on the assurance of core processes.
As part of its consideration of the plan, the Committee Non-audit fees reviewed staffing levels and qualifications to ensure these were In order to preserve the independence of the external auditor, the appropriate and adequate for the delivery of the plan.
Committee is responsible for the policy on the award of non-audit services to the external auditors.
A copy of this policy is available During the year, the Committee received regular reports summarising onour website.
The current cap on non-audit work is 2.75 million, the findings from the Groups Internal Audit functions work and which is assessed annually for appropriateness against external action plans to resolve any highlighted areas.
The Committee guidance and regulation.
The award of non-audit work, within monitored the progress of the most significant action plans to ensure permitted categories, is subject to pre-clearance by the Committee, these were completed satisfactorily.
should the fees in a given year exceed a specified threshold.
Review of the system of risk management and internal Allsignificant non-audit work is tendered and where Deloitte was controls appointed, it was considered that its skills and experience made Each year, an extensive process of self-certification operates itthemost appropriate supplier of the work.
throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal controls Deloitte had been engaged to perform certain activities for the Group and compliance with the Groups Business Principles and policies prior to their appointment as auditors and before their appointment, are assessed.
Self-certification is completed both at the half year and the Group undertook a thorough review of all pre-existing full year.
The results of the annual process, together with the arrangements.
As a result of this, certain arrangements were conclusions of the internal reviews by Internal Audit, inform the annual terminated during 2016 and whilst others were permissible under all assessment of the effectiveness of the System of Risk Management relevant regulatory requirements, the decision was taken to wind and Internal Control performed by the Audit Committee and the them down during the first half of 2017.
The majority of non-audit fees SHESEC Committee, on behalf of the Board, in 2017.
Where included as All other services noted in Note S9 to the Financial necessary, improvements and enhancements to financial and Statements relate to such transitional arrangements, which have commercial controls in the North America Business unit have been now ceased.
recommended and will be implemented in 2018.
Appointment of the external auditors External auditors In 2016, the Committee led a formal audit tender process, The Committee manages the relationship with the Groups external  LLP having been the external auditor of the auditors on behalf of the Board.
The Committee considers annually Group since the demerger ofCentrica in 1997.
The conclusion of the the scope, fee, performance and independence of the external tender process was a firmrecommendation to appoint Deloitte as auditors as well as whether a formal tender process is required.
the Companys auditor for the financial year commencing 1 January The Board considers it of prime importance that the external auditors 2017 and this appointment was approved by shareholders at the remain independent and objective and as a safeguard against this Annual General Meeting in May 2017. being compromised, the Committee implemented and monitors a Audit information policy on the independence of external auditors.
This policy details Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of the the process for the appointment of the external auditors, the Annual Report and Accounts confirms that, so far as they are aware, tendering policy, the provision of non-audit services, the setting of there is no relevant audit information of which Deloitte is unaware audit fees and the rotation of audit partner and staff.
There are no andthat they have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information external auditors.
and to establish that Deloitte is aware of that information.
Effectiveness and independence of the external auditors To assess the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors, the Committee carried out an assessment of Deloitte.
Thisincluded a review of the report issued by the audit quality review team regarding Deloitte and an internal questionnaire completed by Committee members and relevant members of management on their views of Deloittes performance.
The questionnaire covered a review of the audit partner and team, theaudit scope and approach, audit plan execution, auditor independence and objectivity and robustness of the challenge ofmanagement.
The feedback received was reviewed by management and reported to the Committee and the Board.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 73 Governance | Directors and Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee continued Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2017 Audit Committee reviews and conclusions Impairment of goodwill, upstream gas and oil assets, The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the carrying and recoverable value of the assets and the key judgements and power generation assets and storage facility assets estimates used.
At the year end it concluded pre-tax net impairments The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether the of Exploration & Production E&P assets of 408 million relating carrying amounts of its assets are recoverable.
These judgements include totheUK, Dutch and Norwegian assets were required, primarily due primarily the achievement of Board-approved business plans, long-term to ageneral reduction in price forecasts and changes to expected projected cash flows, generation and production levels including reserve decommissioning costs.
The Committee reviewed at the half year the estimates and macroeconomic assumptions such as the growth and recoverable value ofthe UK gas storage assets, following the decision discount rates and long-term commodity and capacity market auction to apply for a production licence for the Rough storage facility, and prices used in the valuation process.
In the forecasts, where forward agreed a pre-tax impairment of 270 million.
The Committee has market prices are not available, prices are determined based on internal reviewed the updated assumptions of the recoverable value of the model inputs.
UKgas storage assets atthe end of the year and have concluded no adjustment to this impairment is required.
The Committee reviewed the recoverable amount of all other significant balance sheet assets and concluded they had recoverable values in excess of the carrying value and were not impaired.
The external auditors held discussions with the Committee onthe key judgements and assumptions used inthe impairment tests and provided their own analytical report.
Further detail on impairments arising and the assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts is provided in notes 7 and S2 onpages 129 to 131 and 163 to 165.
In the prior year the Committee approved managements policy for Classification and presentation of exceptional items and theclassification of items as certain re-measurements or exceptional certain re-measurements items.
During the year the Committee reviewed the items classified as The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the business exceptional items, considering their size, nature and incidence.
They performance column of the Group Income Statement.
To be able to concluded that separate disclosure of these items was appropriate in provide this clearly and with consistent presentation, the effects of the Financial Statements.
Exceptional items include the impairments certain re-measurements offinancial instruments and exceptional of the Rough storage facility and the UK, Dutch and Norwegian E&P itemsare reported separately in adifferent column in the Group assets.
They also include the gains and losses from the disposal of the IncomeStatement.
Canadian E&P business and the UK CCGT fleet, and restructuring costs related to the strategic review announced in 2015 and costs The classification of items as exceptional and specific trades as certain associated with changing business structure in Storage, the E&P Spirit re-measurements or conversely own use or proprietary trades are Energy formation transaction and the closure of US Solar.
Further subject to defined Group policies.
These policies are reviewed annually detail is provided in note 7 on pages 129 to 131. by management.
Energy supply revenue recognition The Committee has reviewed and held discussions with the external auditors on the level of revenue accrual and provisions made during The Groups revenue for energy supply activities includes an estimate of the year.
In particular, the Committee has reviewed the reassessment energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading of the historic recognition of unbilled power revenues, identified in late and an estimated year-end meter reading.
It is estimated through the 2017 in North America Business, which resulted in a one-off non-cash billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a customer-byincome statement charge of 46 million.
The Committee reviewed customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, load forecasts both the cause and control issues that led to the reassessment and andthe differences between actual meter readings being returned and agreed additional measures with management to assess key system estimates.
An assessment is also made of any factors that are judgements and processes as part of the year-end procedures, likely to materially affect the ultimate economic benefits which will flow to supported by independent experts.
Further improvements to relevant the Group, including bill cancellation and re-bill rates.
To the extent that processes and controls have been incorporated into future business the economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, revenue is planning.
More details of accrued energy income and provision for not recognised.
credit loss is provided in note 17 on pages 144 to 145.
74 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2017 Audit Committee reviews and conclusions Determination of long-term commodity prices and their The Committee reviewed the proposed commodity curves versus those of external third parties.
The external auditors also provided use valuing commodity trades and other long-life assets detailed reporting and held discussions with the Committee on the Long-term commodity price forecasts are derived using valuation potential impact of changes to the commodity curves.
More detail on techniques based on available external data.
A significant number of the assumptions used in determining fair valuations is provided in note judgements and assumptions are used in deriving future commodity S6 onpages 176 to 178.
Sensitivities of the asset impairment tests to curves.
These forecasts are benchmarked against other third-party changes in price forecasts are provided in note 7 on page 130 to 131. forecasts and, where appropriate, are adjusted to ensure they lie within the range of a reasonable market participant.
The long-term commodity price forecasts are then used in determining the fair values of derivative financial instruments in North America and Europe.
They are also a key input in the Groups impairment valuation testing and Business Combination opening balance sheet valuations.
The Committee reviewed the valuations, and the key judgements Business combinations andestimates see note 3 a.
The Committee also approved the During the year, the Group acquired Bayerngas Norge to create a new disclosures in note 12.
The external auditors also provided detailed combined E&P business with a non-controlling interest held by reporting and held discussions with the Committee on the key Stadtwerke Mnchen.
The REstore NV business was also acquired to judgements and assumptions used.
Further details on business join the Distributed Energy & Power fide&P segment.
Business combinations are set outin note 12 on pages 136 to 137. combinations require a fair value exercise to be undertaken to allocate purchase price cost to the fair value of the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities and goodwill.
As a result of the nature of fair value assessments in the energy industry, this purchase price allocation exercise requires subjective judgements based on a wide range of complex variables at a point in time.
For the Bayerngas acquisition, judgement was required to conclude on the appropriate accounting treatment for the transaction and to assess the value of both the deemed purchase price and the asset valuations.
The Committee reviewed and approved the key assumptions and Pensions disclosures in the Financial Statements.
Independent actuaries are The cost, assets and liabilities associated with providing benefits under consulted on the appropriateness of the assumptions and discussions defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each of the are held with the external auditors.
Further details on pensions are set Groups schemes.
Judgement is required in setting the key assumptions out in note 22 on pages 148 to 152. used for the actuarial valuation which determines the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, especially given the length of the Groups expected liabilities.
The Committee reviewed managements funding forecasts and Going concern and liquidity risk sensitivity analysis and the impact of various possible adverse events The Group experiences significant movements in its liquidity position including significant commodity price movements and credit rating dueprimarily to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash.
The external auditors also provided detailed reporting Tomitigate this risk the Group holds cash on deposit and maintains and held discussions with the Committee.
Following the review, significant committed facilities.
The Group regularly prepares an theCommittee recommended to the Board the adoption of the assessment detailing these available resources to support the going goingconcern statement in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017. concern assumption in preparing the Financial Statements.
Furtherdetails on sources of finance are set out in note 24 on pages 154 to 156 and in the Going Concern section in Other Statutory Information on page100.
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement The Committee reviewed the Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement and the key judgements and disclosures made in its The Group is required to prepare an annual regulatory statement preparation.
The external auditor also provided a detailed report Consolidated Segmental Statement CSS for Ofgem which breaks andheld discussions with the Committee.
The full CSS and the down our licensed activities for the financial year into a generation, independent audit opinion approved by the Committee for publication domestic and non-domestic and electricity and gas result.
The CSS is are set out onpages 203 to 214. reconciled to our externally reported International Financial Reporting Standards Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group publishes the CSS at the same time as the full year Annual Report and Accounts and the CSS is independently audited.
In preparing the CSS, judgement is required in the allocation of non-specific costs between domestic and non-domestic and electricity and gas and the distinction between licensed and non-licensed activities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 75 Governance | Directors and Corporate Governance Report Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee Safety, Health, Environment, Security andEthics Committee SHESEC STEVE PUSEY Committee Chairman SHESEC members attendance for the year ended Report of the Committee Chairman 31December 2017 Now in its second full year of operation, the Committee has developed its agenda to enable, over the course of a year, active Steve Pusey Chairman 6 6 oversight of all key areas of responsibility and to facilitate deeper 1 Margherita Della Valle 5 6 dives into topics of particular importance or pertinence.
Joan Gillman 6 6 For example, every Committee meeting includes reports and reviews 2 of Health, Safety, Environment and Security: Ethics and Compliance: Carlos Pascual 5 6 and Risk, Control and Assurance.
In addition, in 2017, there were 3 Scott Wheway 5 6 deep dives covering, among other things, the preparation and publication of Centricas first Modern Slavery Act Statement and 1 Margherita Della Valle was unable to attend one SHESEC meeting due toanunavoidable diary clash.
adetailed review of asset integrity governance and practices.
2 Carlos Pascual was unable to attend one SHESEC meeting due to the The Committee continued to prioritise safety, and in particular earthquake in Mexico.
3 Scott Wheway was unable to attend one SHESEC meeting due to an process safety, as a key focus area.
In March 2017, Directors visited unavoidable diary clash.
the Barrow Gas terminal to see first-hand how process safety risks are being managed.
More details on the visit to Barrow can be found Role of the Committee on page 71.
Whilst improving safety performance remains an ongoing The Committee is responsible for the oversight and adequacy priority, it was pleasing to note the considerable improvements in ofthe Groups internal controls and risk management systems process safety performance over the year with zero process safety inrespect of the following areas: events Tier 1 in 2017 2016: 2 while process safety incident frequency rate Tier 1 and 2 reduced to 0.14 per 200,000 hours Health, Safety, Environment and Security: worked 2016: 0.33.
People: engagement, culture and behaviours: Sourcing and supplier management: In July 2017, the Committee held a special briefing session on Information Systems Security: and OurCode and subsequently approved its implementation.
OurCode is the replacement for Centricas former Business Principles and other Legal, Regulatory, Ethical Standards and Compliance matters.
codes of conduct that existed across the business.
It will provide During the year, the Chairman of the Board and the Group asingle Group-wide reference point, both internally and externally, ChiefExecutive attended all Committee meetings, as did other forall stakeholders about how we expect our people to protect the key executives.
Company and themselves when working at Centrica.
The Committee met twice with the Audit Committee to jointly consider the Groups system of internal control and risk management: in the first quarter to assess the systems effectiveness and in the fourth quarter to look prospectively at plans for 2018.
The joint Committee also reviewed Information Systems & Cyber-Security, covering the evolving cyber-threat landscape and how this risk is being managed within Centrica.
76 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Nominations Committee Disclosure Committee Nominations Disclosure Committee Committee RICK HAYTHORNTHWAITE IAIN CONN Committee Committee Chairman Chairman Nominations Committee members attendance for the Disclosure Committee members attendance for the year ended 31 December 2017 yearended 31 December 2017 Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman 3 3 Iain Conn Chairman 13 13 Margherita Della Valle 3 3 Jeff Bell 13 13 Joan Gillman 3 3 Grant Dawson 13 13 Stephen Hester 3 3 Role of the Committee Lesley Knox 3 3 The Disclosure Committee is responsible for the implementation and monitoring of systems and controls in respect of the Carlos Pascual 3 3 management and disclosure of inside information and for Steve Pusey 3 3 ensuring that regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, Scott Wheway 3 3 prospectuses and other documents issued by the Company comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements.
The Role of the Committee Committee has scheduled meetings each year to approve the The Committee ensures there is a formal and appropriate interim and preliminary results announcements and trading procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
statements and meets asrequired to review and approve ad TheCommittee is responsible for leading this process and hocannouncements for example, acquisitions and disposals, making recommendations to the Board.
In2017, the Committee met 13 times forthese purposes.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
During the year, the Group Chief Executive attended all Committee The Committee is chaired by Iain Conn, the Group Chief meetings, as did other key executives.
Report of the Committee Chairman Responsibilities of the Disclosure Committee: Although no new Directors were appointed to the Board in 2017, Review the preliminary results announcement, the half-year Lesley Knox indicated in February that she would step down as results and the trading statements: aDirector at the end of the year.
The Committee recommended, Consideration of the release of regulatory and industry and the Board approved, the appointment of Scott Wheway to announcements: replace Lesley as Remuneration Committee Chair from May Review announcements regarding Board key management 2017.
The Committee also discussed and approved the scope changes: and and role profile for the search for a suitable candidate to replace Consideration of announcements in respect of specific Lesley as a Non-Executive Director.
The Committee utilised the projects.
Board skills matrix to inform the role profile and expressed a preference for afemale candidate with a strong entrepreneurial and commercial background.
It was felt the search criteria shouldbe sufficiently wide so as to encourage a diverse range ofcandidates and, inthisregard, the Committee agreed that previous listed board experience need not be a prerequisite.
Thissearch was progressing at the time of writing.
The Committee also reviewed the strength of succession plans for Executive Directors and certain senior management roles, including internal talent development resources and processes.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 77
