76 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Audit Committee report Audit Committee role Committee Chairman Tim Score The Committee has been established by the Board primarily for the Members Elizabeth Corley, Vivienne Cox, purpose of overseeing the accounting, financial reporting, internal Linda Lorimer, Tim Score control and risk management processes of the company and the and Lincoln Wallen audit of the financial statements of the company.
As a Committee, we are responsible for assisting the Boards oversight of the quality and integrity of the companys external financial reporting and statements and the companys accounting policies and practices.
Pearsons SVP Internal Audit, Compliance and Risk has a dual reporting line to the Chief Financial Officer and to me, and external auditors have direct access to the Committee to raise any matters Committee responsibilities include oversight of: of concern and to report on the results of work directed by the The quality and integrity of financial reporting Committee.
As Audit Committee Chairman, I report to the full Reporting and statements and related disclosure.
Board at every Board meeting immediately following a Committee meeting.
I also work closely with the Chief Financial Officer and senior financial management outside the formal meeting schedule Group policies, including accounting Policy to ensure robust oversight and challenge in relation to financial policies and practices.
External audit, including the appointment, External Audit Committee composition qualification, independence and the audit performance of the external auditor.
The Committee comprises five independent Non-Executive Directors.
As a committee, we have a good balance of skills and Risk management systems and internal Risk & knowledge with competence and experience covering all aspects control environment, including the internal control of the sector in which Pearson operates education, digital and performance of the internal audit function.
services and our key geographic markets.
Compliance with legal and regulatory Compliance requirements in relation to financial Fair, balanced and understandable reporting & governance reporting and accounting matters.
We are mindful of the Codes provision C. 1.1 relating to fair, balanced and understandable reporting and we build sufficient time into Terms of reference our annual report timetable to ensure that the full Board receives The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out sufficient opportunity to review, consider and comment on the its authority and duties.
These are reviewed annually and can be report as it progresses.
Learn more about fair, balanced and found on the company website www.
com governance understandable reporting on p109 Attendance Risk assessment, assurance and integrity Attendance by Directors at Audit Committee meetings throughout2017: A key role of the Committee is to provide oversight and reassurance to the Board with regard to the integrity of the companys financial Meetings attended reporting, internal control policies and procedures for the 1 Elizabeth Corley 3 4 identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
During 2017, Vivienne Cox 4 4 we conducted a number of deep dives into selected principal risks, Linda Lorimer 4 4 and the key risks on which the Committee focused throughout the year are set out below.
Learn more about principal risks and Tim Score 4 4 uncertainties on p5060 Lincoln Wallen 4 4 Business transformation 1.
Unable to attend one meeting due to existing commitment pre-dating her appointment to the Committee.
Ahead of the meeting, Ms Corley Ongoing business transformation is one of Pearsons key risks communicated her comments on the business of the Committee to and opportunities.
The Enabling Programme TEP is an important the Chairman.
operational simplification project covering Pearsons key enterprise resource planning technology and processes, including financial and HR systems and processes, and the Committee received an update at each meeting as TEP progressed during the year.
Section 4 Governance Accountability 77 77 Audit Committee report The primary areas of focus for the Committee throughout 2017 were The Global Learning Platform GLP is a key customerand monitoring the stabilisation of finance and operations systems in learner-facing element of the transformation programme, and the UK which were implemented in the second half of 2016, and is a mitigating factor in a number of risks facing the business, oversight of the planned implementation of finance and operations including data security and accessibility.
Accordingly, the Committee systems throughout our North American business.
In particular, has introduced GLP as a standing item for consideration at each the Committee considered the phasing of the North America meeting as the project progresses.
The Committee will continue implementation which has been aligned to the business cycle to to monitor progress on TEP and GLP throughout 2018 with the minimise associated risk.
The Committee also considered lessons assistance of senior management.
learned from the previous years UK implementation, including Leveraging the progress made through TEP, a review of general employee training and design adaptations, and how these lessons controls operating in the business commenced in 2017 with the would be applied to the next phase.
aim of moving the control environment to best-in-class standard, The Committee heard from the project team leading the North alongside processes and systems.
To this end, a formal control American design and implementation, as well as the senior Steering Committee was established with representation from management team in charge of the transformation programme.
finance, HR, and technology, chaired by the Deputy CFO.
The Customer experience, data quality and readiness were key areas Steering Committee has oversight for controls globally, and centres under regular consideration by the Committee, and updates were of excellence have been created for both financial and IT general considered at every meeting on adherence to key project milestones controls.
The controls transformation is expected to be a and budget.
In addition to the continued finance and operations progressive programme, over a multi-year period, building on system implementation, new global procurement, supply chain TEP, with automated controls.
The first line of defence will also be and contingent worker systems were also rolled out across Pearson.
strengthened to reduce reliance on mitigating and audit controls.
The Committee approved the proposed framework at its meeting in May 2017, and progress reports are now a standing item for the Committees consideration.
Learn more about GLP on p15 and TEP on p51 Audit Committee meeting focus during 2017 Area of responsibility Activity Accounting and technical updates 2016 annual report and accounts: Form 20-F and related disclosures, Reporting preliminary announcement, financial including annual Sarbanes-Oxley Act Impact of legal claims and regulatory statements and income statement section 404 attestation of financial issues on financial reporting reporting internal controls Review of interim results and Fair, balanced and understandable, trading updates Significant issues reporting Going concern and viability statements Accounting matters and Analysis supporting viability statement Treasury policy and strategy Policy Group accounting policies Annual review and approval of external Tax strategy auditor policy Provision of non-audit Reappointment of external auditors Remuneration and engagement letter External services by PwC of external auditors Confirmation of auditor independence audit Receipt of external auditors Review opinion on interim results 2017 external audit plan report on Form 20-F and Review of the effectiveness of year-end audit external auditors Half year review Internal audit activity reports Assessment of the effectiveness of Risk deep dives: data security: Risk & and review of key findings internal control environment and data privacy including GDPR: internal control risk management systems anti-bribery and corruption: tax: Enterprise risk management treasury: business resilience Impact of transformation on 2018 internal audit plan contract royalties Oversight of The Enabling Programme Legacy product review Health and safety Controls transformation initiative and subsequent Committee updates Global Learning Platform Fraud, whistleblowing reports Compliance with accounting and Committee terms of reference Compliance and Code of Conduct matters audit-related aspects of the UK Review of the effectiveness of the & governance Corporate Governance Code Schedule of authorities internal audit function Internal audit terms of reference 78 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Audit Committee report Data security and data privacy Tax transparency is a particular topic of focus in the corporate sector as a whole, being a matter of public trust for companies and the In a deep dive led by the Chief Information Security Officer, the taxation system.
In September 2017, Pearson published a report on Committee considered the progress being made in security across its tax strategy and financial information on a country-by-country Pearsons technology estate, where multiple workstreams arising basis for our 12 largest markets, the report being a matter of from the business transformation programme have contributed consideration for the Committee prior to publication.
to an improved remediation position in relation to risk.
The risk level remains high overall, however, due primarily to the nature and The Committee also considered the direction of Pearsons treasury volume of data held within our systems, particularly legacy systems, strategy, with input from the new SVP Treasury who joined the although decommissioning of these has accelerated under the business in early 2017.
Key findings were that the fundamentals simplification programme.
The maturity of the security programme of the Groups funding structure were sound and controls around has improved through 2017, and business continuity and disaster dealing and cash payments were in good shape.
Priorities moving recovery capabilities are expected to also improve as data centres forward were also considered, including the continued evolution of are closed.
the treasury strategy aligned with the commercial direction of the business and the finance transformation programme, and ongoing The Committee considered the balance to be struck between integration of the insurance function within treasury to give a more ongoing improvements to security maturity and the actions holistic view of financial risk.
required by the Group-wide simplification initiatives, as well as the appropriate mix of talent required to both protect and Audit Committee meetings and activities remediate legacy systems and continue development of leading edge solutions.
At every meeting, the Committee considered reports on the activities of the internal audit and compliance functions, including The Chief Privacy Officer led a separate deep dive into Pearsons the results of internal audits, risk reviews, project assurance reviews data privacy framework.
The Committee considered a report on and fraud and whistleblowing reports.
The Committee also Pearsons readiness for the implementation of the General Data monitored the companys financial reporting and risk management Protection Regulation GDPR in May 2018, and the plan in place procedures, reviewed the services provided by PwC and considered to remediate the gaps identified.
Also noted were the actions that any significant legal claims and regulatory issues in the context of were being taken to replace or retire legacy systems, and it was their impact on financial reporting, each on a regular basis.
agreed that good progress had been made during the year in terms of Group-wide data privacy governance.
At our August meeting, the Committee considered the findings of our review of the performance and effectiveness of Pearsons Tax and treasury internal audit function, a process which is undertaken annually.
The Committee held two deep dives into Pearsons tax strategy, This review was conducted by distributing a questionnaire to the led by the SVP Tax, to keep abreast of developments at a time of key stakeholders of the internal function including Committee uncertainty in the tax environment.
External factors under members, the lead external audit partner, members of the Pearson consideration by the Committee included possible impacts of Executive, and senior financial, legal and operational management the proposed US tax reforms and activity at an EU level, including and the findings indicated an effective internal audit function.
potential effects on Pearson and the sectors in which we operate.
The Committee also considered Pearsons anti-bribery and From an internal perspective, the Committee considered with corruption programme, and the planned governance framework in management and PwC the appropriate level of provisioning in respect of new anti-facilitation of tax evasion legislation, which came respect of historical tax issues, and how such provisioning might into effect in September 2017.
In February 2018, the Committee be applied going forward, taking into account the evolution of considered the 2017 annual report and accounts, including the Pearsons size and structure in recent years.
preliminary results announcement, financial statements, strategic report and Directors report.
Learn more about the key activities of the Audit Committee on p77 Members All of the Audit Committee members are independent Nonand relevant financial experience, and is an Associate Chartered Executive Directors and have financial and or related business Accountant.
He also serves as Audit Committee Chairman for experience due to the senior positions they hold or have held The British Land Company plc.
The qualifications and relevant in other listed or publicly traded companies and or similar large experience of the other Committee members are detailed on organisations.
Tim Score, Chairman of the Committee since April p6465 2015, is the companys designated financial expert, having recent Section 4 Governance Accountability 79 79 Audit Committee report Additional meeting attendees External audit In addition to the Committee members, advisers and executives Oversight of external auditors from across the business also attended meetings during the year, The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board as outlined in the table below.
This gives the Committee direct in respect of the appointment and compensation of the external contact with key leadership.
The Chairman and Chief Executive each auditors.
This recommendation is made by the Committee after attend at least one meeting per year, and the Chief Executive also considering the external auditors performance during the year, attends for discussion of matters with an operational focus.
The reviewing external auditor fees, conducting an effectiveness review Committee also met regularly in private with the external auditors, and confirming the independence, objectivity, qualifications and SVP Internal Audit, Compliance and Risk, and VP Internal Audit.
experience of the external auditors.
Attendees Meetings attended The Committee reviewed the effectiveness and independence of Chief Financial Officer 4 4 the external auditors during 2017, as it does every year, and remains Deputy CFO 4 4 satisfied that the auditors provide effective independent challenge Legal Counsel 4 4 to management.
SVP Internal Audit, Compliance and Risk 4 4 The external auditor review was conducted by distributing a SVP Finance, Group Reporting 4 4 questionnaire to key audit stakeholders, including members of the Audit Committee, the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, VP Internal Audit 3 3 Deputy CFO, Company Secretary, SVP Internal Audit, Compliance Committee Secretary 4 4 and Risk, SVP Finance for each business area and other heads of VP Internal Audit role created partway through 2017 corporate functions.
Overall, responses to the questionnaire were Audit Committee training very positive, indicating an effective external audit process.
The Committee receives regular technical updates as well as The Committee will continue to review the performance of the specific or personal training as appropriate.
In August 2017, external auditors on an annual basis and will consider their PwC led a training session for the Committee and other independence and objectivity, taking account of all appropriate Board members on the current regulatory framework and guidelines.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the corporate reporting.
Committees choice of external auditors.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Pearson Committee members also meet with local management on a audit every five years.
A new lead audit partner, Giles Hannam, periodic basis, such as when travelling for overseas Board meetings, rotates onto the Pearson audit from 2018, with the outgoing in order to gain a better understanding of how Pearsons policies partner, Stuart Newman, having led the audit for five years are embedded in operations.
concluding at the end of the 2017 audit.
Committee evaluation Audit tendering and rotation In 2017, the Committee evaluation was undertaken by Heidrick & Pearsons last audit tender was in respect of the 1996 year end, Struggles JCA Group as part of the wider Board evaluation process.
and resulted in the appointment of Price Waterhouse as auditors.
The responses illustrated an effective Committee, which uses its Developments at an EU level regarding mandatory audit rotation time well and has an appropriate focus on the key issues.
The key for listed companies have changed the UK landscape on audit findings were: tendering and rotation.
The Committee has reviewed the timetable for tendering and has taken into account relevant regulation and T he combination of the Committee Chairman and CFO, who guidance.
EU regulations and the ruling by the Competition and attends Committee meetings by invitation, is very effective Markets Authority CMA impose mandatory tendering and rotation and creates a well-functioning Audit Committee requirements, with EU rules requiring a new auditor to be appointed A ll Committee members contribute fully and the balance of no later than for the 2024 financial year end.
challenge and support is felt to be appropriate In considering the appropriate audit tender timetable for Pearson T he meetings are well run to a disciplined timetable ensuring in light of these requirements, the Committee has also taken appropriate allocation of time for discussion and agreement account of the significant business change being experienced by the Group and is monitoring the extent to which the Group is R isk management is given the right attention and review in the drawing upon the services of other accounting firms.
As noted Committees meetings, and there is appropriate escalation of elsewhere within this report, a series of programmes is well matters to the full Board when necessary underway throughout Pearson to implement major simplification D irectors who do not serve on the Committee feel well informed and efficiency improvements across all our enabling functions of its proceedings particularly technology, finance, HR to continue to bring the general and administrative costs of running Pearson more in line S uccession for the role of Audit Committee Chairman should be with global best practice.
These include a major transformation borne in mind with future Non-Executive Director appointments, programme The Enabling Programme TEP which includes the although this is not immediately pressing.
80 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Audit Committee report implementation of new financial systems and changes to our The table on p8182 sets out the significant issues considered by transaction processing and control activities, which launched in the Audit Committee together with details of how these items have the UK during 2016, and is expected to be rolled out throughout been addressed.
The Committee discussed these issues with the our businesses by 2020.
Pearson is supported in these changes, auditors at the time of their review of the half-year interim financial such as in project assurance matters and, more broadly, statements in August 2017 and again at the conclusion of their audit by external advisers, including accounting firms.
of the financial statements for the full year in February 2018.
Due to the status of TEP and the involvement of accounting firms All the significant issues were also areas of focus for the auditors.
advising on TEP and other change projects, the Committee is of the Learn more in the Independent auditors report on p112117 opinion that the level of disruption likely with a change of auditor, In December 2017, the Committee discussed with the auditors as well as the focus required by finance and management teams the status of their work, focusing in particular on internal controls to conduct the tender process thoroughly and effectively, may and Sarbanes-Oxley testing, and covering the significant issues unduly impact the Group and would not be in the best interests outlined on the following pages.
The rotation of lead audit partner at the start of 2018 gives us further confidence in the ongoing effectiveness, As the auditors concluded their audit, they explained to independence and challenge brought by the external auditor.
the Committee: As noted last year, it is the current expectation of the Committee T he work they had conducted over revenue, including over that an audit tender process would commence in 2022 in order for more complex revenue contracts and judgements in relation the auditor selected as a result of the tender to be appointed for the to provisions for returns financial year ending 31 December 2023.
It would be our intention T heir work in evaluating managements goodwill impairment to look to accelerate this timing if feasible and appropriate following exercise, on a fair value less costs to sell basis, including assessing the completion of TEP, and we would communicate any change in assumptions around sales and operating cash flow forecasts, our plans to shareholders in advance of any decision.
For the longer-term growth rates and discount rates reasons outlined above, the Committee considers this timing to be in the best interests of Pearsons shareholders and will continue to T he work performed over the nature and presentation of monitor this annually in light of the effectiveness and independence non-trading items focusing on subjective judgements and the of the current auditors, as well as considering whether the timing transparency with which related adjusted measures are presented remains appropriate in light of business developments.
T he work they had done to determine the provisioning levels in Once the next audit tender occurs, Pearson will adopt a policy respect of potential tax exposures and uncertain tax provisions of putting the audit contract out to tender at least every ten years, and related disclosures as required.
T heir evaluation of the recoverability of investments in digital Compliance with the CMA Order platforms and pre-publication assets Pearson confirms that it was in compliance with the provisions T heir work over completed disposals and the assessment of of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market certain businesses meeting the definition of held for sale Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes T he results of their controls testing for Sarbanes-Oxley Act section and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 during the 404 reporting purposes and in support of their financial financial year ended 31 December 2017. statements audit Review of the external audit T he results of their work over the companys going concern and During the year, the Committee discussed the planning, conduct viability statement reports and conclusions of the external audit as it proceeded.
T heir work in relation to other matters which arent classified as At the August 2017 Audit Committee meeting, the Committee key audit matters, but may give rise to additional disclosure discussed and approved the external audit plan and reviewed requirements e. g. the impact of new accounting standards.
the key risks of misstatement of Pearsons financial statements, which were updated at the December 2017 Committee meeting.
The auditors also reported to the Committee the misstatements that they had found in the course of their work, which were insignificant, and the Committee confirmed that there were no material items remaining unadjusted in these financial statements.
Section 4 Governance Accountability 81 81 Audit Committee report Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee Area of focus Issue Action taken by Audit Committee Outcome Pearson carries significant The Committee considered the results of the Groups Annual impairment Impairment goodwill intangible asset annual goodwill impairment review and the key review finalised with reviews balances.
There is judgement assumptions which are considered to be the cash flows confirmation of sufficient exercised in the identification derived from strategic and operating plans, long-term headroom in each of of CGUs and the process of growth rates and the weighted average cost of capital.
allocating goodwill to CGUs The Committee considered the sensitivities to changes and aggregate CGUs and in the in assumptions and the related disclosures required by assumptions underlying the IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
The Committee considered impairment review.
In 2016, sensitivity to assumptions in relation to the Groups CGUs Pearson made significant noting that after a number of impairments in recent years impairments to goodwill in even a relatively small change in assumptions could its North American business.
crystallise impairments particularly in the Groups There were no impairments Core CGU.
Pearson has a number of The Committee regularly reviews revenue recognition Assumptions underlying Revenue revenue streams where practice and the underlying assumptions and estimates.
revenue recognition were recognition revenue recognition practices In addition, the Committee has visibility of internal audit reviewed and challenged and IFRS 15 are complex and management findings relating to revenue recognition controls and and considered to be assumptions and estimates processes and routinely monitors the views of external appropriate.
The Group auditors on revenue recognition issues.
During the year, on the project to convert also finalised its work on the the Committee continued to monitor the project to to IFRS 15 and final disclosure required in transition to the new revenue recognition standard, quantification and connection with the transition IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
disclosures were to IFRS 15 Revenue from The Committee noted the changes to revenue streams reviewed and also Contracts with Customers and the quantification of the impact on the opening agreed as appropriate.
which will be applicable balance sheet.
Pearson will adopt IFRS 9 The Committee reviewed the work on the transition Adjustments relating to Financial Financial Instruments to IFRS 9 and noted the Groups new approach to hedge IFRS 9 were reviewed and instruments in 2018. accounting, investment valuation and impairment.
disclosure of impact in The Committee reviewed the impact on the opening 2018 was considered balance sheet and in particular the impact on bad appropriate.
The Group sold a significant The Committee reviewed the accounting for the The Committee Disposal portion of its stake in Penguin disposal transactions, including the rationale for held determined that disposal transactions Random House and the China for sale treatments in respect of proposed disposals.
accounting had been test preparation business, The Committee also considered the status of the correctly recorded and GEDU.
The Group also remaining 25% investment in Penguin Random House that the criteria for held announced its intention and in particular considered whether Pearson continued for sale treatment in to sell its English Language to exert significant influence over the venture.
respect of potential teaching business in China, disposals was WSE, and its K-12 school appropriate.
The courseware business in Committee also agreed the US.
that the remaining investment in Penguin Random House should continue to be accounted for as an associate.
82 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Audit Committee report Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee continued Area of focus Issue Action taken by Audit Committee Outcome Pearsons UK pension plan The Committee looked at changes in the assumptions Pension assumptions Pension includes a large defined used to value the UK pension plan and in particular noted were considered valuations benefit section.
The valuation updated assumptions for mortality, discount rates and appropriate and the of this plan under IAS 19 member options on retirement.
The Committee also pension surplus under Employee Benefits requires reviewed the accounting for the Plans purchase of IAS 19 was agreed to significant judgement.
insurance buy-in policies during the year and for be fairly stated.
significant additional pension contributions made in respect of prior year business disposals.
During the year Pearson Letters from the FRC and SEC were circulated to the The Committee agreed Comment received comment letters Committee and responses by the company were reviewed.
that the companys letters from the Financial Reporting Where relevant additional disclosure was requested by responses to comment received from Council FRC in the UK and the regulators this was also reviewed prior to publication letters were appropriate regulators the Securities Exchange in this report.
In particular, the Committee reviewed and ensured that Commission SEC in the US.
proposed changes to disclosures relating to our alternative disclosures were reviewed performance measures included in the Our KPIs section, and updated.
Both the Financial Review section and the Financial key comment letter processes performance indicators section of this report.
Pearson announced a new The Committee reviewed progress on the restructuring The Committee confirmed Restructuring restructuring programme in programme and considered the judgements required in that the accounting May 2017.
There are a number accounting for the costs of redundancy, asset impairment and disclosure for the of accounting judgements and property rationalisation mainly in respect of the restructuring programme to be made regarding Groups North America operations and enabling functions.
categorisation and timing The Committee also considered the disclosure of of recognition of cost.
restructuring in Pearsons adjusted measures.
In light of significant product The Committee considered return provisioning for Assumptions underlying Returns returns in 2016 in the US the US higher education courseware business following the returns reserve higher education courseware a high level of returns from retailers in 2016 and a methodology were business, we continued to subsequent change in methodology for establishing reviewed and agreed as review returns data and provisions.
This methodology was subsequently refined still being appropriate in our policy on reserving in 2017. the light of actual returns for returns.
The impact of US tax reform The Committee reviewed tax provision levels and was The Committee was Tax and the trend for increased updated on expanded annual report disclosures concerning satisfied with Pearsons tax transparency, and tax provisions.
The Committee addressed this matter approach to tax provision levels.
through the presentation of two management reports provisioning, taking on Pearsons tax affairs by the SVP Tax and through a account of the views of presentation of the external auditors assessment of the management and the companys tax provisioning.
In addition, the Committee assessment of the considered the report on tax strategy issued in September external auditors.
The Committee was briefed by Committee agreed that management on the anticipated impact of US tax reform expanded disclosure in in December 2017.
As more information on the detailed this report would be application becomes available, these estimates may beneficial to users.
change, and the Committee will be updated as necessary.
Section 4 Governance Accountability 83 83 Audit Committee report Auditors independence For all non-audit work in 2017, PwC was selected only after consideration that it was best able to provide the services we In line with best practice, our relationship with PwC is governed required at a reasonable fee and within the terms of our policy on by our policy on external auditors, which is reviewed and approved external auditors.
Where PwC is selected to provide audit-related annually by the Audit Committee.
The policy establishes procedures services, we take into account its existing knowledge and experience to ensure the auditors independence is not compromised, as well of Pearson.
Where appropriate, services were tendered prior to a as defining those non-audit services that PwC may or may not decision being made as to whether to award work to the auditors.
These allowable services are in accordance with relevant UK and US legislation.
Significant non-audit work performed by PwC during 2017 included: The Audit Committee approves all audit and non-audit services Audit-related work in relation to potential and actual corporate provided by PwC.
Our policy on the use of the external auditors for finance transactions non-audit services reflects the restriction on the use of pre-approval Audit of IT general controls mandated by contractual in the 2016 FRC Guidance on Audit Committees and, accordingly commitments.
all non-audit services, irrespective of value, are required to be approved by the Audit Committee.
In particular, we expressly A full statement of the fees for audit and non-audit services is prohibit the provision of certain tax, HR and other services by our provided in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements external auditor.
We review non-audit services on a case-by-case on p137.
basis, including reviewing the ongoing effectiveness and appropriateness of our policy.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports summarising the amount of fees paid to the auditors.
During 2017, Pearson spent Tim Score 0.8m less on non-audit fees with PwC compared with 2016, Chairman of Audit Committee due to a reduction in billing on tax services and on the efficacy programme.
For 2017, non-audit fees represented 23% of external audit fees 35% in 2016.
The policy on provision of non-audit services by external auditors in use in 2016 was in line with previous FRC requirements.
84 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Risk governance and control Control environment The internal audit team provides independent assurance on the adequacy of the risk management arrangements in place.
The The Board has overall responsibility for Pearsons systems of internal audit plan is aligned to identified enterprise-wide risks internal control and risk management, which are designed to reported by the ERM team and it presents issues and risks arising manage, and where possible mitigate, the risks facing Pearson, from internal audits at each Audit Committee meeting.
safeguard assets and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
The The involvement of the Board and Audit Committee in the design, Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the effectiveness implementation, identification, monitoring and review of risks of Pearsons systems of risk management and internal control including setting risk appetite, determining which are principal in accordance with provision C. 2.3 of the Code and the FRC to the company and how risk is being embedded in our culture Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related is outlined in more detail in the risk management section on Financial and Business Reporting FRC Guidance.
confirms these systems operated satisfactorily throughout the Financial management and reporting year and to the date of this report, and no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the review process.
There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by The Board has delegated responsibility for monitoring the the Board.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, effectiveness of the companys risk management and internal balance sheets, cash flow statements, capital expenditures and control systems to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee indebtedness, is reported against the corresponding figures for oversees a risk-based internal audit programme, including periodic the plan and prior years, with corrective action outlined by the audits of the risk processes across the organisation.
It provides appropriate Senior Executive.
Pearsons senior management meets assurance on the management of risk, and receives reports on regularly with business area management to review their business the efficiency and effectiveness of internal controls.
Each business and financial performance against plan and forecast.
Major risks area, including the corporate centre, maintains internal controls and relevant to each business area as well as performance against procedures appropriate to its structure, business environment and the stated financial and strategic objectives are reviewed in risk assessment, while complying with company-wide policies, these meetings.
We have an ongoing process to monitor the risks and effectiveness Internal control and risk management of controls in relation to the financial reporting and consolidation Our internal controls and risk oversight are monitored and process, including the related information systems.
This includes continually improved to ensure their compliance with FRC up-to-date Pearson financial policies, formal requirements for Guidance.
Our risk journey is described more thoroughly in the finance to certify that they have been in compliance with policies risk management section on p5060.
and that the control environment has been maintained throughout the year, consolidation reviews and analysis of material variances, The Board is ultimately accountable for effective risk finance technical reviews, and review and sign-off by senior finance management in Pearson and determines our strategic approach managers.
The Group finance function also monitors and assesses to risk.
It confirms risk appetite targets and receives and reviews these processes and controls through finance and technology semi-annual reports on the enterprise risk management ERM compliance functions and a Controls Steering Committee process and the status of top enterprise-wide risks.
It is supported in the following ways: These controls include those over external financial reporting which are documented and tested in accordance with the requirements of The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing internal controls section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is relevant to our US within Pearson which includes determining the risk appetite listing.
One key control in this area is the Verification Committee, recommended by Pearson Executive management, reviewing which submits reports to the Audit Committee.
This Committee is and commenting upon key risks and ensuring that risk chaired by the SVP Internal Audit, Compliance and Risk, and management is effective members include the Chief Financial Officer and or their deputy, Pearsons Executive and leadership teams are responsible for General Counsel, SVP Investor Relations and the Company Secretary identifying and mitigating risks, supported by the ERM team as well as senior members of financial management.
The primary responsibility of this Committee is to review Pearsons public Leaders and managers at all levels in Pearson are responsible reporting and disclosures to ensure that information provided to for managing risk in their area of responsibility, including the shareholders is complete, accurate and compliant with all applicable identification, assessment and treatment of risk legislation and listing regulations.
The effectiveness of key financial The ERM team owns the overall risk management framework controls is subject to management review and self-certification and for the company and facilitates consolidated reporting on risk independent evaluation by the external auditors.
Section 4 Governance Accountability 85 85 Risk governance and control Internal audit Treasury management Pearson has an in-house internal audit function, supported by The treasury department operates within policies approved by co-source agreements to augment our in-house resources, in areas the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, and treasury such as providing specific subject matter expertise or language transactions and procedures are subject to regular internal audit.
The internal audit function is responsible for providing Major transactions are authorised outside the department at the independent assurance to management and the Audit Committee requisite level, and there is an appropriate segregation of duties.
on the design and effectiveness of internal controls to mitigate Frequent reports are made to the Chief Financial Officer and regular strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
The SVP reports are prepared for the Audit Committee and the Board.
Internal Audit, Compliance and Risk reports formally to the The treasury policy is described in more detail in note 19 to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chief Financial Officer, consolidated financial statements.
with a reporting line to the General Counsel on compliance matters.
Insurance The internal audit mandate and plan are approved annually by the Pearson reviews its risk financing options regularly to determine Audit Committee.
Completion and changes to the plan are also how the companys insurable risk exposures are managed and reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee throughout the protected.
Pearson purchases comprehensive insurance cover year.
The internal audit plan is aligned to our greatest areas of and annually reviews coverage, insurers and premium spend, risk as identified by the ERM process, and the Audit Committee ensuring the programme is fit for purpose and cost-effective.
considers issues and risks arising from internal audits.
Management action plans to improve internal controls and to mitigate risks, or Pearsons insurance subsidiary, Spear Insurance Company Limited, both, are agreed with the business area after each audit.
Formal is used to leverage Pearsons risk retention capability and to achieve management self-assessments allow internal audit to monitor a balance between retaining insurance risk and transferring it to business areas progress in implementing management action external insurers.
plans agreed as part of internal audits to resolve any control deficiencies.
Progress of management action plans is reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting.
Internal audit has a formal collaboration process in place with the external auditors to ensure efficient coverage of internal controls.
Regular reports on the findings and emerging themes identified through internal audits are provided to Executive management and, via the Audit Committee, to the Board.
The SVP Internal Audit, Compliance and Risk oversees compliance with our Code of Conduct and works with senior legal and HR personnel to investigate any reported incidents, including ethical, corruption and fraud allegations.
The Audit Committee is provided with an update of all significant matters received through our whistleblowing reporting system, together with an annual review of the effectiveness of this system.
The Pearson anti-bribery and corruption programme provides the framework to support our compliance with various anti-bribery and corruption regulations such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
