Strategic Report | Our Strategy Our Strategy Strategic context In 2015 our Strategic Review was founded on an analysis of market trends andsources of growth, and the capabilities and efficiency necessary to pursuethem profitably.
The three fundamental trends we identified and which are changing the energy landscape decentralisation, shifting of power to the customer and digitisation are even clearer today and are playing out in line with our views at the time.
Three macro-trends are driving Consumers and business customers show the energy transition similar trends across all global markets: Consumer Decentralisation Globally, as we pursue lower carbon and more efficient Market trends Customers need solutions, the energy system is becoming decentralised Global demographic Value for money with more technologies available and viable, close to changes Solutions not just thecustomer.
Adoption of technology products Mobile first Frictionless service Power to the customer Self-service Trusted brands As a result of increased choice and alternatives, the Traditional competitive Responsible use customer is becoming more powerful.
Owning the boundaries blurring of data relationship with customers and satisfying their needs Growth of data and isfundamental.
analytics Digitisation Technological developments, both physical and digital, Read more about Centrica Consumer areaccelerating the pace of change.
Capability in these Pages 18 to 23 and 41 to 42 areas is key to keeping up with customers and their changing needs.
Business These trends demand more decentralised technologies and propositions, more customer intimacy and better service, more Market trends Customers need agilityand stronger technology capability.
Volumes per Reduced cost and The result of all these changes is that the customer is increasingly customer reducing increased productivity powerful.
That is why, at Centrica, we have put satisfying the Margins under Supply security and changing needs of our customers at the heart ofour strategy.
pressure resilience Gas becoming global An expert partner to guidethem through Mega-trends complexity impacting energy sector A trusted and credible counterpart Electricity system becoming more Not to be distracted local from their main activity Read more about Centrica Business Pages 24 to 29 and 43 to 45 10 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic approach To deliver the strategy we announced in July 2015, we set ourselves anumber ofmedium-term objectives to 2020.
We have organised the Grouptodeliver customer-led growth through two global customer-facing divisions and refocused our Exploration & Production business.
Our Strategy: Customer-facing divisions To deliver for the changing needs of our customers In 2017, we reorganised the Group around the customer, creating two new, customerTo deliver long-term shareholder value through returns facing divisions: Centrica Consumer and andgrowth Centrica Business.
The customer needs addressed by each division are global.
To be a trusted corporate citizen Wehave built strategic frameworks around To be an employer of choice those needs that go beyond energy supply To be a 21st century energy and services company and target those areas where we believe we have real competitive advantage.
Strategic pillars Our strategic objectives: Consumer Customer-led growth 1.
Energy supply Smaller and more focused E&P business 2.
In-home servicing 1.5 billion resource reallocation from E&P and Central 3.
Peace of mind Power Generation to customer-facing businesses 2015 20 4.
Home energy management 750 million per annum efficiency programme delivery 5.
Home automation by2020 Strong financial discipline within a clear framework Adjusted operating cash flow growth of 3-5% per annum Business 1.
Energy supply Our focus areas for long-term growth: 2.
Energy solutions Connected Home Distributed Energy & Power Exploration & Production Energy Marketing & Trading Exploration & Production E&P will continue to play an important role for Centrica, but amore focused one.
E&P provides diversity of cash flows and is asource of balance We already have some or all of the characteristics of material market share, sheet strength.
Following our divestment abilitytomanage large customer booksand risk, strong product brands, leading programme, theformation of Spirit Energy, capabilitiesand emerging products and offerings in these focus areas.
and conversion of the Rough field to a producing asset, our E&P business will Identifying and managing risk is essential to delivering our strategy Read more about how we manage risk nowbe focused on Europe.
Pages 52 to 62 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 11
