Section 2 Our strategy in action 13 13 Our strategy Our business We are transforming our business to meet the evolving needs of our customers.
We will do that by combining content and assessment powered by services and technology, leading to more effective teaching and personalised learning at scale.
More effective teaching and CONTENT ASSESSMENT personalised learning at scale Powered by services and technology Our strategic priorities Our strategy is focused on the major growth opportunities sectors and channels.
Our products and services are becoming more personalised, accessible and affordable.
And we are becoming leaner and more efficient.
Grow market share through digital transformation 1 Invest in structural growth markets 2 Become simpler and moreefficient 3 Efficacy programme see p22 Sustainability plan see p24 Stakeholder value 14 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Our business model and strategy Better learning.
More personalised, flexible and engaging with better outcomes.
Giving people the freedom and flexibility they crave, and control over when they learn.
Grow market share through digital transformation 1 Our performance Our market Our approach and strengths US higher education courseware 2017 sales Size of market Size of new materials market Market position We serve three interrelated customers students, faculty and administrators.
We are 1,146m c. $7bn $3.5bn #1 meeting the needs of each group by: Moving from an ownership to access model Percentage of Underlying market pressures relating to lower Pearsons total sales Selling directly to institutions and B2C channels enrolment and print attrition to the secondary Accelerating digital formats market persist for the next couple of years, but as Investing in better learning experiences wemove to an access model and shift to digital we % and outcomes.
expect pressures to ease and that we will become amore predictable business with greater visibility Total student spend: Pearson estimates Source: MPI Core student assessment and qualifications Market position in 2017 sales Size of market Market position We serve students, teachers, schools and General Qualifications government through our qualifications business 256m c. 700m #1 #2 where we are the awarding body and own the IP intellectual property.
Our strengths include: Percentage of Demographics and demand for qualifications Pearsons total sales Pioneering digital assessment platforms willdrive overall growth.
After a period of significant Strong brands built around quality at scale curriculum change, we expect greater stability Investment in IP and new products.
from2018 % US student assessment 2017 sales Size of market Market position Market share We remain the largest vendor and we have led the shift towards digital testing with our 355m $1.2bn #1 35% best-in-class platform TestNav.
Percentage of Stability returning after a period of policy change in Pearsons total sales recent years, we have continued to invest and are well positioned to grow again: % Stable market outlook Better contract win momentum Increased partnering opportunities Better margins in digital.
Section 2 Our strategy in action 15 Our business model and strategy The future What the future of learning looks like in US higher education of learning courseware Revel and the Global Learning Platform Our strategic priorities Our world is changing.
As the nature feedback services that leverage the latest US higher education courseware of work evolves, our solutions must developments in Artificial Intelligence, Offering learners more affordable choices foster the knowledge and skills students machine learning, and data science.
In this and better outcomes will help us take need to succeed both in school and in way, an AI-based student essay scoring share through expanding our addressable their careers.
system will learn instructors grading and market.
We will do this by: feedback patterns and automatically Pearson is meeting this challenge head apply them to subsequent essays at scale.
The exciting pipeline of new products on.
We are leveraging the latest technology to provide real-time feedback The scoring system will measure both The deployment of our new Global as students engage in open-ended what students say and how they say it, Learning Platform to enable faster challenges that foster critical thinking assessing both comprehension and ability innovation and scalability and effective communication.
to communicate a wider variety of Investing in services, such as analytics.
Each student will Today, Revel supports engaging learning receive personalised feedback on their experiences and activities, including essay and scores for their instructors automated essay feedback and scoring.
Students can then choose to The essay assignments ask students to revise their work based on the feedback answer open-ended questions to assess Core student assessment and and resubmit it to their instructor.
their understanding and communication qualifications skills.
For selected essay prompts, The Global Learning Platform will support Pioneering a shift to a more digital Revel provides immediate feedback and faster innovation, the continued evolution generates a score for the instructor and of Revel, and new learning experiences future, building on innovative online students to review in the gradebook.
That will allow data analytics tool Results Plus, us to respond more quickly to students making access to marked exam In the future, the product will offer and educators needs, and deliver a more enhanced automated essay grading and scripts available online, free to all personalised approach to learning, on an students, teachers and schools unprecedented worldwide scale.
Investing in new products and services The Global Learning to drive growth and market share gain.
Platform will support faster innovation, the continued evolution of Revel, and new learning experiences across our digital products.
US student assessment Digitally administered tests now account for well over 50% of the total Digital lead is allowing us to develop strong partnerships and reduce regulatory risk Leading the adoption of artificial intelligence in assessment providing real-time, personalised feedback, supporting teachers to help learners focus on what they need to achieve.
16 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Our business model and strategy Invest in structural growth markets 2 Our performance Our market Our approach and strengths Virtual schools 2017 sales Size of market Market position A digital business where we offer complete services for charter school partners, support 274m $1.5bn #2 for district programmes and blended offerings.
Our strengths include: Percentage of Total virtual school enrolment in the US is Pearsons total sales Strong brand, good learning outcomes, about 330k high parental satisfaction Virtual schools are permitted in 34 states, Domain knowledge: end-to-end solution covering about 80% of K-12 population, % Proven partner school model.
including the big three CA, TX, FL.
Online Program Management and other HE services 2017 sales Size of market Market position The digital promise of anywhere, anytime learning opens up one of our biggest structural 253m $1.2bn #1 growth markets: Strong brand and track record Percentage of Market growing at 10% Pearsons total sales Domain knowledge: end-to-end solution: Pearson has 40 global partners and runs and can leverage further strengths over 250 programs in content andassessment 45 new programs signed and 14 new % Proven enterprise undergraduate model programs launched in 2017 Multi-programme and multi-discipline Course registration growth of 8%.
Professional certification 2017 sales Size of market Market position We are the largest vendor in this market and have built our brand through: 474m $1.2bn #1 Security and reliability Leading digital platforms Percentage of Growing market driven by increasing Global network of 20,000 testing centres.
Pearsons total sales demand for professional credentials and regulatory change.
% English Market position in Market position in 2017 sales Size of market English courseware English assessment Better customer experience outcomes Embedded in-course assessment 305m $5bn #2 #3 and analytics Alignment to Global Scale of English Percentage of 1.7bn English speakers globally, expected consistency and scale.
Pearsons total sales to be 2bn by 2020 A growing opportunity ELT courseware, assessment, PTE-Academic and adult % school franchises.
excluding WSE Section 2 Our strategy in action 17 Our business model and strategy The future Virtual Connections of learning schools Academy Our strategic priorities We are aiming to build share by Virtual schools We are currently the number deepening existing relationships, Expand the addressable market with two player in virtual schooling in accelerating the opening of new schools new partner schools the US, but are growing more and investing to drive greater efficacy Scale up in existing states while through our product offering.
rapidly and have a strong continuing to take market share.
Our model is proven, our results are reputation in the market.
strong academically and we have a powerful brand which is highly regarded by parents and educators alike.
Learner Alex Ohio Connections Academy OCA Online Program Management and story LeViness virtual school graduate other HE services Strong pipeline of investment In a letter to The Columbus Dispatch, that I would be anywhere close to where for longer-term growth Alex wrote: I am today if I hadnt had the opportunity to attend Ohio Connections Academy Expansion of enterprise I enrolled in the online charter school I wish to thank all my teachers and undergraduate models, global before my junior year because I had a counselors at OCA who worked with me growth and employer education.
very difficult experience in my previous and inspired me.
They really changed my school.
I had grown to hate everything life at a time when I thought education about school especially my math was pointless.
courses and I didnt care if I finished high school.
College wasnt even a Alex recently graduated from the consideration.
Once I started at OCA, University of Alabama and plans to travel I discovered I could learn at my own pace to Germany to conduct research as part and my teachers motivated me to dive of her Fulbright Scholarship to the Professional certification deeper into subjects that interested me.
Max Planck Institute for Plasma Physics, Near-term growth from US MCAT Along the way, I started to love studying and then to begin her Ph.
D. programme Long-term growth through leveraging and learning and I even found that I in physics at Princeton University.
actually liked science I really dont think I started to love studying and learning and I even found English that I actually liked science Grow English courseware with new I really dont think that I would product pipeline that leverages be anywhere close to where strength in content and assessment I am today if I hadnt had the Grow PTE-Academic, our leading opportunity to attend Ohio digital test that gives faster, more Connections Academy accurate results Use insights from our direct delivery businesses in China to power a wide range of partners, deploying our brands, content, assessment and ability to scale online.
18 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Our business model and strategy Become simpler and more efficient 3 2013 2016 2017 2020 c. 650m c. 300m 1 2 of cost savings of cost savings Focus areas Focus areas Centralising functions for a simpler and leaner organisation Further simplification through shared services centres Commence roll-out of single global Enterprise Resource Leaner organisations through reduction in headcount Planning software Reduction in number of legacy applications, data centres and office locations Complete roll-out of global Enterprise Resource Planning Recent activity US K-12 courseware Held-For-Sale in 2018 Exited WSE, GEDU, Utel, smaller businesses in 2017 Infrastructure simplication Headcount reduction 3 Applications Data centres Oces Current Disposals Net exits 2020 headcount headcount 3,024 93 200 c. 5,000 32,500 c. 24,500 3,000 100 c. 300 6 2014 2020E 2014 2020E 2014 2020E Our competitive advantage Record level of investment being centrally developed, globally Common platforms deployed with local expertise and Pearsons strong balance sheet underpins Our products and services are increasingly capabilities ensuring success.
the continuing investment in our being delivered across common platforms, digital transformation and structural enabling a leaner Pearson, driving Move to digital growth markets.
We are investing over significant revenue and cost synergies.
Pearsons products and services are 700m a year to become the winners becoming more digital and personalised, Market leader in digital education.
offering more affordable choices for Our competitive position is strong and Global player students with better learning outcomes.
we occupy either number one or number This is building a more sustainable and We have a truly global scale and focus.
two positions in all our major markets.
profitable business with a more visible We operate in over 70 markets worldwide.
We are focused on gaining share through and predictable revenue profile, based Our products and services benefit from our digital transformation and building around access not ownership models.
sustainable, leading positions in our structural growth markets.
1 Calculated at year end 2016 exchange rates.
2 Phased plan first presented on August 4 2017, based on December 2016 FX rates.
Note: A significant part of these costs and savings are in US Dollar and other non-Sterling currencies and so subject to FX movements over the implementation timeframe.
Section 2 Our strategy in action 19 Our business model and strategy Helping create An interview with Cedrick Collomb, the future of learning Senior Vice President for Global Product Technology What excites you most about the work Every aspect of the company is undergoing you do at Pearson?
transformation: how we operate, our processes, how our teams work, how we Global Learning Platform CC build and deliver, its everything.
In building in one minute What excites me the most about working the Global Learning Platform, our teams for Pearson is how we are using technology have been laser focused on using the best Over time, all of to revolutionise and drastically transform data to learn as much as we can about our Pearsons products will be education.
Our customers and learners are customers behaviour and what we as a brought onto a single platform at the heart of everything that we do, and company need to do in order to give them which will allow us to deliver: we are bringing them the best and most world-class learning experiences.
advanced technologies so that they have engaging, highly interactive experiences What is your biggest win at Pearson Personalised learning with our products.
Leveraging the latest to date?
experiences across technologies CC our portfolio... such as artificial intelligence, machine Personally, I have enjoyed sharing the learning, augmented reality, virtual developments of the Global Learning reality, advanced real-time rendering, Platform with our employees, especially simulation, to name a few, will enable At a global the first-look demo which brought the idea this experience, and ultimately improve scale... of the Global Learning Platform to their learning outcomes.
life and showed the promise of profound What is your main goal for 2018?
Transforming education as we know it today is no easy CC Using machine feat, and I am humbled to be the leader learning and This year, we are shaping the future of of an exceptionally high-performing team, Artificial Intelligence education by bringing our Global Learning who collectively have delivered and innovation Platform technology to life through continue to deliver so that we deliver on next-generation software.
The platform will Pearsons mission.
The team are not only enable us to deliver unparalleled learning building next-generation products and GLP products will: experiences to our customers and learners software, but are also serving our current around the world.
customer base by ensuring all of the be highly scalable and more How are you helping Pearson in its products across our portfolio are stable, reliable, speeding up innovation transition to digital?
reliable and deliver a quality experience for support customer and third our customers.
CC party integration Pearsons digital transformation isnt just be a foundation for a lifelong taking our legacy products and making learning ecosystem them digital, it is much more than that.
Pearsons digital transformation isnt just taking our legacy products and making them digital... every aspect of the company is undergoing transformation.
Cedrick Collomb CC Senior Vice President for Global Product Technology 20 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Our business model and strategy Value created for our stakeholders Our strategy is driven by the belief that education is evolving to meet the demands of todays learners, and we are a driving force behind that change.
This will enable us to create long-term, sustainable value for our shareholders, customers, partners and learners across the world.
Educators want more engaging ways to connect Learners with their students and better and more Want control over their education and are timely feedback on student progress increasingly questioning the value of an education, to help set them up for success.
and the traditional trappings of institutions whether it is courseware, outdated teaching methods or brick-and-mortar institutions.
Suppliers Govermants & other education agenda setters learners Industry is looking for the educational system to help drive growth and innovation by graduating students from high school Addressing the prepared for college or a career, and for higher education to needs of today Customers become more accessible and Government affordable.
A strong education on a local, state, federal and national level are Shareholders and investors Govermants & other education agenda setters system is crucial to preparing trying to address inequities in the growing skills gap, people for prosperous by providing education systems attuned to the employment and successful needs of the workforce and designed to deliver the lifelong learning.
education and training individuals need to prosper in todays labour market.
Governments and regulators also set policy to ensure that both businesses and consumers are provided with the Govermants & other education agenda setters Teachers & educators most effective legislative frameworks that help drive sustainable growth.
Administrators in a cost-conscious environment, aim to deliver innovative and high-quality experiences that set students on a course to become prosperous lifelong learners.
Value for our customers No one can predict with certainty what the Building skills around lifelong learning, future of learning will look like, but we know agility and innovation will give the next that technology has enabled autonomy and generation of learners the confidence to customisation for the individual.
Education, be successful, no matter what they do.
without a doubt, has to follow suit.
Not all We offer traditional tools and methods and students, educators and institutions are continually innovate so that learners are the same: they each have to choose what is given the power to choose what, how, most likely to make them successful.
when and where they learn.
Section 2 Our strategy in action 21 Our business model and strategy For our partners and suppliers: Building successful business For our customers: partnerships across the education Building a truly customer-centric ecosystem to build joint success operating model based on effective andgrowth.
use of data to drive strategic insights.
Teachers & educators Govermants & other education agenda setters Channel partners: Help ensure learners have the course materials they need to succeed in their studies.
Teachers & educators Media Suppliers Delivering For our learners: For governments: Developing an innovative Building strong political and value technology platform to support institutional relationships to and enable lifelong learning, support our stakeholders.
focusing on achieving better We are committed to aligning Govermants & other education agenda setters learners learning outcomes.
our agendas we provide counsel Govermants & other education agenda setters Teachers & educators and share our knowledge on the Customers future trends in global education: we create opportunities for For our authors: private-public partnerships.
Share their passion for teaching and research to bring new skills and International, non-govermental & non-pro t organisations concepts to life for learners.
Employees For our employees: Creating a healthier company, with clear expectations, sufficient resources, supportive relationships and clear accountability to deliver a very ambitious programme of change and transformation.
Our approach to value creation We are developing new organisational capabilities to create value for all our Value for our shareholders: stakeholders while keeping our learners at the heart of everything we do.
Our culture This will ultimately help us will enable sustained success, capturing achieve long-term sustainable external ideas, fostering top-down growth for all our company innovation and driving business shareholders.
Shareholders and investors Govermants & other education agenda setters partnerships and collaboration.
Please see the stakeholder engagement section of the Governance report for more on how we build strong relationships with our diverse range of stakeholders on p8889
