Governance | Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy As Centricas Directors Remuneration Policy Policy was last Performance measures approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM The Committee believes that the performance measures selected in2015, it will be the subject of a shareholder vote at the AGM willhelp drive our customer-focused strategy, allowing us to deliver inMay2018.
In carrying out the Policy review during the year, the for our customers, our employees and our shareholders.
Committee was mindful of the need to consider further simplification, How the LTIP measures link to our strategy improved alignment with our strategy andevolving stakeholder views The chart below shows our strategy linked to the proposed LTIP onexecutive pay.
Our strategy is set out in more detail on pages 10 to 11.
Set out over the following pages is the Policy that will take legaleffect from the conclusion of the 2018 AGM, subject to shareholder approval.
Centricas strategy Proposed LTIP Executive Directors remuneration measures The Committee believes that the remuneration arrangements 22.2% Delivering for the changing Non-financial KPIs arealigned with the organisations strategic goals as well as the needs of our customers experience and expectation of shareholders.
The revised Policy more closely aligns the interests of the Executive 33.3% Directors Executives with the delivery of long-term shareholder Trusted corporate citizen Relative total valuethrough returns and growth whilst ensuring behaviours remain shareholder return consistent with the governance and values ofthe business.
TSR Employer of choice Objectives The Policy aims to deliver remuneration arrangements that: attract and retain high calibre Executives in a challenging 22.2% Delivering long-term shareholder andcompetitive global business environment: Underlying adjusted value through returns and growth operating cash flow place strong emphasis on both short-term and long-term UAOCF growth performance: are strongly aligned to the achievement of strategic objectives 22.2% andthe delivery of sustainable long-term shareholder value Economic profit EP through returns and growth: and seek to avoid creating excessive risks in the achievement of performance targets.
Remuneration framework The chart below shows our long-term financial goals linked to the The design of the remuneration framework for Executives ensures proposed LTIP measures.
Our long-term financial goals are set out that a substantial portion of the maximum opportunity is dependent inmore detail on page 13. upon performance and delivered in shares over a three-five year period.
Centricas financial framework Proposed LTIP Total remuneration comprises fixed pay and variable performancemeasures related pay, which is further divided into short-term incentive Measure Target withaone-year performance period and long-term incentive 33.3% 3-5% underlying growth withathree-year performance period.
UAOCF Relative TSR p. a. on average Fixed remuneration includes base salary, benefits and pension.
Short-term incentive is delivered through the Annual Incentive Plan Progressive in line with Dividend AOCF AIP which is described on page 92.
Long-term incentive is delivered through the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP which is described on Controllable page 92.
Both plans are underpinned by stretching performance Cost growth inflation 22.2% costs UAOCF growth measures and targets that closely link to our strategy.
Capital Investment 70% of reinvestment AOCF 22.2% EP Credit rating Strong investment grade 22.2% Return on Non-financial KPIs average capital 10-12% employed ROACE 90 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Summary of Policy design Fixed remuneration Short-term incentive Long-term incentive 25% 22.2% 22.2% Individual EP Non-financial KPIs performance 33.3% 22.2% 75% Relative UAOCF Financial performance TSR growth Base pay Pension Benefits mix of measures based on priorities for year salary Three-year performance period followed by 50% of award deferred into shares for three years two-year holding period Malus and clawback Remuneration Policy table The table below sets out the Policy that will apply from 14 May 2018, subject to shareholder approval.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base pay salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, taking into Ordinarily, base salary Not applicable.
account individual and business performance, increases in percentage terms Reflects the scope and market conditions and pay in the Group as will be in line with increases responsibility of the role awhole.
Changes are usually effective from awarded to other employees of and the skills and 1Aprileach year.
experience of the Increases may be made above individual.
this level to take account of Salaries are set at a level individual circumstances such sufficient for the Group as a change in responsibility, to compete for progression development inthe international talent and role or a significant increase in to attract and retain the scale or size ofthe role.
Executives of the calibre The base salary for an required to develop and Executive will not exceed deliver ourstrategy.
This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 91 Governance | Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance measures In line with the Groups annual performance Maximum of 200% of base 75% based on a mix of Short-term management process, each Executive has an salary.
Half the maximum is financial performance incentive plan agreed set of stretching individual objectives payable foron-target measures aligned to Designed to incentivise eachyear.
Centricas priorities for and reward the annual theforthcoming year and Following measurement of the individual and This is consistent with the performance of 25% based on individual company financial performance outcome Annual previously approved policy.
individuals and teams objectives aligned to Incentive Plan AIP awards are made.
Half ofthe inthe delivery of shorttheGroups priorities AIP award is paid in cash.
Theother half is required term financial and nonandstrategy.
to be deferred into shares which are held for three financial metrics.
years, to further align the interests of Executives Under the previously Performance measures approved policy, 62.5% with the long-term interests of shareholders.
are linked to the delivery Dividendsare payable on the shares during the was based on adjusted of the Groups long-term operating cash flow and holding period.
financial goals and key 37.5% was based on If overall business performance is not deemed Group priorities.
satisfactory, an individuals AIP payment for the year may be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion Performance is assessed of the Committee.
Malus and clawback apply to the cash and share awards see policy table notes.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards are Maximum of 300% of base 33.3% based on relative Long-term granted to Executives each year based on salary plus dividend equivalents.
total shareholder return incentive plan apercentage of base salary at the point of award.
TSR with the remainder This is consistent with the Designed to retain Shares vest at the end of a three-year equally weighted and previously approved policy.
Executives and to performance period, depending on the based on underlying encourage sustainable The amount payable for achievement against the performance targets, but adjusted operating cash high performance.
achieving the minimum level of are not released until the fifth anniversary ofthe flow UAOCF growth, performance is 5.55% of award.
Provides an incentive award date.
absolute aggregate Under the previously approved that aligns with the economic profit EP and LTIP awards are usually delivered as conditional policy, theminimum level Groups strategy to non-financial KPIs, all shares.
Awards may also be granted as nil-cost was0%.
deliver long-term measured over a three-year options with a seven-year exercise period.
It is shareholder value performance period.
arequirement of the LTIP that the net shares are through returns and Under the previously held for a further two years following the vesting growth.
Malus applies to the shares during the threeapproved policy, performance measures Provides a direct link year performance period and clawback applies to between executive theshares during the two-year holding period see were equally weighted and based on earnings per remuneration and the policy table notes.
Groups long-term share EPS, absolute Dividend equivalents are calculated at the end of aggregate EP and nonfinancial goals and the performance period on any conditional LTIP priorities.
financial KPIs, measured share awards or nil-cost options.
Dividend over a three-year equivalents are paid as additional shares or performance period.
If overall performance is not deemed satisfactory, the award for any year may be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion of the Committee.
92 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 93 Purpose and link to strategy Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance measures Executives are entitled to participate in aCompany For newly recruited Executives Not applicable.
Pension money purchase pension arrangement or to take the maximum benefit is 25% Positioned to provide afixed salary supplement calculated as a ofbase salary.
amarket-competitive percentage of base salary, which is excluded post-retirement benefit, For existing Executives fromany bonus calculation in lieu of pension inaway that manages appointed between 2015 and entitlement.
the overall cost to the 2017, the maximum benefit Company.
The Groups policy is not to offer defined benefit is30% of base salary forthe arrangements to new employees at any level, Group Chief Executive and unless this is specifically required by applicable 25%ofbase salary forall legislation or an existing contractual agreement.
Executives appointed prior to 2015 are entitled For Executives appointed prior Not applicable.
toparticipate in a Centrica pension arrangement to 2015, the maximum benefit or toreceive a fixed salary supplement in lieu is40% ofbase salary.
ofpension entitlement in accordance with the termsof their contracts.
We would only continue to honour defined benefit pension arrangements in the event of an individual being promoted to the Board who retains a contractual entitlement to such benefit.
The Group offers Executives a range of benefits Cash allowance in lieu of Not applicable.
Benefits including some or all of: company car 22,000 per Positioned to support annum.
a company-provided car and fuel, or a cash health and wellbeing allowance in lieu: and to provide a The benefit in kind value of life assurance and personal accident other benefits will not exceed competitive package of insurance: benefits that is aligned 5% of base salary.
health and medical insurance for the with market practice.
This is consistent with the Executive and their dependants: previously approved Policy.
health screening and wellbeing services: and a contribution towards financial planning advice.
Maximum of 100% of base Not applicable.
Relocation and Assistance may include but is not limited to removal and other relocation costs, housing or salary.
expatriate temporary accommodation, education, home assistance This is consistent with the leave, repatriation and tax equalisation.
Enable the Group to recruit or promote the appropriate individual into a role, to retain key skills and to provide career opportunities.
All-employee Executives are entitled to participate in allMaximum contribution limits Not applicable.
employee share plans on the same terms as areset bylegislation or by the share plans allother eligible employees.
Levels of Provide an opportunity participation apply equally to for employees to allparticipants.
voluntarily invest in the This is consistent with the Company.
92 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 93 Governance | Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy continued Economic profit EP Policy table notes EP is adjusted operating profit after share of joint venture interest The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration less a tax charge based on the tax rate relevant to the different payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they business segments and after deduction of a capital charge.
are not in line with the Policy set out on pages 90 to 97, where the Thecapital charge is calculated as capital employed multiplied terms of the payment were agreed before the Policy came into effect, bytheGroups weighted average cost of capital.
at a time when the relevant individual was not anExecutive of the Company or, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in Further details of these performance measures are provided innotes consideration for the individual becoming an Executive of the Company.
2, 4 and 10 of the Financial Statements, in the AnnualReport and For these purposes payments include the amounts paid in order to Accounts 2017.
In addition, see page 216 for anexplanation of UAOCF.
satisfy awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award Non-financial KPIs over shares, the terms ofthe payment are agreed at the time the Based on the Groups non-financial KPIs, using three-year targets for award is granted.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set Malus and clawback outon pages 90 to 97 for regulatory, exchange control, tax or The Committee can apply malus that is reduce the number of shares administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation in respect of which an award vests or delay the vesting ofawards if without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
itconsiders it appropriate where a participant has engaged in gross Performance measures misconduct or displayed inappropriate management behaviour which We continue to be committed to full transparency and disclosure.
fails to reflect the governance andvalues of the business or where Wewill disclose all targets as soon as any commercial sensitivity falls the results for any period havebeen restated orappear inaccurate away.
At the latest, this will be at the end of the performance period.
Relative total shareholder return TSR Where an award has vested, the resulting shares will generally Compares Centricas TSR share price growth plus dividends for the beheld for aperiod during which they may be subject to clawback performance period with the TSR ranking of the other companies in inthe event that theCommittee determines that one or more of the the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE 100 Index has been chosen as it is a broad equity index of Pension arrangements applying to Executives which Centrica is a constituent member and reflects the investment Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme CUPS interests of our UK shareholder base.
All registered scheme benefits are subject to HMRC guidelines and the Lifetime Allowance.
Underlying adjusted operating cash flow UAOCF growth Growth in net cash flow from operating activities which includes The CUPS defined contribution DC section provides benefits taxes paid adjusted to include dividends received from joint ventures forindividuals not eligible to join the CUPS defined benefit DB and associates and to exclude payments relating to exceptional section and for whom registered scheme benefits are expected items, UK defined benefit pension deficit contributions and movements toexceed the Lifetime Allowance.
The CUPS DC section is offered in variation margin and cash collateral that are included in net debt.
asa direct alternative to a cash salary supplement.
This is adjusted for the impact of commodity price movements The CUPS DB section was closed to new members in October2002.
inExploration & Production nuclear, foreign exchange movements CUPS is unfunded but the benefits are secured by a charge over and any material one-off working capital items to give a measure certain Centrica assets.
An appropriate provision in respect of the ofunderlying growth.
accrued value of these benefits has been made in the Companys balance sheet.
94 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 95 on-target fixed remuneration plus target AIP as set out in the Total remuneration by performance scenario Remuneration Policy table and expected value under the LTIP The charts below indicate the minimum, on-target and maximum onvesting of 50%: and remuneration that could be received by each Executive, excluding share price movement, under the Policy.
Assumptions made for each maximum fixed remuneration plus maximum AIP opportunity scenario are: and maximum levels ofvesting under the LTIP as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
minimum fixed remuneration only base salary at current level, together with pension and benefits as set out in the Remuneration Policy table : Iain Conn Jeff Bell 20% 29% 51% 20% 29% 51% Maximum Maximum 6,414 3,903 Total Total 34% 24% 42% 33% 25% 42% On-target On-target 3,853 2,336 Total Total 100% 100% Minimum Minimum 1,291 770 Total Total 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 Fixed remuneration Short-term incentive Long-term incentive Fixed remuneration Short-term incentive Long-term incentive Mark Hanan Mark Hodges 21% 29% 50% 20% 29% 51% Maximum Maximum 4,421 4,325 Total Total 35% 24% 41% 33% 25% 42% On-target On-target 2,684 2,588 Total Total 100% 100% Minimum Minimum 946 851 Total Total 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 Fixed remuneration Short-term incentive Long-term incentive Fixed remuneration Short-term incentive Long-term incentive The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, Discretion and judgement regarding the operation and administration of the incentive plans It is important that the Committee maintains the flexibility to apply including, but not limited to, the following: discretion and judgement to achieve fair outcomes as no remuneration policy and framework, however carefully designed and agreeing appropriate measures and setting targets aligned to the implemented, can pre-empt every possible scenario.
The Committee Groups priorities or KPIs: needs to be able to exercise appropriate discretion todetermine determination of the result of any disputes relating to the whether mechanistic or formulaic outcomes are fair, in context and interpretation of the rules: can be applied in an upward or downward manner when required.
alteration of the terms of the performance targets if it feels that Judgement is applied appropriately by the Committee, for example theyare no longer a fair measure of the Companys performance, when considering the political and social pressures on the business, as long as the new targets are not materially less challenging than the impact of significant movements inexternal factors such as the original ones: and commodity prices, in setting and evaluating delivery against individual determination that any award is forfeit in whole or in part.
and non-financial performance targets to ensure they are considered The Committee also retains the discretion to forfeit or clawback sufficiently stretching and that the maximum and minimum levels are deferred awards if it determines that prior performance which appropriate and fair.
resulted in the annual bonus being awarded wasdiscovered to The Committee has absolute discretion to decide who receives beamisrepresentation of results or inappropriate management awards, the level of the awards under the incentive plans and the behaviour which fails to reflect the governance or values of timing, within the parameters set in the rules.
In the case of a corporate action, the Committee can agree when acorporate action applies to a share award, whether awards pay out or are rolled over in this situation and how any special dividend might apply.
The Committee also maintains the discretion to adjust any awards in the event of a variation of capital, for example to maintain the incentive value at the level originally intended.
94 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 95 Governance | Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy continued Executives leaving following resignation will forfeit any potential AIP Recruitment policy award for the performance year in which the resignation occurs and The Committee will apply the same remuneration policy during the all unvested LTIP awards.
In addition, Executives summarily dismissed policy period as that which applies to existing Executives when will also forfeit any deferred shares.
Deferred awards can also be considering the recruitment of a new Executive in respect ofall clawed back if it is subsequently discovered that the results have elements of remuneration as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
been achieved by behaviour which fails to reflect the governance and Whilst the maximum level of remuneration which may be granted values of the business or where the results for any period appear would be within plan rules and ordinarily subject to the maximum inaccurate or misleading.
opportunity set out in the Remuneration Policy table, in certain On a change of control, existing LTIP awards will be exchanged on circumstances, an arrangement may be established specifically to similar terms or vest to the extent that the performance conditions facilitate recruitment of a particular individual up to 25% above the have been met at the date of the event and be time-apportioned to maximum opportunity, albeit that any such arrangement would be the date of the event or the vesting date, subject to the overriding made within the context of minimising the cost to the Company.
Thepolicy for the recruitment of Executives during the policy period includes the opportunity to provide a level of compensation for Pay fairness across the Group forfeiture of bonus entitlements and or unvested long-term incentive The Group operates in a number of different environments and awards from an existing employer, if any, and the additional provision hasmany employees who carry out a range of diverse roles across of benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, as may be anumber of countries.
In consideration of pay fairness across required in order to achieve a successful recruitment.
theGroup, the Committee believes that ratios related to market competitive pay for each role profile in each distinct geography are Service contracts the most helpful.
Service contracts provide that either the Executive or the Company may terminate the employment by giving one years written notice.
When the ratio of salary to the relevant market median is compared The Committee retains a level of flexibility, as permitted by the Code, for all permanent employees across the Group the median ratio is in order to attract and retain suitable candidates.
The 25th percentile is 0.96 and the 75th percentile is 1.09. to offer contracts which contain an initial notice period in excess of Unlike the significant majority of the workforce who receive largely one year, provided that at the end of the first such period the notice fixed remuneration, mainly in the form of salary, the most significant period reduces to one year.
component of Executive compensation is variable and dependent All Executive and Non-Executive Directors are required to be onperformance.
As such, the Committee reviews total compensation re-elected at each AGM.
for Executives against benchmarks rather than salary alone.
The ratio of on-target total pay opportunity for the Group Chief Executive Termination policy versus the relevant market median is 0.99.
The Committee carefully considers compensation commitments in the event of an Executives termination.
The aim is to avoid rewarding A number of performance-related incentive schemes are operated poor performance and to reduce compensation to reflect the departing across the Group which differ in terms of structure and metrics from Executives obligations and to mitigate losses.
Save for summary dismissal, the policy is to either continue to provide The Group also offers a number of all-employee share schemes in base salary, pension and other benefits for any unworked period of the UK, Ireland and North America and Executives participate on the notice or, at the option of the Company, to make a payment in lieu same basis as other eligible employees.
ofnotice comprising base salary only.
Typically any payment in lieu Performance measures applying to Executives are cascaded down ofnotice will be made in monthly instalments and reduce, or cease through the organisation and Group employment conditions include completely, in the event that remuneration from new employment high standards of health and safety and employee wellbeing initiatives.
No consultation in respect of Executive remuneration takes place An AIP award for the year in which the termination occurs may be with employees during the year.
made following the normal year end assessment process, subject toachievement of the agreed performance measures and timeShareholding requirement apportioned for the period worked.
Any award would be payable at A minimum shareholding requirement is in place for Executive the normal time with a 50% deferral and no new long-term incentive Directors to build and maintain a value of shares over a five-year plan awards would be made.
period equal to 300% of base salary, with a condition that 75% ofvested incentive shares post-tax will be retained until the Except in cases of death in service, the policy is not to vest any requirement has been met.
existing long-term incentive plan awards earlier than their normal vesting date.
In all cases any vesting remains subject to satisfaction A post-cessation shareholding requirement of 50% of the of the associated performance conditions and will betimeshareholding requirement or full actual holding if lower is applicable apportioned for the period worked.
External appointments of Executives It is the Companys policy to allow each Executive to accept one non-executive directorship of another company, although the Board retains the discretion to vary this policy.
Fees received in respect of external appointments are retained bytheindividual Executive and are set out in the Directors Annual Remuneration Report each year.
96 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 97 Non-Executive Directors remuneration Remuneration Policy Centricas policy on Non-Executive Directors Non-Executives fees takes into account the need to attract the high calibre individuals required to support the delivery of our strategy.
Terms of appointment Non-Executives, including the Chairman, do not have service contracts.
Their appointments are subject to Letters of Appointment and the Articles of Association.
All Non-Executives are required to be re-elected at each AGM.
Remuneration Policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance measures Chairman and The fee levels for the Chairman are reviewed every The maximum level of fees Not applicable.
two years by the Remuneration Committee.
payable to Non-Executives, in Non-Executive aggregate, is set out in the Director fees The fee levels of the Non-Executives are reviewed Articles of Association.
every two years by the Executive Committee.
Sufficient level to securethe services of Non-Executives are paid a base fee for their individuals possessing services.
Where individuals serve as Chairman of the skills, knowledge a Committee of the Board, additional fees are and experience to payable.
The Senior Independent Director also support and oversee receives an additional fee.
theExecutive Directors Fee levels applying from 1 January 2016 in their execution of Chairman of the Board 495,000 per annum.
theBoards approved strategies and Base fee for Non-Executives 72,500 per annum.
The following additional fees apply: Fees reflect market Chairman of Audit Committee 25,000 practice as well as the perannum: responsibilities and time Chairman of Remuneration Committee commitment required 20,000 per annum: byour Non-Executives.
Chairman of Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee 20,000 perannum: and Senior Independent Director 20,000 perannum.
The Company reserves the right to pay a Committee membership fee in addition to the basefees.
Non-Executives are able to use 50% of their fees, after appropriate payroll withholdings, to purchase Centrica shares.
Dealing commission and stamp duty is paid by the Non-Executive.
The Non-Executives, including the Chairman, donot participate inany of the Companys share schemes, incentive plans or pension schemes.
Non-Executives will be reimbursed for business expenses relating to the performance of their duties including travel, accommodation and subsistence.
In certain circumstances these, orother incidental items, may be considered abenefit in kind and if so may be grossed up forany tax due.
Recruitment policy The policy on the recruitment of new Non-Executives during the policy period would be to apply the same remuneration elements asforthe existing Non-Executives.
Itis not intended that variable pay, day rates or benefits in kind be offered, although in exceptional circumstances such remuneration may be required in currently unforeseen circumstances.
The Committee will include in future Remuneration Reports details ofthe implementation of the policy as utilised during the policy period in respect of any such recruitment to the Board.
96 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 97
