Governance | Other Statutory Information Other Statutory Information The Directors submit their Annual Report and Accounts for The Companys all-employee share schemes are a long-established Centricaplc, together with the consolidated Financial Statements and successful part of our total reward package, encouraging and ofthe Centrica group of companies, for the year ended 31 December supporting employee share ownership.
The directors report required under the Companies Act 2006 Sharesave SAYE schemes in the UK and Ireland, and a Share the Act comprises this Directors and Corporate Governance Report Incentive Plan SIP in the UK, with good levels of take-up for all pages 63 to 77, the Remuneration Report pages 78 to 97, shareplans across the Group.
Currently, 50% of eligible employees OtherStatutory Information pages 98 to 100 and the Responsible participate in Sharesave, 31% of eligible employees participate in Business section for disclosure of our greenhouse gas emissions theSIP.
Equal opportunities The management report required under Disclosure and Transparency The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy from Rule 4.1.
5R comprises the Strategic Report pages 2 to62 which recruitment and selection, through training and development, includes the risks relating to our business, Shareholder Information performance reviews and promotion to retirement.
It is our policy to page 215 and details of acquisitions and disposals made by the promote an environment free from discrimination, harassment and Group during the year in note 12 pages 136 to 138.
This Directors victimisation, where everyone receives equal treatment regardless of and Corporate Governance Report fulfils the requirements of the gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, corporate governance statement required under Disclosure & sexual orientation or religion.
All decisions relating to employment Transparency Rule 7.2.
1. practices will be objective, free from bias and based solely upon work criteria and individual merit.
Annual General Meeting AGM R ead more in Responsible Business The AGM of Centrica plc will be held at the QEII Centre, Broad Pages 32 to 38 Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Monday 14 May 2018 at 2.00pm.
Further information is available in the Notice of AGM Employees with disabilities seecentrica.
It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair consideration for all vacancies.
During the year we continued to Future developments demonstrate our commitment to interviewing those people with A description of future developments can be found in the Strategic disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria and we endeavour to Report.
A description of the Groups exposure and management of retainemployees in the workforce if they become disabled during risks is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 52 to 62. employment.
This commitment was recognised in January 2018 Results and dividends byour achievement of level 1 Disability Confident Status and in 2017 The Groups results and performance summary for the year are set we launched a Disability and Wellbeing Network to help employees out on page 3.
Dividends paid and proposed are set out in note 11 impacted by disability to access the support they need to thrive tothe Financial Statements on page 135. atwork.
Financial instruments Human rights Full details of the Groups financial instruments can be found in As an international company we have a responsibility and are notes19, S3 and S6 on pages 145 to 146, 169 to 173 and 176 to committed to uphold and protect the human rights of individuals 178respectively.
working for us in the communities and societies where we operate.
Wetake steps to ensure that our people working in countries with Articles of Association Articles ahigh risk to human rights are safeguarded, as set out in Our Code.
The Companys Articles were adopted at the 2010 AGM and were We also recognise theopportunity we have to contribute positively to amended at the 2016 AGM.
They may only be amended by a special global efforts to ensure human rights are understood and observed.
R ead more in Responsible Business Directors Pages 32 to 38 The names of the Directors who held office during the year are set Political donations out on pages 64 to 65.
Centrica operates onapolitically neutral basis.
No political donations Details of the composition of the Board and role of Directors are were made bythe Group for political purposes during the year.
setout within this Directors and Corporate Governance Report on However, inaccordance with the United States Federal Election page 68.
Campaign Act, a Political Action Committee PAC called Direct Directors indemnities and insurance Energy Employee Political Action Committee DEEPAC was formed In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed of to facilitate voluntary political contributions by its US employees.
DEEPAC is controlled by neither Centrica nor Direct Energy but indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors and members instead by a governing board of individual employee members of of the Executive Committee.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act were in force during the year DEEPAC on a voluntary basis.
Direct Energy, as authorised by law, ended 31 December 2017 and remain in force.
The Company also has provided limited administrative support toDEEPAC.
DEEPAC maintains directors and officers liability insurance for its Directors hasbeen organised to provide a vehicle todispense voluntary contributions from eligible employees.
Participation in DEEPAC and officers.
isentirely voluntary for eligible employees, and political donations Employment policies from DEEPAC are determined by a governing board of DEEPAC Employee involvement members.
In 2017, contributions to DEEPAC by employees amounted We remain committed to employee involvement throughout the to $62,768, and DEEPAC made 95 political donations totalling $72,800.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance and strategy of the Group through personal briefings, regular meetings, email and broadcasts by the Group Chief Executive and members ofthe Board at key points in the year.
98 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Engagement with shareholders Share capital The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining an The Company has a single share class which is divided into ordinary 14 effective investor relations and communication programme.
The Company was authorised at the Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder 2017 AGM to allot up to 1,829,855,996 ordinary shares as permitted views on a number of key matters affecting the Group and receives by the Act.
A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the 2018 formal investor feedback regularly.
The Companys issued share capital as at 31December 2017, together with details of shares issued during the year, is set out in In 2017, Centricas shareholder engagement programme included: note 25 to the Financial Statements.
formal presentations for the announcement of the Groups 2016 Rights attaching to shares preliminary results, 2017 interim results and Capital Markets Day: Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
Further meetings between the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief information on the voting and other rights of shareholders is set out Financial Officer and the Companys major shareholders during inthe Articles and in explanatory notes which accompany notices the year: ofgeneral meetings, all of which are available on our website.
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meeting with a number of the Companys major shareholders during the year to Repurchase of shares discuss the Companys remuneration arrangements: As permitted by the Articles, the Company obtained shareholder authority at the 2017 AGM to purchase its own shares up to a the Chairman and Senior Independent Director meeting with maximum of 548,956,799 ordinary shares.
No shares were major institutional shareholders in order to gain a first-hand purchased under this authority in 2017. understanding of their concerns and key issues and provide regular updates of these to the Board: and As at 31 December 2017, 42,060,842 shares were held as treasury a meeting with our largest investors and leading proxy advisers to shares.
These shares held in treasury represent 0.75% of the provide insight into the key focus and considerations of the Board Companys issued share capital.
Dividends are waived in respect and its Committees and a better understanding of the governance ofshares held in the treasury share account.
measures operating across the business.
Shares held in employee benefit trusts The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity The Centrica plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT is used to purchase to further develop their understanding of the Company.
Shareholders shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of employees, can ask questions of the full Board on thematters put to the meeting, inconnection with the Deferred and Matching Share Scheme, including the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 and the running theRestricted Share Scheme and the On Track Incentive Plan.
The Company intends to send the Notice TheCentrica plc Share Incentive Plan Trust SIP Trust is used of AGM and any related papers to shareholders at least 20 working topurchase shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of days before the meeting.
All Directors, including Committee Chairmen, employees, in connection with the SIP.
Both the Trustees of the EBT are due to be in attendance at the AGM to take questions.
and the SIP Trust, inaccordance with best practice, have agreed not to vote any unallocated shares held in the EBT or SIP Trust at any At the AGM, the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive present general meeting anddividends are waived in respect of these shares.
areview of the Groups business.
A poll is conducted on each In respect of allocated shares in both the EBT andthe SIP Trust, resolution at all Company general meetings.
All shareholders theTrustees shall vote in accordance with participants instructions.
havethe opportunity to cast their votes in respect of proposed In the absence of any instruction, the Trustees shall not vote.
resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by post.
Following the Significant agreements change of control AGM, the voting results for each resolution are published and are There are a number of agreements to which the Company is party available on our website.
that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Stephen Hester, the Senior Independent Director, is available to Company following a takeover bid.
The significant agreement of this shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal kind relates to 2009, when Centrica entered into certain transactions channels has failed to resolve.
with EDF Group in relation to an investment in the former British Energy Group, which owned and operated a fleet ofnuclear power Our website, centrica.
com, contains up-to-date information for stations in the UK.
The transactions include rights for EDF Group and shareholders andother interested parties including annual reports, Centrica to offtake power from these nuclear power stations.
As part shareholder circulars, share price information, news releases, of the arrangements, on a change of control of Centrica, the Group presentations to the investment community and information on loses its right to participate on the boards of the companies in which shareholder services.
Furthermore, where the acquirer is not located in certain specified countries, EDF Group is able to require Centrica to Material shareholdings sell out its investments toEDF Group.
At 31 December 2017, Centrica had received notification of the following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure & Sustainability Transparency Rules: Information about the Companys approach to sustainability risks and opportunities is set out on pages 32 to 38.
Also included in these % of share 1 capital pages are details of our greenhouse gas emissions.
BlackRock, Inc. 5.93 Related party transactions Schroders Investment Management Limited 5.72 Related party transactions are set out in note S8 to the Financial Newton Investment Management Limited 4.99 Statements.
1 Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Companys issued share capitalwhen the Company was notified of the change in holding.
As at 21 February 2018, there were no changes in the details shown in the above table.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 99 Governance | Other Statutory Information Other Statutory Information continued Events after the balance sheet date The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 26 to the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Financial Statements.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R ensure that the Financial Statements and the Remuneration Report The Company is required to disclose certain information under comply with the Act and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Listing Rule 9.8.
4R in the Directors Report or advise where such Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for relevant information is contained.
All such disclosures are included safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence inthis Directors and Corporate Governance Report, other than the for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts 2017: and other irregularities.
Information Location in Annual Report Page s Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Directors compensation Remuneration Report 78 to 97 integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing Capitalised interest Financial Statements 131, note 8 the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ borrowing costs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Details of long-term Remuneration Report 85 to 86 The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, incentive schemes when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Going concern provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Accounting standards require that Directors satisfy themselves that Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
itis reasonable for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to Each of the Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: prepare the Financial Statements on a going concern basis.
The the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared Groups business activities, together with factors that are likely to inaccordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair affect its future development and position, are set out in the Group view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit orloss of Chief Executives statement on pages 6 to 9 and the Business the Group: Reviews on pages 40 to 47.
After making enquiries, the Board has the Strategic Report contained on pages 2 to 62 together with the areasonable expectation that Centrica plc and the Group as awhole Directors and Corporate Governance Report on pages 63 to 100, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the includes a fair review of the development and performance of the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the business and the position of the Group, together with a description going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces: details of the Groups liquidity position are provided in notes 24 and as outlined on page 73, there is no relevant audit information of S3 to the Financial Statements.
which Deloitte LLP are unaware: and Directors responsibilities statement they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as The Directors, who are named on pages 64 to 65, are responsible for aDirector in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report, the Strategic information and to establish that the Companys auditors are Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable aware of that information.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements By order of the Board for each financial year.
Accordingly, the Directors have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and have elected to prepare the Company Financial Grant Dawson Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure 21 February 2018 Framework United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company Financial Statements respectively: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
100 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | PB Financial Statements Contents 102 I ndependent Auditors Report 190 C ompany Financial Statements 110 Group Income Statement 192 N otes to the Company Financial Statements 111 G roup Statement of ComprehensiveIncome 201 G as and Liquids Reserves Unaudited 112 G roup Statement of Changes inEquity 202 F ive Year Summary Unaudited 113 Group Balance Sheet 203 O fgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 114 Group Cash Flow Statement 115 Notes to the Financial Statements Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 101
