Governance | Board of Directors Board of Directors Full biographies can be found at Chairman Disclosure Remuneration Denotes C DC RC of the Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman centrica.
com board Audit Nominations Safety, Health, Environment, AC NC SC Committee Committee Security & Ethics Committee RICK IAIN CONN JEFF BELL STEPHEN HESTER MARK HODGES CARLOS PASCUAL HAYTHORNTHWAITE Group Chief Executive Group Chief Senior Independent Chief Executive Non-Executive Chairman Financial Officer Director Centrica Consumer Director C NC DC DC AC NC NC RC SC Rick joined the Board as a Non-Executive Iain was appointed Group Chief Executive Jeff was appointed Group Chief Stephen joined the Board on 1 June 2016 Mark joined the Board on 1 June 2015.
Carlos joined the Board on 1 January 2015.
He was on1 January 2015 and is Chairman of the FinancialOfficer and joined the Board and is the Senior Independent Director.
Skills and experience Skills and experience appointed Chairman of the Board on Disclosure Committee.
Skills and experience Mark brings a strong understanding of the Carlos has held a number of senior positions 1 January 2014 and is Chairman of the Skills and experience Skills and experience Stephen has wide-ranging experience, UK consumer market and a track record in the energy industry as well as being a Nominations Committee.
Iain possesses a deep understanding of the Jeff has a broad range of finance experience.
particularly in customer-facing businesses, inimproving business performance.
He is prominent public figure inenergy geopolitics Skills and experience energy sector built up over a lifetime in the He joined the Groups Direct Energy together with recognised expertise in experienced in working in a regulated and economic and commercial Rick has a wealth of knowledge in the industry and has demonstrated strong business in Toronto in 2002 where he held transforming business performance.
Hehas environment, driving significant development.
Between 2011 and 2014 energyindustry and has significant board commitment to customers, safety and various senior finance positions before adeep knowledge of operating within highly improvements in customer service and Carlos established and directed the US State experience, both as an executive and nontechnology.
Iain was previously BPs chief moving to Centricas head office in 2008 to regulated businesses and over 30 years managing efficiency, offer innovation, major Departments Energy Resource Bureau.
He led the rescue of Invensys from executive, downstream BPs refining and support the Group Chief Executive and to experience in financial services and FTSE IT and change projects.
Mark was group August 2014 Carlos was special envoy and 2001 to 2005 and the defence, turnaround marketing division a position he held for lead the Group Strategy team.
Stephen was previously chief executive officer of Towergate coordinator for international energy affairs, and subsequent sale of Blue Circle Industries seven years.
Iain was a board member of BP was appointed Director of Corporate chief executive officer of Royal Bank of Partnership.
Prior to this he spent over 20 acting as senior adviser to the US Secretary from 1997 to 2001.
He has served on the for 10 years from 2004 and had previously Finance.
Prior to Centrica, Jeff worked in Scotland Group plc where he led their years with Norwich Union and Aviva plc in of State on energy issues.
Hehas also boards of Network Rail as chairman and held a number of senior roles throughout the Toronto for both KPMG, where he qualified largestever corporate restructuring and avariety of finance, planning and strategy served as US ambassador inMexico Cookson, Lafarge, ICI and Land Securities organisation in trading, exploration and as a chartered accountant, and the Boston recovery programme.
He was a member of Avivas board andUkraine.
production and the management of Consulting Group.
External appointments External appointments corporate functions such as safety, External appointments Group chief executive of RSA Insurance External appointments Non-resident senior fellow at the Centre on marketing, technology and human resources.
Chairman of the board of MasterCard Group plc.
Director of Energy UK Global Energy Policy, Columbia University International, QIO Technologies and Arc External appointments representingCentrica.
and senior vice president for global energy International.
Non-executive director of BT Group plc.
MARGHERITA JOAN GILLMAN MARK HANAFIN STEVE PUSEY SCOTT WHEWAY LESLEY KNOX DELLA VALLE Non-Executive Chief Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Lesley Knox stepped down from the Non-Executive Director Centrica Business Director Director Boardon 31 December 2017 having Director servedas a Non-Executive Director sinceJanuary 2012.
AC NC RC SC NC SC AC NC SC NC RC SC Margherita joined the Board on Joan joined the Board on 11 October 2016.
Mark joined the Board on 14 July 2008.
Steve joined the Board on 1 April 2015 andis Scott joined the Board on 1 May 2016 and is 1 January2011 and is Chairman of the Chairman of the Safety, Health, Environment, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience Skills and experience AuditCommittee.
Joan is a former executive vice president Mark has senior management experience Skills and experience Skills and experience ofTime Warner Cable, as well as chief across the energy value chain from Skills and experience Scott is a senior business leader with a Margherita brings considerable corporate operating officer Time Warner Cable Media exploration and production to product sales.
Steve has a wealth of international mixof deep retail and consumer expertise.
finance and accounting experience and she and president, Time Warner Cable Media He has excellent midstream and trading experience as a senior customer-facing Hehas considerable knowledge gained has a sound background in marketing.
Prior to its acquisition by Charter credentials as well asa strong track record business technology leader.
He has a long inboth the retail and insurance sectors, was chief financial officer of Vodafones Communications, Time Warner Cable indeveloping supply and marketing track record in the telecommunications together with a strong understanding European region from April 2007 to October wasthe second largest cable company businesses.
Before joining Centrica, Mark industry, in both thewireline and wireless ofoperating within highly regulated 2010 and chief financial officer of Vodafone inthe United States, operating in29 states spent 21 years with Royal Dutch Shell.
sectors, and inbusiness applications and businesses.
Scott worked inretail for almost Italy from 2004 to 2007.
Previously she and generating over $23 billion in annual solutions.
Stevehas worked for Vodafone, 30 years both in the UK and internationally External appointments worked for Omnitel Pronto Italia and held revenue.
Joan led one of the companys Nortel andBritish Telecom and is a graduate and has over 10 years experience as a nonNon-executive director of EDF Energy various consumer marketing positions three operating divisions, doubling ofthe Advanced Management Program executive director within the financial Nuclear Generation Group Limited inbusiness analytics and customer base revenuesand overseeing the companys atHarvard University.
management before moving into finance.
External appointments External appointments External appointments External appointments Non-executive director of FireEye, Inc. Chairman of AXA UK plc and senior Deputy group chief financial officer of Director of Airgain, Inc. independent director of Santander UKplc.
Vodafone Group Plc and a trustee of the Vodafone Foundation.
64 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RICK IAIN CONN JEFF BELL STEPHEN HESTER MARK HODGES CARLOS PASCUAL HAYTHORNTHWAITE Group Chief Executive Group Chief Senior Independent Chief Executive Non-Executive Chairman Financial Officer Director Centrica Consumer Director C NC DC DC AC NC NC RC SC Rick joined the Board as a Non-Executive Iain was appointed Group Chief Executive Jeff was appointed Group Chief Stephen joined the Board on 1 June 2016 Mark joined the Board on 1 June 2015.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 65
