Strategic Report | Centrica Consumer A strategy shaped by our cust omers Centrica Consumer We want to make householders lives easier, by providing seamless, time-saving services that are easy to use and help savethem money.
Understanding and satisfying customer needs is critical to our success.
We have Centrica Consumer around 27 million customer accounts.
Bringing our Consumer strategy to life Everyyear we receive 36 million phone calls and support more than 31 million online centrica.
Through these interactions, Customer commitments wegain an unrivalled understanding of our We want to create a fairer, more customers needs inand around the home.
competitive and sustainable energy market Residential customers are seeking value formoney and solutions, not just products, See page 18 especially in the home.
They desire great service, when and how they need it, and the reassurance of trusted brands.
Customers Getting the most out of your energy also increasingly understand the value of Home comparison helps Direct Energy their own personal data.
Theyexpect it to customers save money at their fingertips beused responsibly andheld securely.
com video dehomecomparison We believe these trends present us with numerous opportunities.
Responding to Harvey Our Direct Energy colleagues talk about their experiences after Hurricane Harvey centrica.
com video hurricaneharvey 16 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 our cust omers changing needs Centrica Business At Centrica Business, we aim to be the Battery storage partner that our business customers will Unlocking alternative energy sources turnto for advice on how best to manage with battery storage their energy needs.
com Our business customers, like our residential batterysolution customers, are cost conscious.
They want their bills to be as low as possible and they want to increase their efficiency wherever they can.
Energy is essential, so they need Helping businesses reach their potential toknow that their supply is resilient.
Entering a pioneering contract with Europes single Energy processes are complex.
Our biggest onshore wind installation customers want an expert adviser tohelp See page 29 them understand their energy use: atrusted and credible partner, who can deliver energy solutions as promised.
We can and do help to meet all theseneeds.
Centrica Business Managing the revolution in energy Power in Your Hands systems for our business customers Powering our business customers ambitions centrica.
com video with intelligent, end-to-end energy solutions businessoverview .
com powerinyourhands Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 17
