22 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Efficacy We made a commitment in 2013 to report annually on the impact of use of our products on outcomes, and to externally audit the reports by 2018.
From 20142016, we shared preliminary efficacy findings: this year we are proud to publish our first set of audited efficacy reports, certified by .
Collectively these reports are representative of products impacting the lives of 18m learners.
We are proud to be the only learning company committed to efficacy with such rigour and at such scale.
What we did and what we have learned We have evidence that there are statistically existing products as well as to support significant relationships between the use new product innovation.
When we launched our commitment to of many of our digital products and course report on the efficacy of our products, In parallel, we are further driving more achievement outcomes.
However, the we aspired to have impact in three areas: evidence based approaches to product efficacy of a digital product cannot be development by applying evidence about separated from the way that product is evidencing that our in-market products what works from the learning and data implemented, or the context in which it is improve the outcomes that matter most sciences to the design, development and used.
Who is using the product what their to customers and learners: ongoing improvement of products.
We are prior knowledge and experience is, supporting evidence-based product focusing on helping learners develop the implementation the way a product is innovation: and knowledge and the skills they need to be integrated into teaching and learning galvanising the education sector and all successful in the future.
and product alignment the way that the learning companies to measure their impact features of a product are designed, aligned by the outcomes they deliver for learners.
As we progress with the development of and used to support the achievement of fully digital learning experiences, we expect Over the past four years, working across learning goals all have a significant impact that the combination of these elements all of Pearsons major digital product on the outcomes that can be achieved.
paired with implementation support for portfolios, we embedded efficacy and our customers will enable an even greater The more we can engage with our research across product development in impact on learning.
customers to better understand the both early-stage product strategy, design outcomes that matter most to them: and development, and later stage product Education sector select products that have features that improvement.
For the majority of our In 2013, Pearson was the first learning can support the delivery of those outcomes: in-market digital supplemental products, company to make a public commitment and share best practices about how learning we have evidence that there are statistically to reporting on the impact of use of our technologies can be integrated into their significant relationships between the use of products on outcomes.
Since then, both our teaching, the more likely they will be to our products and student achievement.
traditional and non-traditional competitors achieve their desired outcomes.
Today, we Learning remain the only learning company in the Product innovation In order to understand where, when, how, world that is subjecting its efficacy Our efficacy research to date has focused why and for whom our products are effective, statements to external audit and peer review.
on measuring the impact of the use of we focus on defining and collecting evidence Put simply, we are the only company that has digital supplemental products on course of impact on the outcomes that matter most made a public, evidence-based commitment achievement goals.
We have used what we to our customers and learners, including to helping more learners learn more.
have learned about our in-market products access and engagement, competency and to make incremental improvements to skill, achievement and progression.
html Connections In 2017 we took a critical lens to better Connections Academy relative to peers in brick academic performance of Connections understand the efficacy of Connections and mortar schools with similar populations.
students is comparable to that of students in Academy.
This work was intended to help us brick and mortar schools.
Our research confirms that our virtual schools evaluate how we are educating young people serve a diverse and unique student body with We look forward to sharing this research with through our virtual schools.
Through three some of the highest mobility rates in the the virtual schools sector to help inform the different methodological approaches, United States.
When we adjust for this student discourse around virtual schools, so that we sought to better understand the students mobility and control for prior student students and families who may benefit from we serve, as well as their performance at achievement, our studies found that the such learning environments have the opportunity to do so.
Section 2 Our strategy in action 23 23 Efficacy Helping create An interview with Kate Edwards, the future of learning Senior Vice President Efficacy & Research In 2018, we will be the first learning company in the world to undertake, and release, non-financial reporting on the impact of use of our products on outcomes for learners.
Kate Edwards KE Senior Vice President Efficacy & Research SUSTAINABILITY OVERMATTER EMPLOYEE INTERVIEW SENIOR MEMBER OF THE GLP TEAM What excites you most about the work 2.
Using efficacy & research more What is the most important milestone you do at Pearson?
frequently to help our colleagues Pearson has reached from an efficacy & have learner-led conversations with research perspective to date?
KE our customers KE Working for a business that seeks to 3.
Developing the efficacy & research combine commercial growth with The most important milestone, to date, skills and expertise of our people impact on learning.
For me this is all is yet to come.
We will reach it at the end about understanding the greatest 4.
A ctively participating in external of March 2018 when we release our 2018 learning-related challenges and needs conversations on efficacy & research Efficacy Reports.
We will be the first our customers and learners have now, learning company in the world to In particular, we want to apply this work and will have in the future, and then undertake, and release, non-financial to informing the design of products that applying outcomes-focused, evidencereporting on the impact of use of our develop the skills needed for both work based design to our solutions.
This is products on outcomes for learners.
what keeps me up at night in a good way!
External reporting and auditing for How are you helping Pearson in its and what gets me up in the morning.
the first time is an important milestone transition to digital?
However, What are your main goals for 2018?
KE the ongoing commitment to external KE reporting is a means to an end: the Im passionate about the role we need primary goal being for Pearson to use At the company level, our efficacy & to play in exploring and explaining three evidence about how to improve learning research goal is to continue to improve things in digital teaching and learning: to develop and sell best-in-class products our impact on learning outcomes.
the role of the educator, the role of the and services.
In 2018, we will be doing this by: student and the role of the technology.
D eveloping evidence-based products, applying efficacy improvement activities and undertaking efficacy reporting
