Strategic Report | The Strategic Repositioning of Centrica The Strategic Repositioning of Centrica 1.
Focused on We have more resilient delivering delivering returns fundamentally customer-led andgrowth repositioned growth Centrica Shifting resources to customer-facing businesses As part of our customer-led strategy, we Acquisitions announced that we would commit about AlertMe Connected Home 37m Provides the technology that underpins Connected Home activity 1.5 billion of additional operating and capital Mar-2015 resources by 2020 to drive growth in our Panoramic Power fide&P 39m Leading provider of device-level energy management solutions focus areas, broken down as follows: Nov-2015 ENER-G Cogen fide&P 138m Established supplier and operator of combined heat and power May-2016 solutions FlowGem Connected Home 18m An early stage UK-based business developing unique and innovative Aug-2016 technology to remotely detect water leaks Neas Energy EM&T 184m One of Europes leading providers of energy management Oct-2016 andrevenue optimisation services for decentralised third-party owned assets 1.5 billion REstore fide&P 59m Europes leading demand response aggregator over 5 years Nov-2017 Organic investments Over 300 million of incremental investment across 2016 and 2017.
Connected Home: introduced Hive in North America, increased marketing spend andlaunched the subscription model.
Energy Marketing Connected Home & Trading EM&T UK Home: invested in building Local Heroes and launched British Gas Rewards.
Distributed Energy Services & Power fide&P fide&P: supported global mobilisation of technology, propositions and development teams.
Launched in North America and funded further geographic expansion.
EM&T: focused on business development within existing markets.
We have invested over 700 million in these activities since the end of 2015 and expect North America Home: growing services, primarily annuities protection plan products further growth investment of around andnew home heating, ventilation and air conditioning installations.
Centrica Innovations: first investments to identify, incubate and accelerate new Weare reducing resource allocation to technologies and innovations.
ourasset portfolio by about 1.5 billion overthis period.
Asset portfolio materially repositioned In 2015, we announced a 500 million to Exploration & Production E&P Central Power Generation 1billion disposal programme which has In 2017 we created a new E&P business, We have shifted our portfolio to more delivered proceeds of over 900 million by Spirit Energy.
Centrica owns 69%, with distributed assets.
We have converted some the end of 2017, including the disposals of: Bayerngas Norges former shareholders, sites to peaking plants, are redeveloping ledby Stadtwerke Mnchen Group, Kings Lynn A, building new flexible gas fired Canada E&P 255m owning31%.
generation, and installing one of Europes Trinidad & Tobago E&P 26m largest rapid response batteries.
We consider Centrica Storage our nuclear position as a financial investment.
Combined cycle gas turbines 314m Following extensive well testing, we concluded that the Rough facility was no Wind assets 308m longer capable of safe injection operations.
We have been granted the necessary approvals to produce the indigenous gasand liquids from Rough before decommissioning.
14 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 E&P smallerandmore focused The formation of Spirit Energy creates astrong and sustainable European E&P business, combining Centricas cashgenerative and relatively near-term production profile with Bayerngas Norges more recently on-stream producing assets and development portfolio.
The new company is a robust, self-financing entity, and will invest in the range 400600 million per annum to deliver sustainable medium-term production of 4555 mmboe.
It has operations across the UK, Norway, Denmark and the Netherlands, with interestsin 28 producing fields and over 70exploration licences.
Spirit Energys focus in 2018 will be to maximise efficiency from its producing assets, as well as progressing several key projects including the development of the Oda field, submitting a plan for Skarfjell fielddevelopment, appraisal drilling at theFogelberg discovery and drilling on anumberof exploration prospects.
Read more about E&P in the Business Review Pages 46 to 47 Technology and innovation Building capability in technology and Investing in innovation for From the Internet of innovation is akey enabler in supporting our competitive advantage Things to the Internet customer-facing businesses to improve our Centrica Innovations CI is a strategic offerings, deliver new products, propositions ofEnergy, our customers investor, helping accelerate Centricas and service delivery to meet our customers transformation.
Since its inception are empowered to changing needs.
inFebruary 2017, CI has invested in takemore control companieswith pioneering technologies.
Our Technology & Engineering function overtheir energy use.
Weare investing in aportfolio EtaGen ofinnovative projects covering areas Intheconnected world, A California-based start-up developing suchasenergy storage, electric vehicles, alinear generator that offers businesses Centrica has a solid  and blockchain.
affordable, flexible, reliable and clean position and strong Wefiled24 patents in 2017. on-sitepower.
We strengthened our Quality Assurance Io-Tahoe capability to driveimprovements in the Charles Cameron An Artificial Intelligence driven data manufacturing value chain.
Thiswill support Director of Technology & Engineering management companywascreated by greater reliability of our products incustomer and Centrica Innovations combining internal innovation andacquired installations, reduce cost and improve intellectualproperty.
Rokitt Astra Read some examples of how weare using In May 2017, the assets of Rokitt Astra technology to benefit consumers and businesses Pages 16 to 29 wereacquired and combined into Io-Tahoe to addmachine learning to in-house data discovery solutions.
LO3 Energy An innovative start-up specialising in blockchain-based solutions for energy transactions.
With technology hubs around the world, our teams in New York, Houston, San Francisco, Seattle, London and Tel Aviv actively scan forcompanies with the latest innovations for integration within the Group.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 15
