Our strategy The Groups aim To continue to develop and invest in its market-leading building products businesses and to be its customers partner of choice by providing consistent, high-quality, reliable and innovative products from safe and healthy work environments.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 22 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Safety Invest Innovate Continuing to focus on a Maintain existing capacity Penetrate markets through safe working environment, and invest in new capacity innovative products.
systems and behaviours to optimise output and take that have the development advantage of structural of employees and customer imbalances in the Groups service at its core.
What we achieved in 2017 What we achieved in 2017 What we achieved in 2017 Coinciding with European Week of 2017 saw the commencement of We successfully launched our new Safety and Health at Work 2017, we commissioning of the Major Capital PAN8 roof tile to the UK market the re-launched the Groups 12 fundamental Expenditure Projects across our UK clay second tile profile to be made on our pillars to Health and Safety across each brick operations with the new soft mud new roofing tile line in Leighton Buzzard, of our subsidiaries.
factory in Leicestershire and new kiln Bedfordshire.
facilities at the Lodge Lane factory in The Group is well-known for its longForticrete also launched the revolutionary Staffordshire.
Additionally, production standing commitment to Health and Low Pitch Roof Window System, which ramped up following the installation of Safety H&S and innovations such as allows the installation of a roof window at a new bespoke machine at our Barnwell the reverse-braking technology used angles as low as 10.
This is lower than concrete factory in Cambridgeshire.
on our mobile plant have helped to the minimum pitch of many traditional reinforce this commitment.
The successful completion of these roof window systems and maximises the Major Capital Projects continues the distance that properties can be extended Nine Ibstock Brick projects were Groups strong track record of investing with the benefit of natural daylight.
recognised for their commitment to in order to improve efficiency and meet Health and Safety at the British Ceramic Ibstock Kevington introduced Nexus increasing demand.
Confederations Pledge awards in our next generation brick-faced support October 2017. system.
The new system combines a specially developed lightweight brickThis continued commitment has seen faced steel unit with a support system the key Lost Time Accidents metric and offers easier handling coupled with reduce to 18 in 2017. maximum adjustability, both vertically and horizontally, for quick and simple alignment on site.
Our objectives for 2018 Our objectives for 2018 Our objectives for 2018 Establish a five-year H&S strategy that The focus for 2018 will be on delivering Continuing to develop acquire focuses on developing a world class the benefits of the Groups new components or component businesses culture and performance through the investments in order to achieve all to complement our existing business.
continuous improvement of engineering of the efficiencies desired.
The Group continues to assess excellence, management systems and opportunities to broaden its During 2018, management will the adoption of a behavioural safety components portfolio.
continue to appraise other investment programme.
We will take the opportunity opportunities across the Group to to further develop our emphasis on identify the next Major Capital people by including a clearly defined Expenditure Projects.
Links to KPIs Links to KPIs Links to KPIs Lost Time Accidents Revenue Revenue Return on capital employed Net promoter score once operational Return on capital employed Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA Cash flow before major projects Cash flow before major projects Lost time accidents Lost time accidents Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23
