Strategic Report 8 Our Strategy in Action Geographical diversification Our acquisition strategy is to buy and develop businesses in markets we understand through our existing activities.
Our objective is to identify opportunities in our major developed markets of the UK, France and USA, whilst recognising that there is further potential in emerging markets.
Our overall geographic mix will be dictated by developing these opportunities together with the performance of our businesses in emerging markets.
Key activities The majority of our acquisition targets are likely to be privately owned.
We also look at acquiring distressed businesses in the UK which complement our existing operations and therefore enable us to consolidate our market position.
This in turn will allow us, in some instances, to develop our smaller business units into larger and more effective businesses within their markets.
Overseas acquisitions must have a high quality management team in place and a proven earnings stream as it is more demanding to manage businesses from a distance effectively.
Key events in 2017 Purchase of Kenway Composites, Inc. 24 March 2017.
Purchase of Tower Tech, Inc. 15 August 2017.
Entrepreneurial management We encourage an entrepreneurial culture in our businesses through a decentralised management structure.
We provide our management teams the freedom to run and grow their own businesses, supported by the resources available through being part of a larger group, whilst adhering to the levels of governance and controls appropriate for a quoted company.
Key activities Each subsidiary is managed by its local board of directors who are all empowered to operate their businesses in accordance with Group-approved policies and delegated authorities.
This management culture ensures that decisions are made close to the market and that our businesses are agile and responsive to changes in their competitive environment and, through the international spread of the businesses, opportunities are identified and taken through Group collaboration.
Key events in 2017 Organic revenue growth of 4.5% Integration of Kenway Composites, Inc. and Tower Tech, Inc. into Creative Pultrusions.
Bergen Pipe Supports India developed into a site of manufacturing excellence.
MASS Siteguard installed around the American Embassy, London, UK.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 9 Portfolio management Our objective is to achieve at least mid single-digit organic revenue growth by developing substantial businesses in each of our chosen sectors through both organic and acquisitive revenue growth.
Consequently, this leads us to continually examine the smaller and lower performing units within the portfolio, along with rationalisation of production facilities and business transfers.
Key activities We continue to actively manage our corporate portfolio and dispose of or rationalise operations that are non-core to our market strategy, incapable of achieving our target returns, or insufficiently cash generative.
Key events in 2017 Establishment of Carpenter & Patersons Eastern Region Service Centre ERSC.
Rationalisation of the Variable Message Signs business, from three sites to one manufacturing facility in the North East of England.
Closure of Indian roads business.
Successful integration of Mallatite Ltds five sites into three Chesterfield, Oldbury and Inchinnan.
Revenue growth and targeted returns Capturing sustainable profitable growth through the supply of infrastructure products and galvanizing services from business units that are focused on profitable growth.
Operating margins are an integral measure of the Groups success and one which we continue to drive for improvement through product mix and value-added customer-focused solutions, as well as high levels of operational efficiency.
Our objective is to operate with an efficient balance sheet by maintaining debt at between 1.5 and 2.0 times EBITDA, which in turn allows us to complement balanced organic growth with value-enhancing acquisitions.
Key activities At a Group level capital returns are assessed by measuring Return on Invested Capital ROIC, where invested capital includes acquired goodwill and intangible assets in order to take into account the amounts invested in acquired businesses.
The Groups target ROIC is 20%.
Key events in 2017 Underlying operating margins 2017 Target range % ROIC 2017 Infrastructure Products 10.0% 8 11 Infrastructure Products 19.9% Utilities 7.8% 7 10 Utilities 17.5% Roads 12.6% 10 14 Roads 22.0% Galvanizing 22.4% 18 21 Galvanizing 20.4% Group 13.9% 12 15 Group 20.2% Data centre protection utilising Barkers Engineerings StronGuard RCS Pallisade.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 10 Our Strategy in Action Sustainable Profitable Growth - Value Creation Strategic focus To create long-term sustainable profitable growth and through this growth create value for all stakeholders.
We aim to combine organic revenue growth with selective acquisitions, thereby delivering growth in earnings per share.
A strong focus on cash generation supports this growth strategy and enables a progressive dividend policy.
Key activities We address long-term markets by focusing on markets driven by Government spend on infrastructure, particularly with strong regulatory and health and safety dynamics, and by growing demand for power generation in emerging markets and the replacement of ageing power infrastructure in developed economies.
By encouraging a decentralised management structure we incentivise and enable the operators of our businesses to respond to opportunities and challenges in their markets supported by the resources of a larger group.
In order to be truly sustainable we must grow revenues and profits, whilst focusing on customer service, margins, product development, and enhancing our relationships with other stakeholders, including our employees, our suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
At the same time we must be cognisant of the effect our operations have on the environment.
More details can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 39.
Key events in 2017 Underlying Group operating profit up 15% at 81.3m.
Underlying earnings per share up 15% at 75.9p.
Dividend per share 30.0p, up 14% year-on-year.
Underlying earnings per share pence 80.0 70.0 60.0 50.0 40.0 30.0 20.0 10.0 - 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Opportunities for growth US galvanizing market, opportunities through organic growth, plant investment and acquisition.
The growth of Smart Motorways, driven by the UK Governments five-year 15.2bn investment in the UK road network.
Capitalising on the growing demand for tested products in our International Roads markets.
Continued expansion of the Groups US composites business.
Priorities for 2018 Selective acquisitions to consolidate our market position or increase our geographical representation.
Investing in increased capacity and product development to capture potential opportunities.
Continuation of the structural and operational improvements in both infrastructure products and galvanizing services.
com | Stock Code HILS Earnings per Share Strategic Report 11 Our Strategy in Action Our Investment Proposition We believe in providing superior shareholder returns by doing business in the right way in markets where we have global expertise.
We are an international group with leading positions in the supply of infrastructure products and galvanizing services and we aim to deliver strong returns and sustainable value through a focus on strong positions in niche markets.
Investment Proposition KPIs A Globally Organised Group We have leading positions in the niche markets of infrastructure 7 countries products and galvanizing services, diversified over different geographies with a focus on service, margins and innovative 59 sites product development.
as at the date of this report.
Organic & Acquisitive Growth 4% organic revenue growth We aim to deliver consistent organic growth complemented by regular, value-enhancing acquisitions in markets that supplement 2 US acquisitions or complement our existing operations.
Strong Operating Cash Flow We focus on underlying cash conversion and a disciplined approach 2017: 78% to each business units return on capital employed.
Over the past nine years the Group has achieved an average underlying cash 2016: 93% conversion rate of over 90% the ratio of underlying operating cash less capital expenditure to underlying operating profit.
87% excluding the impact of zinc price rises during the year.
35.00 30.00 25.00 Progressive Dividend 20.00 We have increased dividend payments by a compound annual 15.00 growth rate of 13.2% since 2008.
400 200 0 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15 Jan 16 Jan 17 Jan 18 Hill & Smith FTSE 250 FTSE SmallCap FTSE All Share www.
com | Stock Code HILS Total Shareholder Return rebased to 100 Dividend Strategic Report 12 Case Study Kilrenny Bridge Strengthening Asset International Structures a division of Hill & Smith Ltd provides a fully engineered design and manufacture service for construction, highways and rail clients and has an international reputation for providing bespoke designs that address all specific project requirements.
The Kilrenny Bridge in Anstruther, Fife, Scotland, was found to be weak during a programme of bridge assessments by Fife Council.
The reinforced concrete bridge was built in 1937 over the top of the original, narrower arch bridge.
With a 17-tonne weight restriction applied a traffic light controlled single lane operation was also imposed in 1995 to ease the stress on the structure.
The original project to replace the bridge involved the removal of the whole structure and replacing it with a small culvert and the formation of embankments.
Fife Council, faced with a cost of more than 1million brought in a new project team in 2015 charged with a radical rethink and review of the scheme in its entirety.
With an alternative solution in mind the Fife Council team approached Asset International Structures to design and supply a lightweight lining system that could be built in situ to accommodate the constraints at the site.
Using Asset Liner Plate system as an alternative to rebuilding resulted in a 40% cost saving In 2017 Asset International Structures supplied and designed a lightweight Liner Plate solution that involved building a steel arch under the existing bridge and infilling between the two structures with concrete.
This meant the concrete bridge could be left in place but would become structurally redundant.
The abutment walls from the old masonry arch also remained in place, with minor adjustments, avoiding the need to divert Kilrenny Burn.
The voussoirs external facing stones from the old masonry arch, which had been stored when it was demolished, were used in facing the new steel arch and the remainder of the external faces would be clad in natural stone.
By Fife Council adopting the Liner Plate solution substantial cost savings approximately 400k were achieved.
The works were completed with only three nights of roads closures, and significantly less disruption to the traffic and the local community.
The bridge is now open to two-way traffic, has one footway and is wide enough to accommodate a potential cycleway extension in the future.
Find out more about the company at www.
co. uk Images Top Kilrenny bridge before.
Bottom Kilrenny bridge after completion of works.
