Our markets We have market-leading positions within each of our markets The main market drivers that are expected to increase UK construction output the demand for our products: UK construction output UK housing starts.
Our clay and concrete products are With the largest production capabilities, Total Great Britain construction output integral components to construction the Group continues to hold a marketis estimated at 153.0 billion in 2017 activity, particularly housing construction leading position within the UK market for a 3.0% increase compared to 2016. and repairs, maintenance and improvement clay bricks, together with leading market The Construction Products Association RMI.
Demand for our products is positions in UK concrete products and in estimates that Great Britain construction directly affected by developments in the US regions within which the Group output will increase marginally by 0.2% the construction markets in which we operates.
In the UK, the three largest brick in 2018 before seeing an increase of operate, as well as the general level of manufacturers Ibstock, Forterra and 1.7% in 2019 as activity picks up.
Weinerberger accounted for approximately apparent that the trend differs across all 90% of brick production in 2015.
Our US construction sectors with an increase in Several macroeconomic factors influence operations are regional leaders in the clay activity being particularly marked within the levels and growth of construction products markets of the North-East and the private housing sector.
activity, including demographic trends, Mid-West where a number of regional the state of the housing market, mortgage and national manufacturers also operate.
availability, mortgage interest rates, and Conversely, many of the UK concrete changes in household income, inflation markets which the Group operates in and Government policy.
are fragmented with many small players.
Following the UKs Referendum on EU membership in June 2016, macroeconomic uncertainty exists although to date major housebuilders have continued to report high demand for new housing and resilient customer confidence.
UK construction output bn 153.0 153.3 148.5 143.1 2015 2016 2017e 2018f Source: Construction Products Association, Winter 2017. e estimates, f forecast Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information UK housing starts US housing starts The UK housing market has been The Autumn Budget 2017 announced The Companys primary markets in the structurally undersupplied for a number measures to assist with the desire to US are the North-East and Mid-West.
of years, with housing starts below increase housebuilding to 300,000 new Housing starts in Glen-Gerys primary household formations.
With an estimated homes annually, whilst new build dwelling markets fell sharply approximately 68% 80% of new homes using clay bricks starts totalled 166,100 in the year to from a peak in 2005 through to 2009. within their construction, increases in new September 2017.
Residential starts then increased with housing volumes directly impact the support from improvements in the UK repairs, maintenance and demand for our brick products.
economy and growth in employment.
improvement RMI market, trends Housing starts in Glen-Gerys primary Since the UK Government commissioned and developments US markets are forecast to decrease by the Barker Review in 2003, which The private residential RMI sector is the 2.4% in 2017 and decrease by 4.1% in suggested a shortage of housing in the third largest construction sector with 2018, whilst the US is expected to see UK at that time of approximately 450,000 output in 2017 worth approximately residential housing starts increase by houses, this undersupply has grown to 18.3 billion, a growth of 2.0% on the prior 2.1% and by 0.4% in 2017 and 2018, in excess of one million homes.
Activity in the RMI sector is closely respectively.
correlated with the level of property The UK Governments white paper transactions with individuals renovating Non-residential square feet of Fixing our broken housing market in homes prior to a sale, or modifying them construction in Glen-Gerys primary February 2017 reiterated the need for after purchase.
This generally leads to markets are expected to be 1.1% lower new homes in England in order to keep stable activity levels and RMI output is in 2017, with a decline of 0.6% forecast pace with population growth and to forecast to reduce marginally by 1.0% for 2018. tackle the years of housing undersupply.
in 2018 Source: Construction Products The UKs General Election in June 2017 Association.
This reduction forecast is saw each of the main political parties linked to subdued second-hand housing reveal policies strongly supportive of transaction levels in 2018, and follows the housebuilding and subsequent sustained demand seen in 2017 from the Government policy continues to provide older demographic who are less backing to housebuilding.
dependent on real wage growth.
UK housing starts US housing starts 000s of starts 000s of starts in our primary markets 192.3 408.5 188.5 398.9 393.5 179.2 382.6 173.0 2015 2016 2017e 2018f 2015 2016 2017f 2018f Source: Construction Products Association, Source: Dodge data and analytics, Q4 2017.
Winter 2017. e estimates, f forecast f forecast Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 Business model The Group is a leading manufacturer of a diversified range of clay and concrete building products, with operations across the UK and the Mid-West and North-East regions of the US.
Our key differentiators Market leadership Scale Long-standing customer relationships Growing capacity Highly experienced management team Inputs Outputs Know-how Shareholders Extraction People Employees Plants and factories Customers Long-term relationships Suppliers and partners Distribution Procurement Raw materials Communities Manufactured materials How we create value Customer Product service design Technical Manufacturing support process Our brands Ibstock Brick Glen-Gery Ibstock Kevington Supreme Forticrete Anderton Concrete See pages 26 and 31 for more See pages 4 and 5 for more on our resources and relationships on our brands Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 20 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information How we create value posts, are made using a semi-dry or wet Outputs The Directors believe that the Groups cast process.
The concrete is discharged Shareholders market-leading businesses place it in from a machine hopper into a mould The Directors recognise the importance a strong position to benefit from the containing steel reinforcement bars with of rewarding our shareholders for their expected demand growth in the UK high frequency vibration used to compact continued investment in the future of the and in its regional markets in the US.
the mixture and then demoulded by Group.
We view the risks to our dividend turning over the moulds before curing.
as intrinsically linked to the principal risks Extraction and uncertainties noted on pages 34 to Clay and shale used in our brick Technical support 37, primarily those impacting the wider production process is sourced from clay The Group seeks to differentiate itself as a macroeconomic environment and the pits that the Group operates on land manufacturer by employing five architects cyclical nature of the industry for building that it owns or leases under long-term and a Computer Aided Design office to products.
It is our objective to set out a agreements in the vicinity of its brick assist specifiers and customers in their clear dividend policy to enable stakeholders manufacturing plants in the UK and the designs and efficient use of our products.
to assess both the case for investment US providing security of supply of the key Customer service and stewardship in holding the Board to raw material used in brick manufacture.
Ibstock sells its products to a diverse account.
Our dividend policy is set out Procurement group of customers in the construction within the Financial Review on page 40.
The Group is a major customer for a industry in the UK and US.
Each business Employees number of its key third party suppliers, has its own sales team that is aligned by The Group employs a large number of which allows efficient purchasing and customer group and region in order to people across its operations and as transportation, together with the focus on key decision-makers and described in the Resources and establishment of long-term relationships.
This is monitored through relationships section on pages 26 to 31, Additionally, for the Groups concrete extensive and regular customer the development and progression of our products, the main raw materials are bulky satisfaction surveys.
employees is seen as key to the Groups in nature and are locally sourced.
Alongside the Groups gas and electricity costs represent the The Groups 43 principal manufacturing strategic priority of providing a safe working greatest input costs apart from labour.
plants across the UK and US are environment, the Directors believe that the The Group regularly reviews its energy strategically located close to main employee share ownership encouraged costs and uses forward purchasing transportation links to facilitate onward by the Share Incentive and Save As You contracts to increase pricing certainty distribution.
In the UK, the Group Earn programmes and supported by when favourable compared to future price outsources substantially all its haulage to strong corporate governance, are further expectations in the open market.
In the US, a relatively large ways in which value flows to the Groups Product design proportion of sales are direct collections by employee stakeholders.
The Group continually seeks to improve the end-customer.
Additionally, in the US, Customers the quality of its existing products and also the Group operates a network of 10 resale Builders merchants, housebuilders, introduce new products through innovation centres across its primary markets.
specialist brick distributors, contractors and investment in new technology.
Its new Our key differentiators and installers are the five main customer product development programme works Market leadership groups for the Groups clay and concrete closely with customers and our sales team Our market-leading businesses enable products in the UK.
In the US, clay products to identify opportunities for new products.
us to benefit from the expected growth sold to distributors constituted the majority Manufacturing process in demand in the UK and our regional of sales for the year, with the remainder The Group has the largest brick production markets within the US.
sold to housebuilders, contractors and capacity in the UK and has a strategic developers.
These customers are not Scale footprint across the UK and in the US always the same as the individuals and We have over 150 million tonnes of markets in which it operates.
We also have organisations that are making the buying consented clay reserves and in excess the most modern and innovative concrete decisions for the Groups products.
In many of 100 million tonnes of clay resources, roof tile line in the UK and our concrete cases, the preference of the end users or providing good support for production fence post manufacturing facilities provide their specifier dictates the choice of product capacity of 1.2 billion bricks per annum us with a market-leading position.
rather than the intermediary that actually across 28 clay and 15 concrete plants purchases the product from the Group.
The Group manufactures bricks through throughout the UK and US.
The unrivalled choice of products available two main processes: wire cut and soft Long-standing customer relationships within the Groups range of clay bricks mud, which take their names from the Our customer focus is based on quality, provides these customers with the widest processes to create them.
With wire cut service and consistency and our serviceselection from which to choose.
As a bricks, clay is continuously extruded to a led ethos is one of the key drivers in the full-range supplier, our concrete businesses required size and shape, before cutting by growth in our market share in bricks provide customers with broad product set wire into individual bricks.
These are then over the past 10 years and many of our upon which to base their buying decisions.
dried before firing in a kiln.
Soft mud bricks long-standing customer relationships have are made by placing a mix of clay and Communities lasted over 40 years.
water into individual moulds to create a The Group interacts directly with the brick shape, which is dried and then fired Growing capacity communities within which we operate.
in a kiln after ejection from the mould.
We are investing in the latest technology to In addition to the employment provided by, increase capacity and to meet the growing and taxation contributed by, the Group, The Groups concrete products are made market demands.
our Resources and relationships section from cement, sand, admixtures and on pages 26 to 31, together with the pigments, which are mixed together.
In Highly experienced management team Groups Environmental Report, set out a the case of a roof tile, the mix is extruded Our management team has extensive number of examples of this interaction as onto moving pallets and then cut to form experience in the building products market the Group aims to be a good neighbour individual tiles.
The cut tiles are cured in and our Chief Executive Officer and Chief and contribute to those communities.
chambers, finish coated and dried.
The Financial Officer have combined experience Ibstock is a proud member of Business grey concrete products, such as fence of over 50 years within the industry.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21
