Vesuvius plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Business Model A pro table, exible, cash-generative Key Resources model focused on growth Financial capital We use the cash generated We develop and manufacture high-technology by our business to invest in innovation, people, operating assets, technology and sales to products and solutions for supply to the steel and generate further growth.
casting industries, operating a pro table, exible, cash-generative and growth-building business model.
Manufacturing capital We have a global footprint, Over many years we have built the brand equity of with 66 production sites based on six continents, our Vesuvius and Foseco products through reliability, giving us close proximity to our customers.
Intellectual capital We have 17 R&D centres and The foundation of our business model is the supply of over 300 R&D staff worldwide, generating specialised and consumable products from a global innovative products and solutions for our customers.
Our industry experts are embedded at many customer locations and are therefore ideally Human capital We invest in developing our skilled and motivated workforce of approx.
11,000 people placed to collaborate with customers to identify and provide them with a safe environment in which their needs, and potential service and process to work.
This also enables us to grow our solutions and service portfolio.
Social capital We champion our Values and our ethical conduct.
We maintain strong relationships Our model is resilient to end-market volatility due with customers and our wider stakeholder group.
to the exibility of our diversi ed manufacturing footprint and adjustable variable cost base.
Natural capital We utilise high-quality raw Our model is pro table by allowing value pricing materials, secured through reliable and well-developed supply chains.
for bespoke products and services.
It generates growth as we enlarge our market with additional innovative products and solutions.
Global Presence Optimised Manufacturing Using our global spread of expertise to identify Low-cost Lean manufacturing, close to customers, and create market opportunities provides reliable, just-in-time products Vesuvius is present on six continents, supporting the Our successfully tested products can be manufactured at development of global steel and foundry manufacturing a short distance from our customers plants, guaranteeing processes with new technologies.
We have manufacturing cost-competitive and time-ef cient delivery.
We optimise capability in all the main steel and foundry markets and hire our cost competitiveness by investing in the lowest cost and train local engineers.
They are progressively integrated production site in the area and have established within the Vesuvius network of experts, and offered manufacturing facilities in emerging markets from the international careers.
Our local manufacturing, local beginning of their industrialisation.
This, together with the expertise and global knowledge of our customers processes high volume of pieces we are able to produce, provides give us a special relationship with our customers, helping our customers with the best balance between value, them to optimise their process and product performance.
cost and service for our high-technology solutions.
All over the world, new plants use Vesuvius and Foseco products to create the best possible conditions for success.
See more about our global presence on p4-5 See more about sustainability on p64-66 g n d i r e u s t i c Our Business m a i f t u p n O a M A d e v c a n n K c e n e s o d e w r T 13 200 17 10 0 66 technical experts R&D centres R&D PhDs manufacturing sites across six continents and engineers in 26 countries Key Outputs Value to shareholders Our ef cient use of capital generates annual pro ts, giving returns to our shareholders and underpinning sustainable growth.
High-quality products We deliver bespoke, high-quality refractory and consumable products and systems to industry-leading customers around the world.
Customer value Our investment in innovation creates cutting-edge products and solutions, delivering enhanced value for our customers and A  us from our competitors.
generating model with our Expert delivery We embed technical experts with our Customer customers, giving us a fundamental understanding of their needs and delivering them access to our at the centre global network of highly skilled individuals.
Sustainable business Our commitment to ethical business delivers strong, long-term, sustainable commercial relationships.
Environmental bene ts We develop products l that deliver ef ciency and energy savings to our customers.
We focus on sustainability in our own business through the ef cient use of energy and natural resources.
Advanced Technology Service and Consistency Knowledge Our technology centres develop value-adding solutions Serving our customers reliably, competitively and consistently involving engineered systems and high-value consumables with consumables critical for their manufacturing processes Our continuing investment in the Companys R&D centres Alongside developing our global presence, we ensure a is re ected in all areas of our offering.
We have knowledge local service to our customers, from inventory management of the most advanced ceramic and metallurgical techniques to high-quality technical support at their sites and the ability using state-of-the-art equipment and the most advanced to swiftly modify production and supply to re ect changes technologies of ow simulation and nite element analysis.
Our knowledge of end-market We are therefore able to provide our customers with processes, speci cations and techniques around the world sophisticated, innovative, custom-designed solutions, with gives our experts an unparalleled ability to support our the highest level of con dence in their suitability, creating customers.
This unique level of service relies on our technicians value and helping them differentiate from their competition.
permanent presence at our customers sites, and their ability We enhance this expertise with our growing capabilities in to leverage the worldwide expertise accumulated across the data capture and interpretation to deliver expert process Vesuvius network.
management improvements to our customers.
Read more about innovation on p32-35 Read more about quality and reliability on p36-48 P e e l c d a h g b n e o o l l G o g y y d c n n a e e t s c i i s v n r o e S C Vesuvius plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our Performance 15 Section Two Our Performance In this section 16 Chairmans Statement 18 Chief Executives Strategic Review 20 Key Performance Indicators 22 Risk 26 Financial Review 32 Innovation 36 Operating Review 36 Steel Flow Control 40 Advanced Refractories 44 Digital Services 46 Foundry 50 Board of Directors 52 Group Executive Committee Enno Hilgenhoener Director Solutions Group, Steel Flow Control, Borken, Germany
