Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the audited APPOINTMENT, RETIREMENT AND REMOVAL accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017.
OF DIRECTORS The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by Other information that is relevant to the Directors Report, the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the UK and which is incorporated by reference into this Report, Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act can be located as follows: 2006, the Relationship Agreement between the Chairman and the Company and related legislation.
The Articles may only be Strategic Report pages 0129. amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Chairmans statement pages 0203. Business and Strategy pages 0407.
The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to fill a casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any such Director Interim Chief Executive Officers statement pages 0809. holds office only until the next AGM and may offer himself or Operating and financial review pages 1015. herself for election.
Under the Relationship Agreement between the Chairman and Viability statement page 19. the Company, as long as the Chairman or any of his associates, Corporate Governance Report pages 3045. when taken together, hold at least 15% of the shares or voting rights attaching to the shares, the Chairman will be entitled to STRATEGIC REPORT appoint, remove and reappoint one person to be a Director, who The Group is required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare a may be either himself or another person nominated by him.
Strategic Report that includes a fair review of the Groups business, a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the The Code recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 companies development and the performance of the Companys business should be subject to annual re-election, and all continuing during the year, the position of the Group at 31 December 2017 Directors will stand for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
In addition and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act, the by the Company.
Company may, by special resolution, remove any Director before the expiration of his or her period of office.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The results for the year are shown in the consolidated Further details of the re-election and election of the Directors statement of comprehensive income on page 75. can be found on page 37 and in the notes to the AGM Notice on our website at www.
com investors shareholderPROFIT AND DIVIDENDS information agm.
The Companys distributable reserves as at 7 March 2018 were 92.2m, being the capital redemption reserve of 44.9m and The governance structure of the Board is illustrated on page 31 the profit and loss account of 60.3m less the share option and the activities of the Boards governance committees are reserve included in the profit and loss account of 13.0m which summarised on pages 39 to 45. represents unrealised profit as at 7 March 2018.
Final dividend per share DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS INSURANCE proposed to be paid on Interim dividend per share Total dividend paid AND INDEMNITIES 25 May 2018 paid 13 October 2017 per share for 2017 The Group maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance, 9.4p 4.1p 13.5p which gives appropriate cover should legal action be brought against its Directors.
In addition, indemnities are in force under which the Group has agreed to indemnify the Directors against POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS all liabilities and related costs that they may incur in the There were no significant post-balance sheet events affecting execution of their duties.
Copies of these indemnities are kept the Group since 31 December 2017. at our registered office and are open for inspection by any member.
These indemnities do not cover the Directors for BOARD OF DIRECTORS fraudulent activities.
The names and biographical details of our current Directors are set out on pages 32 and 33 and are incorporated into this Report EMPLOYEES by reference.
The details are also available on our website at As at 31 December 2017, the Group employed 1,851 people.
The Group is committed to creating an environment in which individual differences and contributions are recognised and Changes to Directors during the year and up to the date of valued, and to safeguard a working environment that promotes signing this Report are set out below: dignity and respect for all.
No form of victimisation, Effective date of discrimination, bullying or harassment will be tolerated.
Name Role appointment resignation Alan Rubenstein Non-Executive Appointed We seek to promote equal opportunities for all, through the Director 8 March 2017 provision of employment practices and policies that recognise the diversity of our employees and ensure that neither our Peter Shaw Non-Executive Appointed employees nor prospective employees receive less favourable Director 8 March 2017 treatment on the basis of their perceived or actual age, Peter Ward Non-Executive Stepped down disability, race, religion or belief, sex including gender, marital Director 17 May 2017 status, pregnancy or maternity, or gender reassignment or sexual orientation, working hours part-time, full-time or Stuart Vann Chief Executive Stepped down fixed-term employees or physical characteristics.
Officer 18 January 2018 6 64 6 4 65 5 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Directors Report continued The Group is committed to employing people with disabilities UK GHG MANDATORY REPORTING or who become disabled during their employment by making GHG emissions data for the period 1 January 2017 to reasonable adjustments as appropriate.
Actively working with 31 December 2017. the Access to Work government scheme enables the Group to support the continued employment of any employees with a Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e : 2 disability and prospective employees.
The training, career opportunities, development and promotion of people with Emissions from: 2017 2016 disabilities are, as far as possible, identical to those of other Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and employees.
operation of facilities 689 666 Employees are kept up to date with regular Chief Executive Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam Officer briefings, business updates, team meetings and internal and cooling purchased for own use 1,809 2,266 communications.
Employees views are gathered through the Employee Consultation Group, department forums, employee Companys chosen intensity tCO e tCO e 2 2 surveys and Ask the Exec question forum.
measurement Turnover Turnover tCO e Turnover 3.20 3.85 2 Further information in respect of actions taken with the aim of encouraging employee involvement and achieving employee awareness in the Company has been disclosed in the People Data quality: The quality of the data used for the footprint section on pages 24 to 26. calculations has been rated as good, average, poor or based on benchmarks.
Around 99.8% of emissions in the footprint HUMAN RIGHTS were based on good quality data: this is a weighted The Group resides and offers its products only within mainland percentage according to contribution by the emissions source.
The Group is subject to both the European Convention on Human Rights and the UK Human Rights Act 1998.
We respect esure Group plcs 2017 GHG Mandatory Report all human rights and enact these particularly in relation to fair This Report is based on the 12 months between 1 January and treatment, the avoidance of discrimination and privacy for our 31 December 2017, reflecting the financial year of the Group.
We aim to ensure that employees comply with all relevant UK legislation and The total carbon emissions associated with the Groups UK regulations, and this is underpinned by the policies in place operations were 2,498 tCO e. This is made up of 689 tCO e 2 2 and managed by our Human Resources function.
of Scope 1 direct emissions and 1,809 tCO e of Scope 2 2 indirect emissions.
BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION The Group maintains the highest ethical standards in carrying CHANGE OF CONTROL out its business activities.
The Groups Code of Conduct policy There are no material agreements to which the Group is party helps all employees to understand and meet the high standards that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of of personal and professional integrity required of them.
Any the Group following a takeover bid.
activity that might potentially be interpreted as the Group or its employees offering, giving or requesting and accepting a bribe The provisions of the Companys employee share plans may is strictly prohibited.
cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest upon a change of control.
POLITICAL DONATIONS Our policy is not to make any donations or contributions to SHARE CAPITAL political parties or organisations and no such payments were Our share capital consists of one class of Ordinary Shares of made during the year.
Each share ranks equally and carries the same rights to vote and receive dividends and other distributions ENVIRONMENT declared.
There are no restrictions on the transfer or holding of Global emissions shares in the Company.
As at 31 December 2017, the Company This report presents a narrative report for the 2017 Greenhouse had 418,143,596 Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Company does Gas GHG Mandatory Reporting requirement of esure Groups not hold any shares in Treasury.
The rights attached to shares which are the subject of awards Methodology: The footprint is calculated in accordance with the under any of our employee share plans are not available until GHG Protocol and Carbon Trust CT guidance on calculating any award or option is exercised and the shares are allotted or organisational footprints.
Activity data has been converted into transferred to the relevant individual.
The Trustee of our carbon emissions using published emissions factors.
The data employee benefit trust is obliged to act in the best interests of used has been provided by the Group and sense checked but the share plans beneficiaries.
At General Meetings, the Trustee not formally verified by Utilitywise PLC.
may exercise discretion and vote in respect of Trust shares although it may not always choose to do so.
Where shares are Emissions sources: The footprint includes the Scope 1 fossil beneficially held by an employee within a share plan he or she fuel and refrigerant leakage and Scope 2 electricity emissions may direct the Trustee to vote on his or her behalf.
associated with the offices in which the Group is based.
For the purposes of the report only, Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 indirect emissions sources are required.
Organisational boundary: The footprint includes data for the three offices in which the Group employs staff Reigate, Manchester and Glasgow, as well as two domestic apartments.
Note: this does not include outsourced activities, for example repair shops and third-party suppliers.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 POWER OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE SHARES The Board confirms that, since the entry into the amended and The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders restated Relationship Agreement on 29 October 2014 until to allot new shares.
A resolution will be proposed at the 2018 1 March 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to the AGM to renew the authority to allot shares.
publication of this Annual Report and Accounts: PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES i the Group has complied with the independence provisions The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders included in the Relationship Agreement: to purchase our own shares.
Accordingly, at the 2018 AGM, the ii so far as the Group is aware, the independence provisions Group proposes to renew the authority granted by shareholders included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied at the AGM in 2017 to repurchase up to a maximum of 10% of with by Sir Peter Wood and his associates: and its issued share capital.
At the present time, the Group has no iii as far as the Group is aware, the procurement obligation plans to exercise this authority and did not exercise the included in the Relationship Agreement has been complied authority during 2017. with by Sir Peter Wood.
Further details are provided in the 2018 Notice of the AGM.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS All shareholders entitled to attend and vote at a General SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and As at 31 December 2017, the Group had been notified, in vote in their place.
A member may appoint more than one proxy accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 5.1.
2R, of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attached attached to a different share or shares held by the shareholder.
to the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital, as set out in A proxy need not be a shareholder.
Proxy forms must be the following table: received by our registrars at least 48 hours before the time appointed for holding a meeting, as set out in any Notice or in Number of % of total any form of proxy circulated by us.
The appointment of a proxy Shareholder Ordinary Shares voting rights does not preclude a shareholder from attending and voting in Sir Peter Wood 128,609,655 30.75 person at a General Meeting.
Further details may be found in the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders in advance of the Toscafund Asset Management LLP 71,456,266 17.09 2018 AGM, a copy of which is also available on our website at FIL Limited 38,800,731 9.28 www.
Standard Life Investments Limited 20,759,424 4.97 AUDITOR Invesco Asset Management 20,507,884 4.90 Resolutions to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Group and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be Norges Bank 12,555,518 3.00 proposed at the 2018 AGM.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditor is working well and remains These figures represent the number of shares and percentage satisfied with its effectiveness.
There are no contractual held as at the date of notification to the Group.
obligations restricting our choice of auditor.
In accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR 5.1.
2R, in the period between 1 January 2018 and 1 March Each Director at the date of the approval of this report confirms 2018, there were no further notifications received.
that: So far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware.
RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT WITH CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDER He or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have Sir Peter Wood, the Groups Chairman, is a controlling taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any shareholder of the Group with a total holding of approximately relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups 30.75% of the Companys voting rights.
auditor is aware of that information.
The Group entered into a Relationship Agreement with Sir Peter GOING CONCERN Wood on 8 March 2013, which was amended and restated on These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on 29 October 2014.
The principal purpose of the Relationship a going concern basis.
The financial performance and position Agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable at all times of of the Group, its cash flows and its approach to capital carrying on its business independently of Sir Peter Wood and management are set out in the financial review on pages 10 to certain persons deemed to be connected with him.
The Group has a strong financial position, with robust reserves, a conservative investment portfolio and capital In addition to other undertakings and agreements, the significantly in excess of the minimum regulatory requirement.
Relationship Agreement contains the following undertakings: In addition, the Board has reviewed the Groups projections for the next 12 months and beyond, including cash flow forecasts a that transactions and arrangements between the Group and and regulatory capital surpluses.
The Directors have a Sir Peter Wood and or any of his associates will be reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: to continue in operation for at least the next 12 months.
b that neither Sir Peter Wood nor any of his associates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing the The Groups viability statement is on page 19.
Group from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and c that neither Sir Peter Wood nor any of his associates will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution that is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
6 66 6 6 67 7 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Directors Report continued MATERIAL CONTRACTS INTERNAL AUDIT Save as disclosed below, there are no material contracts other The Groups Internal Audit function is fully outsourced.
than contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business to which the Group is a party: The activities and effectiveness of Internal Audit are monitored and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is An agreement between the Group and CapGemini for the responsible for ensuring that adequate access to information outsourcing of IT services.
The initial term of the agreement and resource is given to the Lead Internal Auditor and for was for five years from 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2015. approving the appointment and removal of the Lead Internal On 16 May 2014, a new seven-year agreement between the Auditor.
The Lead Internal Auditor reports directly to the Group and CapGemini was signed.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit reports are The Relationship Agreement between the Company and Sir presented to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the Peter Wood remains in force until the Ordinary Shares cease Groups systems of internal controls and the adequacy of these to be admitted to the Official List of the FCA and to trading systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups on the London Stock Exchange: or the Potential Controlling assets and resources.
Internal Audit uses the Groups risk Shareholder ceases to own, when taken together, 15% or registers to plan and inform its annual audit programme around more of the Ordinary Shares or the voting rights attaching the most significant risks to the business to ensure that controls to the Ordinary Shares unless, at the time the Potential are in place and are designed and operating effectively.
The Controlling Shareholders shall cease to own, when taken Audit Committee reviews and approves the Annual Internal together, 15% or more of the Ordinary Shares or the voting Audit Plan.
rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares, Sir Peter Wood remains the Chairman of the Company, in which event the TAX Relationship Agreement shall terminate six months after The Groups tax contribution to UK public finances is Sir Peter Wood ceases to be the Chairman of the Company.
significantly more than the corporation tax payable figure included in the income statement.
The Group pays direct taxes, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT including payroll taxes, Value Added Tax, business rates and In the ordinary course of business, the Group develops new property taxes, and also collects and remits to HMRC Insurance products and services in each of its business divisions.
Premium Tax and employee payroll taxes.
Our total tax contribution in the tax year 2017 was 133.6m 2016: SPECIAL RIGHTS 100.6m, of which 28.2m was directly borne by the Group, There are no persons holding securities that carry special rights equating to 29% of the Groups profit before tax, and 105.4m with regard to the control of the Group.
was collected and remitted on behalf of customers and employees.
The increase from 2016 to 2017 is due to the RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Groups profitable growth in the period and the increase in the The Board is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness of the Insurance Premium Tax rate from 6% to 10%.
Groups system of risk management and internal control.
To ensure that this is achieved and that the risk management and 1.7 1.7 1.5 1.3 internal controls are embedded in the running of the business, the Group operates a three lines of defence structure which is 7.0 5.8 regularly reported on to the Audit and Risk Committees.
This framework mitigates the risk of failure to achieve business 18.2 objectives, unforeseen losses and material financial 13.2 misstatement.
There are a number of controls in place within this framework 12.9 2016 2017 14.0 to ensure that the Group has robust procedures for preparing consolidated accounts and for financial reporting.
The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee, respectively, 64.4 92.5 regularly review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
Their monitoring focuses on material risks and controls and is based principally on reporting upwards within the framework from business Insurance Premium Tax Payroll taxes collected management, risk management and the Internal Audit function Corporation tax Payroll taxes borne so that the Committees may consider whether significant Irrecoverable VAT Other weaknesses exist.
During the course of the reviews, the Committees have not identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses that they have determined to be significant.
This section, together with the reports set out on pages 30 to 68, are approved by order of the Board.
To support Group policies and to facilitate the raising of concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or any other matters, the Group provides a confidential telephone hotline, so that staff or third parties may report anonymously any perceived inaccurate or unethical working practices.
Alice Rivers The Audit and Risk Committees endeavour to ensure that the Company Secretary Group has in place appropriate and effective controls, checks, 6 March 2018 systems and risk management techniques.
