Vesuvius plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our Principles Working together as a community with shared values makes Vesuvius stronger.
Vesuvius is a geographically and Our Values culturally diverse group, employing more than 11,000 people in 37 countries.
Creativity Integrity This geographical diversity places us Our commitment to technology and quality is the At the heart of our promise lies the trustworthiness basis for our competitive advantage.
Creativity of all Vesuvius employees in their acts and words.
close to our customers across the globe, allows us to develop innovative products and Integrity, honesty and transparency are essential but also highlights the importance of solutions and the continuous improvements in all our exchanges.
maintaining and applying strong and that generate value through performance enhancement.
Employees are actively consistent ethical values in our worldwide Embracing Diversity encouraged to be innovative and to register their approach to business.
Our employees Vesuvius is a global company built upon ideas in our newly developed Ideation database.
a true respect for local customs and experience.
engagement with our values and culture We recognise and embrace the potential that is vital to our success and the sustainable Cooperation comes from the coexistence of so many different delivery of the Groups strategy.
Encouraging internal and external cooperation cultures and of diversity in its broadest sense.
enables us to create unique solutions with our partners.
Through cooperation, each Vesuvius Excellence Vesuvius Values employee is committed to the success of their This new value, introduced in 2017, represents community of colleagues and customers and our aim to deliver optimised performance to our The behaviours we champion in our that of the wider Group.
customers and stakeholders, eliminating waste employees are represented by the six and striving for continuous improvement.
They are an expression Excellence is our attitude as we engage with our Our solutions involve us in critical aspects of colleagues, our customers and our communities.
of the common culture of the Group, our customers manufacturing processes.
promoting our image to external Our commitment to deliver consistent products stakeholders, and underpinning the and services gives them the level of con dence they require.
commercial promise we provide to our customers.
The Values are displayed in all our facilities and in Vesuvius of ces Vesuvius Framework for Business Integrity at customer sites.
Vesuvius has established a framework for explaining and delivering the culture During 2017, we continued to engage and principles we consider to be fundamental to our sustained success: our employees on the importance of the Vesuvius Values through the addition of a 1.
Our approach Vesuvius Values Code of Policies and Training Monitoring to our customers and business operations Conduct Procedures and Evaluation has always been to strive for Excellence, and the addition of this sixth Value reinforces our objective to integrate continuous improvement into our business approach.
Our Values are celebrated annually through the Groups Living the Values Awards LTVA.
In 2017, we came together to celebrate the outstanding individual contributions to the implementation of Vesuvius Values by 74 employees from 11 countries who were nominated by their peers.
See more about the Living the Values Awards in our People and Community section on p67-73 Our Responsibility 57 Evaristo Beltran Saenz Process Engineer, Slide Gate, Monterrey Code of Conduct principles Speak Up Code of Conduct The foundation of our compliance Our Code of Conduct sets out the programme is the ability to speak up standards of conduct expected, without without fear of retaliation, either to Health, safety and the environment exception, of everyone who works Vesuvius management or independent for Vesuvius in any of its worldwide of them.
The Code emphasises our con dential Employee Concern Helpline commitment to ethics and compliance Speak Up is available for employees with the law, and covers every aspect Trading, customers, products wishing to raise concerns anonymously of our approach to business, from the and services or in situations where they feel unable way that we engage with customers, to report internally.
This independent employees, the markets, and each of helpline provides the ability to make our other stakeholders, to the safety reports online through a web portal, by of our employees and workplaces.
Ensuring global Anti-bribery and corruption Everyone within Vesuvius is individually accessibility, employees can now speak accountable for upholding its with operators in any of our 29 functional requirements.
We recognise that lasting languages.
No individual is ever business success is measured not only in penalised or disadvantaged for reporting our financial performance, but in the Employees and human rights a legitimate concern in good faith.
way in which we deal with our customers, business associates, employees, investors Reports received via Speak Up are and local communities.
The Code of managed by the General Counsel, Conduct is published in our 29 major assisted by senior managers from the Disclosure and investors functional languages.
All reports are investigated following a protocol for review, action, closure and feedback.
Policies and Procedures For complex issues, formal investigation We continue to enhance the policies that plans are drawn up, and support from Government, society and local underpin the principles set out in the Code external experts is engaged where communities of Conduct.
These assist employees to necessary.
Feedback is recognised as comply with our ethical standards and the an important element of the Speak Up legal requirements of the jurisdictions in process and we aim to provide an update which we conduct our business.
They also on all reports within 28 days of receipt.
give practical guidance on how this can be Con icts of interest achieved.
Amongst these policies are: Competitors The Code of Conduct is available in 29 languages at www.
com Vesuvius plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our Principles continued Anti-Bribery and Corruption and Human Rights Training provided during 2017 included: Working With Third Parties The Group human rights policy re ects E-learning modules for modern Vesuvius engages with various thirdthe principles contained within the slavery, data protection and trade party representatives and intermediaries United Nations Universal Declaration sanctions which can present an increased antiof Human Rights, the International bribery and corruption risk.
Our Labour Organisations Fundamental Webex and video conference procedure on working with third parties workshops on data protection Conventions on Labour Standards and clearly outlines our zero-tolerance the United Nations Global Compact.
Face-to-face training by the Legal approach to bribery and provides The policy applies to all Group and Compliance team to staff at practical guidance for our employees in employees.
It sets out the principles for several sites covering anti-bribery identifying concerns and how to report our actions and behaviour in conducting and corruption, gifts, hospitality and them.
Vesuvius engages with third-party our business and provides guidance entertainment and trade sanctions sales agents, many of whom operate to those working for us on how we in countries where we do not have a approach human rights issues.
The Our e-learning platform supplements physical presence.
Our employees Group commits not to discriminate in the face-to-face training provided to interaction with sales agents is supported any of our employment practices and employees by the Legal and Compliance by an ongoing training programme for to offer equal opportunities to all.
team, enabling us to reach more those who have speci c responsibility The Group respects the principles of employees, more quickly and in a more for these relationships.
freedom of association and the effective targeted way.
In 2018, we will continue recognition of the right to collective to develop our training processes and Data Protection bargaining and opposes the use of, modules available in the e-learning Our data protection policy requires a and will not use, forced, compulsory platform to help our staff understand the uniform approach in the handling of or child labour.
These principles have Vesuvius policies and procedures relating personal data to manage the privacy been integrated into the work of our to our Code of Conduct and regulatory obligations of the Group.
Everyone has procurement teams as we assess our compliance requirements.
rights in respect of how their personal suppliers and their business practices.
Our policy recognises Monitoring and Evaluation that the lawful and correct treatment of Training Alongside our training programme, we personal data is vital to our continued During the year we continued to operate assist employees with the implementation success in an increasingly regulated our training programme on the principles and interpretation of the Groups policies, global marketplace.
During the course of contained in the Vesuvius Code of and their application through a process our activities we may collect, store and Conduct and associated anti-bribery, of monitoring and evaluation.
Part of this process personal data about our staff, corruption and other compliance policies process involves performing ongoing and customers, suppliers and other third and procedures.
Training gives our targeted due diligence to understand parties.
We are committed to treating employees a clearer understanding of the background to policy design and this data in an appropriate manner.
the scope of risks that exist as we conduct application.
This forms part of our our business, and gives context to how compliance framework to ensure that our the Group expects each one of us to ethical and legal approach remains t for respond to those risks.
In 2017, our purpose and is understood throughout training processes have developed the business.
to include an integrated learning management system which allows us to deliver Vesuvius-speci c e-learning modules to employees on topics relevant to their role through an online interactive platform.
Our Responsibility 59 Operations meeting Skawina, Poland Speak Up Prevention of Slavery and Human Data Protection Traf cking The Group continues to monitor the In 2017, we spent considerable time During 2017 we published our second volume, geographic distribution and reviewing our approach to data transparency statement outlining the range of reports made to its Speak Up protection, in anticipation of the Groups approach to the prevention of facility to ascertain not only whether implementation of the EU General slavery and human traf cking in our there are signi cant regional compliance Data Protection Regulation in May.
You can concerns, but also whether there are We formally identi ed a Data nd a copy of our latest statement on countries where access to this facility Protection Of cer DPO in July 2017 our home page at www.
is less well understood or publicised.
whose role includes setting Group policy, Since the publication of our first The Audit Committee continues to implementing procedures, monitoring statement we have conducted a monitor and oversee the Groups compliance with data protection Group-wide risk assessment as well as procedures for reporting allegations of provisions and championing Vesuvius developing our internal policies and improper behaviour, and throughout approach to the protection of personal enhancing our supplier assessment 2017 the Audit Committee received data.
Our review involved Group-wide programme.
To ensure effective updates on the volume of reports due diligence to clarify the data we communication of our Human Rights received from the con dential Speak control and process, the methods by Policy we have provided training to our Up Helpline, key themes emerging from which we do this, the security of the key purchasing staff and introduced an these reports and the results of any systems that hold our data and the online e-learning module to upgrade the investigations undertaken.
In 2017, assignment of responsibilities for training given to all supplier-facing staff, we received 76 reports through the responding to this.
which provides key guidance on the red Speak Up facility, a number of which The DPO is also responsible for raising ags associated with modern slavery to related to the same set of facts.
Each one awareness of data protection issues assist them in identifying these during of these was investigated.
A substantial across the Group and training staff supplier visits and accreditation.
majority of reports received in 2017 were who undertake roles that involve the human resource issues which indicated processing of data.
Working with Third Parties no compliance concerns, nor serious During 2017 the Group continued the breaches of the Code of Conduct.
In Other Due Diligence review of our third-party representatives relation to the repetitive reports, even The Group continues to undertake and intermediaries.
This included though these did not identify compliance focused, countryand function-speci c detailed review of our due diligence concerns, steps were taken to ensure risk assessments, reviewing financial activities for active sales agents across that changes were implemented locally, records and the quality of implementation the Group.
This process covers including in certain cases entity-wide of our policies and procedures, often reputation, public information searches, management training, recommunication engaging the assistance of external regulatory searches and ultimate of policies and reinforcement of our advisers.
The outputs of these bene cial ownership, and has been business culture, supported by senior assessments are used to identify activities applied to each one of our active sales management oversight.
Of the small that require further improvement, ensure agents.
The review of our due diligence number of reports received that that our Group policies and procedures processes will continue to be extended contained allegations in breach of for the management of anti-bribery and on a risk-based approach during 2018 our Code of Conduct, thorough corruption risk continue to be appropriate and beyond.
investigations were performed and, for the business, and ensure that within where appropriate, disciplinary action our business there is the necessary taken, including one termination.
awareness and understanding to be able to manage risks appropriately.
