esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Business model How we create value UNDERWRITING EXPERTISE CLAIMS EXCELLENCE The Group utilises internal data, supplemented by the The Group has over 700 UK-based colleagues, focused use of external data, to provide competitive prices to on assisting customers in their time of need.
Performance is monitored through regular effective claims management processes, the Group is and detailed analysis to allow agile decision-making.
able to deliver a great service, while minimising costs to the business.
CUSTOMER ACQUISITION CUSTOMER CENTRIC & RETENTION OPERATIONS.. c. 90% of customers acquired 270,000 claims settled.
through digital distribution 450m claims paid.. 1 million new business policies 5.1 million operational calls handled.
75% customer retention GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES OPERATIONAL LEVERAGE The Group has headroom to grow in its current markets Through scalable infrastructure and lean operations, the of Motor and Home insurance where it has a 6% and Group is able to deliver a leading cost per policy, without 2% market share, respectively.
The footprint expansion compromising on service.
The use of robotic process programmes in Motor have delivered over 300,000 inautomation, artificial intelligence and self-service force policies to date, with further opportunities to grow capability provide further opportunities to deliver an in these segments.
Agile, flexible technology Technology underpins the Groups business model.
With a stable and scalable IT infrastructure, the Group has been able to focus its attention on Application Programme Interface API based digital strategies.
These will provide the Group with opportunities to continue to evolve and enhance the customer experience.
Strong financial position INVESTMENTS CAPITAL The Group manages its investment The Group has a robust capital position with portfolio to maintain liquidity and capital coverage of 155% of its solvency preserve capital.
Investments are held to capital requirement normal operating range meet the Groups cash flow requirements, of 130%-150%, giving it flexibility to pursue pay customers claims and seek a suitable profitable growth opportunities.
return for an acceptable level of risk.
C apital coverage is estimated, unaudited and after allowing for the final dividend.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Value creation ADDITIONAL SERVICES REVENUES New business volumes The Group provides a diverse range of products and services that are complementary to the core insurance product.
These products and services are sold to customers who choose to optionally enhance their cover or buy further services from the Group.
1m 2017 1.0 2016 0.8 LIFETIME CUSTOMER ASR per IFP VALUE.
Improved Net Promoter Score 55 2017 55 2016 51 CONTRIBUTION FOCUS Cost per policy Through underwriting expertise, claims excellence, operational efficiency and lifetime customer value, the Group is able to deliver value for its customers, colleagues and shareholders.
79 2017 79 2016 73 Agile, flexible technology Return on equity Strong financial position % DIVIDENDS The Group generates capital to fund 28 growth and dividends.
The dividend policy is to target a base dividend of 50% of the 2017 28 Groups profit and enhance this through 2016 28 a special dividend, after it has retained On continuing operations sufficient capital to fund its growth ambitions and regulatory requirements.
