Governance 11 7 Directors Report Directors Report Research and Development The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the The Groups investment in research and development audited accounts of the Group and of the Company, Vesuvius R&D during the year under review amounted to 33.2m plc, registered in England and Wales No.
8217766, for the year representing approximately 2.0% of Group revenue ended 31 December 2017.
Further details of the Groups R&D activities can be found in the Innovation section of the Strategic Report.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to provide a Directors Report for Vesuvius plc for the year ended Dividends 31 December 2017.
The information that ful ls this requirement and which is incorporated by reference into, and forms part An interim dividend of 5.50 pence 2016: 5.15 pence per of, this report is included in the following sections of the Vesuvius ordinary share was paid on 22 September 2017 to Annual Report: Vesuvius shareholders.
The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2017 of 12.50 pence 2016: 11.40 pence The Our Responsibility section per ordinary share which, if approved, will be paid on 25 May 2018 to shareholders on the register at 13 April 2018.
The Governance section F inancial Instruments: the information on financial risk Accountability and Audit management objectives and policies contained in Notes 20 and 27 to the Group Financial Statements A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by the auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on This Directors Report and the Strategic Report contained in pages 121 and 124 to 129 respectively.
The Directors ful l the pages 1 to 73 together represent the management report for responsibilities set out in their statement within the context of an the purpose of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R of the UK Listing overall control environment of central strategic direction and Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Company delegated operating responsibility.
As at the date of this report, does not have any overseas branches within the meaning of the so far as each Director of the Company is aware, there is no Companies Act 2006. relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each Director hereby con rms that they have Going Concern taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Information on the business environment in which the Group information and to establish that the Companys auditor is operates, including the factors that are likely to impact the aware of that information.
future prospects of the Group, is included in the Strategic Report.
The principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces throughout its global operations are shown on pages Auditor Appointments 24 and 25.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, A competitive tender process for the appointment of a liquidity position and debt facilities are also described in the statutory auditor was conducted during 2016.
In addition, the Groups Viability Statement the completion of this the Company recommended that is set out within the Strategic Report on page 23.
Notes 20 and  LLP PwC be appointed as external 27 to the Group Financial Statements set out the Groups auditor for Vesuvius plc for the year ended 31 December 2017, objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: replacing KPMG LLP.
Shareholder approval to con rm the financial risks: financial instruments and hedging activities: and appointment of PwC was given at the 2017 AGM.
PwC has its exposures to credit, market both currency and interest rate expressed its willingness to continue in of ce as auditor of the related and liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups cash Company, and consequently, resolutions for the reappointment balances and borrowings are included in Notes 13, 14 and 27 of PwC as auditor of the Company and to authorise the to the Group Financial Statements.
Directors to determine its remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM.
The Directors have prepared cash ow forecasts for the Group for a period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of the 2017 financial statements.
These forecasts re ect an Directors assessment of current and future end-market conditions and The Directors of the Company are Patrick Andr, Christer their impact on the Groups future trading performance.
Gardell, Hock Goh, Jane Hinkley, Douglas Hurt, Holly Koeppel, The forecasts show that the Group will be able to operate within John McDonough CBE and Guy Young.
Patrick Andr joined the current committed debt facilities and show continued the Board as Chief Executive on 1 September 2017, replacing compliance with the Companys financial covenants.
On the Franois Wanecq who retired from the Board on 31 August basis of the exercise described above and the Groups available 2017.
Holly Koeppel joined the Board as an additional committed debt facilities, the Directors consider that the independent Non-executive Director on 3 April 2017.
All the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in Directors will retire at the AGM and offer themselves for operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from election or re-election at the AGM.
Biographical information the date of signing of these accounts.
Accordingly, they continue for the current Directors is given on pages 50 and 51.
Further to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial information on the remuneration of, and contractual statements of the Group and the Company.
Vesuvius plc 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report continued arrangements for, the current Executive and Non-executive Further information relating to the Companys issued share Directors is given on pages 96 to 116 in the Directors capital can be found in Note 8 to the Company Financial Remuneration Report.
The Non-executive Directors do not Statements.
The Companys Articles specify that, subject to the authorisation of an appropriate resolution passed at a General Meeting of Directors Indemnities the Company, Directors can allot relevant securities under The Directors have been granted qualifying third party Section 551 of the Companies Act up to the aggregate nominal amount speci ed by the relevant resolution.
In addition, indemnity provisions by the Company and the Directors of the Groups UK Pension Plan Trustee Board none of whom is a the Articles state that the Directors can seek the authority of shareholders in a General Meeting to allot equity securities for Director of Vesuvius plc have been granted qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions by Vesuvius Pension Plans Trustees cash, without first being required to offer such shares to existing ordinary shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings Ltd.
The indemnities for Directors of Vesuvius plc have been in force since the date of their appointment.
The Pension Trustee under Section 561 of the Companies Act, in connection with a rights issue and in other circumstances up to the aggregate indemnities were in force throughout the last financial year and remain in force.
nominal amount speci ed by the relevant resolution.
At the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017, the Directors Annual General Meeting were authorised to issue relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 9,040,463, and, in connection with a rights The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED issue, to issue relevant securities up to a further nominal value of 9,040,463.
In addition, the Directors were empowered to on Thursday 10 May 2018 at 11.00 am.
allot equity securities, or sell Treasury Shares, for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate nominal amount of Amendments of Articles of Association 1,356,069, and for the purposes of nancing or re nancing, The Company may make amendments to the Articles by way if the authority is to be used within six months after the original of special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act.
transaction a transaction which the Board of the Company determines to be an acquisition or other capital investment, Greenhouse Gas Emissions to allot equity securities, or sell Treasury Shares, for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an additional nominal amount of Information on our reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, and 1,356,069.
Each of the authorities given in these resolutions the methodology used to record these, is set out on page 65 of expires at the earlier of the date of the 2018 Annual General the Strategic Report.
The resolutions were all tabled in accordance with the terms of the Pre-Emption Groups Donations Statement of Principles.
The Directors propose to renew these In accordance with Company policy, no political donations authorities at the 2018 Annual General Meeting for a further were made in 2017 2016: nil.
In the year ahead, other than in respect of Vesuvius ability to satisfy rights granted to employees under its various Change of Control Provisions share-based incentive arrangements, the Directors have no present intention of issuing any share capital of Vesuvius plc.
The terms of the Groups committed bank facility and US Private Placement Loan Notes contain provisions entitling the Authority for Purchase of Own Shares counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control on takeover of the Company.
Subject to the provisions of company law and any other A number of the arrangements to which the Company and its applicable regulations, the Company may purchase its own subsidiaries are party, such as other debt arrangements and shares.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held share incentive plans, may also alter or terminate on a change on 10 May 2017, Vesuvius shareholders gave authority to the of control in the event of a takeover.
In the context of the Group Company to make market purchases of up to 27,121,389 as a whole, these other arrangements are not considered to Vesuvius ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Companys be signi cant.
issued ordinary share capital as at the latest practicable day prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
This authority Share Capital expires on 30 June 2018 or the date of the AGM to be held in 2018, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will seek renewal As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued share of this authority at the forthcoming AGM.
capital of 278,485,071 ordinary shares of 10 pence each: 7,271,174 of these ordinary shares are held in Treasury.
In 2013 the Company acquired 7,271,174 ordinary shares, Therefore, the total number of Vesuvius plc shares with voting representing a nominal value of 727,117 and 2.6% of the entire rights is 271,213,897. called-up share capital of the Company prior to the purchase.
Governance 11 9 These shares were purchased pursuant to the Boards Equal Opportunities Employment commitment to return the majority of the net proceeds of Vesuvius plc is an equal opportunities employer, and decisions the disposal of the Precious Metals Processing division to on recruitment, development, training and promotion, and shareholders.
These shares are currently held as Treasury other employment-related issues are made solely on the shares.
The Company has not subsequently disposed of any of grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise and the repurchased shares.
During the year, the Company did not conduct.
These principles are operated on a non-discriminatory make any further acquisitions of shares, any acquisitions by basis, without regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, nominee, nor did it dispose of any shares previously acquired.
ethnic origin, religion, belief, gender, sexual orientation, age, The Company does not have a lien over any of its shares.
disability or any other reason not related to job performance or prohibited by applicable law.
In cases where employees are Share Plans injured or disabled during employment with the Group, support, including appropriate training, is provided to those employees Vesuvius operates a number of share-based incentive plans.
Under these plans the Group can satisfy entitlements by the and workplace adjustments are made as appropriate in respect of their duties and working environment, supporting recovery acquisition of existing shares, the transfer of Treasury shares or by the issue of new shares.
Existing shares are held in an and continued employment.
employee share ownership plan trust ESOP.
The Trustee of the ESOP purchases shares in the open market as required to Employee Communications enable the Group to meet liabilities for the issue of shares to Vesuvius adopts an open and honest approach to employee satisfy awards that vest.
The Trustee does not register votes communications, supported by regular updates from senior in respect of these shares and has waived the right to receive management across all businesses and operations within the any dividends.
Regular communications include direct email updates on the financial performance of the Company, the industry Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Voting environment in which Vesuvius operates, and other signi cant operational developments.
The Company operates an The Companys Articles of Association Articles do not contain any speci c restrictions on the size of a holding or on employee intranet which distributes Company news and events, as well as local initiatives for employee engagement on a the transfer of shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may site-by-site basis.
The HR department is the primary point of contact for employees on employment and workplace result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
matters, operating with an open-door policy and advising No person has any special rights with regard to the control of employees of any local legal, tax, pension or other employment the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully changes.
There are numerous employee-sponsored and paid.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the led representative bodies within Vesuvius which differ with Articles should be consulted if further information is required.
respect to jurisdiction and geography.
Senior management, supported and facilitated by the HR department, encourages Interests in the Companys Shares open dialogue and seeks opportunities to consult with these employee representative bodies as appropriate.
The Company has been noti ed in accordance with DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests of 3%, or more, of its issued ordinary shares: Pensions In each country in which the Group operates, the pension As at As at 31 Dec 2017 28 Feb 2018 arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with good employment practice in that particular area.
Independent Cevian Capital 21.11 21.11 advisers are used to ensure that the plans are operated in Standard Life Aberdeen 5.92 5.92 accordance with local legislation and the rules of each plan.
Artisan Partners 4.97 4.97 Group policy prohibits direct investment of pension fund assets Aberforth Partners 4.93 4.93 in the Companys shares.
Outside the UK, the US, Germany and Pelham Capital Management CfD 4.58 4.58 Belgium, the majority of pension plans in the Group are of a Phoenix Asset Management 3.10 3.10 fide ned contribution nature.
In 2016 the main German fide ned bene t plan was closed for The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the new entrants and existing members were offered a buy-out of ordinary shares of the Company as disclosed in accordance their bene ts under this plan.
Those who accepted this buy-out with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority are as then joined the new fide ned contribution plan.
set out on pages 113 and 114 of the Directors Remuneration Report and details of the Directors long-term incentive awards The Groups UK fide ned bene ts plan the UK Plan and the are set out on page 114. main US fide ned bene ts plans are closed to new entrants and have ceased providing future bene ts accrual, with all eligible employees instead being provided with bene ts through fide ned contribution arrangements.
Vesuvius plc 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report continued For the Groups closed UK Plan, a Trustee Board exists Vesuvius continues to seek ways to fide-risk its existing pension comprising employees, former employees and an independent plans through a combination of asset matching, buy-in trustee.
The Board currently comprises six trustee Directors, opportunities and, where prudent, voluntary cash contributions.
of whom two are member-nominated.
The administration The Groups worldwide net pension fide cit at 31 December of the UK Plan is outsourced.
The Company is mindful of its 2017 was 16.5m 31 December 2016: 29.4m.
The principal obligations under the Pensions Act 2004 and of the need to reasons for the 12.9m reduction were increases of 1.8m to comply with the guidance issued by the Pensions Regulator.
the fide cit arising out of changes to actuarial assumptions Regular dialogue is maintained between the Company and the attributable to increasing discount rates: updated mortality Trustee Board of the UK Plan to ensure that both the Company assumptions and pension membership data and additional and Trustee Board are apprised of the same financial and other accrual and administrative expenditure paid for the year information about the Group and the UK Plan.
This is pertinent 6.8m : offest by reductions to the fide cit of 10.2m from to each being able to contribute to the effective functioning of asset returns and cash contributions of 11.6m.
The following disclosures are made in compliance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rule 9.8.
6R Reference Location 1 Interest capitalised by the Group during the year See Note 9.1 on page 143 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 3 the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of Page 117 accounting and the Directors assessment of the prospects of the Company 4 Details of any long-term incentive schemes Pages 99 and 100 5 Director waiver of emoluments Not applicable 6 Director waiver of future emoluments Not applicable 7 Allotment for cash of equity securities made during the year Not applicable 8 Allotment for cash of equity securities made by a major Not applicable unlisted subsidiary during the year 9 Details of participation of parent undertaking in any placing Not applicable made during the year 10 Details of relevant contracts in which a Director or Not applicable controlling shareholder was interested during the year 11 Contracts for the provision of services by a controlling Not applicable shareholder during the year 12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder Vesuvius plc holds 7,271,174 of its 0.10 ordinary shares as has waived or agreed to waive any dividends Treasury shares.
No dividends are payable on these shares.
Cookson Investments Jersey Limited, the Trustee of the Companys ESOP, has agreed to waive, on an ongoing basis, any dividends payable on shares it holds on trust for use under the Companys Employee Share Plans, details of which can be found on pages 107, 118 and 119 13 Details of where a shareholder has agreed to waive See above future dividends 14 Statements relating to controlling shareholders and Not applicable ensuring company independence The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by Henry Knowles Company Secretary 28 February 2018
