Directors Report Management Report and Corporate Governance Statement The Directors This Directors Report and the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 42 together comprise the Management Report for the purposes of present their report Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.
The Directors Report, which incorporates by reference the corporate for the year ended governance information on pages 43 to 85, fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Governance Statement for the purposes of Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.
Information incorporated by reference The following information is provided in other appropriate sections of this Annual Report and the financial statements and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference: Information Reported in Pages Corporate Corporate Governance Statement 43 to 85 governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities 86 Directors Board of Directors 50 and 51 Directors Remuneration Report 66 to 83 Directors shareholdings and share interests Financial Financial statements note 22 127 to 130 instruments Disclosures Corporate Responsibility 31 concerning Greenhouse Gas Emissions Important events Financial Review 41 since the end of the financial year Likely future Chief Executives Statement 17 developments Results and Chairmans Statement 6 dividends Research and Chief Executives Statement 14 development Employment of Resources and Relationships 27 disabled persons Employee Resources and Relationships 28 involvement Disclosure of Statement of Directors Responsibilities 86 information to auditors Directors The names and biographies of the Directors as at the date of this report are shown on pages 50 and 51.
Other Directors who served on the Board during the year and the dates on which they stepped down are shown below: Director Date stepped down Matthias Boyer Chammard 24 May 2017 Michel Plantevin 24 May 2017 Lynn Minella 31 December 2017 As announced on 14 February 2018, Jamie Pike will step down from the Board following conclusion of the AGM on 24 May 2018.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 84 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information The powers given to the Directors are contained in the In the event of a takeover or other change of control usually Companys Articles of Association and are subject to relevant excluding an internal reorganisation, outstanding awards under legislation and, in certain circumstances, including in relation to the Groups incentive plans vest and become exercisable the issuing or buying back by the Company of its shares, subject including ADBP cash awards, ADBP share awards and LTIP to authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in awards, to the extent any performance conditions if applicable general meeting.
The Articles of Association also govern the have been met, and subject to time pro-rating if applicable appointment and replacement of Directors.
unless determined otherwise by the Board in its discretion, in accordance with the rules of the plans.
In certain circumstances, Disclosure of information under LR 9.8.
4R the Board may decide with the agreement of the acquiring The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to company that awards will instead be cancelled in exchange for the following matters can be found on the pages identified.
equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
Subject matter Page reference Directors and Officers liability insurance and indemnities The Company has purchased and maintains appropriate Information about the relationship agreement page 52 insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
with Diamond BC S. a. r. l. The Company has also entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors, in a Articles of Association form and scope which comply with the requirements of the The Articles of Association may be amended in accordance with Companies Act 2006.
These indemnities came into force on the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of a special 22 October 2015 and remain in force as at the date of this Annual resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Share capital and control Financial instruments Details of the Companys share capital are contained in Note 23 Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are set out to the Group consolidated financial statements.
The rights in Note 22 to the Group consolidated financial statements, which attaching to the shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
are incorporated into this Report of the Directors by reference.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies The Company has established a trust in connection with the are included in the Risk management overview on page 37 and in Groups Share Incentive Plan the SIP, which holds ordinary Note 22 of the Group consolidated financial statements.
shares on trust for the benefit of employees of the Group.
The trustees of the SIP trust may vote in respect of Ibstock shares Political donations held in the SIP trust, but only as instructed by participants in the No political donations were made during the year ended SIP in accordance with the SIP trust deed and rules.
The trustees 31 December 2017. will not otherwise vote in respect of shares held in the SIP trust.
Annual General Meeting 2018 Substantial shareholdings The AGM will be held on 24 May 2018, at 2:00 p. m. at Citigate As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified, in Dewe Rogerson, 3 London Wall Buildings, London Wall, London accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency EC2M 5SY.
The Notice convening the meeting together with Rules, of the following interests in its ordinary share capital.
explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for appointing proxies is contained in a Name of Number of shares % interest in issued circular which will be circulated to all shareholders at least 20 shareholder disclosed share capital Nature of holding working days before such meeting together with this Report.
BlackRock Inc 22,911,904 5.64% Indirect In accordance with the Code, and the Companys Articles of FMR LLC 20,366,029 5.01% Indirect Association which require Directors to submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders, the Directors will all retire and Franklin Templeton Fund will offer themselves for election or re-election at the forthcoming Management AGM.
The Chairman has confirmed that the performance of all of Limited 20,400,000 5.02% Indirect the Directors continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate their commitment to the role.
In the period from 31 December 2017 to the date of this report, Auditor no further notifications were received.
A resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the re-appointment of Deloitte as auditor of the Company.
Information provided to the Company under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the On behalf of the Board regulatory information service and on the Companys website.
Significant agreements change of control Robert Douglas The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements Company Secretary that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the 5 March 2018 Company following a takeover bid.
The Company has committed debt facilities all of which are directly or indirectly subject to change of control provisions, albeit the facilities do not necessarily require mandatory prepayment on a change of control.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85
