Vesuvius plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operating Review Digital Services We are creating new offerings to participate in the digitalisation of our customers processes Alexander Laugier-Werth President, Digital Services There are two key elements of Vesuvius Laser technology Technology used for Digital Services revenue m Technical Services strategy: rstly, the measuring the wear of refractory Digital Services business unit, which materials in furnaces and ladles.
43.7m focuses on incubating our data capture This is an important area of focus as technologies, and, secondly, the other the market moves towards the use of 17 43.7 business units which play a critical role in ladle eets 16 36.9 integrating these products into our Continuous temperature measurement 15 31.7 broader consumables offering as well as This provides real-time continuous ensuring customer access.
In this way, our temperature data in the tundish.
Digital Services offers digitalised Technical Services strategy is embedded This allows customers to better solutions to our customers to make in the activities of both our Steel and understand temperature correlations their underlying processes more Foundry divisions which can work both with steel quality, reduce energy ef cient and reliable.
Digital with and independently of our Digital costs and optimise caster speed.
Services complements existing Services business.
Current solutions include Accuoptix, product lines by providing new Our digital services products assist our Accucone, and the Accumetrix services to our existing customers.
customers to meet the increasing end continuous temperature Digital Services focuses on the product consistency and quality measurement systems capture and interpretation requirements - enabling them to capture of key manufacturing data, Mould level sensors and control and analyse large quantities of complementing Vesuvius strong systems These are critical to ensure production data and harness them to presence and expertise in molten the stable, controlled ow of metal deliver reliable and auditable process metal engineering to create during the casting process and have and product improvements.
new technologies and integrate a signi cant impact on slab quality.
them into expert process In addition, mould audit services, management systems.
Key Products using our unique XMAT device, in Our business focuses on providing combination with computerised ow modelling, provide our Steel solutions that enhance the control and monitoring of our customers production customers with an expert eye inside the mould, allowing them to gain an processes.
During 2017, the business unit comprised four key product lines: intimate understanding of liquid behaviour as steel is cast Disposable sensors and probes These measure a variety of liquid metal By using each of these technologies, customers can focus on critical characteristics, which are mostly used in the primary and secondary parameters within their processes, enabling them to re ne their production steel-making stages.
Current solutions include temperature, oxygen, methods to improve quality, lower production costs and maximise hydrogen, iron oxide and aluminium measurements as well as metal ef ciency.
The information derived from these measurements can be included as sampling at all production stages of steelmaking and casting a consulting service and used as support for improvements in refractory solutions.
Our Performance 45 Shaping of a thermocouple quartz tube We also initiated restructuring actions Going forward we are optimising our 2017 Performance to optimise our cost base and manufacturing footprint for sensors and Digital Services generated revenues manufacturing footprint, and to probes with the closure of a site in France of 43.7m in 2017, an increase of reduce operating costs.
To reduce operating 18.4% year-on-year on a reported basis.
costs further, we have initiated an On an underlying basis, revenues We introduced a number of new features investment programme to automate increased 8.9%.
This re ected market in laser technology in 2017 through the manufacturing process.
share gains in North America and completely revamped software and the India, and the signi cant success we Two Colour Pyrometer, which combines We will continue to review acquisition experienced in South America as a dimensional measurements with our opportunities for additional technological result of increased penetration of our most accurate surface temperature solutions to complement our existing sensors and probes business.
customer offerings, focused on data gathering and information analysis to In our Process Metrix lasers business, we Our focus on increasing sales in the provide customers with the information had a record year of sales with shipments continuous temperature measurement they need to deliver process improvements.
Avemis, our space began to drive sales volumes and The amount of data generated by mould level sensors and continuous pro ts in this area and we expect this to sensors is growing exponentially, so allied temperature measurement products, continue in the years ahead.
with this approach, we intend to focus on also had a strong year with revenues solutions for converting this data into up c. 30%.
Looking ahead valuable decision support information, maximising the value our various sensor The development of a digital offering Strategic Highlights from technologies bring to customers.
for our customers, complementary to the Year our consumables offering, remains a Alexander Laugier-Werth In December 2017, we nalised a fundamental priority of our Group President, Digital Services strategy.
To ensure that we continue to strategic investment in Sapotech Oy, a Finnish technology company developing maximise the opportunities to leverage our existing customer relationships to optical defect detection services in the steel continuous casting process.
This expand this area of business, the ongoing support of our Flow Control investment will be managed by the Flow Control business unit.
and Advanced Refractories business units is critical.
Flow Controls involvement We continued to integrate the Digital is focused on developing value-added Services companies, ECIL Met Tec and services around the tundish and the Sidermes into the existing Group sales mould in the continuous casting part of networks.
This enabled the businesses to the steel process.
SERT, Avemis and the access the wider footprint of the Vesuvius new investment in Sapotech Oy are key to customer base.
As a result, we made these efforts.
For Advanced Refractories, signi cant product performance laser technology business Process Metrix improvements in key lines such as probes has a key role to play in the development for measuring hydrogen and oxygen.
of its technical services offering.
