Resources and relationships Our people lie at the heart of the Groups operations.
As a large employer in both the EU and Our shareholders, Our employees the US, the Group must comply with all employees, customers and relevant national and local regulatory Health and Safety suppliers are the Groups requirements.
These combined with The Group, as with many manufacturing industry specific codes of practice and key stakeholders.
Each is businesses, faces the risk that an guidelines establish minimum health employee may be injured whilst engaged essential to the success and safety requirements, and under such in work activities.
The most common of our business model.
laws and regulations, employers typically injuries within our business arise from slips Additionally, communities must establish the conditions and the and trips, contact with moving machinery in which we operate, our management of work in a manner that and manual handling injuries.
As such, it is effectively prevents or adequately controls lenders, pension schemes, a strategic priority to focus on Health and hazards within the work environment.
Safety H&S in the workplace, and is at governments and other These documents are used to help define the core of our operations.
regulatory bodies have an Group policies and procedures for all important relationship with The Group employs over 2,800 people employees.
These are set out in the across the UK and US and it is the the Group.
The Directors Ibstock Health and Safety Policy Manual.
Groups objective to provide a healthy remain aware of the impact The Group has training programmes and safe working environment for all our that our business activities in place to ensure all employees are employees and the contractors at Ibstock have on these stakeholders, competent to carry out their duties and sites.
See also our Strategy on pages 22 an auditing protocol is in place to ensure as well as our impact on the and 23, and risk number 3 within our policies and procedures are effective principal risks and uncertainties on environment.
In determining and adhered to.
A dedicated team of page 35. our long-term decisions: we Health and Safety professionals support consider the consequences the operational employees in all aspects for each.
of Health and Safety management and leadership.
Number of Lost Time Accidents by year 26 24 22 20 18 16 14 12 2015 2016 2017 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 26 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information To mark the European Week for Safety Where an employee becomes disabled, Gender split across and Health at Work, we launched a series all efforts are made to try to ensure the the Group of new videos to remind employees about employee can continue in their current the importance of Health and Safety in the role.
However if, due to the specific work place.
The videos cover employees circumstances, this is not possible, every at each of our individual businesses as effort will be made to provide retraining for well as contractors, and are based around alternative employment within the Group The 12 Fundamentals the main points on or elsewhere.
which the organisations Health and Safety The Company remains supportive of policies are built.
They are aimed at the employment and advancement promoting a culture of Health and Safety All employees of disabled persons and ensures its awareness amongst employees and 1.
Male 2,448 promotion and recruitment practices highlights how best practice can keep 2.
Female 393 are fair and objective.
encourages the continuous development 1 It is the Groups objective to achieve zero and training of its employees and the 2 injuries and we continue to reduce the provision of equal opportunities for number of lost time accidents incurred the training and career development each year.
We are happy to report a of all employees.
reduction in the current year with 18 LTAs We are committed to identifying and in the year ended 31 December 2017.
This eliminating discriminatory practices, represents a fall of 10% year-on-year.
The procedures and attitudes and we expect Board continues to regularly monitor the all employees, officers, consultants, Groups performance against our Lost contractors, casual workers and agency Time Accidents KPI, and this focus workers to support our commitment and continues to play a part in reducing this assist in all possible ways to prevent KPI measure over recent years.
Senior managers the KPI was amended to ensure the 1.
Male 7 inclusion of LTAs of both company As a building products manufacturer, 2.
This Ibstock has traditionally attracted a very incremental focus has been given to high proportion of male employees, 1 ensure that the safety of the significant especially within factory-based production 2 number of contractors working at the roles.
Office-based support roles have Groups operations is considered equally a more even split of male and female within our key safety metric.
employees, including high representation of women in customer support roles.
2015 2016 2017 The Group acknowledges the aims, 23 20 18 objectives and recommendations outlined in the Hampton-Alexander Review which In addition to continuing our long-term is focused on ensuring talented women focus on the improvement in LTA succeed by removing barriers to their performance, 2018 will also see the success, and continuing to drive forward definition and commencement of our new the momentum of the Davies Review 1 Company Directors five-year Health and Safety strategy and Women on Boards.
Male 5 the health and wellbeing programme, 2.
Female 2 We are aware of the need to achieve an as outlined in our Strategy section on appropriate balance of women on our page 23.
1 Board and in senior positions throughout Equality and diversity the Group.
However, we do not consider We recognise the unique contribution of that it is in the best interests of the each and every person that we employ Company, or its shareholders, to set and aspire to provide a harmonious prescriptive targets for gender and we will 2 working environment where everyone can continue to make appointments based on grow their skills and thrive together and merit, against objective criteria to ensure share in our success.
The Groups diversity we appoint the most suitable person for policy guides us to ensure that all job each role.
applicants, employees and other workers We are working hard to encourage more such as agency staff and consultants are females into the business.
Our current treated with dignity and respect regardless 1 Lynn Minella resigned from the Board on employee population reflects the of any personal characteristics.
31 December 2017 and Joe Hudson was traditional nature of the industry, with appointed to the Board on 2 January 2018.
The Group is an equal opportunities around 85% of roles being occupied employer.
The Group considers by men, including a high percentage of applications for employment from disabled males employed in factory-based persons having regard to their particular production roles.
aptitudes and abilities and encourages Our employee population is therefore and assists, whenever practicable, the reflective of the manufacturing sector as recruitment, training, career development a whole, and especially within building and promotion of disabled people and the products manufacturing where men have retention of, and appropriate training for, traditionally performed factory-based those who become disabled during their production roles.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 Resources and relationships continued Our gender diversity performance is Delivering continuous improvement is the Its all about displayed in the charts on page 27 and in core of our operations, constantly looking the people the year we redoubled our efforts in this for more efficient ways of doing things and area with the formation of a Groupwide embracing technology wherever possible.
Women in business forum promoting However, all employees will eventually greater engagement from our female retire, and over the last 20 years the Group leadership and talent pipeline.
This internal has run a highly successful apprenticeship network is intended to ensure women programme.
Since 2012 we have across our companies feel supported in enhanced this programme through central achieving their career aspirations, through co-ordination and standardisation to peer support and focused coaching, as ensure all apprentices are trained to a appropriate.
consistent standard, including specific The Group is pleased to comply with new sign off within the organisation over and gender pay gap regulations and we above that of the training provider.
believe firmly in providing equal Gaynor Richards Our apprenticeship scheme ensures that opportunities regardless of gender or Personal Assistant to the CEO and CFO, Ibstock plc we mitigate the risk of an ageing workforce ethnicity.
The results of our gender pay and harness the skills and experience of Having joined the business in 1984 gap for the two impacted UK subsidiaries these people so that when they retire their Gaynor has witnessed many milestones in are noted below.
replacement is fully trained and competent Ibstock over the last 30 years including the Gender pay gap to take over their role.
acquisitions of Supreme, Forticrete and Anderton, and more recently the plc Difference in mean Currently, we have 34 members of our floatation in 2015. pay between men apprenticeship scheme, completing and women technical, mechanical or electrical Ibstock Brick 7% apprenticeships and in a male-dominated environment: we were pleased to have Forticrete 21% Apprentice of recently recruited our first female apprentice, who will commence her the year 2017 We view the gender pay gap data as a apprenticeship in September 2018. valuable tool to help understand why our Our objectives for 2018 include finalising own business and our industry are the feasibility assessment of expanding missing out on female talent.
We are our offering to an Operators proud of the steps we have already taken, apprenticeship which will be based and continue to take, to encourage more upon the Sciences Manufacturing females into our business.
The above Process Operative Standard.
table demonstrates that there is variation across the Group and we believe further Employee engagement continued action needs to be taken to Delighted customers can only be delivered increase the representation of women through highly competent, engaged and within our production facilities, which offer diligent people.
The day-to-day diverse roles suitable for all.
We see relationships with our customers are gender pay gap reporting as a critical step This years award went to Ben Lumsden, central to our success and have often in our drive to attract, retain and develop 3rd Year Dual Skilling Engineering been built through personal relationships a diverse workforce across the Group.
To mitigate the risk of disappointing our customers, we Training and apprenticeships Ben has taken on two apprenticeships are proud that our employee retention Our people lie at the heart of the Groups in a condensed timeframe and he has levels are high.
In 2017, our employee operations and as such we are committed shown exceptional academic achievements retention rate was 88% and, when to developing an environment where every so far, which he should be very proud of.
combined with our service profile, employee can thrive and give their very He clearly enjoys being on the demonstrates a sustainable organisation best each and every day.
Our continual apprenticeship scheme and has where people feel valued and advocate investment in their training and demonstrated this recently by becoming us as being a great employer.
development contributes to a highly an employee representative for the engaged workforce with the skills and A variety of methods are used to engage apprentices at EEF and also an Apprentice experience necessary to deliver the with employees, including factory and Ambassador for Ibstock Brick.
Groups business objectives both now and team meetings: departmental briefings: into the future.
In 2017, over 9,000 days of We are sure that Ben will embrace the and in-house publications.
The Group will training were provided to the Groups opportunity given to him, and progress use one or more of these channels to brief employees and we deliver a comprehensive his exceptional study work into practical employees on the Groups performance development programme covering a development at Throckley and the Ibstock and the financial and economic factors range of topics from operational skills brick business.
In improvement through to modular and particular, the Group operated a Save As structured Leadership Programmes to You Earn SAYE share scheme in support our succession plans.
We pride 2015 16 and has announced a new ourselves on developing our people and scheme for 2018 at the maximum around 20% of roles were filled by internal allowable discount of 20%.
The scheme applicants ensuring our people are able to is open to eligible employees, who are fulfil their career aspirations and we retain encouraged to save a fixed monthly sum their in-depth skills and knowledge of our for a period of three years.
There has been customers and operations, which is one of a high level of participation in the 2015 16 the key reasons for our continued success.
scheme from Ibstock employees and we Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 28 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information are hopeful this will be replicated in the contributing to the factorys profitability.
2018 scheme as we encourage employee Our UK brick range is already the most membership so that they can share in the extensive in the market and our innovative Groups success.
focus to expand the colour, size and texture options available, as well as Ibstock Brick, the largest operating entering new markets, continues to ensure company within the Group, has run that our range remains market leading.
employee opinion surveys for the last 19 years and this has been extended across Further examples of innovative products the wider Group during 2017.
The new and concepts developed during 2017 questionnaire is based upon the four include: the Glen-Gery StoneFit laminate enablers of engagement leadership, stone products an innovative stone engaged managers, employee voice and cladding solution that uses patented integrity.
Consistently our response rates interlocking panels: and Supreme have been in excess of 80% and allow Concretes Padstones an accessory us to identify specific improvement areas to compliment the existing lintel range, and formulate action plans to consistently which offers strength and value for money.
Furthermore, at Group level, innovation In extending the survey, it was is pursued through collaborative projects comprehensively revised to ensure that we among the businesses.
The Group has fully capture the true drivers of employee a strong track record of award-winning engagement and ensure that we continue products, including: to deliver for our customers.
Despite the positive overall outcomes, which were in Brick Development Association BDA line with external industry benchmarks, Awards Ibstock Brick has a long track the Group recognises the vital importance record of award wins having been in of employee engagement.
As such, each more than half of the award winning department has been tasked with categories and multiple supreme Juice Award for Best preparing an action plan to address any award winners.
In 2017, this includes Marketing Support concerns specific to its employees.
We supplying bricks to the Supreme Award recognise that to remain a great employer winner, South Gardens, which also won we must never be complacent and are the Large Housing Development Award.
totally committed to listening to our Our bricks were also used in five other employees ideas and opinions.
category-winning projects as well as receiving three commendations from Innovation the expert judging panel: In addition to the Groups tangible assets, such as our reserves and resources and Ibstock Brick was recognised for its property, plant and equipment, our strong marketing support at the recent Jewson brand names and customer base are supplier awards being awarded with the recognised as intangible assets within the Juice Award for Best Marketing Support Group balance sheet.
This recognition has in December 2017 see case study : From left to right: Thierry Dufour, Managing Director for arisen as a result of the acquisition of the Brick in Architecture Awards GlenJewson: Simon Taylor, Director of Sales, Merchants for trading businesses in February 2015 and Ibstock Brick: Sue Foster, National Account Manager Gery has won numerous awards across demonstrates the value attributed to the for Ibstock Brick and Martin Lake, Category Director a broad range of categories in the last strong reputations of the Groups for Jewson five years: and businesses.
Certain other intangibles are Ibstock Brick has been recognised for its not recognised within the financial Ibstock Brick best service provider marketing support at the Jewson annual statements, including the employees see manufacturing of the year to Barratt supplier awards.
above section on Company employees Homes for 2016. and the Groups strong market position The UKs largest brick manufacturer Responsible business see Our markets section on page 18 picked up the Juice Award for Best As the laws governing business dealings and 19.
Marketing Support at the event which become ever more complex we need took place as part of the Jewson annual The Group continually seeks to improve to ensure the judgements and decisions conference and customer show in the quality of its existing products and we make are taken with both the December.
The award recognises processes, as well as to introduce new knowledge and application of the highest Ibstocks commitment, engagement and products through innovation and ethical principles.
Following our listing, support in helping Jewson to improve its investments in new technology.
This we updated and re-issued our Code of brick offering for customers.
innovation reduces the risk that we are Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery unable to respond to our current customer and Corruption policies to continue to or business needs, but also helps us to ensure that we operate in an open, anticipate future trends.
fair and honest manner in all of our business dealings.
We have also The Groups innovation efforts are implemented our Trade Associations pursued at each of the Groups four Policy to help support employees in primary operating businesses.
In 2017, their dealings with fellow employees, within Ibstock Brick we added 16 new customers, suppliers, regulators and bricks to our range resulting in sales of colleagues in competing businesses.
In particular, the introduction of the Collington blend brick at our Ashdown factory sold over 1.3 million bricks with the product addition Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 Resources and relationships continued We believe that these sound, ethical The Group recognises that responsibility The Group is proud of its long history of principles will help us to act at all times for eradicating modern slavery rests with being part of the local communities in with honesty and integrity, constantly us all.
All individuals working within the which it operates.
Each of the companies striving to operate in the best interests of Group, in every capacity, are expected within the Ibstock family provides financial our business.
This will help ensure that to be familiar with the Groups Modern support, and is actively engaged in, these Ibstock continues to maintain and Slavery Policy and be proactive in communities.
This involvement ranges enhance its excellent reputation as a preventing modern slavery.
This includes from financial support for community Group that everyone can trust and wants employees at all levels, Directors, officers, projects to stakeholder engagement to do business with.
agency workers, seconded workers, relating to quarry extensions.
Some volunteers, interns, agents, contractors, examples of our involvement are included Building on these compliance policies, external consultants, third party within our Environmental Report.
This sets 2017 saw the first year of the Groups new representatives and business partners.
out several case studies from across the online compliance training.
This webGroup illustrating how we have engaged based compliance training was completed Our Modern Slavery Policy sets out a zero with local communities.
by 100% of the UK employees surveyed tolerance approach to any potential or with the US exercise currently ongoing.
actual breaches of the policy.
It sets out Ibstock became a member of Business The training covers a wide range of the the steps taken by Ibstock and other in the Community BITC in 2016 and Groups policies and codes of practice, relevant Group companies to prevent during the year ended 31 December 2017 including Anti-Bribery, conflicts of interest, modern slavery and human trafficking in our involvement has stepped up.
The business ethics and diversity.
its business and supply chains.
Annually, Group has undertaken visits alongside our employees certify their compliance BITC staff to assess employment In 2017, our tax strategy was disclosed with our policies and through the Groups opportunities within communities identified on the Groups website http: www.
Supplier Code of Conduct, we monitor by them, and we plan to progress this ibstockplc.
com media Files I Ibstock our suppliers to ensure they maintain further during 2018. documents tax-strategy-fy17.
This similar policies to ensure our standards formalises the Groups approach to Our societal influence also encompasses are upheld throughout our various conducting its tax affairs and managing our products impact on the built supply chains.
Our vision for tax is to be a environment and the aesthetics of our responsible corporate citizen, contributing Anti-corruption and bribery building products are carefully considered the right amount of tax to society at the We devised our Anti-bribery and during the design phase and through our right time and in the right tax jurisdiction Corruption Policy to help support close working relationships with architects whilst maintaining our integrity and employees in making all those business and other customers through the planning corporate reputation and continuing to decisions faced be it with fellow process.
Our products are subject to testing deliver value for our shareholders.
In this employees, customers, suppliers, by our Group technical department and statement, we set out our strategy for regulators and within the communities we we perform quality audits through the year conducting our tax affairs and managing work next to.
We believe that these sound aimed at ensuring high standards across tax risks.
ethical principles help us all to act with our factory locations are maintained.
honesty and integrity at all times.
We In preparation for the new Criminal Our wider social policies are not believe it also means looking after the best Finance Act legislation, the Group discussed due to their immateriality.
undertook a risk assessment exercise Environmental matters facilitated by the outsourced Internal Our Group Code of Conduct, together The Group, like any successful business, Auditor.
This reaffirmed the relatively low with our Supplier Code of Business must be conscious of the impact its risk across the Group due to the limited Conduct, set out the behaviours expected operations have on the environment.
international scope of our operations and of our staff and third parties we do As a manufacturer, the Groups impact blue chip nature of our major customers business with.
Also, to help us encourage can be significant.
the highest standards of ethical behaviour, corporate governance and accountability Our products make use of a variety of Respect for human rights in our business activities, the Group raw materials, some of which require The Group is aware of its obligations operates an anonymous Whistleblowing extraction.
Where the Group undertakes under the Human Rights Act and seeks hotline, which is available 24 hours a day, its own extraction, we are subject to to act accordingly in all aspects of its seven days a week.
A summary of restoration obligations that may involve the operations.
Modern slavery is an whistleblowing activity, together with reinstatement of quarries following our international crime and we are committed details of related investigations, is provided use.
We monitor such obligations carefully to taking all necessary steps to prevent to the Board on a regular basis.
and work with local authorities and modern slavery within our business and communities to ensure quarry also within our supply chains.
During the Social matters reinstatement is carried out most year, the Groups Modern Slavery The Groups main impact on society is effectively.
We are subject to laws and Statement was published in accordance the provision of employment and training regulations in the UK and the US with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and across the wide geographies we governing the protection of the publicly summarising the principals of the operate within, and our practices in environment and natural resources.
Groups Modern Slavery policy see http: relation to our employees and apprentices, www.
com media Files I as discussed above.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 30 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information We are bound by rules, which include The strategic location of the Groups those governing air emissions: water manufacturing plants with a wide spread discharges: the use of solid and of factory locations across the UK and our hazardous materials and wastes: and the regions in the US: enable us to minimise investigation, remediation and monitoring the transport distances of products from of contamination.
Our policies in each of leaving our premises to reaching the these areas ensure compliance with the customer.
This assists in reducing the relevant legislation, and adherence to our environmental impact of transporting set policies is monitored regularly by both our products.
In the UK, the Group our internal and external third party predominantly outsources its haulage environmental audit team.
to two contractors who, as significant companies in their own right, maintain By recognising our responsibilities as a high standards of road safety and strive to manufacturer to reduce the environmental minimise their own environmental impact.
impact of our operations, we are From a wider sourcing perspective, all UK committed to introducing environmental businesses comply with BES 6001 the management systems and all of our UK Framework Standard for Responsible businesses are now accredited with ISO Sourcing.
Our responsible sourcing of 14001 the International Environmental construction products is demonstrated Management standard.
Our US business through our ethos of supply chain has an established Environmental management and product stewardship.
Management System, which incorporates This encompasses social, economic and energy management.
In addition to this, environmental dimensions.
we continue to invest in energy efficiency, CO reduction, the generation of electricity In addition to the Greenhouse Gas 2 from landfill gas and the recycling of raw emission figures, set out in the table materials, such as process water, to above, the Group also utilises a number minimise waste and cost.
of other key measures in assessing the effectiveness of its environmental policies.
Ibstock Brick is also accredited with These are set out within our Environmental ISO 50001 the International Energy Report, which the Group issued most Management standard EMS, which recently in May 2017. provides a framework of requirements for organisations to continually improve and Water is essential in our manufacturing integrate energy management into their processes and we are committed to overall efforts to improve environmental reducing our dependence on our use of management.
All of our UK businesses mains water, which has a higher carbon are fully complaint with the Energy footprint than non-mains water.
We Saving Opportunity Scheme ESOS and carefully monitor the usage of water by have had relevant energy assessments source and report our performance in this carried out in order to identify areas for area within our Environmental Report.
Landfill is a finite resource and becoming Greenhouse Gas GHG increasingly scarce.
As a Group, our emission figures objective is to move towards Zero waste to landfill and we follow an established Tonnes of CO e 2 Greenhouse Gas hierarchy for waste management, emission source 2017 2016 monitoring the amount of waste to landfill per tonne of production.
Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 430,040 426,173 Scope 2 Electricity 64,747 72,276 Intensity ratio: Tonnes of CO e per tonne of 2 production 0.19 0.19 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data has been collected from the majority of locations operated or controlled by the Group, with some estimations used for the US subsidiary entitys locations and immaterial UK subsidiaries.
UK Government conversion factors and EUETS verified emissions have been used.
Emission sources falling outside the Groups operational control and other Scope 3 emissions have not been collated and reported.
The Group has used CO per tonne of production as 2 its intensity ratio as this is the most appropriate and relevant factor associated with our activities and should provide an appropriate basis on which to compare trends over time.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31
