esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, BOARD CHANGES Stuart Vann stepped down from the role of Chief Executive On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am delighted to Officer on 18 January 2018.
As a good leaver, Stuart will receive present esures 2017 Directors Remuneration Report.
his normal payments in respect of his salary and pension contributions and will continue to be entitled to his normal This year the Committees activities were focused on the contractual benefits during his 12-month notice period continued implementation of our Remuneration Policy and expiring on his termination date of 18 January 2019. monitoring of its ongoing appropriateness in the current However, if the termination date is brought forward for environment, and reviewing the Executive Directors example, if he commences full-time paid employment during remuneration arrangements as well as those for our Group the notice period, Stuart will not be paid for what would Executive.
The Committee has also progressed with the otherwise be the remainder of his notice period.
embedding of Solvency II within our Group-wide Remuneration Policy, covering issues such as the identification of Solvency II Stuart will be entitled to receive a bonus for the entire 2017 Staff and reviewing our approach to risk adjustment.
performance year, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria.
This led to an overall award of 70% of In 2017, Peter Ward stepped down from the Committee and I salary, of which 30% will be deferred into an award of shares.
would like to thank him for his great service since his He will also be entitled to receive a bonus for 2018, pro-rated appointment in 2001.
I would also like to welcome Peter Shaw for the period from 1 January to 18 January 2018 and subject to who joined the Committee in the year.
the satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria.
Any bonus earned for the 2018 financial year will not be subject to deferral.
PERFORMANCE OUTCOMES IN 2017 Five years on from the Groups listing on the London Stock The Committee determined that Stuart is entitled to retain his outstanding Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, Performance Share Exchange we are a bigger and better business.
The Group has grown in this period to 2.4 million customers and delivered Plan PSP and Strategic Leadership Plan SLP awards, which will vest on their normal vesting dates subject to the gross written premiums of over 800m in 2017.
In addition, over the five-year period we have returned just under 300m achievement of performance conditions in the case of the PSP and SLP.
His 2016 and 2017 SLP awards will be pro-rated for to shareholders through dividends and created significant value for our shareholders through the acquisition and subsequent time for the period from the start of the relevant performance period to 18 January 2018.
Stuart also retained his demerger of Gocompare.
Restructuring Award Plan RAP award which vested in November 2017 and is subject to a holding period: this will be The 2017 annual bonus was based on Group trading profit 60% of awards, personal and customer performance released according to its normal schedule.
The Group achieved financial performance between threshold and target in Further details are provided on page 61.
2017 together with good non-financial performance, which led to overall awards of 70% of salary for the Chief Executive IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2018 Darren Ogden has stepped up to the role of Interim Chief Officer CEO and 76% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer CFO equating to 56% for the CEO and 60.8% for the CFO of Executive Officer and was awarded a temporary increase in base salary to reflect his additional responsibilities in this role.
His salary will be increased from 355,500 to 472,050 while he is in the Interim Chief Executive Officer role.
His pension Details of the 2017 bonus awards, including the level achieved and resulting payment outcomes, can be found on page 56.
The allowance will be based on his enhanced salary while he is in the role pro-rated if he is only in the interim role for part of financial targets are disclosed one year in arrears so as not to compromise our competitive standing by publishing any the year.
financial information that is commercially sensitive.
In this context we are aware that our key competitors in our core The annual bonus for 2018 will again be based on 60% Group trading profit performance, 25% on personal and customer markets are mostly parts of larger financial services groups which do not need to report granular targets within their own performance measures and 15% on strategic measures.
The maximum opportunity remains unchanged at 125% of salary annual reports.
To report our targets in advance would provide them with information about our plans which they could use to for the Interim Chief Executive Officer.
This will be based on his enhanced salary for the period he is in the role of Interim Chief our disadvantage.
The Committee is mindful of the shareholder appetite for increased transparency around remuneration Executive Officer pro-rated if he is only in the interim role for part of the year.
outcomes and will continue to monitor the ongoing appropriateness of our approach going forward.
Darren Ogden will receive a grant of 210% of salary under the Awards to Executive Directors under the 2015 Performance SLP in 2018.
For the purposes of determining the grant size, his enhanced salary will be used.
This reflects the Interim CEOs Share Plan are due to vest in early 2018, in respect of the performance period ended on 31 December 2017.
Relative Total extensive involvement in progressing esures strategic direction for 2018 and beyond and his critical role in driving the strategy Shareholder Return TSR performance for the 2015 awards was above upper quartile of the peer group and Earnings per over the coming months.
This incentive plan is intended to reward the Executive Directors, Group Executive and other Share EPS performance was below threshold: therefore, this resulted in an overall vesting outcome of 33.3% of the senior individuals for the delivery of superior strategic performance and the targets are very stretching.
The SLP maximum award available.
Further details are provided on page 58. awards will continue to be based on absolute total shareholder return TSR for three-quarters of the award and the remaining portion on relative TSR, the targets for which are set out on page 62.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS OTHER KEY ACTIVITIES AND SHAREHOLDER The Committee remains conscious of the shareholder CONSULTATION environment and continues to monitor the latest corporate The Committee met four times in the year.
Activities carried out governance developments, including the proposed changes to in the year are listed on page 45. the UK Corporate Governance Code and the disclosure of the gender pay gap.
The Committee is dedicated to ensuring there is open and transparent interaction with our shareholders.
The 2016 Annual The Committee, along with the rest of the Board and Report on Remuneration received an 84.26% vote in favour and management, continues to monitor the gender pay gap whilst we consider this to be a good indicator of support, we within esures workforce.
Following the introduction of the undertook a summary shareholder consultation exercise with requirements for UK firms to disclose their gender pay gap, our larger shareholders in late 2017 to gather feedback on our esure has published details of many of the steps we have current arrangements and to better understand our taken, and continue to take, to help reduce the gap.
This shareholders priorities around remuneration.
includes our decision to sign up to the Women in Finance Charter in March 2017.
Our gender pay disclosures can be A new Remuneration Policy will be presented to shareholders found at https: www.
com  for approval at our 2019 AGM and we will therefore consult .
further with them as we develop this over the coming year.
The Committee is conscious of all proposed amendments to I trust this report gives a helpful summary of our Remuneration the Corporate Governance Code and will review the current Policy and its application and that we can look forward to your Remuneration Policy and arrangements for Executive Directors support for our proposals at the AGM on 17 May 2018. once the revised Corporate Governance Code has been published.
Yours sincerely, Martin Pike Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 46 4 6 47 7
