Vesuvius plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy The Companys existing Remuneration Policy was approved at the AGM held on 10 May 2017.
The previous policy applied in its entirety up until this date and after this date those elements of the previous policy that related to remuneration that remained extant on this date such as outstanding share awards continued to apply until these commitments cease.
The full policy report, as approved by shareholders, can be found in the 2016 Annual Report a copy of which is available under the Reports tab in the Investors section of the Group website www.
For the bene t of shareholders, we have reprinted the Policy below.
To ensure that the Policy is relevant to the 2018 financial year, we have made minor textual changes to refer to the applicable financial year in the following sections: Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Policy for 2018 which also contains, as described, 2017 data : and Consideration of Shareholder Views.
We have amended the Service contracts section to refer to the terms of the current Executive Directors and the Terms of service section to refer to the dates of appointment of the current non-executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of of ce including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out here, where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the date the Companys first Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act came into effect: ii before the policy set out here came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Remuneration Policy Table for Executive Directors Base salary Alignment purpose Opportunity Helps to recruit and retain key employees.
Salary increases will normally be in line with In line with the two to three-year period for Re ects the individuals experience, role the average increase awarded to other base salary appraisal, individual increases and contribution within the Company.
employees in the Group over a similar period.
when paid are likely to be in excess of those In considering any increase in base salary, for the wider population of employees for Operation the Committee will also consider: that year.
The individuals performance is reviewed i the role and value of the individual: No absolute maximum has been set for annually, with changes to base salary Executive Director base salaries.
Current normally appraised over a two to threeii changes in job scope or responsibility: Executive Directors salaries are set out in the year period.
Annual Report on Directors Remuneration iii progression in the role e. g. for a new Any change will normally be effective section of this Remuneration Report.
appointee : from 1 January in the year of the increase.
iv a signi cant increase in the scale of role Performance Base salary is positioned to be market and or size, value or complexity of the Any increase will take into account the competitive when considered against other Group: and individuals performance, contribution global industrial companies, and relevant and increasing experience.
international and FTSE 250 companies v the need to maintain market excluding Investment Trusts.
Paid in cash, subject to local tax and social security regulations.
Other bene ts Alignment purpose dependent children, life insurance, disability Opportunity and health insurance, together with Provides normal market practice bene ts.
There is no formal maximum as bene t costs relocation allowance and expatriate bene ts, can uctuate depending on changes in in some instances grossed up for tax, in provider, cost and individual circumstances.
Operation accordance with the Groups policies, and A range of standard bene ts including, participation in any employee share scheme Performance but not limited to: car allowance, private operated by the Group.
medical care including spouse and None Governance 99 Pension Alignment purpose Operation Opportunity Helps to recruit and retain key employees.
An allowance is given as a percentage of Maximum of 30% of base salary.
This may be used to participate in Vesuvius pension arrangements, invested Performance in own pension arrangements or taken as a None cash supplement or any combination of the above options.
Annual Incentive Alignment purpose The Committee has the discretion to Performance determine that actual incentive payments Incentivises Executive Directors to achieve Annual Incentive is measured on targets set at should be lower than levels calculated by key short-term financial and strategic the beginning of each year.
The Committee reference to achievement against targets targets of the Group.
establishes threshold and maximum if it considers this to be appropriate.
performance targets for each financial year.
Additional alignment with shareholders The majority of the Annual Incentive will be The Committee has the discretion to interests through the operation of determined by measure s of Group financial award participants the equivalent value bonus deferral.
The remainder of the Annual of dividends accrued during the vesting Incentive will be based on financial, strategic period on any shares that vest.
Operation or operational measures appropriate to the individual Director.
Performance is measured Normally 33% of any Annual Incentive Subject to malus and clawback.
Actual performance earned by Executive Directors will be targets will be disclosed after the deferred into awards over shares under Opportunity performance period has ended.
They are the Vesuvius Deferred Share Bonus Plan Below threshold: 0%.
not disclosed in advance due to their which normally vest after at least three commercial sensitivity.
years, other than in speci ed circumstances On-target: 62.5% of base salary.
outlined elsewhere in this Policy.
These may be cash or share settled.
Payments made between threshold and on-target and between on-target and maximum are pro-rated.
Vesuvius Share Plan Alignment purpose Awards vest three years after their award Performance date, other than in speci ed circumstances Flexible umbrella plan.
Vesting of Performance Share awards is outlined elsewhere in this policy, subject to usually dependent on measures of Group Aligns Executive Directors interests with the achievement of speci ed conditions.
EPS and relative TSR with the precise those of shareholders through the delivery measures and weighting of the measures The Committee may decide that the shares in of shares.
Rewards Executive Directors determined by the Committee ahead of each respect of which an award vests are delivered for achieving the strategic objectives of award.
These details are disclosed in the to participants at that point or that awards growth in shareholder value and earnings.
Annual Report on Directors Remuneration will then be subject to an additional holding section of this Remuneration Report.
Assists retention of Executive Directors period before participants are entitled to over a three-year performance period.
The Company reserves the right only to disclose EPS performance targets after the The Committee has the discretion to award Operation performance period has ended, due to their participants the equivalent value of dividends Awards may be granted as: commercial sensitivity.
accrued during the vesting period on any shares that vest.
Prior to any vesting, the Remuneration Performance share awards Committee also reviews the underlying Subject to malus and clawback.
Deferred share bonus awards financial performance of the Company over the performance period to ensure the vesting Restricted share awards Opportunity is justi ed.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive Market-price options an annual award with a face value of up These may be cash or share settled.
to 200% of base salary in Performance share awards.
Individuals are entitled to an aggregate annual maximum amount of awards.
Vesting at threshold performance is 25% If more than one type of award is granted, rising to vesting of the full award at maximum.
the individual limit for all awards is reduced to remain within the maximum.
Vesuvius plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration Policy continued Within the policy period, the Committee will continually review Malus Clawback Arrangements the performance measures used, including TSR and the The Executive Directors variable remuneration is subject to applicable comparator group, and EPS and other financial malus and clawback provisions.
These provide the Committee measures, to ensure that awards are made on the basis of with the exibility, if required, to withhold or recover payments challenging targets that clearly support the achievement of made to Executive Directors under the Annual Incentive Plan the Groups strategic aims.
including deferred awards and or to withhold or recover share awards granted to Executive Directors under the Vesuvius The Committee may vary or waive any performance Share Plan, including any dividends granted on such awards.
condition s if circumstances occur which cause it to determine The circumstances in which the Committee could potentially that the original condition s have ceased to be appropriate, elect to apply malus and clawback provisions include: a provided that any such variation or waiver is fair, reasonable material misstatement in the Companys financial statements: and not materially less dif cult to satisfy than the original an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of condition in its opinion.
In the event that the Committee were an incentive: gross misconduct by an individual: or signi cant to make an adjustment of this sort, a full explanation would be financial loss or serious reputational damage to Vesuvius plc provided in the next Remuneration Report.
resulting from an individuals conduct, a material failure of The Committee may: a in the event of a variation of the risk management or a serious breach of health and safety.
Companys share capital, demerger, special dividend or any These malus and clawback provisions apply for a period of other corporate event which it reasonably determines justi es up to three years after the end of a performance period such an adjustment, adjust: and b amend the terms of or end of the deferral period in respect of deferred awards.
awards granted under the share schemes referred to above in accordance with the rules of the relevant plans.
Performance Measures Share awards may be settled by the issue of new shares or In selecting performance measures for the Annual Incentive, by the transfer of existing shares.
In line with prevailing best the Committee seeks to re ect key strategic aims and the practice at the time this Policy Report was approved, any need for a rigorous focus on financial performance.
Each year issuance of new shares is limited to 5% of share capital over a the Committee agrees challenging targets to ensure that rolling ten-year period in relation to discretionary employee underperformance is not rewarded.
The Company will not be share schemes and 10% of share capital over a rolling ten-year disclosing the speci c financial or personal objectives set until period in relation to all employee share schemes.
after the relevant performance period has ended because of commercial sensitivities.
The personal objectives are all nonfinancial or job-speci c in nature and track performance against key strategic, organisational and operational goals.
In selecting performance measures for the Vesuvius Share Plan, the Committee seeks to focus Executive Directors on the execution of long-term strategy and also align their rewards with value created for shareholders.
On this basis, the performance conditions for the Vesuvius Performance Share awards will usually be dependent on measures based on TSR and EPS performance.
Governance 101 Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Service Contracts of Executive Directors Policy for 2018 The Committee will periodically review the contractual terms for new Executive Directors to ensure these re ect best practice.
The charts below show the total remuneration for Executive Service contracts currently operate on a rolling basis and are Directors for 2018 for minimum, on-target and maximum limited to a 12-month notice period.
The xed elements of remuneration comprise base salary, pension and other bene ts, using 2018 salary data.
Patrick Andr is employed as Chief Executive of Vesuvius plc The assumptions on which they are calculated are as follows: pursuant to the terms of a service agreement made with Vesuvius plc dated 17 July 2017.
Guy Young is employed as Minimum: Fixed remuneration only.
Chief Financial Of cer pursuant to the terms of a service On-target: Fixed remuneration plus on-target Annual Incentive agreement with Vesuvius plc dated 16 September 2015. made at 62.5% of base salary for Patrick Andr and Each Executive Directors appointment is terminable by Guy Young and threshold vesting i. e. median performance Vesuvius on not less than 12 months written notice, and by each for TSR and threshold for EPS for Performance Share awards Executive Director on not less than six months written notice.
made at 200% of base salary for Patrick Andr and 150% of base salary for Guy Young under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
External Appointments of Executive Directors Maximum: Fixed remuneration plus maximum Annual Incentive The Executive Directors do not currently serve as Non-executive being full achievement of financial and personal targets, made Directors of any other quoted company.
Subject always to at 125% of base salary for Patrick Andr and Guy Young and consent being granted by the Company for them to take up such 100% vesting for Performance Share awards made at 200% an appointment, were they to so serve, the Company would of base salary for Patrick Andr and 150% of base salary for allow them to retain any fees they received for the performance Guy Young under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
Note: In addition the Committee retains the discretion to award dividends either shares or their cash equivalent on any shares that vest.
Remuneration Illustrations 000 Patrick Andr, Chief Executive Guy Young, CFO Minimum Minimum 100% 692k 100% 456k On-Target On-Target 16% 54% 26% 20% 1,282k 57% 27% 806k Maximum Maximum 29% 27% 44% 2,398k 32% 31% 37% 1,418k 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 Fixed Elements Annual Variable Elements Long-Term Variable Elements Vesuvius plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration Policy for Non-executive Directors The Company seeks to appoint Non-executive Directors who have relevant professional knowledge, and have gained experience in a relevant industry and geographical sector, to support diversity of expertise at the Board and match the wide geographical spread of the Companys activities.
Non-executive Directors attend Board, Committee and other meetings, held mainly in the UK, together with an annual strategy review to debate the Companys strategic direction.
All Non-executive Directors are expected to familiarise themselves with the scale and scope of the Companys business and to maintain their speci c technical skills and knowledge.
The Board sets the level of fees paid to the Non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies of a similar size and international complexity.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
No variable remuneration is available to Non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors receive reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in attending the Board, Committee and other ad hoc meetings, including gross up payments to cover any personal tax owed on such expenses.
Fees Alignment purpose The Chairman is paid a single fee and Base fees paid to Non-executive receives administrative support from Directors will in aggregate remain within To attract and retain Non-executive Directors the Company.
the aggregate limit stated in our Articles, of the necessary skill and experience by currently being 500,000. offering market-competitive fees.
Opportunity Performance Operation Non-executive Directors and the Chairman will be paid market-appropriate fees, with None Fees are usually reviewed every other any increase re ecting changes in the market year by the Board.
or adjustments to a speci c Non-executive Non-executive Directors are paid a base Directors role.
fee for the performance of their role, No eligibility for bonuses, retirement bene ts payable in cash, plus additional fees for or to participate in the Groups employee Committee chairmanship or acting as share plans.
Bene ts and expenses Alignment purpose Operation Opportunity To facilitate execution of responsibilities All Non-executive Directors are reimbursed Non-executive Directors expenses are and duties required by the role.
for reasonable expenses incurred in carrying paid in accordance with Vesuvius out their duties including any personal tax expense procedures.
Performance None Terms of Service of the Chairman and other Non-executive Directors The terms of service of the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors are contained in letters of appointment.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed subject to their election at the Companys first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and re-election at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
During the first year of his her appointment, the Chairman is entitled to 12 months notice from the Company: thereafter, he she is entitled to six months notice from the Company.
None of the other Non-executive Directors is entitled to receive compensation for loss of of ce at any time.
All Non-executive Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The current policy is for Non-executive Directors to serve on the Board for a maximum of nine years, with review at the end of three and six years, subject always to mutual agreement and annual performance evaluation.
The Board retains discretion to extend the tenure of Non-executive Directors beyond this time, subject to the requirements of Board balance and independence being satis ed.
Governance 103 The table below shows the date of appointment for each of the Non-executive Directors: Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment John Mc Donough CBE 31 October 2012 Christer Gardell 31 October 2012 Hock Goh 2 April 2015 Jane Hinkley 3 December 2012 Douglas Hurt 2 April 2015 Holly Koeppel 3 April 2017 In addition to the annual remuneration elements noted above, Recruitment Policy the Committee may consider buying out terms, incentives and On appointment or promotion of a new Executive Director, any other compensation arrangements forfeited on leaving the Committee will typically use the Remuneration Policy in a previous employer that an individual forfeits in accepting force at the time of the Committees decision to determine an appointment with Vesuvius.
The Committee will have the ongoing remuneration.
authority to rely on Listing Rule 9.4.
2R 2 or to apply the existing limits within the Vesuvius Share Plan to make Restricted Base salary levels will generally be set in accordance with the Remuneration Policy current at the time of the Committees Share awards on recruitment.
In making any such awards, the Committee will review the terms of any forfeited awards, decision, taking into account the experience and calibre of the appointee.
If it is appropriate to appoint an individual on a base including, but not limited to, vesting periods, the expected value of such awards on vesting and the likelihood of the performance salary initially below what is adjudged to be market positioning, contingent on individual performance, the Committee retains targets applicable to such awards being met, while retaining the discretion to make any buy-out award the Committee the discretion to realign base salary over the one to three years following appointment, which may result in a higher rate of determines is necessary and appropriate.
The Committee may also require the appointee to purchase shares in Vesuvius to a annualised increase than might otherwise be awarded under the policy.
If the Committee intends to rely on this discretion, pre-agreed level prior to vesting of any such awards.
The value of any buy-out award will be capped, to ensure its maximum it will be noted in the first Remuneration Report following an individuals appointment.
Other than in exceptional value is no higher than the value of the awards that the individual forfeited on joining Vesuvius.
Any such awards will circumstances, other elements of annual remuneration will, typically, be set in line with the Remuneration Policy including a be subject to malus and clawback.
limit on awards under the Annual Incentive and Vesuvius Share With respect to the appointment of a new Chairman or Plan of 325% of salary in aggregate.
The Committee retains Non-executive Director, appointment terms will be consistent the discretion to make the following further exceptions: with those applicable at the time the appointment is agreed.
In the event that an internal appointment is made, or where Variable pay will not be considered.
With respect to Non-executive Directors, fees will be consistent with the a Director is appointed as a result of transfer into the Group on an acquisition of another Company, the Committee policy at the time the appointment is agreed.
If, in exceptional circumstances, a Non-executive Director was asked to assume may continue with existing remuneration provisions for this individual, including pension entitlements, where appropriate an interim executive role, the Company retains the discretion to pay them appropriate executive compensation, in line If necessary and appropriate to secure the appointment with the policy.
of a candidate who has to move locations as a result of the appointment, whether internal or external, the Committee Exit Payment Policy may make additional payments linked to relocation, above those outlined in the policy table, and would Vesuvius has the option to make a payment in lieu of part or all authorise the payment of a relocation allowance and of the required notice period for Executive Directors.
Any such repatriation, as well as other associated international payment in lieu will consist of the base salary, pension contributions mobility terms.
Such bene ts would be set at a level which and value of bene ts to which the Director would have been the Committee considers appropriate for the role and the entitled for the duration of the remaining notice period, net of individuals circumstances statutory deductions in each case.
Half of any payments in lieu of notice would be made in a lump sum, the remainder in equal If appropriate the Committee may apply different monthly instalments commencing in the month in which the performance measures and or targets to a Directors midpoint of their foregone notice period falls and are reduced first incentive awards in his her year of appointment or extinguished by salary from any role undertaken by the departing Executive in this time.
Executive Directors are subject Service contracts will be entered into on terms similar to those to certain non-compete covenants for a period of nine months, for the existing Executive Directors, summarised in the Service and non-solicitation covenants for a period of 12 months, contracts of Executive Directors section above.
following the termination of their employment.
Their service agreements are governed by English law.
Vesuvius plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration Policy continued Executive Directors contracts do not contain any change of in different leaver scenarios and on a change of control.
control provisions: they do contain a duty to mitigate should Whilst the Committee retains overall discretion on determining the Director nd an alternative paid occupation in any period good leaver status, it typically fide fines a good leaver in during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation circumstances such as retirement with agreement of the on early termination.
Company, ill health, disability, death, redundancy, or part of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged The table below summarises how the awards under the ceasing to be part of the Group.
Final treatment is subject to annual bonus and Vesuvius Share Plan are typically treated the Committees discretion.
Event Timing Calculation of vesting payment Annual Incentive Plan Good leaver Paid at the same time as to continuing Annual bonus is paid only to the extent employees.
that any performance conditions have been satis ed and is pro rated for the proportion of the financial year worked before cessation of employment.
Individuals lose the right to their annual bonus.
Change of control Paid on the effective date of change Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that of control.
any performance conditions have been satis ed and is pro rated for the proportion of the financial year worked.
Vesuvius Share Plan Good leaver On normal vesting date or earlier at Unvested awards vest to the extent that any the Committees discretion.
performance conditions have been satis ed and a pro rata reduction applies to the value of the awards to take into account the proportion of vesting period not served, unless the Committee decides that the reduction in the number of vested shares is inappropriate.
Bad leaver Unvested awards lapse.
Unvested awards lapse on cessation of employment.
1 Change of control On the date of the event.
Unvested awards vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satis ed and a pro rata reduction applies for the proportion of the vesting period not served.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may determine that unvested awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan will not vest on a change of control but will instead be replaced by an equivalent grant of a new award, as determined by the Committee, in the new company.
In the case of the Vesuvius Deferred Share Bonus Plan if the The Committee reserves the right to make any other individual leaves for any reason other than dismissal for cause payments in connection with a Directors cessation of of ce or or in the event of a change in control, the deferred award will employment where the payments are made in good faith in vest in full, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or Bene ts normally cease to be provided on the date employment settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation ends.
However, the Committee has the discretion to allow some of a Directors of ce or employment.
minor bene ts such as health insurance, tax advice and repatriation expenses to continue to be provided for a period In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new following cessation where this is considered fair and reasonable contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors or appropriate on the basis of local market practice.
In addition, including but not limited to settlement, con dentiality, the Committee retains discretion to fund other expenses for the restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
Executive Director, for example, payments to meet legal fees These would be used only where the Committee believed it incurred in connection with termination of employment, or to was in the best interests of the Company to do so.
meet the costs of providing outplacement support, and fide minimis termination costs up to 5,000 to cover transfer of mobile phone or other administrative expenses.
Governance 105 Comparison of Remuneration Policy for Executive Consideration of Conditions elsewhere in the Group Directors with that for other Employees in Developing Policy The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors is designed The Company does not consult directly with employees on in line with the remuneration philosophy set out in this report Executive Directors remuneration arrangements.
However, which also underpins remuneration for the wider Group.
the Remuneration Committee will take into account the pay Remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors draw on and employment conditions of other Group employees when the same elements as those for other employees base salary, determining Executive Directors remuneration, particularly xed bene ts and retirement bene ts with performancewhen determining base salary increases, when the Committee related pay extending down into the management cadres and will consider the salary increases for other Group employees in beyond.
However, given that remuneration structures for other the same jurisdiction.
employees need to re ect both seniority and local market practice, they differ from the policy for Executive Directors.
Consideration of Shareholder Views In particular, Executive Directors receive a higher proportion Vesuvius is committed to open and transparent dialogue with of their remuneration in performance-related pay and its shareholders on remuneration as well as other governance share-based payments.
Individual percentages of xed matters.
As Chairman of the Committee, Jane Hinkley versus variable remuneration and participation in share-based welcomes shareholder engagement and is available for any structures decline as seniority decreases.
discussions investors wish to have on remuneration matters.
The process for delivering salary increases on a two to During 2017, remuneration matters were discussed at a number three-year cycle for Executive Directors is also applied to of meetings with investors.
The feedback from such meetings is other members of the Group Executive Committee and their always shared with the Committee and taken into consideration direct managerial reports.
Whilst all employees receive an when decisions are made about future remuneration strategy annual performance appraisal, other employees continue to and arrangements.
receive salary reviews on an annual basis.
Shareholding Guidelines As with Executive Directors, middle and senior managers participate in the Annual Incentive Plan.
For members of the The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors Group Executive Committee and functional employees, to build and hold a shareholding in the Company.
The required the award is predominantly based on Group performance, holding of the Chief Executive is to be equivalent in value to at with the remainder awarded against achievement of personal least 2x salary and that required of other Executive Directors objectives.
For operational employees, any potential award is to be equivalent in value to at least 1x salary.
is based upon achieving three measures relating to Group Compliance with the shareholding policy is tested at the end of performance, business unit performance, and individual each year for application in the following year using the average achievement of personal objectives.
of the closing prices of a Vesuvius ordinary share for the trading All members of the Group Executive Committee participate in days in that December.
the Vesuvius Share Plan and receive awards of Performance Shares, which vest in accordance with measures and targets set General against EPS and TSR.
The level of awards granted to members The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy of the Group Executive Committee who dont serve on the set out in this Policy Report for regulatory, exchange control, Board are lower than those payable to the Executive Directors.
tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change For certain senior and middle managers, awards are made in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for under the Vesuvius Medium Term Plan MTP.
participate in the MTP at varying percentage levels, and awards are based on the same measures and targets as the Annual Incentive Plan.
Senior managers have their MTP awards made over Vesuvius shares, whilst middle managers receive their awards in cash.
In each case, awards are granted following the end of the relevant financial year.
The MTP share awards vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continuing employment.
Vesuvius plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Directors Remuneration Remuneration Committee Structure Advice Provided to the Remuneration Committee The current members of the Remuneration Committee are all Deloitte is appointed directly by the Remuneration Committee the independent Non-executive Directors of the Company.
to provide advice on executive remuneration matters, including The Committee Chairman is Jane Hinkley.
Jane Hinkley, remuneration structure and policy, updates on market practice Hock Goh and Douglas Hurt have all served on the Committee and trends, and guidance on the implementation and operation throughout 2017.
Holly Koeppel has served on the Committee of share incentive plans.
The Committee appointed Deloitte, since her appointment to the Board on 3 April 2017.
All continue a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of in of ce as at the date of this report.
The Committee complies Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK, following a formal tender process in 2014.
Deloitte also for the composition of remuneration committees.
Each of the provides the Remuneration Committee with ongoing calculations members brings a broad experience of international businesses of total shareholder return TSR to enable the Committee to and an understanding of their challenges to the work of the monitor the performance of long-term share incentive plans.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the In addition in 2017, within the wider Group, Deloitte was procured Committee.
Members biographies are on pages 50 and 51. in various jurisdictions to provide accounting and tax advisory work.
During 2017, Deloittes fees for advice to the Remuneration Committee, charged on a time spent basis, amounted to 71,975.
Meetings The Committee conducted a review of the performance of The Committee met five times during the year.
The Groups Deloitte as remuneration adviser during the year and concluded Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Human Resources Of cer that Deloitte continued to provide effective, objective and were invited to each meeting, together with Christer Gardell, our independent advice to the Committee.
No con ict of interest arises non-independent Non-executive Director, though none of them as a result of other services provided by Deloitte to the Group.
participated in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
In addition, a representative from Deloitte, the Remuneration Activities of the Remuneration Committee Committee adviser, attended the majority of meetings and the Chief Financial Of cer attended where the agenda of the The key matters the Remuneration Committee considered meeting required it.
The attendees supported the work of the during its five meetings in 2017 included: Committee, giving critical insight into the operational demands Considering, formulating and approving the remuneration of the business and their application to the overall remuneration arrangements for the new Chief Executive strategy within the Group.
In receiving views on remuneration matters from the Executive Directors and senior management, Agreeing the retirement arrangements for the outgoing the Committee recognised the potential for con icts of interest Chief Executive to arise and considered the advice accordingly.
The Chairman Considering and approving the 2018 salary review proposals of the Committee reported the outcomes of all meetings to for the Chief Financial Of cer and reviewing proposals for the Board.
senior management, as appropriate The Committee operates under formal terms of reference Reviewing and approving achievement against performance which were reviewed during the year.
The terms of reference targets for the 2016 annual incentive arrangements are available on the Group website www.
The Committee members are permitted to obtain outside Setting performance targets and approving the structure of legal advice at the Companys expense in relation to their the 2017 annual incentive arrangements deliberations.
These powers were not exercised during the year.
Reviewing and assessing the Companys attainment of The Committee may also secure the attendance at its meetings performance conditions applicable to the Vesuvius of any employee or other parties it considers necessary.
Performance Share awards made in 2014 Role and Responsibilities Setting the performance measures and targets, and authorising the grant of new awards in 2017 under the The Committee is responsible for: Vesuvius Share Plan and Medium Term Incentive Plan Determining the overall remuneration policy for the Executive Considering the Companys ongoing share sourcing Directors including the terms of their service agreements, requirements to meet obligations under the Companys share pension rights and compensation payments plans, and funding of the ESOP Setting the appropriate remuneration for the Chairman, In the light of advice received from the external advisers and the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary trends in remuneration practice and governance, discussing Recommending and monitoring the level and structure of the Companys overall approach to executive remuneration remuneration for senior management, being the first layer and reviewing whether any changes should be made of management below Board level and their direct reports Reviewing the Remuneration Committees terms of reference Overseeing the operation of the executive share incentive plans Approving the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report and reviewing the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Governance 107 As in previous years, the Committee was the subject of an issued shares.
Awards made under the Deferred Share Bonus externally moderated performance evaluation.
The performance Plan, to satisfy shares awarded to Directors under the Annual of the Remuneration Committee was rated positively overall.
Incentive, and awards made to senior managers by the Several items had been identi ed in the 2016 evaluation, and it Company over shares pursuant to the Medium Term Incentive was noted that these had been effectively managed in 2017, Plan, must be satis ed out of Vesuvius shares held for this with, in particular, the Committee gaining greater insight into purpose by the Companys employee share ownership plan the remuneration arrangements for employees below the senior trust ESOP.
The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by management tier and global remuneration policies.
Going the Remuneration Committee which considers the most prudent forward, communication was identi ed as an area of focus, and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the Company.
with the Committee expressing the view that the appointment At 31 December 2017, the Company held 7,271,174 ordinary of the new Chief Executive should be taken as an opportunity to shares in Treasury and 877,744 ordinary shares in the ESOP.
review the level of dialogue between the Committee Chairman, The ESOP can be gifted Treasury shares by the Company, can management and the external advisers.
In addition, as with the purchase shares in the open market or can subscribe for newly Board in general, it was felt that the Remuneration Committee issued shares, as required, to meet obligations to satisfy options would bene t from the more concise presentation of data in and awards that vest.
The Vesuvius Share Plan complies with the current Investment Regulatory Compliance Association guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans over a rolling ten-year period should The Remuneration Policy, which is set out on pages 98 to 105 not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital, with was prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 a further limitation over a rolling ten-year period of 5% for and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups discretionary share schemes.
More than 9.9% of the 10% limit Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. and more than 4.9% of the 5% limit is available as headroom for It also meets the requirements of the Financial Conduct the issue of new shares or the transfer of Treasury shares for the Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Company.
No Treasury shares have been transferred or newly Transparency Rules.
This Remuneration Report sets out how the issued shares allotted under the Vesuvius Share Plan during the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code are applied year under review.
by the Company in relation to matters of remuneration.
We have complied for the year under review with these provisions.
Policy Implementation Share Usage The following section provides details of how the Companys Remuneration Policy was implemented during the financial year Under the rules of the Vesuvius Share Plan, the Company has 2017 and how it will be implemented in the financial year 2018. the discretion to satisfy awards either by the transfer of Treasury shares or other existing shares, or by the allotment of newly Directors Remuneration Audited The table below sets out the total remuneration received by Executive Directors in the financial year under review: 1 2 Patrick Andr Franois Wanecq Guy Young 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 000 000 000 000 000 000 3 Total salary 175 393 590 325 325 4 Taxable bene ts 56 156 35 18 19 5 Pension 44 118 177 81 81 6 Total xed pay 275 667 802 424 425 7 Annual Incentive 186 399 371 332 166 8 Long-term incentives 609 9 Total variable pay 186 1,008 371 332 166 10 Total 461 1,675 1,173 756 591 Vesuvius plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued The table below sets out the fees and taxable bene ts received by Non-executive Directors in the financial year under review and the total remuneration received by both Executive and Non-executive Directors during the year under review: 2017 2016 Taxable Taxable 3 4 3 4 Total fees bene ts Total Total fees bene ts Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 John McDonough CBE 185 21 206 185 21 206 Christer Gardell 45 7 52 45 14 59 Hock Goh 45 8 53 45 8 53 Jane Hinkley 60 3 63 60 4 64 Douglas Hurt 65 2 67 65 2 67 11 Holly Koeppel 34 7 41 Total 2017 Non-executive Director remuneration 482 Total 2017 Executive Director remuneration 2,892 Total 2017 Director remuneration 3,374 Note: 1.
Patrick Andr joined the Board on 1 September 2017.
Figures in the table relate to salary, bene ts and Annual Incentive earned in respect of the period 1 September 31 December 2017.
Franois Wanecq stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2017, and retired from the Company on 31 December 2017.
Figures in the table relate to salary, bene ts and Annual Incentive earned in respect of his employment as Chief Executive pro-rated for the period from the beginning of the financial year to 31 August 2017.
Also included in the table is the full value of his Vesuvius Share Plan award due to vest in 2018 based on performance over the performance period 2015-2017 see footnote 8 for more details.
Base salary or fees, as appropriate earned in relation to services as a Director during the financial year.
The UK regulations require the inclusion of bene ts for Directors where these would be taxable in the UK on the assumption that the Director is tax resident in the UK.
The gures in the table therefore include expense reimbursement and associated tax relating to travel, accommodation and subsistence in connection with attendance at Board meetings and other Board business during the year, which are considered by HMRC to be taxable in the UK.
Bene ts for Executive Directors include car allowance, private medical care, relocation expenses, tax advice, commuting costs, school fees and fide minimis amounts for Directors spouses travel and administrative expenses, and bene ts incurred in connection with Franois Wanecqs retirement.
Patrick Andr and Guy Young receive a pension allowance of 25% of base salary.
Franois Wanecq received a pension allowance of 30% of base salary.
The gures in the table represent the value of all cash allowances and contributions received in respect of pension bene ts.
The sum of total salary, taxable bene ts and pension.
This gure includes any Annual Incentive payments made to the Executive Directors in relation to services as a Director in the year under review.
See pages 109 to 111 for more details.
This represents the Performance Share award granted to Franois Wanecq in 2015 under the Vesuvius Share Plan, that is due to vest in 2018.
See Note 6 of the Vesuvius Performance Share Awards Allocations table on page 113.
At an average Vesuvius mid-market closing share price from 1 October 2017-31 December 2017 of 580 pence, the total value of the awards that are due to vest, along with the cash payment for the dividend that has accrued on these vested shares was 609,364.
The sum of the value of the Annual Incentive and the long-term incentives where the performance period ended during the financial year.
The sum of base salary, bene ts, pension, Annual Incentive and long-term incentives where the performance period ended during the financial year.
Holly Koeppel joined the Board on 3 April 2017.
Total 2016 Director remuneration for the Directors who served during 2016 was 2.255m.
This included fees of 34k and taxable bene ts of 8k paid to Nelda Connors in 2016.
Nelda retired from the Board on 30 September 2016.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee exercised its Remuneration for the Former Chief Executive discretion to treat Franois Wanecq as a good leaver for the Audited purposes of the Vesuvius Share Plan, retaining his right to the Franois Wanecq stepped down as an Executive Director and awards granted in 2015 in full as he was employed by Vesuvius Chief Executive on 31 August 2017 and, to assist the transition of for the full performance period and those granted in 2016 and of ce to the new Chief Executive, he continued in employment 2017 on a pro-rated basis.
The vesting of all these awards is receiving his salary, bene ts and pension allowance, totalling subject to the achievement of the applicable performance 471k, until he retired from the Company on 31 December 2017. criteria over the full performance period, the rules of the Vesuvius Share Plan, and the approval of the Remuneration Franois Wanecq remained entitled to be considered for an Committee.
The extent of vesting of the 2016 and 2017 awards Annual Incentive in respect of services rendered in the calendar will be determined by the Remuneration Committee in 2019 year 2017.
It was agreed that the amount payable, if any, and 2020.
Details of the vesting of Franois Wanecqs 2015 would be calculated and paid in 2018 at the same time as other award, the extent of which has already been determined by Executives, and at a maximum would equal 125% of his base the Remuneration Committee, are included in the Directors salary in 2017.
Calculation and payment of the 2017 Annual Remuneration table and also detailed in the Longer-term Pay Incentive was subject to the Companys achievement of the section below.
financial targets, and his achievement of his personal objectives for this period see Annual Incentive section below.
The Annual Under the applicable company relocation policy, Franois Incentive earned in relation to the period 1 September Wanecq has received one months salary as a relocation 31 December 2017 totalled 209k, being 106% of his base allowance.
In addition, the Company con rmed in the Section salary for this period.
Governance 109 430 B Statement that it would pay his removal costs, the Annual Incentive reasonable costs of any international tax advice required in The Executive Directors are eligible to receive an Annual connection with his retirement from employment and any tax Incentive calculated as a percentage of base salary, based support to meet his ongoing obligations to correctly report on achievement against speci ed financial targets and income received from the Company for a three-year period personal objectives.
Each year the Remuneration Committee following his retirement.
In addition, the Statement con rmed establishes the performance criteria for the forthcoming year.
that the Company will also pay fide minimis administrative The financial targets are set by reference to the Companys expenses and bene ts incurred in connection with his financial budget.
The target range is set to ensure that Annual retirement.
Incentives are only paid out at maximum for signi cantly No further termination payment will be made to Mr Wanecq.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the setting and attainment of There were no payments made to any Director for loss of of ce these targets is important in the context of achievement of during the year ended 31 December 2017, and no payments the Companys longer-term strategic goals.
were made to any other past Directors of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Annual Incentive has a threshold level of performance below which no award is paid, a target level and a maximum performance level at which a maximum award is earned.
Base Salary and Fees In the year under review, the Chief Financial Of cer received 2017 Annual Incentive a base salary of 325,000 per annum.
Franois Wanecq For 2017 the maximum Annual Incentive potential for the received a base salary of 590,000 per annum, and following Executive Directors was 125% of base salary and their target his promotion to Chief Executive, Patrick Andr received a base Annual Incentive potential was 62.5% of base salary.
Following salary of 525,000 per annum.
The Non-executive Directors his appointment as Chief Executive on 1 September 2017, it fees were set at 45,000 per annum.
Supplementary fees of was agreed that Patrick Andr would participate in the Annual 15,000 per annum were paid to the Chairmen of the Audit Incentive at these incentive levels with effect from that date.
A supplementary annual fee With respect to his service with the Group prior to that date of 5,000 was also paid to the Senior Independent Director.
he remained entitled to receive any payouts due under the The Chairman was paid an annual fee of 185,000.
Neither the Flow Control business unit Annual Incentive Plan.
Chairman nor the other Non-executive Directors are members Following his retirement as a Director, Franois Wanecq of the Groups pension plans, nor do they participate in the remained entitled to be considered for an Annual Incentive in Groups incentive schemes.
respect of services rendered in the calendar year 2017.
It was In line with the Groups longer-term approach of reviewing the agreed that the amount payable, if any, would be calculated salaries of Executive Directors and senior Executives every and paid in 2018 at the same time as other Executives.
two to three years, Guy Youngs base salary was reviewed for For the financial year 2017 the Executive Directors Annual application in 2018.
This was the first time his base salary Incentives were based 60% on Group headline earnings had been reviewed since he joined the Company in 2015 and, per share, 20% on the Groups cash conversion fide ned as following this review, it was resolved that his salary should be operating cash ow divided by trading pro t and 20% on increased by 7.7%, with effect from 1 January 2018, up to speci ed personal objectives.
350,000 per annum, in recognition of his leadership of the Groups Finance function over the past three years and his Financial Targets development in the role.
In considering this increase, the The 2017 Vesuvius Group headline earnings per share Committee also noted that over the previous two years the performance targets set out below were set at the December average salary increase for UK salaried employees had been 2016 full-year average foreign exchange rates, being the rates 3.36%.
Following his recent promotion, there is no change to used for the 2017 budget process: Patrick Andrs salary in 2018, but, as announced at the time of his appointment, the Remuneration Committee has Threshold: On-target: Maximum: committed to review his salary annually for the first three 30.4 pence 33.0 pence 35.6 pence years of his appointment January 2019, 2020 and 2021.
The 2017 Groups cash conversion targets were set as follows: Pension Arrangements Audited In accordance with their service agreements, Patrick Andr Threshold: On-target: Maximum: and Guy Young are entitled to pension allowances of 25% 90% 105% 120% of base salary.
Franois Wanecq was entitled to a pension allowance of 30% of base salary up until the date of his In assessing the Groups performance against these targets, the retirement.
This allowance can be used to participate in Committee uses a constant currency approach.
Thus, the 2017 Vesuvius pension arrangements, be invested in their own full-year EPS performance was retranslated at December pension arrangements or be taken as a cash supplement 2016 full-year average foreign exchange rates to establish or any combination of these alternatives.
This is consistent with practice in previous years.
Vesuvius plc 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued In 2017, Vesuvius retranslated EPS performance was 39.1 pence, Personal Objectives and cash conversion was 104%.
Consequently EPS performance In 2017, a proportion 20% of the Annual Incentive for was above maximum and the cash conversion performance was Executive Directors representing 25% of the maximum 125% between threshold and target.
Payments of 75% and 11.38% of bonus entitlement was based on the achievement of personal base salary respectively, 86.38% in total were therefore due to objectives.
A summary of the objectives set and performance the Executive Directors and Franois Wanecq under the Annual achieved is set out below.
Incentive in respect of the financial performance metrics.
Patrick Andr Summary of objective Summary outcome Drive Group performance Launched new incremental restructuring programme with different scope Introduced and drove upgraded budget process for 2018 Transition to Chief Executive Completed tailored induction and handover of key contacts and engage the senior Developed relationship with investor community management team Developed relationships with senior teams in the Foundry, Advanced Refractories and Digital Services business units Manage the succession in Flow Selected successor, and continued to manage the Flow Control business unit until Control business unit leadership handover Assisted in induction of new Flow Control President Review Group organisation and Reviewed and con rmed business unit leadership and updated organisational implement changes identi ed responsibility of business units Rede ned corporate functional roles, organisation and leadership with clear communication In summary, after considering performance as outlined above, the Committee approved an Annual Incentive payout of 19.65% of base salary, out of the 25%, in respect of the personal objectives of Patrick Andr for the period of his tenure as Chief Executive.
For the period of his tenure as President Flow Control, Mr Andr was awarded 9.76% of base salary, out of 16%, in respect of his personal objectives.
Guy Young Summary of objective Summary outcome Develop people and team Developed updated functional strategy and plans, including full team evaluation Developed updated succession plans for key finance functions Drove performance across the team Improve working capital Implemented new supplier finance scheme management process Introduced clearer working capital management and reporting processes, with demonstrable impact on working capital performance Manage the Implementation of Delivered strategy.
Oversaw launch of project and commenced transition with Shared Service Strategy appropriate performance metrics put in place Develop Group IR strategy Implemented updated strategy and broker performance reviews Managed clear investor engagement and enhanced share register Enhance processes for monitoring Increased robustness of internal processes corporate activity Enhanced the capabilities for assessment of financial performance for corporate activity In summary, after considering performance as outlined above, the Committee approved an Annual Incentive payout of 15.75% of base salary out of the 25%, in respect of the personal objectives of Guy Young.
Franois Wanecq Summary of objective Summary outcome Drive Group performance for 2017 Maintained clear control of capital expenditure Reduced working capital percentage, improvement in cash conversion Support the process for CEO Strong support of succession process with appropriate assistance provided succession Effective transfer of key relationships both within and outside the Group Complete implementation of agreed Delivered expected savings from existing plan restructuring plan Existing plan perimeter extended to increase savings and return Implement the Board approved Increased performance focus on key growing markets of China and India strategy Continued the development of the Technical Service offering Continued focus on opportunities for corporate development Target corporate activity and business growth Supported incremental growth in key areas of strategic focus Governance 111 In summary, after considering performance as outlined above, of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts, and 50% on the Committee approved an Annual Incentive payoutof 15% of headline EPS growth.
The level of compound headline EPS pro-rated base salary, out of the 25%, in respect of the personal growth speci ed in the targets is set by the Remuneration objectives of Francois Wanecq for the period of his tenure as Committee each year, taking into account the Groups Chief Executive during the year.
prospects and the broader global economic environment.
The schedule of EPS targets is designed at the maximum level to The total Annual Incentive awards payable to Patrick Andr and be highly challenging, whilst remaining an effective incentive for Guy Young in respect of their services as a Director during 2017 the management team.
The EPS and TSR measures operate are therefore 106% of pro-rated salary and 102% of salary independently.
The use of these performance measures is respectively.
The total Annual Incentive award payable to intended to align executive remuneration with shareholders Franois Wanecq in respect of 2017 is 101% of salary.
UK Executives receive awards in the form of nil-cost Wanecq will receive his Annual Incentive payment in cash in options with a exible exercise date and non-UK Executives line with the Remuneration Policy.
33% of Patrick Andr and receive awards which are exercised on the date of vesting.
Guy Youngs Annual Incentive payments will be deferred into awards over shares, to be held for a period of three years.
On 16 March 2017, Franois Wanecq and Guy Young received allocations of Performance Shares worth 200% and 150% of 2018 Annual Incentive their base salaries, respectively.
Following his appointment The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2018 as Chief Executive on 1 September 2017, it was agreed that the structure of the Annual Incentive will remain broadly the Patrick Andr would receive a pro-rated top up of his 2017 same as for 2017: 60% of the Executive Directors Annual Performance Share award.
As a result on 1 September 2017, Incentives will therefore be based on Group headline earnings he was granted an additional Performance Share award of per share, 20% on working capital using an updated objective 42,257 shares.
This award, in addition to the Performance of the Groups working capital to sales ratio based on the Share award of 60,413 shares awarded to him on 16 March 12-month moving average and 20% on the achievement of 2017, brought his total award of Performance Shares in 2017 to personal objectives.
The Company will not be disclosing the 200% of his salary on a pro-rated basis.
It re ected the increase targets set until after the relevant performance period has in his Performance Share percentage entitlement and the ended because of commercial sensitivities.
The personal increase in his salary for the final four months of the year.
objectives for 2018 are all nonfinancial or job-speci c in nature The Remuneration Committee has determined that Patrick and track performance against key strategic, organisational Andr will receive a Performance Share award in 2018 and operational goals.
The maximum Annual Incentive equivalent in value to 200% of his base salary and Guy Young potential for 2018 will be 125% of base salary.
33% of any an award equivalent in value to 150% of his base salary.
Annual Incentive earned will be deferred into awards over shares, to be held for a period of three years.
The performance period applicable to the awards made in 2015 ended on 31 December 2017.
The TSR performance Malus Clawback Arrangements in 2018 during this three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Vesuvius has malus and clawback arrangements in respect of Companys performance was between median and upper Executive Directors variable remuneration.
As a result, 27.1% of Performance Share awards those arrangements is outlined in our Remuneration Policy.
will vest under the TSR performance element.
The Committee reviewed statistics from various sources which gave a large Longer-term Pay LTIPs Audited range of outcomes of global GDP growth.
The Committee Performance Share awards are allocated to the Executive concluded that 2% p. a. was a reasonable base against which Directors under the Vesuvius Share Plan VSP.
In accordance to measure the Companys EPS growth of 6.8% p. a. for the with the Remuneration Policy and the rules of the VSP, they are 2015-2017 performance period.
As a result the Groups annual eligible to receive, on an annual basis, a Performance Share compound headline EPS growth above this GDP measure award with a face value of up to 200% of salary.
Vesting of 50% for the period was 4.3%.
Therefore, 16.6% of Performance of shares awarded is based upon the Companys three-year Share awards will vest under the EPS performance element.
TSR performance relative to that of the constituent companies These awards will vest in April 2018.
Target for the 2015 Performance Share Awards Audited TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Annual compound headline excluding investment trusts Vesting percentage EPS growth above global GDP Vesting percentage Below median 0% Below 3% 0% Median 12.50% 3% 12.50% Between median and Pro rata between 12.50% Between 3% and 15% Pro rata between 12.50% upper quintile and 50% and 50% Upper quintile 50% At or above 15% 50% Vesuvius plc 11 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Targets for the 2016, 2017 and 2018 Performance Share Awards Audited TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Annual compound headline excluding investment trusts Vesting percentage EPS growth Vesting percentage Below median 0% Below 3% 0% Median 12.50% 3% 12.50% Between median and upper Pro rata between 12.50% and Between 3% and 6% Pro rata between 12.50% and quintile 50% 25% Upper quintile 50% 6% 25% Between 6% and 15% Pro rata between 25% and 50% At above 15% 50% Vesuvius Performance Share Award Allocations Audited The following table sets out those Performance Share awards that were allocated in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 under the Vesuvius Share Plan: Total share Additional Total share Market price of allocations shares Allocations allocations the shares on as at allocated lapsed Shares vested as at the day before Performance Earliest Grant and type of award 31 Dec 2016 during the year during the year during the year 31 Dec 2017 award p period vesting date Patrick Andr 1 8 April 2016 1 Jan 16 31 Dec 18 Performance Shares 92,746 92,746 291.7 8 Apr 2019 2,3 16 March 2017 1 Jan 17 31 Dec 19 Performance Shares 60,413 60,413 524.5 16 Mar 2020 4 1 September 2017 1 Jan 17 31 Dec 19 Performance Shares 42,257 42,257 578 1 Sep 2020 Total 92,746 102,670 195,416 Franois Wanecq 5 17 March 2014 1 Jan 14 31 Dec 16 Performance Shares 253,748 253,748 429.3 6 1 April 2015 1 Jan 15 31 Dec 17 Performance Shares 221,533 221,533 491.1 1 Apr 2018 1 8 April 2016 1 Jan 16 31 Dec 18 Performance Shares 373,938 158,113 215,825 291.7 8 Apr 2019 2 16 March 2017 1 Jan 17 31 Dec 19 Performance Shares 225,967 166,177 59,790 524.5 16 Mar 2020 Total 849,219 225,967 578,038 497,148 Guy Young 1 8 April 2016 1 Jan 16 31 Dec 18 Performance Shares 128,739 128,739 291.7 8 Apr 2019 2 16 March 2017 1 Jan 17 31 Dec 19 Performance Shares 93,355 93,355 524.5 16 Mar 2020 Total 128,739 93,355 222,094 Governance 11 3 Note: 1.
In 2016, Franois Wanecq and Guy Young received allocations of Performance Shares worth 200% and 125% of their base salaries, being 373,938 shares and 128,739 shares respectively.
In addition, prior to his appointment as Chief Executive, Patrick Andr received an award of 92,746 shares in respect of his role as President, Flow Control.
On the date of his retirement from the Company on 31 December 2017, Franois Wanecqs entitlement to the shares he was granted in 2016 was reduced pro-rata to re ect his departure part way through the vesting period.
As a result, 158,113 shares lapsed on this date.
On 16 March 2017, Franois Wanecq and Guy Young received allocations of Performance Shares worth 200% and 150% of their base salaries, being 225,967 shares and 93,355 shares respectively.
In addition, prior to his appointment as Chief Executive, Patrick Andr received an award of 60,413 shares in respect of his role as President, Flow Control.
These allocations were calculated based upon the average closing mid-market price of Vesuvius shares on the five dealing days before the award was made, being 5.222.
The total value of these awards based on this share price on the date of grant was 1,180,000, 487,500 and 315,477 respectively.
On the date of his retirement from the Company on 31 December 2017, Franois Wanecqs entitlement to the shares he was granted in 2017 was reduced pro-rata to re ect his departure part way through the vesting period.
As a result, 166,177 shares lapsed on this date.
Patrick Andrs March 2017 Performance Share award is subject to Flow Control performance conditions.
Under these, 7,552 of the 60,413 shares awarded are deemed to have met the performance condition applicable in the first year.
The achievement of the performance condition will be reassessed at the end of 2018, and 2019.
Following his promotion to Chief Executive on 1 September 2017, Patrick Andr received an additional award of 42,257 Performance Shares in the form of a conditional award.
This award brought his total award of Performance Shares in 2017 to 200% of his salary on a pro-rated basis, which is the maximum annual award for the Chief Executive as determined by the Vesuvius Remuneration Policy.
The allocation was calculated based upon the average closing mid-market price of Vesuvius shares on the five dealing days before the award was made, being 5.794 per share.
The total value of the award based on this share price on the date of grant was 244,837.
The Performance Shares that were allocated in 2014 had performance conditions to be tested over the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016.
As the requisite performance was not achieved, Franois Wanecqs award lapsed on the third anniversary of grant in March 2017.
The Performance Shares that were allocated in 2015 had performance conditions to be tested over the financial years 2015,2016 and 2017.
The performance period for the LTIP.
In accordance with the Companys achievement of the speci ed performance conditions, 43.7% of Franois Wanecqs Performance Shares, 96,809 shares, are due to vest on 1 April 2018.
In addition the Remuneration Committee has determined that Mr Wanecq will receive a cash payment of 47,872 which is equivalent to the value of the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares that are due to vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting.
All of Franois Wanecq and Guy Youngs awards have been made in the form of nil cost options with no exercise price.
Patrick Andrs award were made in the form of conditional awards.
If the performance conditions for these awards are not met then these awards will lapse.
If the threshold level of either of the two performance conditions applicable to these awards is met, then 12.50% of the award will vest.
The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to award cash or shares equivalent in value to the dividend that would have accrued during the vesting period on the number of shares that vest.
The mid-market closing price of Vesuvius shares during 2017 ranged between 400 pence and 606 pence per share and on 29 December 2017, the last dealing day of the year, was 584 pence per share.
Restricted Share Award On Guy Youngs appointment as Chief Financial Of cer in 2015, the Committee resolved that it would partially compensate him for long-term incentives that he forfeited as a result of joining Vesuvius by granting a one-off Restricted Share award over 17,115 shares under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
The value of this award was included in the Directors Remuneration table in the 2015 Remuneration Report.
Half of this award vested in 2016, and the remainder vested on 1 November 2017, the second anniversary of the date of his commencement of employment.
Details of the portion of the Restricted Share award that vested during 2017 are given in the table below: Outstanding Outstanding share allocation Shares vested share allocation 1 Date of award 1 Jan 2017 during the year 31 Dec 2017 13 May 2016 8,557 8,557 Note: 1.
8,557 shares vested to Guy Young on 1 November 2017.
The mid-market closing price of the Companys shares on the date of vesting was 5.885 per share.
The total value of shares that he received on the date of vesting was therefore 50,358.
In addition, Guy Young received a cash payment of 2,838.78 to re ect the dividends that would have accrued on the shares between his date of joining and the vesting date.
Vesuvius plc 11 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Statement of Directors Shareholding Audited The interests of Directors and their closely associated persons in ordinary shares as at 31 December 2017, including any interests in share options and shares provisionally awarded under the Vesuvius Share Plan are set out below: Outstanding Bene cial incentive 1 holding awards Executive Directors Patrick Andr 195,416 Franois Wanecq 1,363,930 497,148 Guy Young 14,551 222,094 Non-executive Directors John Mc Donough CBE Chairman 100,000 2 Christer Gardell Hock Goh 5,000 Jane Hinkley 12,000 Douglas Hurt 18,000 Holly Koeppel 7,500 Note: 1.
Patrick Andr holds conditional awards of 195,416 shares, and Franois Wanecq and Guy Young hold 497,148 and 222,094 nil cost options respectively, granted as Performance Shares under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
These are all subject to performance conditions.
Christer Gardell is Managing Partner of, and has a financial interest in, Cevian Capital which held 21.11% of Vesuvius issued share capital as at 31 December 2017 and at the date of this report.
None of the other Directors, nor their spouses, nor their minor children, held non-bene cial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
There were no changes in the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to the date of this Report.
All awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan are subject to performance conditions and continued employment until the relevant vesting date as set out on pages 112 and 113.
Full details of Directors shareholdings and incentive awards are given in the Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys registered of ce during normal business hours.
Shareholding Guidelines The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company.
The required holding of the Chief Executive is to be equivalent in value to at least 2x salary and that required of other Executive Directors is to be equivalent in value to at least 1x salary.
To this end, Executive Directors are required to retain at least 50% measured as the value after tax of any shares received through the operation of share schemes: in addition, permission to sell shares held whether acquired through the operation of share schemes or otherwise will not be given, other than in exceptional circumstances, if, following the disposal, the shareholding requirements have not been achieved.
Compliance with the shareholding policy is tested at the end of each year for application in the following year using the average of the closing prices of a Vesuvius ordinary share for the trading days in that December.
Executive Directors Shareholdings Audited As at 31 December 2017, the Executive Directors shareholdings against the current shareholding guidelines using the Companys share price averaged over the trading days of the period 1 December to 31 December 2017, of 565.97 pence per share were as follows: Actual share ownership as a percentage of salary Policy share ownership Director at 31 Dec 2017 as a percentage of salary Policy met?
Patrick Andr 0% 200% In the build-up period Guy Young 25% 100% In the build-up period Governance 11 5 Annual Changes in Chief Executive Pay vs Employee Pay The table below shows the percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive comprising salary, taxable bene ts and Annual Incentive and comparable data for UK salaried employees.
The UK salaried employee workforce was chosen as a fair representation of a suitable comparator group as both the former Chief Executive Franois Wanecq and the incumbent Chief Executive Patrick Andr are based in the UK albeit with a global role and responsibilities and levels of pay vary widely across the Group depending on geography and local market conditions.
UK salaried employee workforce average Chief Executive per capita 1 2017 2016 000 000 % change % change Salary 568 590 3.73 1.01 2 Taxable bene ts 212 35 505 0.89 Annual bonus 585 371 57.68 55.30 Note: 1.
Salary, taxable bene ts and Annual Incentive amounts in respect of the Chief Executive for 2017 re ect the sum of amounts payable to Franois Wanecq in respect of service from 1 January 2017 to 31 August 2017, and amounts payable to Patrick Andr in respect of service from 1 September 2017 to 31 December 2017.
The increase in bene ts principally results from the change in Chief Executive during the year.
Further information on the bene ts paid to Patrick Andr and Franois Wanecq during 2017 can be found in Note 4 to the Directors Remuneration table on page 108.
Annual Spend on Employee Pay vs Shareholders Distributions The charts below show the annual spend on all employees including Executive Directors compared with distributions made and proposed to be made to shareholders for 2016 and 2017: Relative importance of spend on pay 2017 m Relative importance of spend on pay 2016 m 48.6m 44.7m 10% 10% Remuneration Remuneration B Dividends Dividends 90% 90% 441.5m 384.8m m m 2017 2016 Change Group remuneration of continuing operations see Note 8 441.5 384.8 14.73% Dividends based on final proposed dividend 48.6 44.7 8.72% Vesuvius plc 11 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued TSR Performance and Chief Executive Pay The TSR performance graph compares Vesuvius TSR performance with that of the same investment in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
This index has been chosen as the comparator index to re ect the size, international scope and diversity of the Company.
TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, re ecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
A spot rate has been used for this graph.
The demerger of Vesuvius plc was effective on 19 December 2012 and therefore the graph shows the period from 19 December 2012 to 31 December 2017.
Vesuvius total shareholder return Vesuvius plc FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts compared against total shareholder return of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts 250 since demerger 200 150 100 19 12 12 50 1 2 Franois Wanecq Patrick Andr Chief Executive pay financial year ending 31 12 12 31 12 13 31 12 14 31 12 15 31 12 16 31 12 17 31 12 17 Total remuneration single gure 000 1,227 2,447 1,519 752 1,173 1,675 461 Annual variable pay % of maximum 0% 100% 64% 0% 63% 101% 106% Long-term variable pay % of maximum 67% 28% 27% 0% 0% 43.7% n a Note: 1.
Amounts shown in respect of Franois Wanecq for 2017 re ect payments in respect of his service as Chief Executive from 1 January 2017 to 31 August 2017 and the full value of his Vesuvius Share Plan award in relation to the performance period 20152017.
Amounts shown in respect of Patrick Andr for 2017 re ect payments in respect of his service as Chief Executive from 1 September 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Statement on Shareholder Voting At the last AGM which was held on 10 May 2017 the resolution concerning the advisory vote on the Remuneration Report for 2017 received 239,094,321 votes 98.99% in favour and 2,434,510 votes against 1.01% : 1,432,104 votes were withheld.
The Remuneration Policy received 238,743,173 98.86% in favour and 2,762,888 votes 1.14% against: 1,454,874 votes were withheld.
At the AGM to be held on 10 May 2018, shareholders will again be invited to participate in an advisory vote on the Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by Jane Hinkley Chairman, Remuneration Committee 28 February 2018
