Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Remuneration Committee DIRECTORS ATTENDANCE Meetings Possible 1 Director attended attendance Martin Pike Chairman 4 4 Shirley Garrood 4 4 2 Peter Ward 1 2 3 Peter Shaw 3 3 Angela Seymour-Jackson 4 4 1 These relate to scheduled meetings.
There was also one other ad hoc meeting.
2 Peter Ward stepped down as a member of the Committee on 17 May 2017.
3 Peter Shaw was appointed as a member of the Committee on 8 March 2017.
Martin Pike Chairman of the Remuneration Committee COMPOSITION The Committees Chairman reports formally to the Board on its The Remuneration Committee currently has four serving proceedings after each meeting.
The Directors Remuneration members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Report, which describes the Committees actions and its Directors.
The members of the Committee and attendance remuneration policies in more detail, is set out on pages 46 at scheduled meetings in 2017 are set out in the table above.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer, MEETINGS Chief Risk Officer, Company Secretary and the HR Director The Committee meets at least four times a year, or more may, by invitation, attend Committee meetings, except when frequently if required, and any two members constitute their own remuneration is discussed.
No Director is involved a quorum.
in determining his or her own remuneration.
None of the Committee members have had any personal financial interest, TERMS OF REFERENCE except as shareholders, in the matters decided.
The Remuneration Committees Terms of Reference can be viewed on our website at www.
The responsibilities of the Committee are to determine and agree with the Board the Remuneration Policy and total individual remuneration packages of the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management, including, where relevant, benefit and pension arrangements, determine and agree with the Board any performance-related pay schemes for senior management and oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
The Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions of employment for the wider employee population when considering Executive Directors remuneration.
The Committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its Terms of Reference and to seek any information that it requires from any employee.
It has the right to consult professional advisors or, if it is not satisfied with the advice received, seek further independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
