Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Customers esure vs. 11 General Insurance GI brands esure NPS vs. benchmark Sales esure 58 Mean 38 Service esure 46 Mean 41 esure effort vs. benchmark % scoring 5 Sales esure 72 Mean 64 Service esure 66 Mean 61 David Pitt Chief Operating Officer CUSTOMER FOCUS Sheilas Wheels vs. 11 GI brands The customer is at the heart of what the Group does: engaging with our colleagues to deliver excellent customer service and developing our colleagues so that at each customer touchpoint Sheilas Wheels NPS vs. benchmark we strive to deliver excellent customer service.
Sales Sheilas 62 Feedback is critical to understanding the success of customer Mean 38 service and over 200,000 pieces of customer feedback were received this year.
With over five million calls handled in 2017, Service it is great to see an 86% rating for friendliness across Claims and Sales and Service.
Using customer feedback to develop Sheilas 52 customer service further has led to Net Promoter Scores Mean 41 NPS of 45 in Sales and Service and 43 in Claims.
Responding to customers changing needs is also critical: for example, in Sheilas Wheels effort vs. benchmark 2017 there has been a 146% increase in social media responses to customers.
% scoring 5 Sales Colleagues learn and develop through customer feedback, Sheilas 76 along with celebrating success with colleagues about their Mean 64 engagement with customers.
The CEO Compliments of the Month, along with sharing customer successes on our intranet Service with all colleagues, are examples, and help support the Sheilas 71 culture and focus on customers.
Reward is based on customer Mean 61 satisfaction metrics to support the right behaviours across the business.
Id like to state how impressed I was with Graham from Glasgow who dealt with me today, offering me an outstanding quote and also giving me a call back to see if I wished to take out the policy with you.
He was clear, precise and extremely friendly.
He is an asset to your team and if all call centre staff were like Graham then the world would be a happier place.
Have a great weekend and thanks for your time.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND NPS NPS helps colleagues to understand how they impact the customer experience, positively and negatively, enabling us C omparisons based on up to 11 GI brands asking NPS which use to connect customer behaviour and financial impact, making outbound IVR survey and Effort question in Q4 2017. esure and it tangible whilst creating ownership and accountability across Sheilas Wheels sales data includes all sales codes including sales teams.
Listening to customers and acting on their feedback declined.
is a critical enabler for customer-led business success, and P ost-call IVR survey audio based survey that is normally used after the customer has interacted with Operations or Claims.
the insight collected from various NPS collection points along Effort % of customers who scored us 5 out of 5 for how easy with other satisfaction metrics helps to deliver customer-led it was to do business with us, where 5 means very easy.
changes, focused on making things better for customers.
26 27 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Customers continued Well done for providing an outstanding service.
I hope you are commended for your hard work.
That focus and understanding is used to create change to Both esure and Sheilas Wheels brands record the highest sales NPS and low effort score when compared to other continually improve and evolve in line with customers needs and create a competitive advantage.
Some NPS programmes General Insurance brands.
fail because they are only used to track a number, whereas at Both esure and Sheilas Wheels brands record the highest esure we believe that acting on customer feedback can help Knowledge and Friendly score when compared to other to deliver a strategy that is all about the customer and the General Insurance brands.
This ensures customers buy more, stay with us for longer and recommend our products to others.
Credit to esure on this Facebook page.
Sorted the document The Groups aim is to treat customers how wed like to be I needed within less than 10 minutes.
We see the world through their eyes, always listening, engaging, and understanding their needs.
This ensures that we continually improve the experience, deliver tailored interactions SOCIAL MEDIA and make it simple for customers to do business with us.
The Groups social media strategy has continued to evolve in 2017 and social media is now more than a service platform In 2017 the focus has been on the things that really matter to for our customers.
We aim to create a sense of community, our customers and, as a result, delivering on their core needs using consistent messaging, brand promotion and customer enabled the Group to attract and retain more customers to engagement to increase reach and widen our social footprint.
Customers receive a response in under 15 minutes and positive customer sentiment has improved by 30% in 2017.
Insight and expertise is used to find the cover that best suits our customers needs, providing products and services that Be social, be more than a service platform.
meet and add lifetime value.
The Groups business aim is to develop long-term Increase social reach, achieve wider social footprint.
relationships with customers by placing their interests at Consistent messaging, brand promotion and customer the heart of the strategy, planning, decision-making and engagement.
We keep our promises and commitments to earn the trust CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS and respect of customers.
We always want to get it right first time for customers and it is The Groups products, services and contact channels disappointing when this is not achieved.
This is why we make it are designed, monitored and managed to provide value, quick and easy for customers who have a grievance.
We are all accessibility, transparency, and to meet the needs of responsible for recognising when a customer is unhappy and customers.
This means we can quickly put right a wrong, explain something that perhaps could have been made We create a culture of continuous improvement, encouraging clearer in the first place, and to learn from what has happened constant and sustainable improvement for the benefit of so we can improve the customer journey for the future.
customers, identifying the right actions to improve NPS and business performance.
The good news is that most problems are resolved very quickly, which is what everyone wants, and the Groups model CUSTOMER SATISFACTION NPS PROMOTERS AND supports ownership within Claims and Sales and Service in the DETRACTORS first instance.
41% of complaints are resolved to customers Success in our industry relies upon us building customer satisfaction within four working days.
advocacy and retention: NPS enables us to track our performance and is a good predictor of profitable growth.
The centralised Customer Relations function is there to look NPS is a key metric employed as an end-to-end measure of at complaints that cannot be resolved quickly.
These cases satisfaction at key customer touchpoints throughout the life are examined independently, weighing up the strengths and of the policy.
Feedback is gathered after quotation, mid-term weaknesses of each case, giving consideration to what is fair service, renewal or cancellation and claim stage to monitor and reasonable in individual circumstances before issuing a service delivery, quickly identifying failure and focusing final decision.
In the rare cases where a suitable resolution improvement on key drivers of dissatisfaction.
cannot be found then customers are signposted to the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS.
They will independently NPS throughout 2017 has continued to perform consistently arbitrate on cases and their decision is binding on firms.
is published twice a year by the FOS, on a firms performance.
By year end, 68% more customers have taken the time For H1 2017, 83% of esure cases were upheld by the FOS in to provide feedback than the comparable period last year.
This is a strong result compared to key competitors and against a General Insurance average of 69%.
Customers on our sales journey are now scoring us a high of 65 NPS.
Customer Specialist friendliness scores on both Sheilas Wheels and esure brands score above 85.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 CUSTOMER CLAIMS The gentleman that I spoke to, Within Claims, customers are at the very heart of what we do.
The Group focuses on delivering outstanding service through Bernard, was so patient and listening to customers, responding to them in their moment of need and striving to keep promises and get it right first time.
thorough and professional and The NPS has increased to 43 within Claims based on customers recommending the Claims service due to their positive understanding: and he made it experience.
very easy for me to deal with In Motor, 92% of customers are confident in using our approved repairers where repair work is guaranteed for five years.
By all the different things I needed working closely with our repairers we can be sure customers are in good hands and this is supported by an extremely low to deal with today: it was a complaint ratio of just 2%.
In those cases where a vehicle is beyond economical repair, customers can upload images of lovely experience.
their vehicle to a portal, enabling the claim to be triaged and settled within four days of it being reported.
The Home team have also explored digital opportunities with suppliers to enable a more efficient claims settlement.
An app sent to the customer on low value buildings claims will assist She was polite and very them to upload images and then scope the cost of the damage.
On larger escapes of water or fire claims suppliers work with efficient and something that customers to stabilise their property as soon and as safely as possible to mitigate any long-term damage.
I thought was going to be a headache was dealt with in esure has been the best thing to ease the stress of a theft.
I can only commend you and we will have many years insurance a way that made it no bother.
with you as personally you have been amazing!
Your customer services is superb and the claim process very easy and stress Please do pass on my thanks.
Shes a great ambassador for To continue to improve the customer journey, over 100 new colleagues have been recruited in Claims this year with Sheilas Wheels.
investment in their training and development: a particular highlight being Youre in safe hands training that focused on empathy skills.
In order to develop and deliver a customer proposition that leads to 50 NPS, we are looking at other digital opportunities that are available and how we can give Claims colleagues the right tools to continue to service claims in a proactive and customer-focused approach.
esure Sheilas Wheels Reviews 4,305 Great Reviews 1,204 Great 28 29
