Strategic Report 6 Our Business Model and Strategy Hill & Smith Holdings PLC seeks to deliver superior shareholder returns by holding leading positions in the niche markets of infrastructure products and galvanizing services, diversified over different geographies.
Geographical Diversification Entrepreneurial Management Whilst continually driving our existing businesses we Group senior management encourages an seek to supplement this organic growth by acquiring entrepreneurial culture at business unit level, ensuring sustainable businesses around the world in niche businesses are agile, responsive and competitive.
See markets that complement our existing activities.
A key our strategy in action on page 8.
Our businesses employ feature of the Groups chosen markets is the influence people local to their communities, and the success of of heightened levels of regulation and health and each business is reliant on the quality of management safety considerations on development and growth.
We aim to ensure that each business All our products are developed and designed to strict is resourced with a capable, engaged and productive specifications and tested according to applicable country workforce.
See our strategy in action on page 8. Business Principles Governance Hill & Smith Holdings PLC is led by an experienced management team which has a strong record in successfully implementing the Companys strategy.
The Board is collectively responsible for upholding high standards of corporate governance and leadership, ensuring that the Company continues to deliver value creation for our shareholders.
See pages 43 to 79 for more details.
Aligned Interests The Hill & Smith Holdings PLC executive directors are subject to minimum shareholding requirements and also participate in long-term incentive arrangements which link remuneration to shareholder return, ensuring their interests are aligned directly with shareholders.
See page 68 for more details.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 7 Our Markets Our businesses provide services and products to the worlds utilities and power generation industries and to international businesses within the infrastructure of roads and rail, together with corrosion protection services in the form of zinc and other coatings, to these and other industries.
Portfolio Management Revenue growth and targeted Hill & Smith We continually seek organic returns growth from our existing By targeting returns at each Holdings PLC operations and monitor our individual business unit the lower performing Group Board ensures that revenue generating businesses to ensure overall growth is achieved which growth targets are maintained.
flows through to sustainable sustainable All our subsidiaries are tasked profitable growth.
See our profitable growth with achieving an acceptable strategy in action on page 9. operating margin.
Businesses and shareholder that fail to achieve this margin are given a period of grace return.
See pages to develop a plan for margin improvement to the targeted 10 and 11 for level.
See our strategy in action more details.
Risk Management Effective risk management is critical to the achievement of our strategic objectives, and the Group-wide risk identification, articulation and mitigation processes followed by our subsidiaries are integrated into their daily business activities.
See pages 26 to 30 for more details.
People The Group is committed to ensuring its businesses provide the right environment in which to work.
We insist that people connected with the Group are trained correctly, behave in the right way, work safely and comply with all local legal and regulatory requirements, thus ensuring the sustainability of the business as well as the environment.
We do this by implementing the correct policies and procedures relating to our people and the environment, by successfully delivering an effective health and safety system and encouraging our business to interact with their local communities.
See pages 32 to 37 for more details.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board has adopted certain financial and non-financial KPIs.
See pages 24 to 25 for more details.
