Vesuvius plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Innovation We engage the creativity of our people across the entire organisation to drive innovation Alan Charnock Vice President and Chief Technology Of cer Vesuvius R&D organisation has been support to the Steel and Foundry a major factor in maintaining our industries.
Our customers already technology leadership position.
We are recognise our expertise in developing now three years into our initiative to engineering solutions using our engage the creativity of people across understanding of our own technology the whole organisation, and to drive platforms and our customers processes.
innovation across the entire Group.
This is borne out of our long-term daily Like all our other major Group initiatives presence at customer plants, working 33.2m safety, quality and excellence in partnership with them to improve Spend on R&D embedding a culture of innovation the performance of our products, 2016: 28.6m requires focus on leadership, structure, and providing the continuous process, tools, training and incentivisation.
process improvement that our The structures are in place with the customers demand to maintain 2.0% necessary process and tools, which their own competitiveness.
are constantly being streamlined % of Revenue and improved.
2016: 2.0% Ideation Understanding our customers processes Digital Transformation and the application of our products, 14.5% Digital Transformation is a key theme knowing what to look for and then 1 for companies targeting signi cant understanding what we see, are the % of new product sales growth, strategic regeneration or first essential ingredients of the creative 2016: 14.2% market disruption with breakthrough process of ideation.
For Vesuvius, this has experience and knowledge with the 1.
Sales of products launched within the last 5 years as a % of total revenue been manifested by our Digital Services situation in front of you, generating business unit.
This also engages each new ways to make improvements.
of the Groups other business units Occasionally this can lead to in adopting a business model breakthrough ideas giving a step change complementary to and independent of in performance or a disruptive new their existing consumables business.
It is this presence Vesuvius is extremely well positioned to at, and interaction with, the customer harness the digital transformation trend that is at the heart of the Vesuvius by creating this new market offering built business model.
It is also illustrated in our on the reputation of over 100 years as Technical Services strategy: developing a leader of innovation giving technical sensors, software tools and techniques to Our Performanc mance e 33 Katarzyna Szafraniec, Quality Engineer, Poland A s a Quality Engineer I continue to draw on my R&D experience.
Having studied Chemical Two years later, I was promoted In 2016, I was selected to join Technology at university, to the position of R&D Engineer Skawinas new Casting & I joined Vesuvius in 2011, at Skawina where part of my Precast Department as a beginning as a R&D Assistant role was to conduct on-site Quality Engineer, where I at the Vesuvius site in Skawina, product analysis for customers, continue to draw on my R&D Poland working on refractory solving production issues for experience to monitor and material.
I was also responsible further improve production I collaborated with engineers for the development of processes.
My career at across numerous projects, new products such as the Vesuvius has enabled me to conducting physical and industrialisation of our develop my technical expertise, chemical analysis.
Using X-ray spinel-forming selfow as well as understand diffraction, Thermogravimetric castable.
During this time, production processes, Analysers and Scanning I also participated in develop training programmes Electron Microscopy, I was Vesuvius in-house technical an and d m ma anag nage e a t a te eam am of of able to gain a thorough HeaTt training.
mot moti iv va ate ted d c co oll lle ea agu gue es.
s. understanding of Vesuvius products and their structure.
Vesuvius plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Innovation continued constantly monitor customer processes new technology platforms may have R&D Performance and our products in use, interpreting the applications across multiple business During 2017, our new product sales data obtained, reacting with process units, and be integrated into many growth rate for products launched within adjustments in real time and allowing for different products, multiplying the value the last 5 years slowed slightly after an new process and product developments.
Technology platforms initial two years of very healthy growth.
This model can create new services, that come from these unorthodox By the end of 2017, we reached c. 15% add value to our existing product beginnings are more likely to lead to from our starting position of 8% in 2014. offering and accelerate our traditional breakthrough and disruptive innovations.
We launched a total of 26 new products ideation process.
We have several such new technology in 2017, with more than 30 new products platforms that are ready to move into planned for 2018 launch.
Innovation is the creative process of the NPI process and therefore look converting ideas into value-creating forward to exciting prospects for these The R&D resource allocation to technologies or creating value by doing technology projects has steadily in the years ahead.
But to be effective we increased in all business units.
The need to identify and prioritise the right Another important group in Vesuvius maturity of our NPI process means we ideas, and have the courage to put the drive for innovation is the Solutions can now monitor additional KPIs to other ones aside.
This groups activities have provide a deeper level of analysis on become a differentiator for Vesuvius in our innovation performance so we can Our new product introduction NPI our Steel market and an essential driver continue to improve and ensure that process has been in place for three years, for the development of our Technical we achieve the targets we set ourselves.
enabling us to identify and focus on Services strategy.
The team translates In 2018, we will introduce new input and the ideas and projects which are most what we see in customer processes, either output indicators for innovation to aligned with our strategic plans, injecting directly or through data analysis, into monitor our pipeline of breakthrough greater rigour into decision-making new solutions ranging from new designs projects, how ef ciently we move with a stage gate approach.
Today, we for existing products, to new products projects through the NPI process, and have no shortage of ideas, but actively and process control functionalities.
how effective we are at achieving work on a much smaller number of More fundamentally, it looks at the entire our forecasted project targets.
We spend prioritised projects than we worked on customer process and all the products 2.0% of revenue on R&D, a signi cantly four years ago.
We operate a continuous in use rather than just a single element, larger proportion of sales than most of portfolio review process to ensure enabling the root cause of a problem our competition and expect to deliver that the R&D technology roadmaps to be identi ed, rather than tackling signi cant bene ts from this investment.
emphasise both current needs and the individual symptoms.
The Solutions Group, combining its New Product Development In 2017, we launched an Ideation process application, modelling and Enabling Technologies, our fundamental Platform where new ideas are reviewed metallurgical expertise, is in high and re ned, with viable and valuable research group, continues to pursue a demand from both the Vesuvius range of new technology platforms.
ideas funnelled into the NPI pipeline.
regional organisations and our The Ideation Platform is presently The team monitors technology trends customers because of the positive across a broad range of industries, targeted only at new products and results it has demonstrated in solving manufacturing processes, but our both inside and outside our own complex problems.
The team looks for previously intention is to broaden its scope to include ideas on all topics for all unimagined or unconventional ways to IP portfolio use materials and processes, ltering functions, each with their own review process.
these concepts through our front-end The protection of our IP is as important as innovation process and incubating them its generation.
In 2017, we tested, and are until they become new technology now ready to roll out, an enhanced audit platforms.
These can then be used by process to measure the security of our IP R&D departments across our business across the Group starting with R&D and to foster new product or process manufacturing locations in 2018.
Our NPI projects portfolio was reviewed in 2015 and 2016, usually start from an identi ed customer and we continued with a stable level of need but this front-end innovation lings in 2017 to maintain our portfolio process starts with no speci c product at 156 families, 1,569 granted patents or market in mind, meaning that the and 518 applications pending.
Our Performance 35 Ideation Understanding our customers processes and the application of our products, knowing what to look for and then understanding what we see are the first essential ingredients of the creative process of ideation.
Global Research & Development centres Barlborough UK Bettsville USA Enschede Netherlands Feignies France Ghlin Belgium Pittsburgh USA Suzhou China Visakhapatnam India speci c topics ensuring that the resources Training Joining Up Innovation with the most knowledge and experience Vesuvius consists of two divisions and During 2017, we extended our in any eld are referenced, making for four business units.
Whilst this creates an training efforts to the broader Vesuvius more ef cient progress of our projects.
opportunity to cross-fertilise products, community.
To date, our project services, processes and technologies, management training programme has Excellence the divisional structure does not naturally included over 300 people, giving each facilitate the sharing of knowledge.
an understanding of the full innovation Our innovation activities are supported In 2017, we launched a Technology by the Group Excellence programme, process covering not only their role in Bridge Initiative, taking experts from the the process, but also providing them which allows for self-assessment against R&D department of each division, our designated benchmarks.
Within the with the skills to function more effectively fundamental research group and our in the cross-functional teams required R&D community, progress has already central process development group.
been made on the various Excellence to deliver new product introduction.
The training provided interactions with roadmaps, not only in Innovation, but The bridges are structured around also with respect to other initiatives such their future collaborators, identifying various technology themes related to the good practices and operating as standardising the career ladder for materials, processes and the new R&D staff, developing standard job skills necessary to drive our NPI projects technology platforms with the goal of: to greater successes.
descriptions across all divisions, enhancing performance assessment, Promoting... new ideas and Training will continue with a new applications for technology and supporting the career and personal programme called Quality in the NPI development of our staff.
Making steady process, speci cally focusing on: Measuring... the evolution of progress along all the roads of the technologies that are key to our Excellence road map will ensure that the Project fide nition: to ensure that industries Innovation pillar of the Vesuvius strategy projects going into the NPI process all will continue to strengthen, maintaining a have clear success criteria, converting Building... Technology Maps that solid foundation on which we continue to will include internal and external the customer need voice of the build for the future.
customer into SMART objectives information Alan Charnock Vice President Design Failure Mode and Effect Constructing... a knowledge network and Chief Technology Of cer Analysis FMEA and design of We launched the initiative with ten areas experiments: to accelerate the R&D of focus and will gradually add new stage of the NPI process, reducing themes over time.
All generated data the risk that the solutions developed is collated and stored in our R&D and tested in the laboratory do not collaboration platform TechConnect perform as expected in the eld, making the sharing of information causing recycled developments and as simple as possible and avoiding project delays duplication.
The learning generated by these community practice groups will be Process FMEA: to ensure that our industrialisation process is effective converted into tutorial presentations to allow for dissemination throughout and the product we ultimately manufacture consistently achieves the technical community of Vesuvius.
The community of practice groups the desired performance objectives as detailed in the project fide nition became the go to experts for these
