Vesuvius plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Board of Directors N John McDonough CBE Chairman Patrick Andr Chief Executive Appointed: 31 October 2012 Appointed: 1 September 2017 Career experience: John was appointed as a Director and Chairman Career experience: Patrick was appointed as a Director and Chief of the Company on 31 October 2012.
John was group Chief Executive Executive of the Company on 1 September 2017 having joined the Of cer of Carillion plc, the support services and construction rm, Group as President of the Steel Flow Control business unit in February for 11 years until he retired in 2011.
Prior to joining Carillion he spent 2016.
Patrick has had a long global career in the steel industry and, prior nine years in the automotive systems division at Johnson Controls to joining the Group, served with Lhoist company, the world leader in Inc. initially in the UK, before moving to become Vice President of the lime production, where he held the positions of Executive Vice President divisions European operations and ultimately moving to Singapore Strategic Growth, CEO Europe and CEO for Asia, CIS and Africa.
Prior to develop the business in Asia-Paci c. He returned to the UK as Vice to this he worked at ERAMET group, a global manufacturer of nickel President of the integrated facilities management division for EMEA.
and special alloys, where he was CEO of the Nickel division then CEO He served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Tomkins of the Manganese division.
Patrick showed signi cant drive and energy plc from 2007 to 2010.
John has a strong engineering background and in strengthening the Flow Control business and he brings to the Board considerable international commercial and listed company experience, this commitment, together with his industry experience, strategic vision, which enable him ably to lead the Vesuvius Board.
John was awarded constant customer focus and proven record of delivery that will enable a CBE in 2011 for services to industry and is a British citizen.
him to lead the Group in the next stages of its development.
Other appointments: John is Chairman of The Vitec Group plc.
He is also Chairman of Cornerstone Property Assets Limited and Sunbird Business Services Limited, and a Trustee of Team Rubicon UK.
A N R A N R Hock Goh Independent Non-executive Director Jane Hinkley Independent Non-executive Director Appointed: 2 April 2015 Appointed: 3 December 2012 Career experience: Hock was appointed as a Director of the Company Career experience: Jane was appointed as a Director of the Company on 2 April 2015.
Hock has more than 30 years experience in the oil and on 3 December 2012 and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee gas industry, having spent 25 years with Schlumberger, the leading in June 2013.
Jane spent a large part of her executive career working at global oil eld services provider.
His roles included President of Network Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corporation, the lique ed natural gas shipping and Infrastructure Solutions in London, President of Asia Paci c, and specialist which was listed on both the London Stock Exchange and Vice President and General Manager of China.
She served as Chief Financial Of cer from 1988 to 1992, Hock was a Partner of Baird Capital Partners Asia, the private equity and as Managing Director until 1997.
In 1998, Jane was appointed arm of the US investment bank Robert W Baird & Co. Based in China, Managing Director of Navion Shipping AS, a company majority owned he focused on the industrial, business services and healthcare sectors.
by Statoil, the Norwegian multinational oil and gas company, a position Hock strengthens the Board through his extensive experience of the she held until 2001.
She previously was a Non-executive Director global services industry and his understanding of Asian markets.
of Revus Energy ASA, a Norwegian oil exploration and production Hock is a Singaporean citizen.
Jane is a Chartered Accountant and has strong experience gained in the shipping industry of working with highly international Other appointments: Hock is Chairman of MEC Resources Ltd teams.
and Advent Energy Ltd, and is a Non-executive Director of AB SKF, Santos Ltd, Harbour Energy Ltd and Stora Enso Oyj.
Other appointments: Jane is Chairman of Teekay GP LLC and a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Premier Oil plc.
Changes to the Board during the year As disclosed above, Holly Koeppel and Patrick Andr were appointed to the Board on 3 April 2017 and 1 September 2017, respectively.
Franois Wanecq retired from the Board on 31 August 2017.
Our Performance 51 Key to Committee A R Audit Committee Remuneration Committee membership N Nomination Committee R Committee Chairman N Guy Young Chief Financial Of cer Christer Gardell Non-executive Director Appointed: 1 November 2015 Appointed: 31 October 2012 Career experience: Guy was appointed as a Director and Chief Career experience: Christer was appointed as a Director of the Financial Of cer of the Company on 1 November 2015.
Prior to joining Company on 31 October 2012, having previously joined the board of the Group, from January 2011 to October 2015, he served as Chief Cookson Group plc in June 2012.
Christer co-founded Cevian Capital in Financial Of cer of Tarmac and latterly Lafarge Tarmac, the British 2002, and serves as Managing Partner.
Cevian Capital is a shareholder building materials company.
Guy held a number of senior financial of the Company and, at 28 February 2018, held 21.11% of Vesuvius and business development positions at Anglo American plc from 1997 issued ordinary share capital.
From 1996 to 2001, Christer was the to 2010, including the position of CFO of Scaw Metals Group, the South Chief Executive Of cer of AB Custos, the Swedish investment company.
Guy is quali ed with the South Prior to joining AB Custos he had been a partner of Nordic Capital and African Institute of Chartered Accountants and brings to the Board a McKinsey & Company.
He served as a Non-executive Director of AB wealth of financial and operational insight gained through his extensive Lindex until December 2007 and of Tieto Corporation until March 2012. international experience in the mining and industrial sectors.
Guy is a Christer brings a wealth of commercial acumen to the Board through his British and South African citizen.
extensive business management experience and the ability to focus and drive change.
Other appointments: Christer is Managing Partner of Cevian Capital, and Vice Chairman of the global Finnish technology and services company Metso Corporation.
A N R A N R Douglas Hurt Senior Independent Director Holly Koeppel Independent Non-executive Director Appointed: 2 April 2015 Appointed: 3 April 2017 Career experience: Douglas was appointed as a Director of the Career experience: Holly was appointed as a Director of the Company Company on 2 April 2015, and as Senior Independent Director and on 3 April 2017.
Holly has more than 35 years global industry and Chairman of the Audit Committee at the close of the 2015 Annual financial experience, having spent the early part of her career at General Meeting.
Douglas has signi cant financial experience, Columbia Gas Distribution Company and Consolidated Natural Gas having served as Finance Director of IMI plc, the global engineering Corporation in a variety of management roles which included four years group, from 2006 to 2015.
Prior to this, he held a number of senior based in Australia.
She joined the American Electric Power Company, finance and general management positions at GlaxoSmithKline plc, Inc. in 2000 and in 2006 was appointed Chief Financial Of cer.
In 2010, which he joined in 1983, previously having worked at Price Waterhouse.
Holly joined Citi Infrastructure Investors as Co-Head, a $3.4bn fund His career has included several years working in the US and signi cant set up to capitalise on the growing need for infrastructure around the experience in European businesses as Chief Financial Of cer and as world.
In 2015, the fund was renamed Gateway and transitioned to Operational Managing Director.
Douglas is a Chartered Accountant Corsair Infrastructure Management, LP CIM, part of Corsair Capital.
and a highly knowledgeable corporate and operational finance Holly retired as Head of CIM in January 2017 and continued as a professional bringing signi cant US and European experience as Senior Advisor and a Non-executive Director on CIMs four portfolio well as general management and financial leadership experience.
From 2012 to 2015, Holly was a Director of Douglas is a British citizen.
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. and a Director of Reynolds American Inc. from 2008 to 2017.
Holly brings extensive global industry, financial and Other appointments: Douglas is Senior Independent Director and management experience to the Board.
Holly is an American citizen.
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Tate & Lyle plc, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Countryside Properties Other appointments: Holly currently serves as a Non-executive Director PLC, and a Non-executive Director of the British Standards Institution.
of The AES Corporation and British American Tobacco p. l. c.
