Vesuvius plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operating Review Foundry O ur growth in 2017 was achieved through developing our business in China, gains in our established markets and new product launches Glenn Cowie President, Foundry The Foundry Division supplies ceramic Filtration Our ltration products Foundry revenue m consumables, such as lters and feeding remove impurities from the liquid metal systems, and chemical coatings and before it enters the mould and reduce 535.2m binders to foundries which use these turbulence during pouring products in the production of metal 17 535.2 Feeding Systems Our speci callycastings.
Working alongside customers 16 459.4 shaped insulating and exothermic at their sites, our engineers provide feeding systems allow for the ef cient 15 424.4 on-site technical expertise in addition to supply of molten metal to key areas simulation software to develop the best of complex or large castings, and Vesuvius Foundry Division, trading individualised solutions.
Each of our prevent liquid shrinkage defects in the as Foseco, is a world leader in the products typically represents a small nished casting, improving yields and supply of consumable products, element of the overall cost of the foundry productivity by reducing the amount solutions and associated services processes but contributes signi cantly to of molten metal required per casting.
related to the foundry industry.
The product quality and yield.
Our exothermic feeding aids also foundry process is highly sequential We support our customer offering with provide a secondary heat source and is critically dependent on the Foseco University, an online library which can also control metal cooling, consistency of product quality of expertise in foundry practice which minimising the adverse effects of and productivity optimisation.
demonstrates our expertise and provides shrinkage during solidi cation The Foundry Divisions products, technical support to our engineers and solutions and use of advanced Crucibles These are used in a wide customers across the globe.
computer simulation techniques range of melting and holding allow foundries to reduce defects applications for non-ferrous alloys, and hence reduce labour intensive Key Products particularly aluminium, copper and fettling and machining, minimise zinc.
Each of these applications Fosecos key products are: metal usage requirements, requires a crucible with speci c Binders These are used to prepare the in uence the metal solidi cation properties to maximise productivity sand moulds and cores, the quality of process and automate moulding and minimise energy costs which improves the precision and and casting, thus reducing cost, surface nish of the final casting Other products These include energy usage and mould size.
innoculants used for ferrous and The conditioning of molten metal, Coatings These are designed to non-ferrous castings: ux degassing the nature of the mould used and, protect both sand and permanent equipment for removing unwanted gas especially, the design of the way moulds from the effects of being lled in liquid aluminium: and refractory metal ows into the mould are with liquid metal.
This is especially materials used for the transportation key parameters in a foundry, important on cores, where liquid metal of liquid metal determining both the quality of may cover up to three sides of the sand the nished castings and the labour, energy and metal usage ef ciency of the foundry.
Vesuvius products and associated services to foundries improve these parameters.
Our Performance 47 Our R&D facility in Enschede, Netherlands Foseco offers a wide range of foundry products and services to meet the requirements of iron, steel and non ferrous foundries to help them to reduce defects, improve casting quality and optimise production costs.
Brazil growing our feeding systems, organisational culture and accountability, 2017 Performance lters and non-ferrous metal treatment which has allowed us to move decisionThere was positive momentum in the revenues.
making closer to the customer and majority of Foundry end markets improve our speed of doing business.
during 2017, with particular strength in Underlying revenue in EMEA increased We continued our efforts to rationalise heavy trucks and a recovery in mining 8.8% year-on-year as a result of growth our manufacturing footprint and equipment as well as construction and across the majority of foundry end maximise capacity utilisation with the agricultural equipment after several markets with particular strength in closure of the Cleveland lter plant and years of weakness.
heavy trucks as well as high growth in Conneaut shank production.
We also the non-ferrous market.
We were also continued to focus on the implementation Revenue in the Foundry Division successful in gaining market share as increased 16.5% to 535.2m in 2017 on a of Lean principles and improvement a result of new product introductions.
in our support and planning systems reported basis, whilst underlying revenue increased by 9.3%.
In Asia-Paci c, underlying revenue improved by 12.0% on an underlying increased by 8.8%, with sales increasing In addition, we have initiated a cost basis.
Our 2017 performance bene ted in all major markets.
Our revenues in ef ciency study at our facilities in Borken materially from our commitment to China were up c. 13%, due to booming and Grossalmerode in Germany as part technological leadership through demand in heavy truck production of our wider focus on cost ef ciency.
investment in R&D, which resulted in as well as our tangible progress in 13 new product launches during the year, developing a strong local sales force The investment in our world-class R&D the highest on record.
These new product and marketing organisation.
In India, facility in Enschede, The Netherlands, launches supported double-digit revenue our revenues were up c. 5%, bene ting continues to generate new products.
In growth across Foundrys highest margin from growth in light vehicle production 2017, New Product sales as a percentage product lines feeding systems, lters as well as strength in construction and of Foundry sales reached 10%.
Trading pro t also agricultural equipment, and mining To drive penetration into Japanese benefited from the ongoing organisational equipment.
Our revenue growth in India foundries in ASEAN, we appointed restructuring in North America, which could potentially have been higher, a Japanese business development commenced in 2016 and is focused on had it not been for high raw material manager in Thailand and also refocused developing a atter, leaner structure.
costs and supply issues as well as an our efforts on our business in Vietnam.
increased focus by Foseco on customer In the Americas, underlying revenue payment terms.
A new lter production line was launched increased 11.2% despite weakness in in India and is expected to be completed the light vehicle and rail sectors in North by Q3 2018.
The availability of a local Strategic Highlights from the Year America and the closure of a number lter source will improve customer of customer plants in the steel foundry The organisational restructuring in North service levels and support increased sector.
This was offset by growth in America, which commenced in 2016, market penetration.
heavy trucks as well as increases in iron continued through the year with a focus casting output related to construction on developing a atter, leaner structure.
In China, the focus remains on further and agricultural equipment.
We were We also focused on improved succession developing the local sales and marketing successful in gaining market share as a planning with several key new employees organisation and growing market share result of new product introductions and joining during the year.
Each of these in our major product segments, mainly we experienced signi cant success in initiatives saw a focus on improving coatings, lters and feeding systems.
Vesuvius plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operating Review continued Foundry In Europe, we expect modest growth in The foundry market in Mexico continues Looking Ahead the Foundry market for the next few to see rapid growth, with foreign The potential revenue per customer years, with an improving outlook for investment from Asia, Europe, and the and per tonne of castings produced is growth in the steel foundry segment US in new foundry facilities and the strongly in uenced by the technical mainly due to growth in the construction ongoing expansion of existing facilities.
sophistication of the customer, the and mining industries.
Consolidation of We are positioning ourselves to end-market for the casting, and the the Foundry industry continues, reducing bene t from this growth with a new processes used in its production.
These the gap between capacity on offer and manufacturing site in Monterrey.
The factors tend to correlate with the level of real demand.
We anticipate that plant market recovery in mining, agriculture industrial development within a given closures and mergers and acquisitions and construction that started in 2017 is market.
Therefore, we see signi cant will continue in the industry, as will the expected to accelerate in 2018 for both growth potential in markets where trend to transfer production from NAFTA and South America.
industrial development continues to western countries to Eastern Europe Further growth is also anticipated in India gather momentum, particularly certain and Turkey.
Cheaper labour and energy and South East Asia, with increasing parts of Eastern Europe and Asia.
costs, together with the availability of quality requirements expected to drive To position Foseco to bene t from this technical skills, remain key for the future increased penetration of Fosecos trend we are expanding our network of development of the industrial footprint feeding systems, ltration, coatings, technical sales staff and application in these developing markets.
In the and non-ferrous product lines.
engineers within developing markets, automotive industry, the trend to ensuring that customers there have develop lighter vehicles is pushing local access to the same high levels Glenn Cowie further growth of aluminium castings, of expertise and technical support in President, Foundry increasing volumes in the non-ferrous all markets.
Consistent application of coatings through automated density control The Challenge Our Solution coating products are diluted to their When manufacturing a casting, The development team investigated optimum application density on a applying the correct thickness of potential solutions, but realised that continuous basis.
This signi cantly mould coating is critical in providing a available technology would either reduces the risk of defects in the protective barrier between the liquid adversely affect the mixing of the nished casting, reduces scrapped metal and the core or mould surface.
coating or used delicate pipes and casting and lowers cleaning costs.
A challenge for all foundries is to ensure pumps that were impractical requiring The ICU also continuously records the that coating is applied correctly.
In a extra cleaning and maintenance application density data providing recent review we identi ed one major and therefore potential production an audit trail for use in process problem - the coating is often diluted downtime.
Working with a third-party optimisation and quality reviews.
manually and its density is checked engineering unit we developed a new only periodically during a shift.
design that did not impact the mixing Inevitably, this can lead to variations process and provides very accurate in performance, as coating that is too continuous density and level thick can compromise dimensional measurement with no moving parts.
accuracy and gas permeability and coating that is too thin can fail to The Bene ts prevent steel penetration into the The Intelligent Coating Unit ICU helps mould sand and can result in surface our customers achieve better and more defects on the casting.
consistent casting results, by ensuring that at all points in the production cycle, Our Per rf for orma manc nce e 49 V esuvius has invested in my future Kerstin Berndt, Product Manager, Germany I started working in the Foundry I was then moved to the R&D My time at Vesuvius has enabled Division of Vesuvius GmbH in department, during which time me to gain important academic 2006, following an apprenticeship I obtained two degrees: as a and professional quali cations, as a chemical-technical assistant.
state-certi ed technician and whilst at the same time receiving I spent my first two and a half as a training supervisor through critical on-the-job technical years working in the SGI the German Chamber of Industry experience.
Whilst doing this, Organisation, covering and Commerce.
I have developed a considerable international projects, including international network, working the development of data for the Since 2015, I have worked as a on a daily basis with Vesuvius Coveral MTS 1582, which is now Local Product Manager for colleagues in different countries.
a leading product in the eld of non-ferrous metal treatment S Se ee m e mo or re e a ab bo ou ut V t five es su uv vi iu us s ca care ree er rs s Non-Ferrous Metal Treatment.
and am the customer contact for in in Pe Peo op pl le e a an nd C d Co om mm mu un ni it ty y on on our Foundry Divisions chemical pages pages 6 67- 7-7 73 3 production lines in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and the Netherlands.
