Our business at a glance continued Our brands and products United Kingdom United States Description Description Description Ibstock Brick is the leading manufacturer Ibstock Kevington is the UKs biggest Glen-Gery is a leading manufacturer of by volume of clay bricks sold in the UK.
manufacturer of brick special shapes bricks by volume of despatches in the and components.
North-East and Mid-West regions of the Key markets United States.
New build housing, repairs, maintenance Key markets and improvement RMI and commercial.
Repairs, maintenance and improvement Key markets RMI, New build housing and commercial.
Housebuilders, repairs, maintenance and improvement RMI, distributors and specification.
Key products Key products Key products Clay bricks Clay pavers Special shapes Cut and bond Provincetown Urban Grey Klaycoat Extruded Brick Arches Faststack Brick StoneFit Glacier Frost Black Pearl chimneys engraving Key area Key area Key area Clay bricks Brick and special shapes UK Bricks Revenue Revenue m m 265 91 89 253 254 77 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 04 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information United Kingdom Description Description Description Forticrete is a leading manufacturer of Supreme is a leading manufacturer of Anderton Concrete is the UK market concrete substitutes for natural stone concrete fencing products, concrete lintels leader in the supply of lineside cable walling, dressings and concrete roof tiles.
and general concrete building products.
housing systems for railway and infrastructure projects, as well as a major Key markets Key markets supplier of retaining walling, fencing and Roofing contractors, repairs, maintenance Builders merchants, housebuilders, structural components for the wider and improvement RMI, new build housing, fencing contractors and stockists.
Key markets Railway agencies and contractors, builders merchants and fencing stockists.
Key products Key products Key products Concrete roof tile Rooflight and Flooring T-beams Concrete fencing Slope-loc concrete Concrete fencing accessories Reconstructed Cast Stone Concrete lintels Key stone Rail trough stone walling and padstones Key area Key area Key area Concrete substitutes Concrete fencing Retaining walls and lineside cable housing Revenue m 97 91 83 2015 2016 2017 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 05
