Vesuvius plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operating Review Advanced Refractories Ou r outperformance of steel production volume growth was supported by increased customer interest in our value-creating solutions Tanmay Ganguly President, Advanced Refractories Customers of Advanced Refractories The service life of the products Advanced Advanced Refractories revenue m are principally steel producers and Refractories supplies into the steel manufacturers of steel production making process can vary some a matter 499.
Our products accompany of hours and others for a period of years the steel-making process from the based upon the type of refractory 17 499.1 early steps of the process all the way and the level of wear caused by the 16 398.8 downstream to the nishing end in the demanding environment in which they 15 378.7 rolling mill.
This array of heat-intensive are used.
production processes and physical Advanced Refractories key products are: Advanced Refractories produces transformation of the iron ore into specialised refractory materials seminished products, accounts Blast furnace casthouse applications for lining steelmaking vessels such for two thirds of the revenue of the These are special refractories used to as blast furnaces, ladles and business unit.
In addition, Vesuvius line the blast furnace and a network of tundishes, which are subject to Advanced Refractories business services runners to transfer molten iron from extreme temperatures, corrosion other high-temperature industries such torpedo ladles to the melt shop for and abrasion.
These materials are as primary aluminium, copper, cement, further processing into steel in the form of powder mixes, which petrochemicals and energy from waste.
Blast furnace tap hole clay This is are spray-applied or cast onto the These refractory lining materials are a refractory mass used to plug the vessel to be lined monolithics and supplied in the form of powder mixes, tapping hole in a blast furnace.
refractory shapes e. g. bricks, pads which are spray-applied or cast onto the When molten iron is ready to be and dams.
Vesuvius is one of the vessels to be lined monolithics, or in extracted from the blast furnace, worlds largest manufacturers of pre-cast shapes and bricks.
a drilling machine perforates a hole monolithic refractory linings.
An integral part of our success depends through the solidi ed clay to start Advanced Refractories delivers upon the level of collaboration with our the tapping process installation technologies, products customers.
Our experts presence at adapted to t customers speci c Steel ladle applications These are our customers facilities allows us a processes and plants, and effective refractories typically bricks used to fundamental understanding of their and ef cient logistics services.
line a steel vessel which contains the needs.
The level of trust our business These factors are combined with molten metal and transports it from model creates makes it more resilient to signi cant R&D, a deep knowledge the furnace to a casting machine market cycles enabling us to generate of customers processes and project growth by adding new products and management capability to deliver services throughout the business cycle.
market-leading solutions for our customers.
Our Performance 41 Vesuvius has supported and rewarded my professional development Andy Toner, Director of Marketing and Technology for Iron and Steel, NAFTA My career at Vesuvius began Two years after that, I was At Vesuvius I have been in 2008, when I joined as promoted to Product supported, challenged and a Service Technician, Manager for the Ladle rewarded in the development responsible for the Program and in 2014, I moved of my professional and preparation of tundishes at to become the Marketing technical expertise.
I have Gerdaus steel manufacturing Manager for our Advanced been given the opportunity to plant at Midlothian, Texas, in Refractory business not only work in different areas of the the United States.
As a result for ladles, but also for the business thereby broadening of my work there, I was offered basic oxygen furnaces and my experience and my career the opportunity to become the electric arc furnaces operated opportunities.
Application Specialist for by our steel manufacturing Brick Products, based at our customers.
In 2016, I became site at Pittsburgh, United Regional Manager for the States, but also working in East Region USA in Steel steel manufacturing plants Applications and nally in across America.
I then moved 2017, I was named Director of on to work as an Application Marketing and Technology for Specialist for Ladles, with Iron and Steel, NAFTA.
In this a focus on ladle bottoms, role, I am responsible for the working with customers in expansion of our product their steel mills to ensure portfolio and the technical that they were deriving the product development to maximum bene t from support this growth across our products.
Vesuvius plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operating Review continued Advanced Refractories Steel tundish monolithics These are powder-mix refractories used to line the tundish, which receives molten steel Integrated material from the ladle then acts as a reservoir to control the ow of the liquid metal and feed the continuous casting supply, robotic machine at the required rate installation equipment Aluminium applications These products are used for secondary aluminium production, and are mostly and laser scanning for used in furnace lining Cement applications Monolithic Electric Arc Furnace technology used in the pre-heater stage before materials are transferred maintenance into the rotary kiln during the continuous calcination process for cement making were speci cally constructed to suit The Challenge the individual plant con guration.
Vesuvius has a historically well- 2017 Performance Using the latest laser scanner devices established business in Electric Arc Advanced Refractories reported from our subsidiary Process Metrix Furnace maintenance, using entirely to identify the areas of the furnace manual application techniques.
revenues of 499.1m in 2017, an increase lining that required repair, we An ongoing dialogue with the customer of 25.2% compared to 2016.
On an achieved accurate, targeted and identi ed some key improvement underlying basis, the year-on-year safe material placement.
This outperformance were centred around three main relative to steel volume growth was drivers: 1 the application of the The Bene ts supported by increased customer interest material: 2 the accurate assessment The ability to safely repair refractory of the condition of the active lining in our value-creating solutions and the lining in a hot and dif cult environment in service: and 3 safety for the was a key demand.
The robot arm and successful launch of new products such operation and application teams.
laser scanner signi cantly improve the as our Supergard Tundish refractory safe working conditions for the plant line, which is a patented tundish lining operations.
The integration of the Our Solution product for improving steel quality.
robot and laser equipment also Working with established partner We also bene ted from customers enables more accurate gunning of companies and cross-functional seeking to diversify their supplier base refractory material in the areas where expertise, the Vesuvius team it is most required.
This delivers better in response to recent consolidation.
developed an optimised design for performance and improved material a Robotic Application unit for the We achieved attractive underlying consumption rates for the customer.
These units revenue growth in each of our key regions in 2017, with the Americas up 8.6%, EMEA up 28.4% and Asia-Paci c up 9.4%.
The particularly high growth level in EMEA was due to signi cant progress regaining market share in Europe despite competitive market conditions.
Some of the key raw materials used by Advanced Refractories experienced signi cant price increases in 2017, particularly during the second half of the year.
The speed of these increases was such that there was a time lag in recovering the increased costs through the sales price of our nished products, Our Performance 43 Precast Monolithic Steel Ladle Bottom Manufactured in Chicago Heights, USA as we were bound by contractual Our business model is underpinned by Improving the pro tability of Advanced obligations with some customers.
our focus on value-creating solutions and Refractories is a key area of focus.
We have made major progress in maintaining technological leadership Market share, whilst important, is not recovering this cost in ation through from investment in R&D.
We improved the main driver of our strategy as there higher selling prices.
This process of price our R&D footprint in 2017 with the is signi cant fragmentation both on a adjustment will continue into 2018, until inauguration of our newest R&D facility global and regional basis in our area of realised cost increases have been fully in Visakhapatnam, India.
The addition the refractory supply business.
This con rms our ability to of this state-of-theart facility will allow consolidation at the expense of margins recover raw material cost in ation us to complement our existing technical will not meet our goals for value creation.
through price rises over time.
capabilities and tackle speci c problems In the developing markets of India, China in the local market.
Our investment in this and Brazil, our focus is to capture or new facility is proof of our commitment exceed the growth rate of the industry.
Strategic Highlights from to staying at the forefront of new the Year Our long-standing presence and local technology.
Our existing R&D centres manufacturing capabilities position us The addition of new customers in Europe are well positioned to support our well to take advantage of future growth in the melting and re ning segment was existing markets whilst this new facility opportunities in India.
Solidifying our a signi cant contributor to our growth is the next building block to support our presence with the installation of our in 2017.
This was also boosted by a future growth in developing markets.
newest R&D facility in India is a strong positive volume growth in the steel step forward.
As the country continues industry in Europe.
Looking Ahead demanding more technology with the An increased focus on value-added evolution of the market, we are well As 70% of Advanced Refractories solutions in niche segments like steel positioned to maintain our leadership revenue comes from the steel making nishing also allowed us to achieve position in the segments we currently industry, steel production is a key driver good momentum during the period.
operate in, whilst at the same time, for the business.
In mature economies, look at new avenues for growth.
it is our expectation that these regions We continuously review and seek to improve our manufacturing ef ciency, will not exhibit material growth in the Tanmay Ganguly medium long term, given that the nature with targeted capital investment President, Advanced Refractories delivering signi cant bene ts in process of economic growth requires less steel than in the past.
However, as growth ow, inventory management and labour and energy ef ciency.
In Brazil, we in emerging markets moves forward and our business in mature markets rationalised our manufacturing footprint and maximised capacity utilisation by continues to evolve, we are constantly developing our resource base to align relocating our Brazilian manufacturing facilities to Rio fide Janeiro from Sao Paulo with activity levels.
In the developed markets of Europe and North America, we are experiencing We also commenced a cost ef ciency a greater demand for higher quality study in Europe to review our refractories.
In response to recent manufacturing footprint as part of our consolidation, we are also seeing wider focus on cost ef ciency.
We are increased interest in certain segments, initiating a similar exercise in 2018 at such as bricks, as customers in these our facilities in the NAFTA region.
regions seek to diversify their supplier base as well as market evolution towards other technologies like monolithic refractories.
We expect this to continue going forward.
