Vesuvius plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our Markets Steel Steel quality as a driver for demand Steel Division end markets Customers of the Steel Division Steel manufacturers are Association, this trend has To do this our products need to are principally steel producers increasingly searching for been seen in China over the be highly resistant to erosion, and manufacturers of steel products that can support the past few years and is expected corrosion and thermal shock production equipment.
production of higher grades of to continue.
The quality to ensure that they do not Steel production volumes steel.
The at steel used in demands are even higher themselves contaminate are the critical driver of later cycle consumer goods, for production of speciality the steel during casting.
demand as the Steel e. g. cars and fridges, requires and high-strength steels.
The capabilities of Vesuvius Division primarily sells products signi cantly higher uniformity products particularly when Our highly technical, innovative that are consumed during than the long steel used in used as a total solution - are refractory products are the steel making process.
early cycle construction much more in demand for designed to preserve the This is particularly true in the and infrastructure.
In the higher quality steel grades quality of molten steel during production of higher-quality developed market of NAFTA, where the consistency of the the steel making process.
steels where our highly the production ratio is nished steel is paramount.
Vesuvius engineered technical products deliver currently 65:35% at:long.
refractories prevent the buildthe most value.
As developing countries move up of impurities in the steel, from infrastructure-based The Advanced Refractories protect the molten metal from economies to consumer-based business also supplies oxidisation, moderate its ow, economies, the ratio of at other high-temperature and manage its uid dynamics to long steel consumption industries such as primary to harmonise consistency and also transitions.
According to aluminium, copper, cement, reduce the pick-up of inclusions.
the Chinese Iron and Steel petrochemical and energy from waste.
Around 7% of revenues in the Steel Division arise from non-steel related process industries.
Growth in crude steel production 2017 vs. 2016 vs. 2017 steel production volume Steel production Top-15 producers and EU28 According to the World Steel Association WSA, the 24 Iran Chinese reported steel production growth was 5.7% however, 21.4% worldwide steel industry saw 22 due to the closure of induction furnaces previously not reported growth of 5.3% in 2017 with 20 in statistics, Vesuvius estimates Chinas actual steel production 1,691.2 million tonnes mt 18 growth in 2017 was between 0% and 2% produced globally.
16 Turkey 13.1% 14 For many years, China has 12 been the worlds largest China France WSA reported USA 10 India producer of steel.
In 2017, 7.6% 5.7% 4.0% Taiwan 6.2% 6.8% South 8 the WSA reported that Korea EU28 Brazil 3.7% 4.1% 9.9% Chinas crude steel production 6 increased by 5.7% to 832mt 4 Mexico 6.3% and accounted for 49% of 2 China Vesuvius Germany the worlds steel production.
Italy estimate 0 3.5% 2.9% 0% 2% Russia Japan -2 1.3% 0.1 % Production in Japan was Ukraine -4 6.4% mostly at at 105mt in 2017, -6 whilst Indias steel production -8 increased by 6.2% to 101mt, 2017 steel production volume and South Koreas increased Size of bubble represents relative revenue of Vesuvius steel division by 3.7% to 71mt.
Crude steel production growth Our Business 9 Foundry Foundry Division end markets Casting quality as a driver for demand The vehicle sector, comprising and mining industries, Whilst Foseco products ef ciency.
As castings become light vehicles passenger cars petrochemicals, power typically represent less than 5% increasingly complicated and light trucks and heavy generation equipment, railroad of a foundrys production cost, driven in the case of trucks, is the largest end and general engineering they contribute signi cantly automotive casting by the need market for worldwide castings.
Our customers include to improving product for lightness, they demand Other end markets for foundry the worlds major automotive quality and manufacturing cleaner metal, better ow into castings include machinery for OEMs, truck producers and ef ciency, whilst reducing the mould, and more consistent the agricultural, construction equipment manufacturers.
the environmental impact solidi cation.
This supports of the casting process the computer modelling, and improving the ratio of ow simulation and casting nished castings to the methoding capabilities that amount of metal poured are central to the services a key parameter for foundry provided by Foseco.
Demand drivers for castings Technology changes and environmental drivers Light vehicle demand is largely are consumption-driven, such New technologies, such as and the use of silica within the driven by consumer con dence as construction, mining, 3D printing, are expected industry, are also expected to and, in commercial purchasing, agriculture and heavy truck, to continue to in uence continue to tighten.
This will the age of the overall fleet.
where usage drives demand the metal casting industry, drive the trend to nd Demand in the majority of for replacement parts allowing for faster prototyping processes and consumable the remaining casting e. g. bulldozer blades, digger and production of smaller products which support end-markets is driven by the teeth, track pads and bowls, volume parts.
Environmental production ef ciency and cost of capital and the level etc.
regulations, driven by the reduce a foundrys impact of current pro tability in the desire to reduce volatile on the environment.
Certain sectors organic compound emissions Iron casting Steel casting Aluminium Non-ferrous casting Iron casting is split between system utilisation due to Steel is used in casting for Aluminium casting is the grey and ductile iron with its lower shrinkage on manufacturing components segment of the foundry grey iron representing the solidi cation.
Conversely, with very high mechanical market growing the fastest.
majority of metal being cast.
ductile iron production requires performance.
Steel casting is It has captured a signi cant This is a cost-ef cient and more sophisticated products to the most demanding casting share of the light vehicle robust process to produce cope with the high shrinkages process due to higher melting market.
Being molten below components that do not need of metal whilst solidifying.
temperatures and greater 700C aluminium can be to tolerate extreme mechanical tendency for shrinkage, cast in iron moulds which stress.
All iron casting requires thus the greater demand can then be reused.
Foseco lters and coatings but grey for products and technical concentrates on supplying iron is not as reliant on feeding expertise in this segment.
uxes, lters and machines that re ne the composition and cleanliness of the metal.
