Vesuvius plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our Strategy Vesuvius focuses on the following strategic Strategic Execution objectives, which we measure and monitor through our Key Performance Indicators KPIs Objectives Priorities Reinforce our technology leadership Deliver growth See p32-35 Generate sustainable pro tability and create shareholder value Increase penetration of Maintain strong cash generation value-creating solutions and an ef cient capital structure See p36-48 Provide a safe working environment for our people Capture growth in Be at the forefront of innovation developing markets Run top-quality, cost-ef cient and sustainable operations Improve cost leadership and margins Foster talent, skill and motivation in our people Develop our Technical Services offering See p44-45 See our Key performance indicators on p20-21 Our Business 11 Vesuvius has articulated five key execution priorities.
These will enable us to achieve our core strategic objectives of delivering long-term sustainable and pro table growth.
Description Progress in 2017 Vesuvius was built and grew on technology breakthroughs.
The percentage of revenue accounted for by New Products, that is These enabled the steel continuous casting and foundry products launched within the last five years, grew from 8% in 2014 industries to improve their ef ciency and quality substantially.
Our objective is for this to reach 20%.
The new Focusing on technology leadership continues to drive our unique R&D centre for Advanced Refractories at Visakhapatnam, India, value proposition and underpins our ability to deliver ongoing was inaugurated in November 2017.
Our spend on R&D increased value enhancement to our customers.
year-on-year to 33.2m, being 2.0% of our total revenue, and we increased the ef ciency of our R&D by focusing our efforts on a reduced number of potentially high-impact R&D projects.
We also moved the R&D function closer to our customers, embedding R&D within the business units which will ensure a closer link between R&D activities and the return we receive on our investment.
Our technology has been widely adopted by the most sophisticated Our outperformance in the majority of end markets across both producers in the most developed markets.
However, marked our Steel and Foundry Divisions is evidence of the penetration differences remain in the penetration of our solutions within the gains we are achieving due to increased customer interest in our industry.
Consequently, there is a wider audience of customers whom value-creating solutions.
For our Steel Division, this outperformance we believe can bene t from them.
As steel and foundry markets in is re ected in our underlying 2017 revenue growth of 14.1% versus developing markets become more quality focused, we have the 5.3% growth in global steel production volumes.
For our Foundry opportunity to signi cantly increase our penetration of these Division, underlying 2017 revenue growth of 9.3% is further markets through offering value creating solutions.
Building on our long-standing presence in all markets, we can Our growth in developing markets is especially encouraging leverage the high growth enjoyed by our customers industries and we delivered outperformance relative to end markets, due to in emerging markets which are large consumers of steel goods greater interest in our high value-added solutions.
revenue growth rates for our key developing markets were as follows: China 9.2%: India 6.2%: South America 17.5%: Mexico 7.1%: EMEA excl.
The acceleration of our revenue growth in China is also especially notable and we are bene ting from several favourable market trends which are driving a shift towards our higher quality consumables and services.
In 2015, we initiated a restructuring programme throughout the We continued to make good progress with our previously announced Group to adapt our business and our cost base to the changing restructuring programme, mainly focused on the Flow Control trading environment.
This is core to our efforts to improve profitability.
business, delivering savings of 16.2m in 2017, which was ahead of Furthermore, we have embedded the principles of Lean manufacturing expectations.
As a result, the total savings delivered since launching across all our sites, continuously focusing on quality and productivity the programme in 2015 are now 43.2m.
This programme is now to enable us to maintain our margins.
Our global presence allows us expected to deliver 60m of savings at a total cost of 75m.
We also to bene t from economies of scale and deliver excellent service from commenced a completely new restructuring programme targeting local sites.
the Foundry Division in Europe and NAFTA, the Advanced Refractories business unit in Europe, and Group corporate functions, from which we expect 15m of recurring savings by 2020.
Our customers processes require increasing levels of engineering We saw good progress of our global Technical Services offering, services to reach the demanding levels of safety, accuracy and which is now embedded in the operations of all our business units.
consistency required by their end-customers quality specifications.
Global Technical Services turnover across all business units The key elements of Vesuvius Technical Services strategy are, firstly, reached 88m in 2017, growing by 14% year-on-year.
In late 2017, the Digital Services business unit, which is focused on incubating our we made a strategic investment in Sapotech Oy, a Finnish technology data capture technologies, and secondly, the business units which company offering optical measurement services for the continuous play a critical role in integrating these products into our broader casting process.
The Sapotech business will be managed by our consumables offering as well as ensuring customer access.
In this Flow Control business unit.
way, our Technical Services strategy is progressively penetrating all activities of both our Steel and Foundry Divisions.
