Funds Successful investment is critical to the future financial wellbeing of our clients.
We carefully select a number of external managers from across the globe to manage our range of funds.
OUR APPROACH DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PROPOSITION Successful investment is critical to the future financial wellbeing of In 2017, the development of our investment proposition focused on our clients, but it is a field which presents a unique problem: future broadening the range of opportunities available to our clients.
It is our view that it is impossible to Continuing the development of our range of Asia Pacific equity employ the best in-house fund managers across all asset classes at funds, we introduced the Japan fund, managed by Yoshihiko Yoshi all times.
Instead, we carefully select a number of external managers Ito of Nippon Value Investors based in Tokyo.
A new Global Growth from across the globe to manage our range of funds.
fund brings together a carefully-selected blend of our existing The St. Jamess Place Investment Committee manages the fund investment managers: EdgePoint, Magellan, Sands Capital and managers on behalf of our clients.
The Committee comprises three Select Equity Group to create a highly-active global equity solution.
senior members of the St. Jamess Place investment division and We also added a new Portfolio.
The Strategic Growth Portfolio, the four independent members, who bring a broad range of knowledge first Portfolio to be launched since April 2012, provides an additional and experience.
The Committee is further supported by specialist medium-risk investment solution for our clients, particularly those investment consultancy firms including Stamford Associates, with a longer time horizon.
Redington and AON each contracted for their expertise in particular investment markets.
Changing demographics, pensions reform and the ever-changing market environment means our clients are increasingly looking to us With the objective of generating superior investment results over the to provide them with solutions that meet their different investment medium to long term, having selected the best individuals within the objectives and evolving needs.
As such, we continue to explore ways appropriate investment company, we believe the key is to monitor to broaden and deepen our proposition still further, while also both the individuals and the company they work for to ensure they exploring new technology which will enhance and complement our remain appropriate for the fund that they are managing.
Committee does not seek to influence the investment policy of the managers.
Its aim is to secure success by selecting superior managers and holding them accountable for their performance.
FOCUS Responsible Investing Over the course of 2017, we continued to evolve our approach to responsible investing by building a comprehensive and structured programme of due diligence.
What was most telling is the extent to which many fund managers share our belief in the importance of these principles, and we saw increasing evidence of this being incorporated into their investment processes.
We also engaged with our independent investment consultants to incorporate the assessment of responsible investment principles in the research and selection of new fund managers.
In addition to our focus on how our fund managers and consultants adopt ESG thinking into their investment processes, we are also increasing our involvement with a number of responsible investing bodies both in the UK and globally.
As part of this focus we will become signatories to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investing guidelines during 2018.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 16 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information The data below illustrates the breadth of the research, analysis and monitoring conducted during 2017 by the various functions that support the Investment Committee, which includes the teams at Stamford Associates, Redington and at our head office in Cirencester.
363 20 54 240 Fund manager Investment Investment professionals Years industry monitoring meetings Committee meetings working exclusively experience of conducted in the UK held during 2017 on behalf of Investment Committee and overseas St. Jamess Place clients members Global Investment Management Expertise Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 17
