Strategic Report Industry Overview The environment, corporate social responsibility and the oil industry Putting our The Paris Agreement on climate change of industry in November 2016 set a framework for limiting carbon emissions from fossil fuels.
This is one of a number of policy and regulatory developments that will increasingly play a context part in determining the outlook for energy demand and how energy suppliers operate in the future.
Exploration and production activity is coming under increased scrutiny in all spheres of This industry overview provides an operation and environmentally sensitive regions in particular.
Providers of capital independent view of the industry will become more selective in financing context in which Cairn operates.
fossil fuel developments with a risk of environmental impact or which have a high carbon footprint.
Successful oil and gas companies of the future will need to adapt to tightening regulations and observe the highest standards of Energy markets are poised for change.
G lobal consumption corporate and social responsibility.
Among Decarbonisation and the provision of the challenges will be cutting emissions from affordable energy are the overarching public looks set to approach policy goals shaping the strategies and 110 million barrels per investment programmes of energy suppliers, investment on the wider environment.
The 'energy transition' towards a low carbon world will bring perhaps the most significant structural changes for a generation or more.
The long-term implications are provoking heated debate across the industry, the plastics in particular, will mean that overall oil fundamental outlook for energy is positive.
demand continues to grow for years to come.
Economic growth across emerging and Global consumption looks set to approach developed markets will drive continued growth in energy demand for decades to than today Wood Mackenzie forecasts.
Oil and gas are each projected to still provide just under one third of primary Natural gas is the cleanest and lowesta carbon fossil fuel, and has strong growth forecasts: similar to the current proportion, prospects.
Climate change policy and air but of a much bigger total energy market.
quality concerns in Asia will support a long-term switch towards gas-fired power The outlook for oil demand looks robust, generation from coal.
Gas will also play an although the rate of growth is expected to increasingly important role complementing intermittent renewable generation in many Improved energy efficiency and the potential countries as wind and solar capacity is rolled for electric vehicles to capture market share : from the internal combustion engine are two a big factors that may lead to demand from the Renewables and other forms of clean energy are growing more rapidly, though from a low But strong growth from petrochemicals, and starting point.
About the author: 8 e a a k e approach to provide objective analysis and trusted advice that is valued around the world.
Our clients trust us {X e  e 18 Exploration Oil markets, North Sea activity E&P trends Oil and gas explorers are emerging from the k We believe the North Sea is on a firmer downturn with smaller investment budgets x but with a central role to play in resource The agreement of November 2016 between { capture.
The outlook is for only gradual OPEC and some non-OPEC producers and there was strong deal activity.
to constrain production was extended investment around 40% of peak and well through the year and helped to tighten UK operators brought twelve new fields counts stubbornly low.
Within this reduced an oversupplied market.
Falling crude oil at peak.
Production rose for the third year part of the year also supported the recovery x explorers has dwindled and corporate in prices.
U comparable to Angola or Malaysia.
Many of the challenges that have similar opportunities.
characterised the volatile market over c the last three years remain in place.
The barrel terms are now a third below their 2014 The most-favoured plays will be deepwater peak.
Operators have achieved this through supply is expected to rise more rapidly than rapid commercialisation and development k{ and market deflation.
Although supply chain breakeven prices below US$50 bbl.
Many intention to keep oil off the market through of the best of these are around the Atlantic the year.
Non-OPEC production is growing much of the cost saving achieved is a c e structural and should stick.
a e : : a a heightening of tension in the Middle East Private equity backed companies emerged unproven frontiers.
and elsewhere is likely to support prices.
We expect Brent to average US$60-65 bbl US$7 billion worth of deal activity.
The The Majors and a handful of bolder in 2018. resulting new breed of North Sea-focused independents will operate most of the wells companies sits alongside the Majors in to watch.
We expect the best discoveries to The upstream industry has adapted during the control of the UKs most important assets.
The Majors were by far the biggest as has been the case throughout this Finances have been strengthened and costs downturn.
More than half of all volumes are conglomerates exiting the upstream likely to be found in deepwater.
In the shallow is helping drive costs down further.
a as another province with high potential.
Many companies are again looking for In a further boost to merger and acquisition growth opportunities.
Global upstream U Much of the industrys focus will be on investment has stabilised at around changes to the tax regime which limit the acreage capture and re-loading for the burden of decommissioning of UKCS 8 is achieving more with less and is looking for platforms and infrastructure to buyers.
The to reposition the portfolio towards lower projects that make money at US$50 bbl.
UK North Sea now has an internationally cost future discoveries and development Investment in US onshore is already rising 8 and collaboration between companies renewal after a long period of inventory see an increase in spend on conventional is improving.
Around 40 licensing rounds will projects in 2018.
Final Investment Decisions run through 2018.
Competition for quality were taken on 33 greenfield conventional U c acreage will become more intense as the with new discoveries signalling the shelf Majors and other big explorers chase the year.
We expect a similar number in 2018. still has potential.
The highest-profile c scheduled in Brazil and Mexico.
high-profile wells came up short.
But there Reset portfolios and lower costs are set to pay was progress on development and F were given Final Investment Decisions and based on exploration costs including dry five fields started production.
Many exploration costs have halved versus their % re-design are all helping reduce development focused on plays that are commercially e the economic outlook is looking brighter for explorers.
