Chairs Report Sarah Bates Chair We continue to benefit from our consistent strategic approach 2017 was a year of robust growth together with a series of long-term external trends that have underpinned a supportive environment for UK wealth management businesses.
These include the atomisation of for St. Jamess Place and of savings, as corporate provision for pensions has shifted for many from the relative clarity of defined benefit pensions to a defined continued evolution.
As a result more individuals have to bear investment risk and their own longevity risk.
People are understandably concerned about provision for their care in later covered in both the CEO and years, whilst at the same time, considering how best to provide for their children whose circumstances may, for the first time in CFO reports the business generations, look less promising than for their parents.
Intergenerational wealth transfer is likely to become an increasing focus of client interest, while the introduction of pensions continued to expand, and freedoms into all this in 2016, has clearly improved flexibility and the potential options for that part of an individuals savings which delivered good results for its are in a pensions structure.
The new freedoms have also increased complexity and risk if things go wrong so the demand for financial advice has increased significantly.
stakeholders: clients, Partners Taken as a whole, the overall impact of these external trends and financial markets have been relatively supportive to St. Jamess and Advisers, shareholders, Place in 2017.
SUCCESSION employees and the communities At the beginning of 2017, we announced that David Bellamy would step down as CEO at the end of the year, handing over the baton in which it operates.
to Andrew Croft, who joined St. Jamess Place in 1993 and who had been CFO since 2004.
We also announced that Craig Gentle, who joined in 2016, would take over from Andrew as CFO at the same time.
On behalf of the Board, shareholders, clients and the whole SJP community I would like to thank David Bellamy for his very considerable contribution to the evolution and success of SJP over his 26 years of service, 20 years of Board membership and 11 years as CEO.
This was just one step in a phased succession plan, with work having been undertaken over the years to strengthen and broaden the senior executive team.
This has seen the expansion of the Executive Board over recent years with the promotion of Iain Rayner and Jonathan McMahon as joint Chief Operating Officers, Peter Edwards as Establishment Director, and Ian Mackenzie, as Chief Business Development and Technology Officer.
Graham Coxell also joined the executive team following the acquisition of Rowan Dartington.
Succession will continue to be a key priority for the Board at both management and Board level, including Non-executive Directors and my own succession.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 72 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information DIVERSITY OUR WIDER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITIES An area of increasing importance for our business is the matter of We take our wider corporate responsibilities seriously.
It is noticeable that the Executive Board is all male and this complicated and the interests and expectations of our stakeholders is an important contributor to SJPs gender pay gap being too high.
The approach SJP takes to its social responsibilities On some measures, such as the Partnership gender balance, we are is set out in some detail in the Corporate Responsibility Report on better than industry averages but that is perhaps not saying enough.
pages 52 to 61, and is a very important part of the every day life of the We are working hard on this.
The Academy intake gender balance is business.
Last year, the Board also agreed we would double match improving, with women representing 23% of the 2017 intake, while monies raised by the SJP community for the Charitable Foundation, our apprentice programme intake is around 50% female, and our which ultimately resulted in a contribution of 11.0 million.
We have also been working for some years to achieve consistency Two years ago, on behalf of the Nominations Committee, Ian between our shareholders expectations of us and those we have of Gascoigne was appointed to chair a steering group looking at our the companies in which our clients money is invested.
Our approach to gender diversity.
Over the last year we have put in place Responsible Shareholder Committee has oversight of this and we an Inclusive Leadership Programme for the director level population have recently become signatories to the United Nations Principles for and a personal and professional development programme for 40 Responsible Investment.
In addition, we have taken steps to increase senior women.
our understanding and oversight of how our fund managers and consultants adopt Environmental, Social and Governance criteria into As a consequence of this thought and consideration, I am pleased to their investment processes.
This will continue to be an area of focus say that the Executive Board has now clarified our approach to for our business.
flexible working, that recruitment practices will be amended with targets for women on shortlists and the Board will monitor gender CONCLUDING REMARKS related KPIs.
These, and a number of other related initiatives, will be In what was a landmark 25th anniversary year for St. Jamess Place, included in the Business Plan and will be part of the Executives we once again delivered well for stakeholders and on behalf of the strategic bonus targets.
These measures match up with the Women Board I would like to say thank you to the whole SJP community.
in Finance Charter which we will be applying to join.
We look to the future with optimism, confident in our prospects as a Diversity is of course not only about gender.
It is imperative that we leading wealth management business.
attract and retain the best people for our business, and do not unwittingly exclude any group or individual for reasons which have nothing to do with capability and commitment.
Sarah Bates Chair 27 February 2018 If you would like to discuss any aspect of my report or the Corporate Governance Report please feel free to email me on: chair@sjp.
co. uk Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 73
