Leadership and Governance Directors Report {X c e  e % : e:a a Results and dividend : % Strategic Report Details of the Groups strategy and business model during the year and the information that fulfils the requirements of the strategic report can Details of Cairns offices and Cairns advisers are given at the end of this report.
Change of control All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control and further details of these plans are provided in the : subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation 8 agreements providing for compensation to the Chief Financial Officer or to employees on a change of control and no such provision will be included in the contracts of other future appointees to the Board.
Other than the Senior Secured Borrowing Base Facility Agreement entered into by the Company with BNP Paribas and other syndicated banks dated I 8 e F 8 e lender may cancel its commitment and declare its participation in all outstanding utilisations, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued immediately due and payable.
Corporate governance Directors interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below: As at As at As at % % a Number of Shares Number of Shares Number of Shares Simon Thomson James Smith Ian Tyler Todd Hunt Iain McLaren Jackie Sheppard Alexander Berger Keith Lough Peter Kallos Nicoletta Giadrossi c : I Details of outstanding awards over ordinary shares in the Company held by the directors or any members of their families are set out in the directors None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
% {X e  e 128 Share capital e a x X ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Voting rights The following paragraph details the position in relation to voting rights set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
However, the Company recognises that best practice is now to hold a poll on all shareholder resolutions.
It is the Companys current practice, therefore, to hold a poll and it is committed to doing so going forward.
Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every share held by him her.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall e members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporation which is a member of the Company may authorise one or more individuals to act as its representative or representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares.
A person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
Restrictions on voting No member shall, unless the directors of the Company otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy if any call or other sum presently payable by him her to the Company in respect 8 e with such information, the directors of the Company may determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect of such shares to attend or vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or at any separate general or class meeting of the holders of that class of shares.
Proxy any day that is not a working day before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Variation of rights Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class may, subject to statute and unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to the shares of that class, be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate general meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
These provisions also apply to the variation or abrogation of the special rights attached to some only of the shares of any class as if the shares concerned and the remaining shares of such class formed separate classes.
The rights attached to any class of shares shall, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of such shares or the terms upon which such shares are for the time being held, be deemed not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with, or subsequent to, the first mentioned shares or by the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
Transfer of shares Subject to any procedures set out by the directors in accordance with the Articles of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by instrument in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors of the Company.
The instrument of transfer shall be executed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by, or on behalf of, the transferee.
The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members of the Company.
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not a fully k X U X e X listed securities.
The directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form where the Company is entitled to refuse or is  in favour of more than four transferees.
The directors may also refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the Company has a lien.
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated form unless the relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, is duly stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable to stamp duty, is lodged at the transfer office or at such other place as the directors may determine, is accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and is in favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
If the directors refuse to register a transfer, they shall, as soon as practicable and in any event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company in the case of a share in certificated form or the date on which the operator instruction as  case such longer or shorter period if any as the Listing Rules may from time to time permit or require, send to the transferee notice of the refusal.
129 Leadership and Governance Directors Report continued Major Interests in share capital e % a As at As at % Capital a Capital BlackRock MFS Investment Management Aberdeen Standard Investments Hotchkis & Wiley Majedie Asset Management Kames Capital Aviva Investors Janus Henderson Investors Franklin Templeton Legal & General Investment Management Political donations No political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred during the year.
Greenhouse gas emissions % : of this report by reference.
Financial instruments Acquisition of own shares F considered that the share buy-back programme would maximise shareholder value by increasing the capital gain per share that would be expected in the event of a successful hydrocarbon discovery and that it would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Therefore, the Company entered into an irrevocable and non-discretionary agreement with its brokers, Morgan Stanley and Jefferies, to repurchase on the Companys behalf a the Company since that date.
Appointment and replacement of directors The Companys Articles of Association provide that directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution, or by the Board.
The nomination committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and replacement of directors.
Further details of the rules Articles of Association.
Directors indemnities As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity e } { F { F a pursuant to which the directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provision.
The indemnities came into force upon execution of the deeds of indemnity and are currently in force.
The Company also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
Powers of the directors e e U managed by the Board.
The directors currently have powers both in relation to the issuing and buying back of the Companys shares and are seeking renewal of these powers at the forthcoming AGM.
{X e  e 130 Directors Responsibility Statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union EU.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRS issued by the IASB and adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Following careful review and consideration of the Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 the Accounts, the directors consider that the Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the board of directors section on pages 80-81, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit of the Group and loss of the Company: and the strategic report section on pages 02-79 of this document includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Disclosure of information to auditors The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2017 confirm that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
In making this confirmation, the directors have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of the relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of this information.
AGM 2018 The AGM of the Company will be held in the Castle Suite of The Caledonian, a Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB at 12 noon BST on Tuesday 15 May 2018.
The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out and fully explained in the Circular containing the Notice of AGM which has been posted to shareholders together with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Recommendation The Board considers that all of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of all of the proposed resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
By order of the Board DUNCAN WOOD Company Secretary 12 March 2018 131
