Strategic Report Working Responsibly Introduction Working responsibly As one of Europes leading independent oil and gas companies, we recognise the importance of working in the interests of all our stakeholders.
As such we are committed to transparently reporting our activities and performance on Corporate Responsibilities CR.
Cairns Strategic Objectives are developed by The significance of our stakeholders position review of CR Objectives performance.
The the Board and these set our direction for any on CR matters in relation to our business emphasis of the CR Objectives is strongly given year against the background of our influenced by those issues considered long-term Company strategy.
We continue Key Performance Indicators KPIs and in our material in our materiality assessment, to review, understand and mitigate the risks specific CR Objectives for the year which described below.
Proposed CR Objectives to our business at both a strategic and tactical we again grouped under these four themes: are reviewed and approved by the Board level whilst demonstrating our commitment Business Relationships: Society and and tracked through the year by the Board to our CR policies and principles.
Communities: People: and and the Management Team.
Transparent and responsible working helps us protect our people, the communities and the environment in which we work.
In doing determine our CR Objectives for a given year so we secure further opportunities to deliver under the licence to operate strategic value to our stakeholders.
This is part of our F  k licence to operate.
U{F Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement in our projects For our activities in Senegal we through the year New and existing projects are subject to implemented a PCDP at country entry in We invest considerable time engaging with specific procedures to ensure we understand stakeholders through the year.
This ranges and engage stakeholders in a positive way.
our subsequent exploration and appraisal from explaining our position and performance This helps us understand issues and risks drilling programmes.
We have also shared to investors and shareholders, to presenting enabling effective communications through this with our joint venture partner in order at conferences and participating in industry the project and oil and gas life cycle.
To do to develop a joint approach to engaging bodies on good practice.
We engage this we develop Public Consultation and stakeholders as we plan development of with stakeholders as part of our impact Disclosure Plans PCDPs that are updated the field.
We hold regular meetings to assessments and our management plans.
regularly to ensure changes to the project discuss progress and review the outcome It also includes responding to concerned and stakeholder expectation and sentiment of any engagement activities.
The variety of are taken into account.
strategy, financial position, human rights, PCDPs identify stakeholder concerns and modern slavery and climate change.
issues, the materiality of issues and the associated risks to the business.
This enables Example: Our Senegal General Manager us to identify actions to mitigate those risks gave one of the keynote speeches at the which form part of the PCDP.
Stakeholder MSGBC Summit in Dakar in November, engagement plans are bespoke to each project.
for which we were one of the headline sponsors.
The summit was attended by Example: As part of our new country the Energy Minister of Senegal and around a e performed a review of stakeholders to nations and the international oil industry.
assist in developing a stakeholder PCDP {X e  e 48 Stakeholder engagement in 2017 2 Goals and GRI international reporting The feedback from these stakeholders Our material issues requirements.
Each of these 15 issues was used to quality assure the Our stakeholder engagement model has linked sub-issues see graphic on stakeholder position of issues placed a on our materiality matrix.
Where F  indicate its level of importance to Cairn comments from more than one defined in AccountAbilitys AA1000 stakeholder indicated a change in Accountability Principles Standard position we adjusted the issue position AA1000 APS.
AccountAbility is a on the matrix.
global organisation providing solutions to challenges in CR and sustainable a representative group of stakeholders development.
This ensures that we Read more in our Annual Corporate to gain feedback on our assessment Responsibility Report engage with internal and external The materiality process is discussed in more x  detail with feedback from stakeholders in our CR report available on our website and respond to them in a structured way.
xxx c:k responsibly creating-value In 2017 we have again assessed our Uc : F e k : F { Fk:{ xxx risk registers and their importance to :  F :F xx www.
These issues are derived 1 from IOGP c % Materiality assessment results 2017 Our materiality results appear in the We identified nine issues of high or Our graphic shows the position of our graphic below.
significant importance to both Cairn 15 issues.
We discuss the observations and stakeholders that were considered made by our stakeholders in more detail High materiality to have high materiality.
These issues in our CR report on our website.
Medium materiality are analysed in detail in this Working X Responsibly section.
Economics and Funding Ethics, ABC and Transparency Major Accident Prevention Security and Safety Health and Well-being Social and Contractors and Economic Benefit Supply Chain Communities Human Rights Employees Climate Change, Emissions and Discharges Equality and Diversity Biodiversity Resource Use Product Stewardship Insignificant Low Medium Significant High Importance to Stakeholders 49 Importance to Cairn Insignificant Low Medium Significant High Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities 15 potential material issues: 9 were found to be of high materiality The fifteen potentially material issues are listed below, grouped into the four themes.
Business Society and People Environment Relationships Communities Economics Social and Major Accident Climate Change, H H H H and Funding Economic Benefit Prevention and Safety Emissions and Discharges Funding S hared value Asset integrity I nvestment Benefits & impacts to communities Major accident prevention Energy use and alternative sources R eserves valuations L ocal content Major oil spill prevention Greenhouse Gases GHGs and capital expenditures Social investment Workplace Safety Other emissions Government relations Flaring & venting Strategic carbon risk Contractors Security H H Discharges disposals to water Human Rights and Supply Chain O ffice and land H Working conditions T&Cs Personnel Culture and leadership S pills Freedom of association L ocal assets S election Reuse.
recycle and waste Modern slavery security T ravel Competency, training and education management C omplicity Cyber security S tranded assets G rievance Ethics, ABC and Non-discrimination H Health and Biodiversity Transparency M H Well-being Environmental Social Impact Principles, policies, CRMS Communities W orkplace health M Assessment ESIA Risk & material issues L ocal community I nfectious diseases Environmental Surveys & Ecosystem Strategy & ops Stakeholders Well-being and health support Services Accountability & responsibility Indigenous peoples Biodiversity Action Plans Advocacy and lobbying L ocal labour Cairn Anti-Bribery and Employees C ommunity health Corruption practices M Resource Use C ultural heritage Culture and leadership Contractors and suppliers M Displacement S election Water abstraction and use Government and authorities S uccession L ocal resources Whistleblowing Workforce planning M aterials Communications Remuneration Tax and payments to government Equality Product M Fines & prosecutions L and Diversity Stewardship Non-operated joint ventures and Anti-discrimination Oil and gas sales and impacts international investments E qual pay Equal opportunities and diversity Materiality significance see page 49 Key: High Medium X {X e  e 50 Business Relationships Material issue 1 of 9: Economics and Funding Economic contribution Success in this area directly contributes How we performed against our Cairn has a commitment to making a positive to deliver against the following contribution, wherever we operate, by CR Objectives 2017 Strategic Objectives delivering tangible benefit to our stakeholders, including: Strengthen link between CRMS and host governments, which grant us business risk management Deliver exploration and our permits and licences to operate: We reviewed our CR policies and appraisal success host societies and communities that introduced a Corporate Major give us our social licence to operate: and Portfolio management Accident Prevention Policy CMAPP.
employees, contractors and suppliers, Deliver a sustainable business We integrated our Code of Business who provide the expertise and resources Ethics with our Business Principles Maintain licence to operate that we need to carry out our activities for a new Code of Ethics: this was and create value.
Deliver operational excellence published for the first time.
We distribute value through: We presented to the Board how the  Business Model & Strategy 04 on P04-05 payments to governments, including CRMS and the Cairn Operating taxes, duties and other payments such Standards COS work together to as licence fees: manage risk.
payments to promote social and These issues have the potential to Improve CR risk register community development in our impact our mitigation of these We revised our risk register process host countries: Principal Risks and improved quarterly CR risk payments to our contractors and suppliers: Shown below updates.
payments to our employees: and payments to those who provide us Kraken and Catcher operational We further integrated the CR risk with capital.
and project performance register with other business risks for regular review by the Management Delay in Senegal development plan Team and the Board.
Securing new venture opportunities Annual CRMS audit Volatile oil and gas prices Our annual internal audit programme Inability to secure or repatriate looked at application of the CRMS value from Indian investments with only 2 minor findings.
Reliance on JV operators for We discussed with the Board asset performance how CR issue management is Health, safety, environment assured and audited.
and security Enhance CR content of Investment Proposals IPs and support new  Risk Management 40 ventures on P40-47 All our IPs were reviewed and signed off by department heads.
We increased our scrutiny of modern slavery and climate change issues and included these issues in our IPs.
We implemented a checklist of CR issues for use in IP preparation.
We supported our New Ventures team successfully during our new country entry into Mexico.
51 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Business Relationships continued Material issue 1 of 9: Economics and Funding continued Increasing standards in a challenging In September the Board requested a review Total value distributed by Cairn business business environment of how our business management system in 2017 F integrates the CRMS within projects and how pressure on our industry to improve standards it links with the Cairn Operating Standards of operation within the challenging business COS.
This was presented in October.
Our industry faces an Board satisfied itself that the CRMS was fit ongoing increase in the standards we must for purpose and appropriate controls were apply, whilst continuing to focus on cost in place to protect our licence to operate.
Volatile oil price continues to be one of our principal risks which means the Ernst & Young also conducted an internal business remains focused on efficient capital audit of our CRMS which had two findings: allocation across the portfolio.
It is important one medium-rated to improve the that cost reductions do not compromise our management of potential CR risks which fall commitment to working responsibly.
outside the Project Delivery Process: and one low-rated to improve reporting of progress of The level of detail in requests from analysts, our CR objectives.
Actions were set in place Governments Taxes, fees etc.
shareholders and funding institutions to address these.
regarding the CR standards we use and Communities Social investment performance we achieve, continues to rise.
CRMS standards and This includes our reporting and transparency improvements in our projects Contractors and suppliers Capital spend requirements see Ethics, ABC and During our Senegal drilling programme in Transparency.
To maintain our licence to  operate we must track and apply latest good risks and managed to reduce costs compared Investors Dividends, interest, bank charges, practice in the way we do business.
This was achieved not only with effective rig and equipment We participate in industry bodies such as the International Association of Oil & Gas consistent CR leadership from our  Producers IOGP.
This enables us to ensure management and our contractors during the we are aware of the latest developments in campaign.
Our operational safe systems of c : good practice and translate them into our work were improved in Senegal by holding CRMS for application at a corporate level and monthly contractor meetings in Dakar see non-cash.
by progressing development assets through to actions to further integrate our CRMS into our production and or realising value through asset day-to-day business activities.
This included Development planning in Senegal sales, and either reinvesting the proceeds into the a more concise Code of Ethics the Code, commenced with our partners in January business, to fund exploration and development which integrated our previous Code and and continued throughout the year.
activity or returning cash to shareholders.
Finance costs included those associated with drawing on our long-standing Business Principles.
the Exploration Finance Facility EFF in Norway We published this wider Code externally Whilst seeking to maximise value from the and charges associated with maintaining the in an accessible format for the first time project for the joint venture and Government :  X F in December.
of Senegal by achieving low development the Groups exploration business remained costs, it is important nevertheless to maintain fully funded.
Our risk management system was improved our high CR standards.
Increasingly providers during the year.
This included ensuring routine of capital want to ensure that the highest CR department and asset risk reviews were held standards are adhered to.
Cairn is committed on a quarterly basis prior to the aggregated risk to observing high CR standards across all register being reviewed by the Management our activities including IFC requirements, Team.
In December, our Board held its detailed good industry practice, and all international review of the risk register and developed and national legislation.
strategies to realise value for shareholders and stakeholders from our portfolio.
{X e  e 52 During our Senegal drilling programme in 2017, we improved our management of CR risks and managed to reduce costs compared to previous campaigns.
F k Our new ventures team successfully secured Despite this we consider our funding position CR policy, the Corporate Major Accident attractive acreage in Mexico against strong to remain robust.
In the short to mediumPrevention Policy CMAPP.
This required us to demonstrate term, taking into account government our commitment to avoiding major accidents conformance with the health and safety policies, existing legislation, expected energy and mitigating major accident risk.
This kBe demand and oil and gas project timescales, complements our other corporate policies environmental management system ongoing exploration, appraisal and which were updated at the same time.
Fk k k{e development will continue to be supported Although our standard operating procedures environmental management verification audit and viable in our areas of interest.
Our Kraken within the CRMS contained these requirements was sufficient to demonstrate environmental and Catcher non-operated developments already, the CMAPP gives more visible management arrangements.
In the near term, the external health and safety verification audit marginal cost of carbon is not seen as a Offshore Safety Directive.
It is a pre-requisite was conducted to demonstrate that our significant issue, although it may play a part U health and safety systems met the required as these assets age and production declines, U standard.
No adverse findings were made precipitating a marginally earlier decision to planning preparations for drilling an exploration following this audit.
We do not foresee funding F or carbon cost as impacting shareholder clarify our commitment and standards for the The Investment Proposal prepared for value overall in our mature area portfolio at selection of a cost-effective drilling rig, which Board approval of entry into Mexico included U k detailed assessment of multiple risks the risks associated with access to debt Installations Offshore Safety Directive including ABC, security and environmental markets and funding.
See also Climate  risks see Ethics, ABC and Transparency, Change, Emissions and Discharges.
As a condition k a of signing the Production Sharing Contract This and our materiality review were used re-verify the environmental component PSC we were required to determine the  k against the requirements of the OSPAR block environmental baseline position and Our commitment to working responsibly is x social impacts in order to understand undiminished, and we aim to maintain and U F pre-existing liabilities.
Preparation for this demonstrate a strong track record continuing the CRMS against the latest health and safety work was well advanced at the year end.
to secure investment and opportunities Fk across our target areas.
kBe We strengthened the assessment of risks within our Investment Proposals during CRMS Improvements in evaluation of modern slavery and climate obtaining new opportunities change risks.
We will continue our efforts International investment in new opportunities is a significant part of our activities, both where opportunities and maintain our licence we may become an operator or joint venture to operate.
To protect our investment, we continue to assess CR risks as part of our evaluation of Investors continue to scrutinise not only our a new relationship or a new location.
Although financial position but also our commitments some opportunities may be financially  F attractive, we may judge them to represent an taken by key investors on climate change unacceptable risk due to associated ethical, to understand related risks to our business.
Although our own assessment of climate Our CR Objectives 2018 change risk to the business remains the Implement CMAPP within the business position of some investing institutions in relation to investing in hydrocarbon projects.
Review the CRMS against the new health and safety standard ISO45001 which is due to replace OHSAS 18001 Re-verify the CRMS against the requirements of OSPAR recommendation 2003 5 53 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Business Relationships continued Material issue 2 of 9: Contractors and Supply Chain Quality contracting services in Senegal X Success in this area directly contributes As a predominantly exploration and appraisalin Senegal used for our shore base support to deliver against the following led operator, we continued to rely very Strategic Objectives heavily on the use of contractors to provide campaign, in part to build on previous significant elements of our operational achievements and provide continuity of capability.
All our contractors are selected support.
This again proved successful, with Maintain Licence to Operate on the basis of service capability, application the shore base personnel showing a high of suitable standards and cost.
This is level of professionalism delivering the Deliver Operational Excellence assessed through the tendering processes, programme in a safe and environmentally pre-activity readiness assessment and responsible manner.
Our local personnel and  Business Model & Strategy 04 on P04-05 engagement, and subsequently monitoring % continued to engage with our contractors Promoting local contractor in Senegal and commence application of participation in Senegal These issues have the potential to impact our mitigation of these We continue to consider where we are in the U a 8 oil and gas life cycle of any project in order to Principal Risks Shown below are international service companies: however, develop a clear contracting strategy for both we continue to promote the use of local early works as well as promoting involvement services wherever we can, provided our high of local businesses.
Health, safety, environment CR standards can be met.
and security As we moved towards the project Our international contractors are expected development phase of the life cycle In  Risk Management 40 on P40-47 to apply high CR standards and our selection Senegal, we engaged with our joint-venture process continues to be a key factor in partners and key local stakeholders in order identifying and building good performance to improve local contractor participation.
F We looked at future opportunities for local How we performed against our selected high performing contractors for businesses, contractors and suppliers to be CR Objectives 2017 the Senegal programme which proved involved in the project.
Initiatives included the successful during the operational period commencement of a benchmarking activity.
Run contractor workshops in Senegal between January and September.
We set in This helps us to determine capacities of the with themes including Life Saving place the appropriate procedures to ensure local business in our sector, whilst promoting Rules LSR and the Modern Slavery contractors' management systems and our responsible operating standards see Social Act MSA own were consistent and any gaps identified and Economic Benefit.
This will continue and bridged.
Operations commenced in Contractor workshops were January and ended in September.
implemented through the Contracting in new licences Senegal drilling campaign F F a on a monthly basis.
and secured operatorship of the Ekland Contractors were engaged on LSR, U human rights, MSA and a variety fixed-term contracts.
We also had material Planning is key to ensuring we select of HSE topics.
contractors who share and implement the principles and standards we support.
Support other programmes planned personnel.
Services and equipment used across the Group in exploration and development came from Following successful acquisition of Block Contractor selection support various locations and suppliers around the F a commenced for future programmes k contractors to help us understand potential U a workforce was composed of contractors liabilities and risks associated with acquiring Contractor input was made the licence, both in respect of social impact to our joint venture partners.
also Major Accident Prevention and Safety.
This is part of compliance with the Mexican regulations on taking over from the previous operator.
We identified an experienced contractor ensuring they understood our {X e  e 54 Case Study: Senegal Contractor Workshops and Initiatives Workshops Initiatives We reinstated and extended our contractor Key initiatives were safety programmes workshop programme in Senegal for 2017. using consistent Hazard Observation This allows all our contractors to present Systems across our offshore and onshore A wider variety of topics were covered this scheme for exceptional observations.
We continued to test our contractor audit General campaign HSE CR briefings programmes and implement our own audits and monthly safety themes to check agreed standards were being met.
F X  We held a modern slavery assessment of Contractor led sessions one of our close contractors for the first time X see Human Rights.
Troubleshooting activities Incident and near miss reviews We continued emphasis on leadership with Plant and equipment hazards visits to our contractors and workshops by  our senior management to reinforce the contractor procedures importance of maintaining high standards Water management and vigilance in their application.
Waste management Oil spill response Modern slavery Health and safety triangles, Senegal operations, December 2016 September 2017 Management Fatalities Visits To Rig HSE Audits X % Restricted Work Day Cases Safety Drills & Training Medical Treatment Cases Job Risk Assessments First Aid Cases Time Outs for Safety | Toolbox Talks Safety Observations Near Misses Number of preventative health and safety actions Number of health and safety incidents requirements and allowed us to develop k U a cost-effective approach to delivering need to conform to our standards and be Our CR Objectives 2018 environmental surveys.
This meant U k F partnering with other operators in a similar Offshore Safety Directive Safety Case etc.
Ensure Cairn Life Saving Rules position to use a single vessel to undertake  and drilling lessons learned are surveys over multiple blocks.
We are working with the implemented in the Ekland U drilling campaign 8 U U Develop integrated contractor selection of contractors commenced in regulatory and our Cairn CRMS requirements.
audit plan }x We continue to apply lessons learned from successive drilling programmes.
procedures which are aligned with our Code of Ethics and CRMS requirements, ensuring a streamlined approach.
55 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Business Relationships continued Material issue 3 of 9: Ethics, Anti-bribery and Corruption and Transparency The Code Success in this area directly contributes Measuring performance Since inception Cairn has maintained a strong to deliver against the following stand on ethical matters, which is the key to Strategic Objectives delivering value and maintaining our licence F our HSE Guiding Principles that have been Maintain licence to operate updated annually ever since.
The HSE Guiding Principles evolved into our Corporate Deliver a sustainable business  { Measuring performance introducing our core values of Respect,  Business Model & Strategy 04 on P04-05    The principles were further enhanced in Employee dismissals for non-compliance Business Principles.
These issues have the potential to impact our mitigation of these F { Principal Risks Anti-bribery and corruption with the Code of Business Ethics to produce Shown below We continued to improve our ABC an integrated Group Code of Ethics the  a review and upgrade of our gifts and Health, safety, environment Principles and combines them with our hospitality register along with a revision of and security ethical position.
It also aligns them to our our due diligence procedures.
In addition, four Corporate Responsibility themes of: Fraud, bribery and corruption we targeted further training for staff Business Relationships: Society and Political and fiscal uncertainties working on projects in high risk countries.
Communities: People: and Environment: Access to debt markets against which we report.
In order to improve Employees are encouraged to report any transparency, the Code is published in full incident they believe may compromise our  Risk Management and is now available on our web site for the 40 on P40-47 Code of Ethics.
They can do this in a number first time.
of ways, including using a confidential phone line or speaking directly to their regional Read more information at xxxx director.
Where appropriate, the procedures corporate-governance can also facilitate an independent How we performed against our investigation of any matters raised.
The The Boards audit committee remains CR Objectives 2017 Groups whistleblowing procedure was also responsible for appointing an internal auditor highlighted for use in the event of suspected to regularly conduct internal audits of Cairns We integrated our Business Principles issues relating to modern slavery.
All levels of into the Code of Ethics management at Cairn, including executive Cairn is registered with the whistleblowing and non-executive directors, regional charity Public Concern at Work, which was published for the first time directors, general managers and heads of offers staff an alternative way of reporting departments, are responsible for ensuring We delivered targeted training an issue if they are not comfortable using consistent application of the Code.
Personnel on ABC in high risk countries internal procedures.
must abide by the Code and promote its use The ABC content of our due in all business activities, and all employees diligence process was revised Read more information at are required to sign up to the Code as part xxx We revised the gifts and of their employment conditions.
responsibly   hospitality register Our position on ethical matters continues to grow in importance with interest from investors, funding institutions and a wide variety of stakeholders.
Poor performance in this area could precipitate inability to access opportunities and funding see Economics and Funding, loss of reputation and negative impacts on people and communities.
{X e  e 56 In 2017 we also reviewed the position of some of our shareholders on material issues such as climate change, given the rising profile of this topic.
Transparency F Measuring performance We continued to engage in and report on some of our shareholders on material issues our business activities in a transparent and such as climate change, given the rising e profile of this topic as a business and investor we have been proactive in engaging with issue see Climate Change, Emissions and Employees trained in Cairns anti-corruption investors and shareholders through investor Discharges.
This was used to understand roadshows and regular and routine market potential engagement requirements and updates.
We maintain an investor area on our improve our reporting processes.
Ethical issues and our assets web pages that provides relevant up-to-date % F Transparent reporting track emerging ethical issues of importance the Group Tax Strategy on our website.
As a listed public company we continue to us and our broader stakeholders.
Particular to report annually in line with regulations.
Read more information at attention has been paid to the requirements We completed responses to all queries x of the Modern Slavery Act.
This is discussed associated with our Annual Report and in our section on Human Rights.
We also We also worked with potential investors in e tracked requirements under the Equality Act, Senegal to demonstrate our position on requests from the Financial Reporting although we do not fall under the current working responsibly across our operations 8 } provisions see Human Rights.
and to our commitment that our partners from the ClientEarth referral regarding the should do the same.
reporting of climate change risk.
As part % non-operated interest in Boujdour Maritime We responded to multiple requests we initiated a stakeholder review which block in offshore Western Sahara.
Western for information from investor analysts, Sahara has been classified as a Non-Selfshareholder representatives and other : c concerned stakeholders regularly, always a endeavouring to answer as completely Arab Democratic Republic claim Western transparently as possible.
The Board remains Sahara as their sovereign territory.
Following fully briefed on engagement programmes withdrawal of the operating partner Cairn and inbound requests.
Our investor relations decided not to continue to pursue this database is continuously updated in opportunity and subsequently also order to manage the communication relinquished this block at the year end.
Team at Cairn supply base in Dakar port.
We continued to fulfil our commitment by % We hold a wide portfolio of operated and non-operated assets in Norway, some of which are in the Barents Sea.
There is some stakeholder debate about exploration in the Barents Sea, mainly in relation to potential environmental impact in Arctic waters and climate change see Climate Change, Emissions and Discharges.
Our assets are in parts of the Barents Sea that have ice-free operating conditions similar to the Norwegian shelf, and in this respect drilling is technically no different to drilling on the Norwegian shelf.
Norwegian HSE requirements are among the highest in the world and with our track record of high standards of well design and offshore operations we believe activities in the Barents Sea can be delivered in accordance with them.
Read more information at 57 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Business Relationships continued Material issue 3 of 9: Ethics, Anti-bribery and Corruption and Transparency continued We are committed to responsible and Payments to governments Measuring performance transparent reporting and have been F recognised for the quality of our work in this Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative F EITI which commits those involved to the a % transparent reporting of tax contributions and { recognised the investor, strategic and other payments to governments by oil and reporting content of our company website gas companies.
We have participated in EITI which was re-launched in May.
e disclosed our payments to governments.
Our CR Objectives 2018 F 8 These disclosures include both payments to { governments included in our EITI reporting, Ensure the Code is rolled out to companies specifically commended for such as corporate income tax, licence fees all new and existing personnel integration of information in the front-end and withholding tax suffered, and additional Conduct ABC risk assessment of accounts.
payments made including VAT, payroll taxes for Mexico operations and social security costs.
We apply global standards to ensure our reporting is of the highest quality including We also reported on payments to the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability e :F Reporting Standards at a Core level.
We Directive on a country-by-country basis that helps businesses, governments and other follow the content principles of materiality, organisations understand and communicate the impact of business on critical sustainability issues stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability such as climate change, human rights, corruption context and completeness: and its quality and many others.
principles of balance, comparability,  accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability.
 The team on the Stena Drillmax.
{X e  e 58 Society and Communities Material issue 4 of 9: Social and Economic Benefits Delivering social and economic benefit e c%: Success in this area directly contributes Our strategy continues to be delivery of to Cairn, there are expectations of companies to deliver against the following value for our stakeholders through the oil to look across the value chain to where both Strategic Objectives and gas life cycle by generating social and positive and negative impacts can occur and economic benefit through our activities.
Our to identify actions that can be taken.
stakeholders are diverse and there are many Maintain licence to operate ways in which we can deliver value for them, We are now assessing our activities for both economic and social.
c%:  Business Model & Strategy to develop our plans to minimise the impacts 04 on P04-05 Whilst economic and social policy is the and maximise the benefits of our activities remit of governments, Cairn recognises for host countries.
that it has a role in adding value to society.
These issues have the potential to F c impact our mitigation of these % : c%: Principal Risks Shown below areas ranging from ending poverty, ensuring access to energy, protection of ecosystems, Health, safety, environment addressing climate change and decent work.
and security Delay in Senegal Development Plan  Risk Management 40 on P40-47 How we performed against our CR Objectives 2017 Our Impact Benefit Plan for Senegal was updated, matching it more clearly to the UN Sustainable % : c%: Economic and social policy is the remit of governments, Cairn recognises that it has a role in adding value to society.
59 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Society and Communities Material issue 4 of 9: Social and Economic Benefit continued F F { c %: Ensure healthy Through our social investment activities with The Hunger lives and promote Project THP for clean water and sanitation, nutrition, 8 well-being for all maternal health and community health.
Number of rural community development at all ages centres being supported to self-reliance through our partnership with THP.
Ensure inclusive To help the current and future Senegalese workforce and equitable develop skills to enhance their ability to find work in the 29 quality education developing oil industry and other sectors, through: Number of students receiving and promote lifelong Support of English language training.
learning opportunities Working with government and other oil and gas for all companies on educational support.
Achieve gender Through our social investment activities with The Hunger equality and Project for womens empowerment in rural and coastal Over 700 empower all communities by: Number of women participating in THP women and girls Enabling greater access to finance.
training activities in fishing communities Mobilising and organising women-led groups.
through our partnership with THP.
Ensure access to Through: affordable, reliable, Our contribution to affordable energy for Senegal 75k-125k sustainable and through the discovery, appraisal and delivery of oil Barrels of oil per day targeted modern energy for all and gas to meet energy demands.
Promote sustained, Through: inclusive and Payments to our contractors and suppliers including 18% sustainable economic locally and internationally based companies.
growth, full Payments to our local employees.
and productive Payments to government which include licence fees, employment and taxes, duties and training allowances.
24% decent work for all Application of our Policies and Principles and respect Total proportion of spending for human rights and through the requirement and mentoring of our suppliers to apply the same.
Build resilient Through: infrastructure, Provision of training and mentoring for suppliers on 72 promote inclusive best industry practices.
Number of contractors in Senegal and sustainable Developing a recycling business through our social receiving training mentoring from Cairn.
foster innovation Working with other oil companies on promoting access to local suppliers to oil and gas contracts.
Build effective, Through: accountable and 38 inclusive institutions anti-corruption through, for example, our commitment Number of institutional stakeholders at all levels c : participating in English language training Provision of English language and oil industry awareness assisting in building good practice.
The Hunger Project is a global, non-profit, strategic organisation committed to the sustainable end of world hunger.
Its mission is to end hunger and poverty by pioneering sustainable, grassroots, women-centred strategies and advocating their widespread adoption in countries throughout the world.
{X e  e 60 e the community committee who will manage their distribution and replacement in future years.
Case Study: Supporting Mobilisation of Fishing Communities in Yenne, Senegal B{ In 2015 Cairn carried out a 3D seismic survey The programme seeks to develop strong via integrated programmes that combine in its nearer shore licence areas.
A seismic leadership skills and build capacity by survey interprets seismic energy to assess has empowered communities to positively for women and girls.
The programme training take the lead in their own development.
geometry of rocks in the subsurface.
Through the Environmental and Social Impact necessary steps to end their own hunger and Assessment ESIA and the operational and microfinance and credit opportunities.
poverty using an established and successful activities we had significant interaction with model known as the Epicentre Strategy.
artisanal fishermen from the coastal areas of B{ catalyse community-led development by There are four broad phases through carry out an exploratory mission to better understand the challenges faced by these for their own community needs.
This strategy a { communities to assess how oil and gas will contribute to the economic and social Implementation and Transition to Selfactivities may impact them or be perceived to reliance.
In the last phase communities are impact them.
The study identified vulnerable able to fund their own activities and no longer communities along the coast managing communities themselves.
fishing stocks and food security.
k people from across seven coastal fishing plan that includes the development of social Considering the potential significance of these communities to ongoing and potential % committees and physical infrastructure in B{ the form of the epicentre building.
This new to consider whether their epicentre strategy infrastructure supports sustainable synergy could be transposed to a coastal community.
It was agreed that a pilot programme could be developed and in April 2017 Cairn signed a third Memorandum of Agreement with THP.
The aim of this 30-month programme is to % Our CR Objectives 2018 Review developments to integrate UNSDGs into Company strategy Review social investment criteria and guidance 61 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Society and Communities Material issue 5 of 9: Human Rights Protecting people in our supply chain In general terms, the approach developed Success in this area directly contributes Our new Code of Ethics and CSR Policy followed a similar track to that used in our to deliver against the following uphold our long standing support for the ABC management system.
Primary actions Strategic Objectives c % conducted were to carry out a risk Human Rights.
Human rights are particularly assessment covering all countries where important to some of our key stakeholders we operate including potential vulnerabilities Maintain licence to operate including our employees and the communities to modern slavery within the supply chain.
tend to use specialist international contractors  Business Model & Strategy with well-developed employment practices.
04 on P04-05 8 U However, they may have a subcontracting a e chain using agencies and other sources with the likelihood of falling within the provisions unclear practices, particularly in locations with These issues have the potential to e less strict or weaker human rights regulations impact our mitigation of these As a consequence, we set CR objectives especially for less skilled tasks.
Our influence Principal Risks diminishes the further we travel along the Shown below these requirements, including building on supply chain but we will continue to press our contractors to apply good practice.
Health, safety, environment included attending a briefing session at the and security Institute of Directors, Scotland, to gain further We also use local suppliers directly and it is knowledge and proof our approach.
Despite important to ensure they understand our  Risk Management production commencing in both Kraken requirements on human rights, implement 40 on P40-47 zero tolerance towards any form of modern did not reach the threshold specified in the slavery behaviour and protect the rights of Act.
However, we progressed as planned their workforce.
A summary of our actions as we will fall under the provisions of the How we performed against our e following page.
CR Objectives 2017 Our Modern Slavery statement appears on our web xxx responsibly We evaluated potential modern slavery risks in our supply chain and in our investment planning We developed a mechanism to assess modern slavery issues Company Partners Community Society during contractor selection Ensuring the Ensuring the Contractors human rights of Company does to develop We developed training packs on employees are not have a policy that or management human rights and modern slavery respected negative impact supports and controls to make which were rolled out to our staff or legacy in the rewards sure partners and key contractors in Senegal communities responsible contractors We commenced auditing of our key where projects behaviour suppliers are not contractors in Senegal on modern sites are located engaged in slavery issues human rights A statement as required under the abuses such as Modern Slavery Act was developed child labour, and posted on our web site forced labour, modern slavery Improvements to our contract terms and conditions were identified by our internal audit programme Our People Management Manual was revised and released Cairns reducing ability to control and influence {X e  e 62 Our key actions on modern Our assessment of human rights as part of We identified some irregularities in the terms slavery in 2017: due diligence processes, including country of employment of personnel working for entry, now includes a review of key indicators our key contractor in Senegal which were including status under international addressed.
A modern slavery assessment of Two training packages were developed.
the contractor was conducted subsequently.
The first was a general human rights and modern slavery pack rolled out to all our An internal audit made recommendations for Preparations are in hand for an integrated employees: the second a more focused improving our contracting arrangements.
assessment of potential contractors that session which was presented to our key U The standard terms and conditions within Senegal contractors at the July contractor Senegal activities, as well as to support our contracts were modified to specify zero workshop in Dakar.
tolerance of modern slavery and likewise Our procedure for the Selection of Services requirements of sub-contracting parties, Our whistleblowing policy has been extended Providers was revised to incorporate and we also strengthened our right to audit.
to cover modern slavery issues and the assessment for modern slavery during mechanisms for reporting.
The general We developed a modern slavery statement the selection process.
This followed Human Resources Group whistleblowing as part of our 2017 reporting: it is available on a similar approach to that applied for policy is supported by training.
Protecting communities We have not identified any significant risk of Measuring performance Our position on human rights in the forced or compulsory labour in our supply communities where we operate continues to be an important element of what we do.
This means applying our CRMS which Protecting our employees includes the International Finance F I { a a Corporations IFC Performance Standard was released following comprehensive.
It contains our Group People Policy e and all employee-related policies and offshore with limited potential impact from procedures.
This manual includes our our shore base activities in Senegal, and no requirements for personnel employment physical displacement occurred as our shore including: general employment terms: base is within the curtilage of Dakar port.
recruitment and selection: diversity: health The same is likely to apply for any potential and well-being: work and life balance: training and deployment: employee relations: U a rewards and benefits: facilities management: we looked at locations for shore based and other policies such as whistleblowing operations in Mexico and these too will See our Human Resources section.
expect our contractors to treat their employees in the same way with a clear mechanism in We built on our programmes to protect place.
We respect the rights of freedom of and enhance support for local communities, association and collective bargaining.
achieving substantial progress in our initiative with fishing communities in Senegal.
The We continue to consult our workforce work which is ongoing with NGO The Hunger on organisational and performance issues Project THP is captured in our Impact Benefit through a variety of means.
We respect Plan for Senegal and is further discussed those contract employees who work with under Social and Economic Benefit.
us and their membership of unions.
In addition, we have identified the specific risks and requirements around unions in F8 { certain locations such as Mexico.
X e F  I 63 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Society and Communities Material issue 5 of 9: Human Rights continued The requirements and tools to support Management Team and the Board when implementation of our human rights policy they arise.
They are investigated and Our CR Objectives 2018 across the business are laid down in our actions identified.
CRMS and Human Rights Guidelines.
This Include our Modern Slavery Act includes continued commitment to a rights Our Group whistleblowing procedure is requirements in all contract terms aware approach which means identifying contained within the People Management and conditions potential human rights issues in our activities, a Define a human rights and modern assessing if we have influence over the It details responsibilities within the Company, slavery audit programme for 2018 issues and defining appropriate action.
This safeguards in place, mechanisms for raising applies across the life cycle of the business.
concerns and the investigation process.
Enhance due diligence for human rights and modern slavery risks in We have not identified any interaction Separate grievance mechanisms in operating new venture evaluations between our operations and indigenous locations are provided in local languages and published to allow communities access.
More information about our Approach to Some locations may also have specific protecting Human Rights is available at xxx Addressing grievances external mechanisms for reporting concerns responsibly  Grievances where they do occur are taken U { human-rights very seriously, whether arising from the at Work x employees or associated with a project in the advice guidance or hotlines for specific communities where we operate.
Complaints issues such as the Gangmaster Licensing and and grievances are reported to the X e U B Members of the local community at the Members of the local community at The Hunger Project Epicentre in Mpal.
{X e  e 64 People Material issue 6 of 9: Major Accident Prevention and Safety Prevention of major accidents place as part of the planning process Success in this area directly contributes operated assets under the Project Delivery Process, which to deliver against the following Our operated and non-operated activities is a requirement of the Cairn Operating Strategic Objectives Standards COS.
This included acceptance and this is attributable to a number of factors, and readiness assessments, operational but in no small part to ensuring preventative contractor bridging procedures, regular Maintain licence to operate measures are integrated into the projects contractor engagement see Contractors during the planning and operational phases.
and ongoing monitoring  Business Model & Strategy and assurance.
04 on P04-05 In our operations in Senegal we applied our Well Engineering and Construction Our well design, planning and inspection Management System WECMS including: procedures are applied wherever we operate These issues have the potential to well engineering and construction standards: in conjunction with existing legislation.
impact our mitigation of these well design, barrier and casing standards: Consequently, planning commenced in Principal Risks well control manual: and management of U Shown below change standard.
same rigorous approach and in accordance Health, safety, environment The rig was selected and accepted in late U U and security As part of our commitment to high standards WECMS and CRMS major hazard prevention of prevention we also developed a Corporate  Risk Management requirements and those of the regulations a e { { 40 on P40-47 in Senegal.
These specific engineering and conform to the requirements of the Offshore management control barriers were set in Installations Offshore Safety Directive How we performed against our Project Delivery Process CR Objectives 2017 Our Project Delivery Process PDP is the Our crisis and emergency team drilling must meet defined criteria at were fully trained to support our Cairn Operating Standards COS which operation and exercises were ensure we understand and can control gate has defined actions and performed quarterly risks at key stages in our projects.
During the oil and gas life cycle the PDP helps We developed a Corporate Major us maintain focus on what is important who is independent of the project.
In this Accident Prevention Policy to the Company and apply good We implemented a series of practice through the application of are reviewed throughout the process successful safety campaigns local and international standards.
No Lost Time Injuries corrective actions are identified and We also use the Cairn PDP to manage implemented.
No Restricted Work Day Cases CR issues and apply these standards for % all operated projects under our control.
a a A single spill to sea of 34 litres of hydraulic oil Why How Ready Finished Learn Identify Assess Define Execute Evaluate Why are we How could Are we Have we What do doing this we do this ready to finished all we learn project?
sanction we needed and achieve?
65 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued People continued Material issue 6 of 9: Major Accident Prevention and Safety continued  see to duties which require the licensee Measuring performance commitments reinforce the existing to supervise the operator in a systematic requirements set out in our WECMS, CRMS manner and our management system and COS see Economics and Funding in Norway is designed to help us do so.
Prevention of major accidents Continuous improvement of crisis and non-operated assets emergency response capability F U U e oil production commenced in June following Emergency Response Team CERT based successful commissioning and receipt of all in Edinburgh and our Dakar-based Incident approvals.
This included fulfilling all major Management Team IMT were fully briefed accident hazard prevention requirements of on Senegal activities and their duties in the enhanced Safety Case regulations for the event of a major accident or incident.
Similarly the Catcher We tested their combined readiness in our Floating Production Storage and Offloading } } F 8{k U we ran weekly desktop briefings and October following approval of its Safety exercises to continue to broaden exposure Case in July with production commencing to operational drilling scenarios.
We also % refreshed oil spill training for our shore base developing robust Safety Cases is underlined and our Emergency Response and Rescue by the need to ensure major accident Safety Vessels crews during the campaign.
and Environmental Critical Elements SECEs of the equipment are identified, properly k assessed, maintained and controlled.
exception, we have continued to train and reinforce responsibilities of our CERT staff We continued to support our operating over a wider range of crisis and emergency U response scenarios in order to expand their lessons learned to assist in meeting our F commitments to prevention of major plan set out exercises and planned training accidents.
In our Norway non-operated for the year.
In addition to those exercises for activities we continued to manage our Senegal, our other quarterly exercises Kraken FPSO.
{X e  e 66 We focus on preventing and avoiding all accidents.
examined our capability to support our F U k We maintained emphasis on management personnel in the event of specific security Pollution Emergency Plan OPEP defining visits, audits, permit to work, tool-box talks, } our overall onshore-based response, and in safety drills and training which are monitored } the case of the selected rig a Temporary through our leading safety indicators.
Our Operations Oil Pollution Emergency Plan key contractors, both onshore and offshore, taking into account activities planned in TOOPEP.
We will maintain all relevant OSRL showed excellent leadership in participating U a memberships and associated insurances fully in our CR programmes and supported U their staff to achieve no Lost Time Injuries Oil spill risk continues to be of high concern LTI during the year.
to stakeholders, and we remain committed Mexico emergency support providers to applying the IPIECAIOGP Joint Industry Our base team maintained their commitment Practice.
We are an associate member to managing occupational safety risks of Oil Spill Response Limited OSRL with operated block.
XF a number of supporting memberships.
Our overall lagging indicators We were also a West Africa Central Africa Occupational safety are given overleaf.
Aerial Surveillance and Dispersant % Spraying service WACAF member our Safety System of Work SSW at our 10 during our Senegal campaign see operational base in Senegal along with  Our Culture on P10-11 xxx.
continued engagement with our contractors Our web pages discuss Health in our operational activities.
The shore % We continued to improve our oil spill base SSW was linked to a series of safety xxx preparedness in relation to: Oil Spill campaigns which included among others: working-responsibly Contingency Plans OSCPs : equipment dropped objects: quayside safety: fire logistical arrangements and deployment prevention and fire-fighting: manual handling: planning: and identification of capabilities and pinch points.
This built on previous of support contractors.
themes of: team working: lifting operations, tubular handling: traffic management and Future planning authority to stop work.
We also ensured our F Life Saving Rules were clearly understood U and promoted during the campaign.
so, we are planning to ensure we conform U Ekland campaign.
Our CERT will remain Fa U provided by a very experienced service provider commonly used to support U F ensure all roles and responsibilities are clear, including crisis and emergency approvals, readiness assessment, and a pre-drilling exercise will be undertaken.
F{F eFk:{ k  IF{ kIF{ was set up to implement learning opportunities in respect of oil spill preparedness and response e Gulf of Mexico.
As part of this effort, the OSR-JIP IPIECA is the global oil and gas industry association Operations on the Stena Drillmax.
for environmental and social issues.
67 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued People continued Material issue 6 of 9: Major Accident Prevention and Safety continued Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR Our CR Objectives 2018 Lost time injuries per million hours worked Total recordable injuries per million hours worked Implement requirement of 4.0 8.0 the CMAPP to conform to UK requirements 3.0 Ensure Crisis and Emergency 6.0 2.52 Response Team and Incident 5.04 Management Teams readiness, they 2.0 4.0 3.88 maintain function and capabilities including quarterly exercises 1.04 1.04 1.0 Update all emergency and oil spill 2.0 1.88 1.60 1.54 0.65 1.21 plans to meet operational activities 0.45 1.04 1.03 0.36 0.29 0.27 0.00 0.00 0.00 Roll out our Safe System of Work in 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 our directly controlled shore bases Cairn total for employees and contractors Cairn total for employees and contractors IOGP benchmark IOGP benchmark Notes: IOGP is the International Association of Oil and Cairn TRIR and LTIF statistics can be higher than the Gas Producers.
We have included overall IOGP IOGP benchmark after only one incident, or a small benchmark figures average of onshore and offshore number of incidents, because our exploration activities for employees and contractors.
IOGP benchmark often last for only a short time period, so there are relatively few hours worked compared with ongoing production and other long-term operations.
Operations on the Stena Drillmax.
{X e  e 68 We continued to do all we can to evaluate threats to personnel and assets.
Material issue 7 of 9: Security Security landscape assess risks on a routine basis so that Success in this area directly contributes The worldwide security environment appropriate training, mitigation and advice to deliver against the following continues to be dynamic, and Cairn can be provided.
Strategic Objectives recognises the need to adapt and innovate in order to address identified and emerging New country entry and location threats threats and provide a duty of care to our In addition to monitoring the security situation Maintain licence to operate people, assets, investments, reputation and in our existing locations we look at threats in data.
There have been a number of wellpotential new business locations as part of  Business Model & Strategy our due diligence process and new country 04 on P04-05 U entry requirements.
rose to its highest level for a period.
Such incidents continue to represent a risk to our For example, as part of our evaluation of the These issues have the potential to personnel and business, demonstrating that Mexico opportunity, we reviewed the security impact our mitigation of these they are of global concern.
It is clear that our information thoroughly to identify the key Principal Risks focus should not be directed at locations with risks we could expect and be required to Shown below known or high risks, but also must take into mitigate.
Country visits and our new country account the more wide-scale threats to all entry procedure require us to deepen our Health, safety, environment our personnel.
understanding of security risks as a matter and security of course.
Our initial security works were % a  Risk Management support and advice given at an organisational of office and other locations we may use 40 on P40-47 level and to individuals, against this challenging for operational purposes.
We also develop security situation.
It involved tracking changes location specific procedures, which are in threats across our current locations and designed to mature and evolve with the providing advice as necessary to all staff.
We circumstances, to allow us to support How we performed against our use targeted online training packages our personnel both locally and from our CR Objectives 2017 designed with the business traveller in mind, head office.
and robust bespoke risk assessments carried We trained our senior managers out for individual non-routine travel to and CERT on high impact security countries with a medium risk or above.
scenarios including an emergency We continued to do all we can to evaluate exercise threats to personnel and assets, and we We continued to improve our support for those of the country and travelling on business Cairn supply base in Dakar.
69 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued People continued Material issue 7 of 9: Security continued F a Operations in Senegal continued to be no residual issues or gaps following these tragically resulted in a significant number of supported by a local security consultancy incidents.
Specifically our IS department fatalities and widespread damage in Mexico that provides assistance in the event of an acted swiftly in response to the breaking City and elsewhere outside the capital.
emergency or serious threat, as well as by news of the worldwide cyber attack Vulnerable personnel either in-country or specialist support in Head Office.
We Wannacry ransomware and quickly visiting were provided with earthquake continued to assess all operational areas imposed extra countermeasures to briefings to ensure they were aware how to U ensure we continued to safeguard our react in the event of a major seismic event.
F received we took a precautionary approach presence in Mexico and support personnel and acted upon advice quickly, notifying all We continue to monitor developments in this including development of security and personnel with potential to be affected.
area and participate in active industry bodies business continuity arrangements.
Such advice received from embassies, to ensure we are aware of potential threats civil authorities and our support contractors and measures to prevent security breaches We continue to have a large number of allowed us to advise on security and risks which would result from data loss.
personnel travelling on a daily basis, and arrangements rapidly.
Low-level crime consequently we have implemented and advice was provided and extra security improved a number of mechanisms to measures were also implemented in Senegal assess before travel risks they may face Our CR Objectives 2018 including health, safety and security.
information area has been placed on our Develop security and business intranet and this is available to all staff.
We Cyber security continuity plans for our support our people during their travel and This year also saw examples of cyber attacks Mexico operation in certain instances specific travel security on organisations and software across the Streamline our Security and management plans are set in place globe, in some cases with significant impacts Guidance documentation to address heightened concerns.
Although we experienced no cyber security breach from Review current cyber security the malware incidents this year, and despite systems and follow industry robust cyber security plan being in place, we good practice to mitigate risks reviewed arrangements to ensure there were Operations on the Stena Drillmax.
{X e  e 70 Environment Material issue 8 of 9: Climate Change, Emissions and Discharges Climate change risk and reporting Overall the risk profile of climate change within Success in this area directly contributes We continued to monitor and assess the business and materiality assessment have to deliver against the following developments in relation to climate change B Strategic Objectives we remain conscious of the potential for this This included understanding positions taken to increase risk associated with access to debt e markets and funding see Economics and Maintain licence to operate and China as well as those countries in which Funding.
We looked at risks overall and in we have activities.
We conducted a review new country entry situations including specific  Business Model & Strategy which looked at our risks in the context of the risk reviews in our Investment Proposal 04 on P04-05 position taken by our key investors and peer summaries to the Board.
With our partners, companies in order to benchmark our own we started to consider climate change issues see also Economics and Funding.
The which may arise for potential development in These issues have the potential to review was discussed with members of the Senegal, This includes particular requirements impact our mitigation of these Board and shared with other senior personnel.
in relation to gas management and funding.
Principal Risks This included announcements by some Shown below financial institutions to cease investing in oil F and gas projects.
As part of our annual review efforts to track and understand the risks and Health, safety, environment we continued to understand projection for developments around climate change and we and security energy consumption in the longer term and will perform a portfolio resilience assessment.
the expected contribution of oil and gas.
See Catcher and Kraken operational our Industry Overview.
Emissions, discharges and wastes and project performance Our phase three exploration and appraisal Access to debt markets We responded to Financial Reporting programme in Senegal was completed Council FRC questions on our reporting of ahead of schedule for the wells drilled  Risk Management thereby reducing emissions on a per well 40 on P40-47 concluded that our reporting was satisfactory.
basis from those estimated during the We also tracked and commented on climate assessment and planning process, and change reporting proposals arising from submitted in our Environment and Social How we performed against our : 8 Impact Assessment.
CR Objectives 2017 Ministers from the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures TCFD, which k We completed our annual review k{ emissions and discharges compared to of COP21 and 22 related risks for recommendations covered governance: a steady state production operation.
Our the business including a review strategy: risk management: and metrics and sustained efforts for efficient management of the position taken by key investors targets.
We took on board comments from of our emissions, discharges and waste and peers others regarding TCFD recommendations continued, and in Senegal our waste such as FRC, analysts such as IHS Markit management planning continued to ensure Our phase three Senegal exploration and oil and gas industry organisation for minimisation of waste going to landfill.
and appraisal programme reduced environmental and social issues IPIECA.
landfill waste substantially Cairn will continue to monitor requirements in this area as they develop.
71 Tonnes CO e per 1,000 hours worked 2 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Environment continued Material issue 8 of 9: Climate Change, Emissions and Discharges continued We experienced a single very minor spill of Total and normalised GHG emissions scopes 1, 2 and 3 of mineral oil from an underwater remotely operated vehicle ROV which resulted in no 60,000 60 discernible impact.
This incident was included 48 53 in our report to the Senegal regulators as part 45,000 45 of our ongoing environmental and social 41 33 management plan commitments.
36 30,000 30 Sound and management practices were in place 15,000 15 during well perforation for the phase three drilling programme in Senegal.
Seismic 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 0 activities in Western Sahara waters were conducted by our partners without any reported issues.
tonnes CO e, tonnes CO e location-based, tonnes CO e Product stewardship and resource use are discussed in our CR report 2018 available on our website k e per xxx working-responsibly We calculate our GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting : { :{ k, CH and N O from Our CR Objectives 2018 F { F{ 8 e  e of data from a baseline of four years earlier.
Continue to assess climate change 8 :B: e{F risks for the business including a :B: { reporting :B: :B: { : ways: according to a location-based method and a market-based method.
Transmission and distribution losses Develop a climate change resilience are excluded.
For the location-based method we use emission factors from the IEA International Energy Agency review of the portfolio F e 8 Promote high standard of design and % % 8 method we use emission factors, where available, in the following order of preference: performance in our developments a Supplier-specific emission factors obtained from Cairn's offices' electricity suppliers.
b Residual mix emission factors obtained from the Association of Issuing Bodies AIB document European  a c Location-based emission factors.
These are the same IEA and Defra emission factors that we use for calculating location-based emissions.
k details about our GHG emissions data and calculations, are available on our website.
:B: 8 :B: % recommendation to include an uplift for the influence of radiative forcing in air travel emissions.
We updated % xxx 8 :B: % X :B: by RPS which, within the scope of the limited assurance engagement, has found that the GHG emissions reported are materially correct and a fair representation of available information.
A full assurance statement detailing the verification undertaken and its limitations is available on our website.
{X e  e 72 Tonnes CO e 2 24,972 420 2,793 59,395 402 3,127 32,435 351 2,606 29,487 355 2,140 48,782 337 2,471 Case Study: Waste Management in Senegal Landfill waste In 2017 Cairn and its partners generated nearly 414 tonnes of waste during operational activities in k ended up in landfill and what did was ordinary domestic waste.
For comparison the UK disposes over 9 50% of municipal waste to landfill.
Recovered or reused waste k 0.8% was exported.
Recycled One of the success stories from our a living reusing materials from the site.
2017 operations in Senegal has been the The site is a very hazardous environment management of waste generated by our with risk to health and the environment.
operations both onshore and offshore.
Our This landfill is one of a number of similar Wastes treated included domestic operations over three phases of drilling with sites in Africa which has few recognisable different rig contractors have generated management controls.
specific hazardous wastes that cannot be disposed of locally due to the absence of e suitable facilities to prevent significant eliminate wherever possible any waste that adverse environmental impact.
We have may be disposed at the Mbeubeuss landfill worked closely with our partners to ensure and ensure that materials destined for it xxxx that we have been able to address these did not contribute to these health and uploads system uploads attachment environmental risks.
xxxU %8FceX impact and meeting and exceeding industry best practice.
We also had to ensure that waste stored and Company CRMS commitments disposal was controlled and secure in line to agree arrangements with a local The approach that Cairn takes to waste with Duty of Care arrangements.
Some cement kiln involved with waste to management is detailed in our Business materials such as oil filed items have energy initiatives.
Through Veolia and { our local Cairn team we identified  as plastic and metal drums and containers.
contractors who could treat and dispose These are classified as hazardous wastes of the majority of the waste generated given our intent to dispose of them.
It was during our operational activities.
Those k a imperative that given the harmful nature specialised or hazardous wastes which requirements on how waste is managed of their original contents these did not could not be treated in Senegal included including application of EU waste inadvertently get repurposed for carrying classification and management water or food for human or animal batteries and fluorescent tubes.
These practices such as Duty of Care.
F were safely and securely stored and waste such as wood and metal scrap also arrangements made to export them Senegal and Dakar specific challenges had to be tightly monitored to ensure it to dedicated treatment and disposal There are a number of challenges specific posed no harm through inappropriate reuse.
facilities in Europe in compliance with to operating in Senegal which we have had the Basel Convention.
to overcome to ensure robust application Working with Partners of these principles and procedures and establish a robust and effective waste 8 X a develop a secure waste management area % within the confines of our supply base and work locally in Dakar to identify and build annum including local hazardous wastes.
working relationships with existing waste There is little or no control of wastes sent to management contractors and recycling the site and thousands of local people make F 73 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Environment continued Material issue 9 of 9: Biodiversity Awareness We take our responsibilities very seriously for Success in this area directly contributes Global awareness of biodiversity has all operations that may affect critical habitats, to deliver against the following increased dramatically in recent years protected areas and or the welfare of local Strategic Objectives including its link with communities and communities relying on ecosystem services.
As a result, there is more We undertake extensive due diligence of understanding of the many issues that potential biodiversity impacts, and engage Maintain licence to operate threaten it.
This places a greater onus on with relevant technical specialists, government businesses like Cairn to recognise the departments and non-governmental  Business Model & Strategy impact that our activities may have on organisations NGOs, along with local 04 on P04-05 biodiversity, and to commit to protecting stakeholders.
Such dialogue helps us by it in the regions where we operate.
We also guiding our subsequent mitigation activities.
recognise the potential for climate change These issues have the potential to to impact biodiversity and livelihoods in Early assessment impact our mitigation of these local communities.
Cairn assesses potential biodiversity Principal Risks impacts early on and at all stages of project Shown below Oil and gas exploration and development development, from asset acquisition through activities have the potential to affect to decommissioning.
We assess direct Health, safety, environment biodiversity both on land and in the marine impacts as well as the potential cumulative and security environment.
Our commitments and and indirect impacts of operations on principles related to biodiversity are laid out biodiversity, and we consider these impacts Catcher and Kraken operational in our Code of Ethics and our Environment in the wider context i. e. beyond the and project performance Policy.
For example, Cairn does not explore, immediate physical footprint of the asset.
Access to debt markets develop or enter into joint ventures in c k B a This entails an Environmental and Social  Risk Management we take a precautionary approach, believing Impact Assessment ESIA and includes 40 on P40-47 that where there are threats of serious or consideration of the supply chain for primary irreversible damage, even where such products.
Any project in which significant damage is not scientifically certain, costpotential impacts on biodiversity are How we performed against our effective damage-prevention measures identified undergoes additional studies and CR Objectives 2017 should still be taken.
These are required to demonstrate how potential impacts will be We commissioned and or completed managed effectively.
baseline environmental surveys for blocks in Senegal, Mexico and the UK as part of environment impact assessments We assessed potentially sensitive areas as part our new venture Investment Proposals {X e  e 74 We develop asset and site-specific Our assets Environmental and Social Management F Our CR Objectives 2018 Plans that integrate biodiversity.
Cairn also baseline survey of the areas of interest develops Biodiversity Action Plans where being considered for well locations in the Promote high standard of design and there is a significant risk to biodiversity Rufisque and Sangomar Offshore blocks.
performance in our developments or a measurable benefit for targeted Subsequently we commenced an Complete environmental impact biodiversity conservation action.
Cairn Environmental and Social Impact Assessment assessments for new operational ensures appropriate resources and expertise using specialist consultants in Edinburgh and programmes to manage biodiversity risks and impacts, % % and commissions external specialists planning for benthic surveys seabed survey Revise our biodiversity guidelines as necessary.
for sensitive locations for projected operations U When identifying, assessing and managing Mexico as part of the PSC commitment, biodiversity risks and impacts, we follow again using specialist local contractors.
the requirements outlined in the IFCs This information will be used to support { environmental impact work going forward, Conservation and Sustainable Management and in the case of Mexico is required for of Living Natural Resources, appropriate delineation of impact by previous operators.
national legislation and other internationally accepted good industry practice.
Investment Proposals also consider key biodiversity sites before submission to the Our Biodiversity Framework sets out a Board for approval.
This helps define risk common approach, with processes and including the presence of sensitive sites deliverables that apply to all Cairns business and species well in advance of entry into and operations in accordance with our a new licence or location.
Cairn Project Delivery Process PDP see Major Accident Prevention and Safety.
