Clients We place clients at the centre of everything we do.
This is core to our culture.
OUR APPROACH EXTENDING CLIENT SERVICES We place clients at the centre of everything we do.
This is core to our We endeavour to keep improving the services we can offer clients, culture.
We focus on building long-term relationships anchored in with one such example in 2017 being our work around estate trust and mutual respect, where advice is tailored to our clients administration.
Recognising that the passing away of an individual individual circumstances.
represents a difficult time for family members, but one in which we can help to ensure a clients assets continue to be effectively If we and our advisers do this well, our clients will not only remain managed and distributed through to the next generation, we have with St. Jamess Place, but they will typically become advocates.
established a dedicated estate administration service in conjunction Indeed, responses to our Wealth Account survey indicate that 97% of with Kings Court Trust.
respondents would recommend St. Jamess Place to others, with around two-thirds having done so already.
This market-leading estate administration service, which involves providing a dedicated personal estate manager to oversee and It is testament to the quality of the overall client proposition and the manage the myriad complexities associated with estate strength of adviser-client relationships, that our clients often continue administration, helps reduce the stress, effort and legal liability their relationship with their adviser over many years, appreciating a associated with what can be a complicated legal process.
source of trusted advice as their financial needs and priorities evolve over time.
We will look to build on some of our recent innovations, including our banking proposition with Metro and our Flagstone cash Clients of St. Jamess Place have access to a wealth of financial management offering, while making further progress on our solutions, including the provision of funds and expert advice intergenerational wealth proposition.
In addition, we plan to review regarding building investment portfolios, retirement planning, our suite of protection solutions and will work with providers to intergenerational wealth and protection.
In order to complement and explore innovations that advisers can offer for the benefit of their enhance our own range of solutions, clients also have access to clients.
carefully selected external providers for other services.
St. Jamess Place now has 633,000 clients across nearly 300,000 households, based in all areas of the UK as well as in Hong Kong, FOCUS Shanghai and Singapore.
There is no typical St. Jamess Place client.
Yet common to them all is the desire to have a trusted, skilled Improving Client Communications and experienced professional adviser to look after them and their A very high proportion of clients agree that our communications are families.
However, in response to client feedback we are taking steps to improve existing correspondence as well as provide the option of a paperless experience and therefore drive even greater client satisfaction.
Two such examples of this in action are the launch of a new Online Wealth Account and the rollout of a new Letter Management System.
These have helped to drive improvements in the following areas: Quality The new Online Wealth Account features a more contemporary design and appearance, as well as enhanced functionality including a client document library and multi-currency reporting.
The new Letter Management System has the benefit of semi-automating the production of client letters, thereby improving the appearance and accuracy of content versus manually generated letters.
Choice When accessing the Online Wealth Account, clients now have the option to select whether they wish to receive both periodic and regular reports in either paper or digital format, with the latter giving clients the capability to view documentation online, anytime and anywhere.
97% 96% Of clients would recommend Client Retention for 2017 St. Jamess Place to someone else St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 14
