Leadership and Governance Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Simon James Ian Todd Iain Thomson Smith Tyler Hunt McLaren Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Committee membership Senior Leadership Team Chair Senior Leadership Team Nomination committee Chair Attends remuneration committee Audit committee Chair by invitation Nomination committee Governance committee Governance committee Nomination committee Attends remuneration committee Attends audit committee Remuneration committee Remuneration committee by invitation by invitation Attends audit committee Attends part of each audit Group Risk Management by invitation committee by invitation committee Chair Group Risk Management committee Term of office Simon was appointed to the James was appointed to the Ian was appointed as an Todd was appointed as an Iain was appointed as an Board in November 2006 as Board in May 2014 as Chief independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive Legal and Commercial Director Financial Officer.
director in June 2013 and director in May 2003.
Given his director in July 2008.
Iain will and became Chief Executive in became non-executive length of tenure, he is no longer retire as a director following July 2011.
Chairman in May 2014. considered to be independent the AGM on 15 May 2018.
Independent Not applicable Not applicable Yes No Yes Skills and experience XX B e e B k Bachelor of Commerce, Bachelor of Business BA in Accountancy and Finance, e B Diploma in Legal Practice, Texas : Simon Thomson was appointed James Smith joined Cairn in Ian Tyler qualified as a chartered Todd Hunt has more than 40 Iain McLaren is a chartered Chief Executive in July 2011 March 2014 from Rothschild accountant with Arthur Andersen years experience in the oil and accountant and was formerly having been Legal and where he was a director of the in 1987, subsequently holding gas industry.
He is president senior partner of KPMG in Commercial Director since 2006 energy and power team with 15 a number of senior finance and and joint owner of Atropos Scotland.
He is also a past and holding various posts across years experience advising E&P operational positions within Exploration Company and president of the Institute the organisation including head companies, oil majors and listed companies before being Atropos Production Company of Chartered Accountants of assets.
Simon originally joined national oil companies on their appointed chief executive based in Dallas, Texas.
M&A transactions and equity of Balfour Beatty plc from and debt market financing.
During this time, he took the company from U business, to a global infrastructure services business.
Key external appointments Public companies: No external appointments Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: None Non-executive director of BAE None Chairman of Investors Capital Systems plc Trust plc Non-public companies: Non-public companies: Non-executive chairman of Bovis Non-executive director of Baillie Non-executive director of President and joint owner Homes Group PLC Gifford Shin Nippon plc Grahams The Family Dairy of Atropos Exploration Limited Non-public companies: Company and Atropos Non-executive director of Production Company Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Non-executive director of Independent chairman of AWE Edinburgh Art Festival Management Limited Non-executive director of Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities plc Non-executive chairman of Amey PLC a wholly owned subsidiary Non-executive director of of a Spanish listed company Jadestone Energy Inc Non-public companies: None {X e  e 80 Alexander M. Jacqueline Keith Peter Nicoletta Berger Sheppard QC Lough Kallos Giadrossi Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Audit committee Remuneration committee Chair Audit committee Remuneration committee Remuneration committee Governance committee Governance committee Chair Nomination committee Nomination committee Governance committee Alexander was appointed as an Jackie was appointed as an Keith was appointed as an Peter was appointed as an Nicoletta was appointed as an independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive director in May 2010. director in May 2010. director in May 2015. director in September 2015. director in January 2017.
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Masters in Petroleum e a ae B. Sc Hons Applied Physics, BA in Mathematics and % of Newfoundland of Edinburgh MBA Rotterdam School of BA and MA in Jurisprudence MSc in Finance, London Business M. Eng Petroleum Engineering, MBA, Harvard Business School Management k School B XX a: Alexander Berger is chief Jackie Sheppard was executive Keith Lough is a fellow chartered Peter Kallos has held a number of Nicoletta Giadrossi spent 10 years executive officer of Oranjevice president, corporate and certified accountant FCCA and posts at Enterprise Oil including at GE where she became General Nassau Energie B. V. a private legal at Talisman Energy Inc from was Finance Director of British Head of Business Development, Manager for GEs Oil and Gas, Dutch exploration and production 1993 to 2008 and appointed Energy PLC from 2001 to 2004 CEO Enterprise Italy and General Refinery & Petrochemicals company based in Amsterdam.
Queens Counsel QC for the before becoming a founder a U Division.
Subsequently, she spent Province of Alberta in 2008. shareholder and Chief Executive before his appointment in 2002 as a number of years in private of Composite Energy Ltd, a Executive Vice President equity ahead of being appointed privately owned coal-bed International and Offshore at VP and General Manager, EMEA methane focused business.
She later joined held this post until 2011, when became Chief Executive of Aker for two years before taking Composite was divested to Dart Buried Hill Energy.
up the role of President Region Energy.
A, Europe, Africa, Middle East, Russia & India at Technip, a role she held from 2014-2016.
Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: None c F Senior independent nonChief Executive of Buried Non-executive director of executive director of Rockhopper B Fincantieri S. p. A.
Non-public companies: Director of Seven Generations Exploration PLC Energy Corporation Non-public companies: Non-executive director of Chief executive officer of Non-executive chairman of Gulf Brembo S. p. A Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. Non-public companies: None Keystone plc Non-executive director of IHS Director of Oranje-Nassau Founder and lead director Non-public companies: Markit Ltd. U X of Black Swan Energy Inc. c U Non-public companies: Director of Oranje-Nassau Gas and Electricity Markets Energy Petroleum Limited None Authority Non-executive director of Chairman of Abacus Discover Exploration Limited :X 81
