Board of Directors Sarah Bates Andrew Croft Ian Gascoigne Chair Chief Executive Officer Managing Director Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Chair January 2014.
Joined St. Jamess Place 1993 and appointed Joined St. Jamess Place 1991.
Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Experience Experience Experience Ian is Managing Director responsible for the Sarah brings over 35 years experience Andrew joined the Company in 1993 and was management and development of the fromtheinvestment and investment Chief Financial Officer from 2004 to 2017.
He has worked in the financial management sectors, in both senior executive trained as an accountant with Deloitte Haskins services industry since 1986 and has and non-executive capacities.
She served as and Sells now part of  considerable experience in the financial advisory chair of the Association of Investment companies LLP he then worked in the financial services space.
Ian is a Trustee of the St. Jamess Place from 2011 to 2013.
She retains a range of sector.
Since joining St. Jamess Place he has Charitable Foundation.
investment related responsibilities held a number of roles within the Finance which support her Chairship of St. Jamess Place.
department, assuming the role of Finance External Appointments She is a Fellow of CFA UK.
Director in 2002 and being appointed as the Chief Member of the Strategic Advisory Board of Executive Officer in January 2018.
He is a Trustee Loughborough University School of Business of the St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation.
Chair of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, non-executive director of Worldwide Healthcare External Appointments Trust plc and a special committee member on the investment committee of the Universities Lay member of the Audit & Risk Committee and Superannuation Fund.
On a voluntary basis, Finance & Investment Committee of the Royal member of the investment committee of the College of Surgeons of England.
National Heritage Memorial Fund, chair of the St. Joseph's Hospice investment panel and Trustee of the Liver Group Charity.
Craig Gentle David Lamb Chief Financial Officer Managing Director Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Chief Financial Officer January 2018.
Joined St. Jamess Place 2016 and appointed to Joined St. Jamess Place 1992. the Board January 2018.
Chair of the Investment Committee.
Experience Experience Craig joined the Company in 2016 as the Chief David is Managing Director with responsibility for Risk Officer.
Prior to this, Craig spent 22 years at Private Client and the Groups investment , 12 of which were as a businesses including the fund range.
During his time at , Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, Craig held a number of roles, including as a senior having worked in the financial sector since 1979 audit partner.
and has significant experience in wealth management, together with investment and Craig qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1993. portfolio management.
He is a Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation.
External Appointments External Appointments Craig has no external appointments.
Non-executive director of The Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Governor of the University of the West of England.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 70 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Iain Cornish Simon Jeffreys Senior Independent Independent Non-executive Director SID Non-executive Director Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Senior Independent Director January 2014.
Chair of the Audit Committee.
Chair of the Board Risk Committee.
Experience Experience Simon brings experience of the auditing world Iain brings experience from both the financial and and financial services.
He was a senior audit regulatory environments.
He was a senior partner with  LLP from consultant at KPMG, specialising in the banking 1986 to 2006 where he also led their Global and finance sector, and then served as chief Investment Management practice.
Between 2006 executive of the Yorkshire Building Society.
In and 2014, Simon was CFO and chief recent years he has been an independent director administrative officer at Fidelity International and of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
then CFO and chief operating officer at the Wellcome Trust.
External Appointments External Appointments Chair of Shawbrook Group plc, non-executive Chair of AON UK Limited and Henderson director of Arrow Global Group plc and Treasurer of International Income Trust plc and a nonMacMillan Cancer Support.
executive director and chair of the Audit Committees of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc and SimCorp A S, a listed Danish financial services software company.
Full biographical details of each Director can be found on the corporate website at www.
co. uk Committee key: Member of Audit Committee Member of Risk Committee Member of Remuneration Committee Member of Nomination Committee Denotes Chair of Committee Baroness Wheatcroft Roger Yates Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Non-executive Director April 2012.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Experience Experience Baroness Wheatcroft brings experience of the media and also the legislature.
Her career has Roger brings over 30 years of investment included editorial roles at both the Sunday management experience.
He started his career Telegraph and The Times, as well as being with GT Management Limited in 1981 and has editor-in-chief at the Wall Street Journal, Europe.
subsequently held positions at Morgan Grenfell, She is a member of the House of Lords.
Her Invesco and Henderson Group plc, where he was financial services experience includes previous chief executive officer.
Most recently, he was appointments as a non-executive director of chair of Electra Private Equity plc and a Barclays Group plc and Shaftesbury plc.
non-executive director of IG Holdings plc.
External Appointments External Appointments Non-executive director of Fiat Chrysler Non-executive director of Jupiter Fund Automobiles.
Chair of the Financial Times Management PLC and J. P. Morgan Elect plc.
Member of the House of Lords.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 71
