Our Strategy Explained Our key business objective is growth in funds Clients under management FUM through offering Deliver positive outcomes to clients a high-quality service to the Partnership and clients.
Growth in FUM and Net Inflows requires growth in Gross Inflows and retention of FUM.
The Partnership Grow and develop the Partnership Funds Our growth strategy for delivering increasing Increase funds Gross Inflows involves: under management Growing the size of the Partnership: Improving adviser efficiency: and Broadening our client proposition.
Our support strategy for delivering sustained retention of FUM involves: Financial Delivering high quality service to advisers and clients: Achieve sustainable Driving consistently good investment growth in profits performance: and Ensuring we remain a robust and resilient business that clients trust.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 12 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Clients What this means: Our focus for 2018: Through our face-to-face advice service, we aim to Ensure the underlying administration of our client offering Deliver positive help clients in a way that reflects their personal meets all expectations: circumstances.
Expand the DFM offering as part of our holistic client outcomes to clients offering: Our approach is based on development of long-term Clients Continue to build our relationships with third party relationships, founded on trust.
By continually seeking page 14. providers to expand the services they provide for our to enhance our processes and make improvements to clients, including around our high net worth client the client experience, as well as to our Investment propositions: Management Approach, we achieve client satisfaction, Further develop our proposition for supporting clients leading to strong retention and high levels of client wanting to make inter-generational financial advocacy.
As a result, we are able to attract new clients arrangements: and through both referrals and introductions.
The Partnership Through providing an attractive proposition we are able Continue to attract high quality advisers to join the Grow and develop to recruit new advisers to the Partnership and, by Partnership: providing high quality support, we can help them to Continue our regional academies initiative, including our the Partnership grow their businesses.
next generation succession and paraplanning academies: The Partnership Support existing advisers in gaining further qualifications, page 15.
The Partnership plays the leading role in delivering our including Chartered status: wealth management service.
Growing the number of Support the growth of Partner businesses, including the advisers is core to our growth plans.
Our support for development of their back-office operations, allowing them includes ongoing professional development as advisers to spend more time with clients: well as support systems and infrastructure, to ensure Pilot new operating models aimed at providing a more local they are equipped to deliver a first-class service to their and tailored service for our advisers and their support staff: clients.
Continue to develop our Asia operations and adviser proposition: and Continue to expand DFM into our adviser proposition.
Funds Management of client funds is at the heart of our Continue to focus on the IMA proposition in support of Increase funds business.
They are principally managed through our client outcomes both in the UK and Asia, particularly the distinctive Investment Management Approach IMA.
select, monitor, change process: under management Seek opportunities to broaden the investment proposition: Overall FUM growth is driven by successful advisers Funds Further develop our responsible investing focus: and page 16. supporting satisfied clients, underpinned by consistent Further expand our DFM offering and continue its delivery of the IMA.
integration into our overall approach to investment management in the UK and Asia.
Our focus on delivering for clients has resulted in the doubling of FUM over the past five years, as well as in the five years preceding that.
Funds under management has historically increased organically through 15 to 20% growth over the longer-term in gross inflows, strong retention experience and positive investment returns.
Financial The principal source of income for the Group is annual Focus expenditure on safely delivering our strategy, including Achieve sustainable management income from funds under management.
achieving 15 to 20% p. a. growth in gross inflows: As a result, it grows with new business and with growth Manage expense growth to around 10% p. a. : and growth in profits in investments.
Invest in the business to support long-term growth.
Financial KPIs Profits, and ultimately dividends, also reflect expense page 20. management.
Sustainable growth in profits involves effective management of expenditure, including development expenditure in order to achieve increasing FUM.
Current year events will inevitably impact the result in any one year, but focus on building the underlying fundamentals will lead to growth in profits.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 13
