Strategic Report New Ventures and Exploration Ben Conley, New Business and Joint Ventures Manager Cairn has an established and detailed process for identifying and assessing opportunities.
"As Ben Conley, the Group New Ventures Manager explains: ""Our broad strategy is to focus on the Atlantic Margin: we look at it both from a geological and geographical point of view. """
The first step is to analyse all the sedimentary You also need to be flexible and nimble, basins and rank them on the basis of how so that you have the ability to change your attractive they look in terms of hydrocarbon approach and focus in response to new potential.
We look at the subsurface potential, ideas and new opportunities that come in.
the quality of the rocks, but also at the above The final piece is to form the right ground potential in terms of commerciality, partnerships with the groups that have political risks and other opportunities or the right experience and expertise.
challenges that individual basins may present.
For Cairn our strategy has always been to All basins are geologically different so we have a balanced portfolio, so we are always try to play to our strengths.
We do focus on looking at things from that perspective.
areas where we have the relevant experience or insight that may give us an advantage, We want to have the right exposure to but ultimately its always about establishing frontier basins, where the risk may be where we believe there may be the best higher but the returns also greater, through working petroleum systems and ensuring emerging basins to mature basins.
In these that we constantly have a pipeline of good cases the hydrocarbon systems have been drilling opportunities.
proven so the risk is lower, but as a result the returns may be slightly lower too.
Each will Cairn has a large team of geoscientists have a different mix of technical, political and For Cairn our strategy studying the data and assessing potential commercial risks so for us its about having has always been new ventures as they arise, which take the appropriate exposure to each given the several different forms.
size and shape of the portfolio.
to have a balanced portfolio, so we There may be some areas where there is We are not going to go out and scatter the open acreage that you can apply for.
Our focus and discipline is on building are always looking cases, the acreage may be held by others and out a strategic presence in areas that we like.
at things from that it is a case of identifying farm-in opportunities.
We are small enough to move fast and not Thirdly there will be formal government bidding be constrained by scale, but large enough perspective.
rounds, as in Mexico and Norway, where to have the capabilities and the track record individual companies can bid for licences.
to win the confidence of governments and partners.
The secret of success, Ben says, lies in investing in people and data, and doing your homework.
The advantage can lie in coming up with new ideas, not just looking at the existing plays, but thinking about new ones.
{X e  e 20 Eric Hathon, Exploration Director In 2017, Cairn was awarded two licences one operated and one non-operated in a bid round for acreage offshore Mexico.
For Eric Hathon, Cairns Exploration director, who joined the company in 2017 following a distinguished career at Marathon Oil, the region contains some of the most exciting basins currently being opened up for further exploration.
Its a proven oil province: in fact one of the When you are operator, you have the most prolific hydrocarbon provinces in the advantage of setting the pace and the world that has given rise to some of the largest strategy.
However, we also like working discoveries of oil accumulations.
However, it is as non-operators when we have the right still relatively underexplored.
You can see from partnerships in place.
recent discoveries that the region still has great prospectivity.
Cairn continues to screen opportunities and potential new ventures.
We see new things Exploration of the province has been made to evaluate all the time, he says.
But, we easier in recent years through the development have exceptionally strict criteria for selection e % and screening.
equipment now provide geologists with higher resolution imaging, making it far easier to view the sedimentary deposits frequently associated with hydrocarbons below the layers of salt boundaries.
Cairn is now in the process of studying the data it has acquired and developing potential prospects and leads.
We want to make This is a demonstration of the great operating sure we have the right processes in place, capacity for a company of our size, that has Eric says.
We can then move forward with Environment Impact Assessments so that been built up over many years.
It gives us the ability and the competitive advantage This is a demonstration of the great operating to move quickly.
capacity for a company of our size, that has been built up over many years.
It gives us the ability and the competitive advantage to move quickly.
For Cairn, exploration in Mexico fits with its strategy of developing a diverse and balanced asset base with the appropriate exposure to frontier, emerging and mature basins.
This includes ensuring the right mix of operated and non-operated assets.
