Strategic Report Cairn in the UK & Norway Commencing production and cash generation in the UK North Sea Exploration Development Production {X e  e 22 Dave Beck, Development Manager F U the North Sea Catcher and Kraken developments delivering first oil.
They are two of the largest development projects in the area for many years, with Cairn holding non-operating interests in both.
As Cairns Development Manager, Dave Beck works with the companys joint venture partners to assist the operators in successfully bringing the developments on stream.
Each partner brings a different perspective Working on these 8 developments of the operator to bring the development requires the partners expertise that have been acquired in other to be open and to projects to support them.
This could be in work collaboratively.
the form of highlighting risks that need to be mitigated that come from learnings from F other projects.
ensured that first oil was reached on We work shoulder to shoulder and make with the initial sanction costs being reduced sure that we have a shared purpose and by 25% over the course of the project.
are aligned in the way that we approach U Cairns next development will be Nova Kraken reached first oil in June 2017 and in the Norwegian North Sea.
Cairn holds is one of the largest current development projects in the UK North Sea.
With a lifespan development plan is being submitted to the of up to 25 years it is located in the Norwegian Ministry of Petroleum and Shetland Islands.
8 U % c major operations was the construction of the to build steady future cash flows to sustain 8 { k the business model and fund future 8{k international exploration.
approval of the Field Development Plan by the UK government in 2014.
The development lies 180km off the UK & Norway, Kraken & Catcher North-East coast of Scotland and comprises three separate fields with total reserves of aa around 90 million barrels of oil equivalent.
{ 8{k k per day and has a total storage capacity of Working on these developments requires the partners to be open and to work % BW Catcher are incredibly complex and we have to ensure that the lines of communication % % a 23
