Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Partnership We believe our advisers are among the most experienced and skilled financial advisers in the marketplace, with the ability to foster and nurture valued, long-term client relationships.
OUR APPROACH DEVELOPING THE PARTNERSHIP St. Jamess Place promotes its trusted face-to-face approach to Reflecting our shared objectives, we commit to providing ongoing financial advice exclusively through the St. Jamess Place support so that advisers and Partner businesses can grow and Partnership.
The Partnership build and maintain long-term develop over time.
At its most simple, this can include providing relationships with their clients and we, in turn, support these online, workplace, or classroom-based professional development client-adviser relationships, placing them at the heart of everything opportunities to ensure our advisers remain appropriately qualified, that we do.
technically able and equipped to deliver a first-class service.
We also encourage and provide support for advisers who choose to pursue The Partnership share our common commitment to integrity, trust, further qualifications, with many wishing to progress to Chartered openness, partnership and team work.
This is central to our status, while others have gained an MSc degree in Wealth philosophy and the spirit of the Partnership.
Management as part of our collaboration with the University of Loughborough Business School.
Developing the Partnership also It is members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership that deliver our wealth management service to clients.
Therefore, it is critical that we extends to our ongoing desire to provide the right support to our provide our advisers with all the tools and support required for them advisers, to help them grow their businesses and meet their clients needs.
to perform this role successfully.
This means the provision of support around such areas as advice and technical guidance, marketing and client literature, professional development, investment solutions, business processing, risk and technology.
In addition, FOCUS Partner businesses are able to benefit from our distinct Investment Growth in 2017 Management Approach and their association with a strong and recognised brand that guarantees the suitability of the advice that Growth in the Partnership remains a crucial long-term objective they give when recommending any of the wealth management and in 2017 we welcomed a net 246 new advisers to St. Jamess products and services provided by companies in the Group.
Around half were as a result of our existing successful recruitment proposition, which seeks to attract experienced Today, the St. Jamess Place Partnership comprises 3,661 advisers professional financial advisers to the St. Jamess Place across 2,415 Partner businesses, with our strong UK presence now Partnership, but we are also very encouraged by the further complemented by a growing capability in Asia via offices in Hong progress made in our development of the St. Jamess Place Kong, Shanghai and Singapore.
We believe our advisers are among Academy and Next Generation Academy programmes where a the most experienced and skilled financial advisers in the total of 124 new advisers graduated during the year.
marketplace, with the ability to foster and nurture valued, long-term The Academy provides an opportunity for suitable secondclient relationships which mean that we enjoy gross inflows per adviser and client retention rates that exceed industry norms.
careerists to receive training and assistance to develop as wealth professionals and join the Partnership.
We currently have four UK centres: in Edinburgh, London, Manchester and Solihull, which together enrolled 176 new students in 2017 and are expected to accept a similar number in 2018.
Around half of our new students are from non-financial backgrounds and the average age, at 37, is around ten years younger than the average St. Jamess Place adviser.
In addition, our next generation Academy supports growth and builds succession for our existing successful businesses.
In 2017 we enrolled 40 new students onto this programme, with an average age of 26.
Another initiative is our Paraplanning Academy, aimed at training Partners support staff to plan and prepare business to our high standards.
We enrolled 90 students onto the programme in 2017, with the expectation that around two-thirds of these could become fully diploma qualified by the end of 2018.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 15
