Strategic Report Cairn in Senegal Working in Senegal Developing a new oil frontier In 2012 Cairn embarked upon a frontier exploration drilling programme in offshore West Africa resulting in the largest global offshore oil discovery of 2014 in Senegal.
Cairn has now successfully completed three exploration and appraisal drilling programmes in Senegal, further increasing this already significant resource base.
Operational Review 2017 saw the successful completion of phase three of Cairns exploration programme in Senegal.
A five-well exploration and appraisal campaign delivered world class results.
Zero work days B issues at water depths sometimes in excess of 2km.
That programme substantially improved Cairns understanding of the extent of the SNE field.
Work then progressed onto the first phase of development of this extensive resource base.
Working with our Joint Venture Partners we aim to have a government approved exploitation plan in place by the The SNE development will be the first international and local requirements.
Exploration Development Production {X e  e 24 Building a responsible working culture Tom Campbell As Logistics Manager, Tom Campbell is responsible for the handling, transportation and storage of the equipment that Cairn Energy needs to manage a drilling campaign, from transporting the food that the crew eats, to managing the helicopters that they fly in.
"This can be even more of a challenge than it training and ongoing coaching and mentoring in Health and Safety. """
location we look at all the requirements of our operation and then assess the capability F steered his course using the companys local infrastructure and industry is sufficiently    e others it means building capacity from the we approach our business.
If we dont hold Although there is a deep water port in Dakar it is much harder to achieve the outputs the team faced many challenges operating that we want.
the countys first deep water drilling F Im proud of what we have achieved in oil and gas infrastructure because the introducing and helping embed these standards in Senegal.
Explaining why we was a case of quickly building the capability work in the way that we do and moving from scratch to the point where it was possible to meet Cairns standards.
managing operations responsibly is Our priority has been to embed a culture of safety and efficiency into all of our These are not just X where Cairn has some of its greatest words, they are interaction with the domestic labour force.
the heart of how We were consequently delighted that in the we approach X our business.
operation to achieve 500 days operations with no lost time injuries.
Within this period the local logistics team specialist oil field equipment.
All of these lifts were heavy and many could be oddly shaped.
Each one needed to be lifted off put into storage inspection before being loaded onto the vessels which sailed out the drilling unit.
Because this was not a familiar X a 25 Strategic Report Cairn in Senegal continued Working in Senegal continued Delivering a safe and successful drilling campaign Craig McGregor Craig McGregor is Cairns Group Well Engineering Manager.
It is his responsibility to lead the team that brings together all aspects of Cairns operational activities and ensure that everything goes according to plan.
As well as being responsible for the delivery of the most recent drilling campaign in Senegal, he works with Cairns joint venture partners in nonoperated activities.
He describes the process that Cairn goes The well then gets progressively narrower through when planning drilling operations.
It starts with the geologist and the 8.5 inches as it reaches the hydrocarbon e reservoir itself.
will have developed a clear view of where any oil and gas may be located within our The drill bit rotates and cuts the borehole licence areas.
We then work together on the efficiently and responsibly.
We always need The cut rock is removed to the surface to create a well design that is appropriate by the fluid which is circulated round the and specific to the conditions.
Its vital from an environmental and safety point of view analysed by our geologists and safely disposed of.
8 We can manage the pressure in the fluid to geology and target depth of each well to develop a bespoke solution.
Nothing happens unless That has always been our philosophy.
Safety we are fully satisfied that everything has always comes first and unless everyone is been completely and comprehensively our first priority because we are responsible for protecting both people and the Safety is our first priority because we performance that gives us our licence to are responsible for by our partner host governments to operate protecting both in their territory.
They have to be sure that people and the environment.
F were dealing with equipment that had to even reaching the seabed.
The drilling assemblies are full of sensors That way you understand the conditions so that you can manage the well and the fluid series of short lengths of steel tube casings Craig McGregor which are around 36 inches in diameter.
{X e  e 26 Working with local stakeholders to protect the environment Keith Skinner Wherever Cairn operates around the world, it begins with the same approach a dual focus on operating safely and minimising our impact on the environment.
Thats the primary responsibility of Keith We work together to ensure that the respect for safety and for the environment F is embedded from the start.
The key for environmental and safety issues ranging from work on the rig itself to operations at Cairns shore base in Dakar.
In that time he has visited operations regularly.
B B work to the same strict standards which are reportable environmental issues across based on international best practice and the the five-well campaign.
regulations that are applied in the North Nor is it a case of imposing the companys views on the local community.
In everything F we do there is an element of learning.
regulations and a strong democratic We want to make sure that we keep on process with a tradition of openness and consultation.
We work with local people and learn from each other so that we were able to adapt to the local culture and collectively maintain the strictest industry standards.
We work together to ensure that the respect for safety and for the environment is embedded from the start.
Keith Skinner 27 Strategic Report Cairn in Senegal continued Working in Senegal continued Innovative approach to creating new standards of environmental leadership Colin Lang When Cairn embarked on its Senegal exploration campaign, one of the chief priorities was to minimise the impact on the environment.
That included managing the tonnes of waste that results from drilling activity as efficiently and sustainably as possible.
environmental supplier who has worked Over all three drilling campaigns only with creating and executing a waste around 10% of the waste could not be management strategy.
This was vital for Cairn as the companys policies direct us not to do anything that would impact the environment or health ensuring that the local economy benefited and safety.
This is important on a drilling rig from the resulting job creation.
it comes to the local environment onshore.
F Our aim was to recycle or reuse as much F waste as possible and reduce the total help to form industry standards that will be amount to an absolute minimum by working used by the authorities when others conduct in collaboration with local suppliers.
share our experience so that the industry can Offshore exploration is a new industry for develop further in Senegal.
That is one of the Senegal so we had to identify areas where F well as find local partners to work with See Case Study on page 73 who had the ability to deliver work to high standards.
We carried out an HSE training O ur ambition was to programme on the ground to make sure ensure that we left that everyone was able to work safely and effectively.
Our ambition was to ensure that nothing behind, and that the environment was fully protected.
The waste from a drilling rig comes in many to waste water and domestic refuse that might come from any standard household or office environment.
The most recent drilling campaign created who worked with local suppliers to ensure they were able to separate the waste into its different components and be safely managed.
The result was around 45% of waste was recovered or recycled and a Waste recycling at our Dakar port supply base {X e  e 28 Cairn in Senegal continued Social Investment Making an impact locally Julia Adamson Julia Adamson has worked with Cairn since 2002, supporting the companys efforts to assess the social impacts of operations and planning and delivering community engagement programmes.
F B { B{ impacts of that activity at both the social and not-for-profit organisation that is committed to reducing hunger and poverty and has but across the whole lifecycle of any project.
operated in the country since 1991.
It is a gradual process because we need Cairn started supporting THPs initiatives to make sure it is sustainable and can grow in its rural projects in 2015.
The aim is naturally through the different phases of to create sustainable community development projects through a holistic approach including developing social businesses and communities to identify in a central community building.
infrastructure then supports and coordinates 8 with the Ministry of Fishing to understand and respect their position.
We then spoke training and savings facilities.
But Cairn was with the fishermen themselves in their keen to see how it could link social initiatives I F Cairn acquired 3D seismic in areas close to we had in place.
We established robust the Senegal coast.
It brought us into contact procedures for people to contact us with understand the challenges faced by these care to publish them widely.
communities and assess how oil and gas activities may impact them.
A study e identified how we could work with those to employ local people where possible.
coastal communities on issues that Because the language of the industry government as well as the technical and scientific schools at the University of Dakar B{ establish a pilot project that aims to support so that students graduating with relevant skills will be able to benefit from the fishing village communities near Cairns opportunities that a growing oil and gas B{ and tested strategies in rural communities to a group of coastal communities.
Julia has visited regularly to see how the projects are progressing and has been She adds that the THP partnership is a pleased with the developments.
My last visit demonstration of how Cairn aims to work left me with an impression of a community in collaboration with local people.
We were looking to show that we can invest and for the present to a community starting to become involved in a different way that believe that they could plan for tomorrow and benefits everyone.
We found very clearly in Senegal that while the population is excited about the discovery of oil and the potential also wanted to make sure that it is carried These projects are the result of many years of work.
This is not an add-on to our when we first consider any project or new venture.
We look at potential risks and how Julia Adamson 29
