Strategic Report Business Model & Strategy Working responsibly and managing risk are a key part of our strategy To create, add and realise value for stakeholders through the Business exploration, development and production of oil and gas within model a self-funding business model.
Exploration offers material value potential to stakeholders and production provides the cash flow to sustain exploration and development.
To deliver value for stakeholders from a balanced portfolio Strategy of exploration, development and production assets.
Exploration activity is principally in frontier and emerging basins where the greatest value potential exists.
Cairn is currently focused on generating cash flow from its North Sea assets, developing its Senegal resource base, progressing its North Sea exploration assets and continuing to replenish its exploration portfolio.
Annual Key Performance Indicators KPIs identify the Companys Strategic strategic objectives and how they can be met, enabling the objectives Company to measure the delivery of its strategy.
 Key Performance Indicators 30 on P30-34 Cairn has a robust risk management process in place Managing risk to identify, monitor and mitigate risk and to identify opportunities.
This means first determining risk appetite, and then identifying the key risks.
 How We Manage Risk 40 on P40-47 The Maintain licence to operate KPI measures the Companys Working ability to work responsibly and means delivering value in a safe, responsibly secure, environmentally and socially responsible manner.
Working responsibly means identifying and managing issues that are material  Working Responsibly not only to the Company but also to stakeholders.
48 on P48-75 {X e  e 04 Create Value Add Value Realise Value Cairn identifies assets it can add value In order to add value Cairn looks Cairn realises value by progressing to through exploration activity including to progress existing exploration assets development assets through to production % through the appraisal and development and or realising value through asset sales.
F stages or can acquire new assets at this Proceeds are reinvested in the business to activity can create material value.
point in the oil and gas lifecycle.
fund exploration and development activity or returned to shareholders.
Value growth within the oil and gas lifecycle Identify Explore Appraise Develop Produce Return & Reinvest Exploration Development Production Frontier and emerging basin exploration SNE field in Senegal moving towards U U  c F c a 8 exploration acreage in the UK and Norway.
investment decision on Nova development cashflow for reinvestment.
B Read more: CEOs Review Read more: CEOs Review Read more: CEOs Review on P12-17 on P12-17 on P12-17 2018 strategic objectives Deliver Portfolio Mature Deliver Maintain licence Deliver a exploration management developments operational to operate sustainable and appraisal Purpose: Maintain the Purpose: Progress excellence Purpose: Deliver business success optimal portfolio development Purpose: Maximise Purpose: Maintain Purpose: Grow the balance and projects.
revenues through environmentally and a self-funding resources and maximise value.
2018 principal risks Inability to secure or repatriate Kraken and Catcher operational Health, safety, environment Volatile oil and gas prices value from Indian assets and project performance and security Securing new venture Delay in Senegal Reliance on JV operators Political and fiscal uncertainties opportunities development plan for asset performance Access to debt markets Fraud, bribery and corruption Exploration and appraisal 2017 material issues Economics Contractors and Ethics, antiSocial and Human rights Major accident Climate change, and funding supply chain bribery and economic prevention emissions and corruption and benefit and safety discharges transparency 05 Strategic Report Business Model & Strategy continued 2017: Delivering our strategy Cairns strategy is to create, add and realise value for shareholders from a balanced portfolio of exploration, development and production assets.
F Along the Atlantic Margin, Cairn also holds Cairns exploration X exploration acreage offshore the Republic An experienced oil and gas operator, it has F focus is on successfully discovered and developed position by securing two new licences in adding value reserves in a variety of international locations Mexico.
The Mexican Gulf region is significantly in partnership with host governments.
under-explored compared to the nearby for shareholders Cairns historical focus on South Asia : a from high impact created significant value for shareholders we look forward to commencing exploration and stakeholders, particularly through its exploration discovery, development and production of at appropriate oil in Rajasthan, India, which was the largest Cairn has producing and development onshore discovery in India for more than U equity levels.
e F c c F non-operated interests in two of the largest about rebuilding the portfolio.
Between developments in the North Sea, Kraken and Catcher, which came into production and to shareholders.
delivered first oil significantly below budget c Having created a legacy asset for India, towards development with a final investment Cairn then focused on rebuilding the business to create, add and realise value once again through exploration, development Cairn also holds exploration acreage in the and production.
We made the largest global U c potential for commercial oil discoveries.
participated in the development of two of the The mix of mature and emerging basins U c U c shelves provides good opportunities for balanced portfolio growth and operational Cairns exploration focus is on adding value synergies.
The region also provides an active for shareholders from high impact exploration market for the trading of assets, an important at appropriate equity levels.
This exploration part of optimising value within the portfolio.
is sustained by the Groups production and development assets in the North Sea which In order to deliver maximum value Cairn will provide the cash flow to support future continues to actively manage its portfolio exploration and development activity and of assets, with the constant evaluation deliver the long-term strategy.
of new exploration opportunities as well as opportunities to acquire and divest Cairns focus on frontier acreage saw us open assets within the existing asset base to ensure optional portfolio balance and discoveries offshore in Senegal.
Mexico the first to drill in deepwater offshore Senegal exploration which remains relatively underexplored.
Over the following three years we delivered a successful exploration and appraisal campaign increasing this significant resource base and transitioning the SNE discovery into development planning.
{X e  e 06 Geographic focus Senegal UK Republic of Ireland 1 Pre-development Discovery 2 Producing Fields 5 Licences Acreage Acreage Acreage 2 2 2 7,137km 542km 4,247km 1 1 2C resources 2P resources 190.8 mmboe 53.8 mmboe 1 2C resources 3 mmboe e Norway Mexico 1 Pre-development Discovery 2 Licences Acreage Acreage 2 2 6,908km 1,153km 1 2C resources 21.3 mmboe UK & Norway exploration, development and production Republic of Ireland exploration Senegal exploration and development 07 Strategic Report Business Model & Strategy continued Track record of exploration, development and production Exploration Cairn is an experienced oil and gas and appraisal explorer, developer and producer India 1997 Acquired interest in Rajasthan from Shell 1999 First Rajasthan discovery During its history Cairn has operated in a variety 2004 Three major oil discoveries by 2004 of locations around the world.
Today Cairn is focused including Mangala, the largest onshore oil find in India in 25 years on its recent frontier exploration discoveries in Senegal and its producing assets in the North Sea Senegal which delivered first oil in 2017.
These will provide 2013 Farm-in as operator to frontier acreage the cash flow to sustain future exploration and offshore Senegal development activity.
2014 Two wells drilled, two oil discoveries, one of which is largest global offshore oil discovery of 2014 We continued to build the portfolio, including the 2016 Four successful wells drilled, addition of highly prospective acreage in Mexico independently verified contingent in place, during 2017, and to maintain our strong record gross oil resource upgrade to 2.7bn bbls of safety and working with host governments.
2017 Successful third phase of drilling completed UK & Norway 2012 Discovery of Nova field formally Skarfjell in Norway 2018 Extensive drilling campaign planned for 2018 19 {X e  e 08 Development UK & Norway 2012 Future production and cash flow 2015 Catcher FPSO construction starts U 2016 Kraken and Catcher development Norway focused companies bringing drilling starts Kraken and Catcher developments, Nova prospect, near term exploration drilling, 2018 Nova development sanction expected more than 30 licences Senegal 2013 Kraken Field Development Plan FDP approved, successful Nova appraisal well 2018 Planning for development of world class SNE field 2014 Catcher FDP approved, Kraken Floating Production, Storage and Offloading FPSO construction starts Production 2017 First oil production from both the Kraken & Catcher developments in the UK North Sea 09 Strategic Report Business Model & Strategy continued A culture of working responsibly Cairn has a strong track record of exploration, discovery and development in a variety of locations throughout the world over more than 30 years.
Maintaining our licence to operate is the organisation needs to ensure that they Delivering value in a safe, a Key Performance Indicator for Cairn, one are upheld throughout the business.
In that is dedicated to working responsibly { secure, environmentally and therefore central to our culture.
It is also and our Code of Business Ethics into a new, and socially responsible measured through our people management standalone Code of Ethics.
The new Code process which incorporates certain applies to all employees and officers of Cairn manner for all our behaviours identified as critical to ensuring but also to all other parties who work on this culture exists.
behalf of the company including contractors, stakeholders is key to suppliers and partners.
our strategy and ensures A culture based on working responsibly means having the right values, principles Simon Thomson and Mike Hunter explain we maintain our licence and policies in place.
These need to be how our culture is a key part of why we embedded throughout all that we do and are successful.
Simon Thomson, CEO Chief Executive Simon Thomson is one of the longest-serving employees of the company, having joined the legal department in 1996.
Progressing his career in different roles over the past 21 years, he has seen a number of developments and changes at Cairn, but says that one thing has remained constant.
The culture and the way we do business Despite the continuity, Simon did have an What pleases me is that when we go into is just the same as it has been since the idea in his mind about how he wanted to countries and we speak to political leaders beginning.
Those things have not changed.
operate the company when he became or governments, they know about Cairn.
There is an entrepreneurial spirit in Cairn which Our reputation for how we operate and gives it an agility and flexibility that you dont as Commercial Director.
I knew what I manage responsibly has gone before us.
I am get with other companies.
Cairn really is wanted to achieve and that was make sure extremely proud of how we have built and different by design.
that we had a balanced portfolio, with cash maintained this reputation and that is down flow, development and operations that are to the culture and attitude of every individual He says that strong culture is what keeps the sustainable over the long-term and would working in the organisation.
We have a very work through the cycle.
I think we have open mindset, and one that is cooperative achieved that aim and have created and collaborative, but with an eye on what a long-term business.
The philosophy of the company is deeply embedded: there is Simon says that Cairn prides itself on nothing we cant do if we focus and work at it.
approaching all aspects of the business with the same rigour and discipline.
We are a relatively small company and that is deliberate.
It would be easy to grow for the We want to make sure that wherever we go, sake of it, but we have taken the decision to whatever we do, and whoever we have an stay lean and hungry.
Its not an easy model, impact on, we engage in a way that matches to create, grow and realise value, and then our culture of sustainability.
We use our driving start from the beginning to do it all over again, principles of Respect, Relationships and but that is our strategy.
It involves constant Responsibility to make sure that we try to adaptation and change, but we believe it create a long-lasting legacy, not just funding is the right way to create value and returns a few short-term projects.
We have to leave for shareholders.
a beneficial impact on the communities where we work.
{X e  e 10 It means we must act with respect for people, communities and the environment.
Dr Michael Hunter, Group HSE Manager Mike Hunter is conscious of the legacy that he took on as custodian of Cairns Corporate Responsibility Management System.
This has been a foundation of the companys We use a gated process under COS, making success since it began, he said.
As the sure that we only move on to the next stage person responsible for leading all the groups once we have satisfied ourselves that the Our core values Corporate Responsibility activities, with the risks have been addressed in line with our At the heart of our culture are our core backing of the Board, Im responsible for CRMS requirements.
 helping to manage what we stand for.
We build conformance with these I work with our Management Team to requirements into our Key Performance implement that.
This is captured in our Business Indicators KPIs to ensure that our approach Principles that are embedded in our company is embedded throughout the company.
Building and its strategy: Respect, Relationships and As part of this, all Cairn employees are   measured on their performance against a Respect continuously and we have now integrated  them into our new Code of Ethics.
safe, entrepreneurial, focused, collaborative, open, empowered and demonstrating It means we must act with respect for leadership.
Our Corporate Responsibility KPIs Nurturing people, communities and the environment, are cascaded through the organisation to Relationships acting with integrity and transparency in all a personal level and this means staff have our relationships, and behaving ethically a stake in ensuring we continue to uphold and fairly.
Its all about doing things in the our standards and demonstrate that we do.
Acting Fundamentally, working in this way protects As part of that, Mikes job is also to review our business and our licence to operate.
Responsibly good practice and the adoption and We have zero tolerance for non-compliance compliance with relevant regulations and stand up strongly for acting responsibly.
A recent example is the The tag line in our CRMS is a quote from a e U Martin Luther King Jr The time is always incorporating international initiatives such as right to do what is right and that is how c % :  into Cairns operations and behaviours.
our calling card, ensuring we are seen as competent operators and partners and can Mikes team starts by looking at the major be trusted to behave in the right way and hazards or risks that the company may face manage our business responsibly.
from a Corporate Responsibility perspective, including potential health, safety, social, environmental and security risks.
Our mitigation must be in line with the Cairn Corporate Responsibility Management System CRMS.
We integrate our assessment of risk into corporate and operational management activities, applied through Cairns Operating Standards COS. 11
