Our Business Model OUR CLIENT PROPOSITION We offer clients trusted, face-to-face financial advice coupled with a compelling investment proposition.
OUR CORE BUSINESS OBJECTIVE We aim to attract, retain and grow client funds under management.
OUR REVENUE MODEL We operate a fee-based revenue model where we receive fee income based on the level of client funds under management.
OUR CORE CLIENT MARKET OUR KEY COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES The Partnership Typically, UK individuals with 50,000 to 5 million in We deliver products and services to clients exclusively investable assets: through the St. Jamess Place Partnership, a 3,661-strong Clients with neither time, inclination or confidence to force of self-employed advisers with whom we enjoy a close invest, or those with complex financial affairs.
UK individuals with between 50,000 and 5 million Our Investment Management Approach IMA of investable wealth We use our scale to select third party fund managers from around the world to manage our range of funds and model 14,000 portfolios, offering clients access to leading fund managers at competitive rates.
12,000 10,000 Our People We focus on attracting and retaining individuals that share our 8,000 core values expertise, integrity, and discretion.
Our people are a sustainable competitive advantage.
6,000 Our Brand 4,000 We aim to be the trusted brand in UK wealth management.
We 2,000 focus on delivering positive client outcomes and doing the right thing for all our stakeholders.
0 2015 2016 2017 F 2018 F 2019 F 2020 F 2021 F F Forecast Source: GlobalData Our Strong Financial Position We maintain a robust balance sheet so we can comfortably SJP clients by FUM value band 31 December 2017 meet client liabilities while having the capacity to invest in our business and deliver growing returns to shareholders.
50,000 6% 1 million 20% 50,000- 250,000 33% 500,000- 1 million 19% 250,000-500,000 22% St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 10 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information HOW WE ENHANCE VALUE WHAT WE OFFER STAKEHOLDERS Attracting new advisers and clients to St. Jamess Place Clients through: Trusted, holistic financial advice and peace of mind: Enhancement of wealth and preservation of wealth: and Broadening the client proposition available for our Outcomes aligned to financial and life objectives.
advisers: Enriching our support proposition for the Partnership: and Investing in our Academy and adviser recruitment teams.
The Partnership Unique adviser business model in the UK market: Opportunity to build and realise value creation in their Retaining existing advisers and clients of St. Jamess Place businesses: through: Distinct and comprehensive client proposition: and Building close, trusted relationships with the Partnership, Effective risk and compliance oversight, together with support for their business objectives.
making their relationships with their clients our priority: Evolving, adapting and continually strengthening our Investment Management Approach to reinforce client Employees outcomes: and Challenging and stimulating career in a growth company: Enhancing the adviser and client experience.
Authentic corporate culture focused on doing the right thing: and Reward for commitment and contribution.
Improving our support for Partner businesses through: Developing our back-office administration systems: Promoting continual professional and business The SJP Charitable Foundation and Our Local development: and Communities Providing tailored support to underpin business ambitions.
Ongoing financial support: Staff volunteering and assistance: and Financial education: youth employability skills.
Investing to drive long-term growth through: Expanding our Academy initiatives: Shareholders Improving our back-office infrastructure: and Focused, capital-light business model in an attractive Developing our presence in new markets including market: St. Jamess Place Asia and Discretionary Fund Growing cash profits, underpinning increasing shareholder Management DFM.
returns: and Consistency and resilience in our solvency and balance sheet.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 11
