Strategic Report Human Resources Equipping our people Helping people with the right systems, processes and skills to design and implement a to deliver strategy new enterprise resource platform ERP F piece of work to change our Enterprise At Cairn, we believe that our people provide Resource Platform ERP.
This was the foundation for our success and we are underpinned by the need to move to a single, group-wide platform and a consistent, more committed to providing the best possible efficient and streamlined approach to our practices in Finance, Human Resources and employee experience.
Having completed the design a safe, collaborative, positive work environment, % the focus moved to the system build and recognition of employee contributions, the and involved collaboration from across all provision of opportunities for growth and parts of the business.
development, and access to the right systems e and support to facilitate the delivery of our strategy and initial feedback has been positive.
From a human resources perspective, the system and annual work programme.
Our people initiatives has increased the level of self-service capability, both from an employee and provide a direct link to the achievement of business managerial perspective.
Efficiencies are results and are driven by our High Performing anticipated to be achieved through the new online processes that have been designed Behaviours and Values of Respect, Relationships to manage our most common transactions, creating quicker processing times, less and Responsibility the 3 Rs.
paperwork, more accurate record keeping and ease of reporting.
From an end-user perspective, the system has an attractive and straightforward interface with added mobile functionality.
Its design drives efficiencies in time-writing, expenses and absence management, and consequently reduces time spent on administrative transactions which in turn frees up greater time to focus on more value-add operational activity.
The 3 Rs Building Respect Nurturing Relationships Acting Responsibly  Our Culture 10 on P10-11 I e North Atlantic {X e  e 76 People Management Policy Refresh Management Development development areas to include in potential e At Cairn, we believe good people future phases of the programme.
To do refresh and re-design of our people management is the key to a high this, we sought evidence of its impact management policies.
Key to this was the performance culture and to being a high from a selection of the participating development and roll-out of a new Group performing organisation.
We have high managers as well as a sample of staff People Policy, which sets out our overarching expectations of our people managers across the business who report to them.
people principles covering staff in all of skills in supporting and motivating teams Cairns offices.
Results from both sample groups were overwhelmingly positive.
In the survey Our People Management Manual contains To support individual and team success, the individual people policies and procedures participants agreed that the programme that underpin our Group People Policy and personal development programme for had been valuable in developing their sets out how we deliver to the principles and our people managers the Management management and leadership skills.
standards to which we are committed.
This programme was Similarly, they all agreed that they had designed to deliver our commitment to been able to apply the key learnings from To support the Group People Policy, we also develop our people managers, providing the programme in their role.
reviewed and refreshed our individual people them with the practical tools they need to policies, for staff across our regional successfully implement Cairns business In the survey of staff reporting to locations.
As well as refreshing the existing objectives through their teams.
participating managers, the results were policies to reflect updates in employment equally positive.
All respondents agreed legislation and or business practice, one of that their managers were able to build the key aims of the project was to create people managers had participated in effective inter-personal relationships, a single, harmonised framework where the programme, increasing to over work collaboratively, communicate policies were applicable to all employees } effectively, effectively manage conflict, of the Cairn Group wherever they might live coach and develop their team, promote or work in the world.
Whilst local legislation In terms of evaluation, participants remain a one team culture, create an environment will prevail, overall, the refreshed policies are enthusiastic with post-attendance where people are empowered and designed to ensure that employees have a feedback continuing to be very positive, motivated, and provide appropriate consistent employment experience.
Our aim as illustrated by the participant quotes recognition and feedback.
was to ensure a clear, open and transparent in the box below.
approach to people management within Given the success of the programme, we Cairn, as well as equitable and consistent While this feedback is encouraging in are committed to progressing to a second application and compliance with appropriate itself, we also wanted to evaluate and phase of the Management Bootcamp employment legislation.
The policies also understand the Return on Investment support and encourage consistent and good from the programme and identify employment practices that help inform and guide day-to-day decisions that impact our people.
W as the most useful V ery positive.
Fresh ideas programme Ive ever to think about performance attended.
behaviours and how to develop team more.
V ery thought-provoking and enjoyable in an informal Some ne w approaches and relaxed setting.
G reat two days, allowing much needed time to reflect on my V ery good refresher of good management style management practices.
and how I can develop in this regard.
B : e 77 Strategic Report Human Resources continued Training and development are approached with a consistent A thorough review was undertaken in Training and development continued to be methodology, in line with our internal order to understand and apply the complex encouraged across all parts of the business operating standards, and ensures the team local labour legislation in establishing remains fully collaborative throughout the a Mexican operation.
This ranged from initiatives undertaken at all levels across project lifecycle.
Jamie Wallace, Project the organisational design, identifying key the organisation, up to and including Planning Manager.
stakeholders, and ensuring the organisational Executive Directors.
Training took the form capability to recruit both national and foreign of on-the-job assignments, overseas and While training and development activity employees into the Mexican entities.
domestic secondments, attendance at was undertaken across the business, it was formal training courses and conferences, identified through the Managing Talent Work has subsequently led to the successful e-learning modules, coaching, field trips, Internal Audit in June see below that there appointment of a Mexican General Manager team conferences, and education assistance had been a training budget underspend and establishment of a local office from to support the study towards formal where operations will be managed.
recognition that greater efficiencies could be made in training needs identification, To facilitate a successful integration During my secondment year in Edinburgh planning and evaluation across the Group.
into Mexico, Business Culture Awareness Ive been working as part of a large multisessions were run for staff within the disciplinary operational asset team which Edinburgh headquarters and several staff has enabled me to learn new skills and be Succession planning who will be closely involved in the Mexican involved in well operations.
I have been % k { asset going forward are undertaking mentored by experienced team members for key positions across the Group were business-focused Spanish lessons allowing the development of my geoscience presented to the Board of Directors.
to enhance communications with our skills, in particular, carbonate sedimentology.
in-country team and other stakeholders.
The opportunity to follow the drilling of the We were able to demonstrate our people  Local content building Senegal in well operations and post-well evaluation.
strategically sourced key talent externally As part of our commitment to employing Charlotte Moss, Geoscientist.
It was local nationals in the countries in which we acknowledged that given the size of our operate and building local content capacity, As well as developing a highly competent business, succession risks for some we adjusted our talent management model skills set across the business and supporting specialised roles will exist and the mitigating for the Senegal operation.
This involved a the effective delivery of the work programme, strategies we have in place will be deployed move away from a third party staffing model the training and development support should a risk materialise.
There was to the direct employment of a core team of provided and internal project opportunities unanimous support from the Board to adopt national staff within our Dakar office, further afforded to staff have also acted as an aid a more stimulating approach to managing our enhancing the sense of collaboration and to internal progression within the Company inclusion with the rest of the Cairn Group.
and have helped support our commitment our leadership and management capabilities to promoting from within: and proactively identifying and creating We have also worked in close partnership opportunities for those with development with our partners, Woodside, to create Cairn has been fantastic at progressing my aspirations and high potential.
secondment opportunities in both Dakar professional development throughout my and Edinburgh to successfully support the career here.
As an HSE Advisor, Cairn ongoing operations and plan for the future International Growth supported me both financially and with study exploitation and development phase of and Diversity : X the project.
Diploma in Health and Safety.
Additionally, Growth in our International portfolio provided I had expressed a desire to branch out of the an exciting new challenge and opportunity HSE function to wider parts of the business for staff across the Group and this, combined and Cairn facilitated this by carefully planned with our ongoing Senegal operations, meant development opportunities such as my heightened international activity from an appointment as the gatekeeper for the organisational and talent perspective.
 { { Management System implementation project New country entry Mexico and the appointment as project manager Having successfully applied for and been of our Mexico New Country Entry project.
Cairn also encouraged and supported me in a undertaking an MBA, which I am now almost a key focus for the business was the related half-way through.
Subsequent to both this new country entry and establishment of a education support and internal opportunity local presence in Mexico City.
provided, I have now been appointed as the e 8 k Project Planning Manager, initially for the Mexico project.
This ensures that projects {X e  e 78 Providing clear direction to their Janice Pentland Group HR Manager employees, Cairns key performance indicators drive alignment and focus As Group HR Manager, Janice Pentland acts as overseer of across the Group, departments, project teams and individuals.
Janice explains: all aspects of employment at Cairn, from the initial hiring We invest time to understand phase to the moment a colleague leaves or retires.
colleagues training and development needs and source solutions to match.
Were really proud that our Geoscientists, Its my job to ensure that the whole opportunities to those entering the industry employment experience is as positive recognising that technical assistants, for trips together each year so that they as it can be, she says.
From sourcing example, will be given opportunities to continue to grow their expertise.
candidates, to inductions, to appraisals, work alongside our senior and highly to career development, we find the right experienced geoscientists in a way that Cairns employee turnover is relatively people and provide an exciting and majors may not be able to offer.
low within the industry, being stable at rewarding career experience that helps individuals and the company grow.
Then theres induction, where everything from continued and long-lasting from our history to our focus on health and experience, even when colleagues It starts with understanding the safety, our total reward package and our move between roles.
employment market and where were likely to source candidates who will be our future all of that, we also share how we do employees and leaders.
We are conscious things in Cairn in terms of our values and people although it is structured to of our location in Edinburgh with the major culture.
Our corporate values Respect, hubs for oil and gas being in Aberdeen or    contractors during major projects such in London, yet the calibre of people that form part of our psychological contract as the drilling campaign in Senegal.
We offer exciting with our people.
Diversity Metrics at year end 2017 business in delivering its strategy.
of Cairn staff were women, of staff returned to work following of the workforce had a disability, unchanged from the year before.
maternity paternity adoption leave: of Cairn staff worked part-time, of management roles were held different nationalities were employed by women, down very slightly from at Cairn, one more nationality than in 2016. average age at Cairn, compared with age 43 in 2016. of the Board were women, compared observations, namely our strength in Assessing our identifying talent requirements, our high level This Strategic report has been Effectiveness of geoscience technical competency and approved by the Board and is signed skills development, the alignment of our on their behalf by.
Managing talent audit incentives with performance, management F I and leadership development, and staff an audit with the objective of assessing the engagement.
The review also highlighted effectiveness of the processes in place within some recommended areas for improvement Cairn to identify current and future key talent in relation to how we could enhance our SIMON THOMSON requirements and our ability to recruit and or approach to talent management.
Fortunately Chief Executive develop existing talent to meet those these did not include any unexpected a requirements.
The review also considered outcomes and there was no high risk processes in place to engage, support and exposure to the business.
Of the lower risks incentivise the current workforce to maximise identified, one has already been fully mitigated talent retention, including the effectiveness and others are currently being progressed.
The review highlighted a number of positive 79 Leadership and Governance Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Simon James Ian Todd Iain Thomson Smith Tyler Hunt McLaren Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Committee membership Senior Leadership Team Chair Senior Leadership Team Nomination committee Chair Attends remuneration committee Audit committee Chair by invitation Nomination committee Governance committee Governance committee Nomination committee Attends remuneration committee Attends audit committee Remuneration committee Remuneration committee by invitation by invitation Attends audit committee Attends part of each audit Group Risk Management by invitation committee by invitation committee Chair Group Risk Management committee Term of office Simon was appointed to the James was appointed to the Ian was appointed as an Todd was appointed as an Iain was appointed as an Board in November 2006 as Board in May 2014 as Chief independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive Legal and Commercial Director Financial Officer.
director in June 2013 and director in May 2003.
Given his director in July 2008.
Iain will and became Chief Executive in became non-executive length of tenure, he is no longer retire as a director following July 2011.
Chairman in May 2014. considered to be independent the AGM on 15 May 2018.
Independent Not applicable Not applicable Yes No Yes Skills and experience XX B e e B k Bachelor of Commerce, Bachelor of Business BA in Accountancy and Finance, e B Diploma in Legal Practice, Texas : Simon Thomson was appointed James Smith joined Cairn in Ian Tyler qualified as a chartered Todd Hunt has more than 40 Iain McLaren is a chartered Chief Executive in July 2011 March 2014 from Rothschild accountant with Arthur Andersen years experience in the oil and accountant and was formerly having been Legal and where he was a director of the in 1987, subsequently holding gas industry.
He is president senior partner of KPMG in Commercial Director since 2006 energy and power team with 15 a number of senior finance and and joint owner of Atropos Scotland.
He is also a past and holding various posts across years experience advising E&P operational positions within Exploration Company and president of the Institute the organisation including head companies, oil majors and listed companies before being Atropos Production Company of Chartered Accountants of assets.
Simon originally joined national oil companies on their appointed chief executive based in Dallas, Texas.
M&A transactions and equity of Balfour Beatty plc from and debt market financing.
During this time, he took the company from U business, to a global infrastructure services business.
Key external appointments Public companies: No external appointments Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: None Non-executive director of BAE None Chairman of Investors Capital Systems plc Trust plc Non-public companies: Non-public companies: Non-executive chairman of Bovis Non-executive director of Baillie Non-executive director of President and joint owner Homes Group PLC Gifford Shin Nippon plc Grahams The Family Dairy of Atropos Exploration Limited Non-public companies: Company and Atropos Non-executive director of Production Company Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Non-executive director of Independent chairman of AWE Edinburgh Art Festival Management Limited Non-executive director of Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities plc Non-executive chairman of Amey PLC a wholly owned subsidiary Non-executive director of of a Spanish listed company Jadestone Energy Inc Non-public companies: None {X e  e 80 Alexander M. Jacqueline Keith Peter Nicoletta Berger Sheppard QC Lough Kallos Giadrossi Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Audit committee Remuneration committee Chair Audit committee Remuneration committee Remuneration committee Governance committee Governance committee Chair Nomination committee Nomination committee Governance committee Alexander was appointed as an Jackie was appointed as an Keith was appointed as an Peter was appointed as an Nicoletta was appointed as an independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive director in May 2010. director in May 2010. director in May 2015. director in September 2015. director in January 2017.
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Masters in Petroleum e a ae B. Sc Hons Applied Physics, BA in Mathematics and % of Newfoundland of Edinburgh MBA Rotterdam School of BA and MA in Jurisprudence MSc in Finance, London Business M. Eng Petroleum Engineering, MBA, Harvard Business School Management k School B XX a: Alexander Berger is chief Jackie Sheppard was executive Keith Lough is a fellow chartered Peter Kallos has held a number of Nicoletta Giadrossi spent 10 years executive officer of Oranjevice president, corporate and certified accountant FCCA and posts at Enterprise Oil including at GE where she became General Nassau Energie B. V. a private legal at Talisman Energy Inc from was Finance Director of British Head of Business Development, Manager for GEs Oil and Gas, Dutch exploration and production 1993 to 2008 and appointed Energy PLC from 2001 to 2004 CEO Enterprise Italy and General Refinery & Petrochemicals company based in Amsterdam.
Queens Counsel QC for the before becoming a founder a U Division.
Subsequently, she spent Province of Alberta in 2008. shareholder and Chief Executive before his appointment in 2002 as a number of years in private of Composite Energy Ltd, a Executive Vice President equity ahead of being appointed privately owned coal-bed International and Offshore at VP and General Manager, EMEA methane focused business.
She later joined held this post until 2011, when became Chief Executive of Aker for two years before taking Composite was divested to Dart Buried Hill Energy.
up the role of President Region Energy.
A, Europe, Africa, Middle East, Russia & India at Technip, a role she held from 2014-2016.
Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: None c F Senior independent nonChief Executive of Buried Non-executive director of executive director of Rockhopper B Fincantieri S. p. A.
Non-public companies: Director of Seven Generations Exploration PLC Energy Corporation Non-public companies: Non-executive director of Chief executive officer of Non-executive chairman of Gulf Brembo S. p. A Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. Non-public companies: None Keystone plc Non-executive director of IHS Director of Oranje-Nassau Founder and lead director Non-public companies: Markit Ltd. U X of Black Swan Energy Inc. c U Non-public companies: Director of Oranje-Nassau Gas and Electricity Markets Energy Petroleum Limited None Authority Non-executive director of Chairman of Abacus Discover Exploration Limited :X 81
