Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators 2017 2017 Key Performance Indicators KPIs Cairn has both financial and non-financial KPIs in place which are used to monitor progress in delivering the Groups strategy.
U{F U{F e  e at the Remuneration Committee meeting in related to delivering exploration and appraisal a success, portfolio management, delivering the Board.
operational excellence, maintaining licence to operate and delivering a sustainable business.
Strategic objective Deliver exploration and appraisal success KPI Remuneration UzF Committee decision Successfully drill, evaluate and flow test appraisal c Partially achieved wells on the SNE field safely and cost effectively e8 to allow preparation of the Evaluation Report and All data was integrated and has defined the first phase update estimate of resources and capital required of the development: to develop the field.
e % c and in a timely manner: The final phase of appraisal on SNE resulted in a slight x Integrate data into subsurface models and refine the reservoir basis of design: and   CEOs Review 12 of capital and valuations.
on P12-17 Efficiently discover commercial hydrocarbons.
An acreage retention strategy was developed in Senegal.
Partially achieved Joint Venture support successfully obtained for additional Develop an acreage retention strategy for  8ec Senegal: and x c c exploration well all Senegal and Druid Dromberg Efficiently discover commercial quantities of Ireland : and hydrocarbons through maturation and drilling of select exploration and appraisal wells across c the portfolio.
 CEOs Review 12 on P12-17 {X e  e 30 Strategic objective Portfolio management KPI Remuneration Committee decision UzF Develop an inventory and timeline of exploration a X  Fully achieved and appraisal opportunities, including prospects Matured new prospects Maximon and Kukulkan and and leads, which meet Cairns technical and delivered draft of the exploration plan to the joint venture: commercial criteria.
Completed two farm-ins in Ireland and acquired new Secure or mature six or more new independent % opportunities from within or outwith the portfolio Completed one farm-in in Norway: that meet the businesss investment criteria: e{e c Successfully integrate new licences and document a licence management plan for each: and Matured the Inca, Stjerneskudd and Lynhaug and took over operatorship of Lynhaug prospects in Norway for Ensure the business holds sufficient more than drilling and obtained joint venture approval: four drillable potentially drillable prospects by the year end e U k Licence Round: U Licence management plans were developed.
 CEOs Review 12 on P12-17 Strategic objective Deliver operational excellence KPI Remuneration UzF Committee decision Successfully progress our development and Catcher Fully achieved production projects against key milestones including, as appropriate, capex, opex and sales volume targets. }
and satisfactorily conclude subsea scope and FPSO integration, commissioning and sail-away from Kraken, UK Partially achieved Singapore to North Sea.
8 I B 8{k Kraken, UK commissioning challenges resulted in production e e volume targets not being met as well as the opex volume targets, sales price received and opex k costs targets.
Senegal Substantially mature the SNE project by agreeing Senegal Partially achieved the Evaluation Report, the contents of the draft Entered into an agreement with Woodside for Exploitation Plan, a gas management plan, and the development activities, developed a gas management final contract strategy with the JV and government plan, attained JV approval of the contracting strategy, of Senegal.
prepared the Evaluation Plan and progressing the Exploitation Plan framework.
Nova, Norway Ensure all internal reviews and supporting Nova Partially achieved documentation are in place for final investment Front-end engineering and design studies were 8F% 8 completed and a draft Field Development Plan has been prepared by the operator for JV review.
Commercial agreements in relation to the Gjoa tie-back in preparation.
31 Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators continued 2017 2017 Key Performance Indicators KPIs continued Strategic objective Maintain licence to operate KPI Remuneration Committee decision UzF Achieve leading HSSE indicators linked to Good progress against leading indicators including Substantially four categories within the Groups Corporate revision of CRMS and development of new Code achieved Responsibility Management System Business of Ethics: Relationships, Society & Communities, People Training provided to all staff on bribery and corruption, and the Environment.
modern slavery, human rights and cyber security: Achieve lagging HSSE indicators linked to the Developed an impact benefit strategy and successfully International Association of Oil & Gas Producers launched the Hunger Project community investment IOGP benchmark data and guidelines.
in Senegal: Investing in People & Systems Completed a number of crisis and emergency response X F training exercises: Business Relationships, Society & Communities, Training programme completed for all staff with People and the Environment within our CRMS.
management duties: Lagging indicators set in line with IOGP benchmark New enterprise resource planning system launched on data & guidelines.
e Completion and assessment of the Management e  F  Training programme.
Successful launch of new enterprise resource No lost time or restricted workday cases: and planning Platform.
Minor release of oil into the sea from ROV, not reportable to the regulator.
 CEOs Review 12 on P12-17 Strategic objective Deliver a sustainable business KPI Remuneration Committee decision UzF Develop and implement a funding strategy that Funding headroom was maintained throughout the year Fully achieved allows a value generative plan to be executed and covering the Groups committed forward capital expenditure: ensures a minimum headroom cushion from existing Debt covenants were maintained with material headroom sources of funding is maintained.
and strengthened through the year: Monthly and quarterly monitoring of Group liquidity The Group entered a hedging programme for Catcher in conjunction with bank covenants.
and Kraken crude: and Good progress was made on securing additional sources of finance to support planned Nova and Senegal developments.
 CEOs Review on P12-17 12 and Financial Review on P35-39 Make tangible progress under the UK-India bilateral Successfully defended the Government of Indias motion Partially achieved treaty arbitration.
to stay and or bifurcate the case: Delivery against a set of milestone events including Maintained deadlines in the procedural timetable: the Groups reply to Indias statement of defence The final arbitration hearing was delayed from January in preparation for the final hearing scheduled for e } which have been seized by the Indian Government.
 CEOs Review on P12-17 12 and Financial Review on P35-39 {X e  e 32 2018 Key Performance Indicators KPIs The 2018 Group KPIs in the table below were approved by the Board in November 2017 and are based on the Groups current portfolio, prospects and objectives set out in the 2018 Business Plan.
A KPI related to production and cash flow targets has been added for 2018.
Strategic objective Deliver exploration success Purpose UzF Risks to the achievement of KPI Mature prospects to drill ready Mature six or more prospects with all internal Exploration and appraisal.
status, secure funds and JV support reviews completed.
for drilling and execute exploration Drill four or more exploration wells before year drilling to deliver potentially Reliance on JV operators for commercial volumes.
Efficiently discover commercial quantities of hydrocarbons in line with pre-drill estimates 42 at an attractive Group finding efficiency rate.
[See Risk Register Pages 42-47 for mitigants] Strategic objective Portfolio management Purpose UzF Risks to the achievement of KPI Portfolio optimisation Secure two or more new exploration Securing new venture opportunities.
opportunities that meet corporate hurdles Volatile oil and gas prices.
and offer exploration drilling within five years.
Measured against tests of control, commercial robustness and materiality.
42 [See Risk Register P42-47 for mitigants] Strategic objective Mature developments Purpose UzF Risks to the achievement of KPI Progress Senegal and Nova Mature the SNE Senegal development and Delay in Senegal development plan.
funding plans for presentation to the Government Reliance on JV operators for of Senegal.
Timely submission of the SNE Area Evaluation Access to debt markets.
Report, Exploitation Plan and associated Environmental and Social Impact Assessment.
Approval of the Exploitation Plan and associated Exploitation Area by the end of 42 [See Risk Register P42-47 for mitigants] the PSC and finalisation and approval of joint venture financing plan.
Mature the Nova development project in Norway to Final Investment Decision.
Submission of Plan of Development to c B internal approvals in place to complete a Final Investment Decision and approve the Operator entering into acceptable contractual commitments on behalf 33 Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators 2018 2018 Key Performance Indicators KPIs continued Strategic objective Deliver operational excellence Purpose UzF Risks to the achievement of KPI Maximise revenues through Deliver target production volumes, operating Kraken and Catcher operational efficient operations.
costs and crude values from Kraken and Catcher and project performance.
Reliance on JV operators for asset performance.
Volatile oil and gas prices.
42 [See Risk Register P42-47 for mitigants] Strategic objective Maintain licence to operate Purpose UzF Risks to the achievement of KPI Deliver value in a safe, secure Demonstrate clear progress and achieve Health, safety, environmental and security.
and environmentally and socially defined milestones in relation to HSSE CR Fraud, bribery and corruption.
objectives, split into four key categories Business Relationships, Society and Reliance on JV operators for Communities, People and the Environment.
Achieve lagging HSSE indicators set in line with IOGP targets and guidelines.
42 [See Risk Register P42-47 for mitigants] Strategic objective Deliver a sustainable business Purpose UzF Risks to the achievement of KPI Manage balance sheet strength.
Develop and implement a funding strategy Inability to secure or repatriate value that ensures that an executable funding plan from Indian interests.
is developed and that a minimum headroom Political and fiscal uncertainties.
cushion from existing sources of funding is maintained.
U F Volatile oil and gas prices.
bilateral treaty arbitration and progress achieved in recovery of any amounts awarded by the tribunal.
42 [See Risk Register P42-47 for mitigants] {X e  e 34
