Approval of the Strategic Report As part of the Annual Report by the Directors it is a statutory requirement to produce a Strategic Report.
The purpose of the report is: to inform members of the Company and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the success of the Company.
The objective of the report is to provide shareholders with an analysis of the Companys past performance, to impart insight into its business model, strategies, objectives and principal risks and to provide context for the financial statements in the Annual Report.
The Directors consider that the report, comprising pages 2 to 62 of this document, meets the statutory purpose and objectives of the Strategic Report.
On behalf of the Board: Andrew Croft Craig Gentle Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 27 February 2018 St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 62 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation Helping others Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 63 St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation The charitable foundation celebrates its 25th year with a fundraising record.
A GRANT MAKING CHARITY WITH Years of giving A DIFFERENCE Rather than utilising funds received from an endowment 25 or an investment, funds are raised and donated by the St. Jamess Place community and matched by the Company.
The Company also covers all related expenses which ensures all donated funds go direct to the supported charities.
Total amount raised and The St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation celebrated distributed to good causes Organisations supported its 25th anniversary in 2017 and it was therefore a cause of great delight that this milestone saw a record year for fundraising, with 16.8 million generated for good 71.0m 3,000 causes both here and overseas.
2016: 54.0m Since 1992, the Charitable Foundation has raised 71 million in support of thousands of charities.
Some 79% of Partners and employees of St. Jamess Place now Percentage of Partners and give to the Charitable Foundation through their pay or employees who donate each earnings, and no other company in the UK has this month Grants percentage of automatic payroll gifting.
Additionally, many Partners and employees become involved throughout the year in a host of diverse fundraising 79% 5,532 activities.
And to mark the 25th anniversary, St. Jamess Place double-matched all funds raised 2016: 80% for the Charitable Foundation throughout the year.
Now firmly established as one of the most successful corporate charities in the UK, the Charitable Foundation has been committed over the last 25 years to fostering a Amount raised in 2017 Lives directly benefitted culture of giving back to those who need it most across three core themes: cherishing the children, combating 16.8m cancer and supporting hospices.
500,000 2016: 7.6m St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 64 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information A Huge Impact on Peoples Lives Over 25 Years Research carried out during 2017 has shown the enormous impact of the first 25 years of grant giving has made on the lives of hundreds of thousands of people.
Cranfield University carried out research on behalf of the Charitable Foundation and findings revealed that since 1992, 500,000 lives had been changed for the better and 1.5 million individuals had been helped indirectly as a result of our grant giving.
In that time, 3,000 organisations have been supported through 5,532 grants, helping them to deliver the best possible help, support and care.
The research showed that the substantial support provided for small grass roots charities has helped many local bodies make a positive and lasting difference to the lives of people in need in their communities.
Our Charitable Giving The Charitable Foundation allocates 80% of the monies raised to supporting UK charities helping children and young people, those who are socially or economically disadvantaged as well as people who have an illness or disability, both in the UK and abroad.
The aim is to make a positive and lasting difference to the lives of children in need so they can reach their full potential.
Dr. Larissa Kerecuk UK GIVING Spotlight on Some of the 2017 Grants During 2017, the Charitable Foundation made 962 individual grants to carefully chosen charities and organisations committed to making a real difference to the lives of children and young people in the UK and A Revolution in Treatment Care and Research abroad.
Here are just some of the grants made during the year: The Charitable Foundation made a 1.0 million grant to help fund a Rare Disease Centre at Birmingham Childrens Hospital BCH, the first of its kind in the UK.
The grant represents a substantial donation towards BCHs 3.65 million Star Appeal to build the centre for the care of patients with rare conditions across the UK.
The Charitable Foundations grant means the Star Appeal is now close to reaching its target.
The development project is being led by Dr. Larissa Kerecuk.
She said: The new Centre is so much more than a building: its a revolution in treatment, care and research.
Louise McCathie, Director of Fundraising at BCH, added: We are immensely grateful to St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation for this substantial donation, helping the dreams of our families and patients come true.
The Rare Diseases Centre will improve diagnoses, ensure children and young people are at the forefront of research and medical advances, and enable families to spend time together, sharing experiences of living with some of the most complex conditions imaginable.
Birmingham Childrens Hospital is one of the big three childrens hospitals in the UK and a leading specialist paediatric centre, offering expert care to 90,000 children and young people annually.
The hospital treats over 9,000 patients with 500 rare diseases each year, providing care to children from across the UK and further afield.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 65 St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation SUPPORTING HOSPICES The Charitable Foundation works with Hospice UK, the umbrella organisation supporting over 200 independent hospices throughout the country, who distribute funds to hospices on our behalf.
During 2017, over half a million pounds was granted to nearly 20 hospices caring for heart failure patients throughout the UK to assist developing support services, helping improve the quality of life for people and the continued improvement of end of life care services.
In addition, a grant was made to the Forget Me Not Childrens Hospice in Huddersfield, outlined along with the touching story of little Shalome Harwood below.
Forget Me Not Childrens Hospice The Charitable Foundation awarded 96,000 to the Forget Me Not Childrens Hospice to support the costs of a nurse consultant in the Childrens Palliative Care post over three years.
Forget Me Not is a pioneering Childrens Hospice in West Yorkshire, providing support to children with life-shortening conditions and their families.
The charity supports more than 185 children, as well as their families, through the hospice at home service and at a state-of-the-art hospice, Russell House, in Huddersfield.
One of the children is two-year-old Shalome Harwood.
Before she was born, a 20-week scan revealed severe brain abnormalities that were potentially incompatible with life.
When you get that kind of news, you have no idea what to do or where to turn, said her mother Emma.
But late into her pregnancy, she and her husband Colin and daughter Faith moved to Huddersfield where a nurse put them in touch with Russell House.
Today the whole family shines with courage and hope.
The whole place is absolutely fantastic, said Emma.
It really gave us hope, and something positive to look forward to.
It put the spring back in our step and took the weight off our shoulders and we looked forward to the rest of the pregnancy with excitement.
When Shalome was born, the whole family came to the hospice to meet her.
They fell in love with her just like we did, and they couldnt believe all the facilities at Russell House, said Emma.
Shalome continues to defy all the odds despite her initial diagnosis.
The ongoing support from Russell House means the world to us: its irreplaceable, said Emma.
The whole place is absolutely fantastic Emma Harwood Shalome with father Colin St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 66 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dean Stott OVERSEAS GIVING The Charitable Foundation allocates about 20% of the monies raised to supporting UK charities operating overseas, particularly helping children and young people escaping poverty, malnutrition and neglect.
Through the Foundations giving programmes, the aim is to make a positive and lasting difference to the lives of children in need so they can reach their full potential.
Here are some examples of the donations made to charities operating overseas in 2017: Hope & Homes for Children The Charitable Foundation has supported Hope & Homes for Children for many years, and in 2017 the charity was awarded 650,000 over the next three years.
The grant will help complete a transformation of the Bielone Institute for Children & Young People as well as wider child protection reform throughout Bosnia Herzegovina.
This move will directly benefit 475 children and 445 childcare professionals to 2020.
Hope & Homes for Children seeks to eradicate institutional care for children throughout the world, creating modern child protection systems that put the needs of children at the centre.
Education for the Children Foundation A grant of 419,136 spread over three years was awarded to the UK charity EFTC to help fund work with young people living in poverty in Guatemala.
The country has one of the lowest literacy rates in the Western Hemisphere, and EFTC focuses its efforts on the most disadvantaged children and young people by removing barriers that block their access to education.
The goal is to help them break free from the cycle of poverty that has blighted generations in the Jocotenango region of Guatemala.
Supporting Nepals Children Following the Everest Trek in 2012, and Nepals subsequent devastating earthquake in 2015, Partners and employees have been involved in Supporting Nepals Children, with over 600,000 raised in total.
The aim is to raise the standard of education in some of the countrys more remote villages, and in 2017 a fundraising and rebuilding initiative called Build & Trek was launched to rebuild a school hit by the devastation.
THE FUTURE 2018 will be an exciting year for the Charitable Foundation with the launch of many projects that weve awarded funding to.
For Some 2017 Fundraising Highlights example, Birmingham Childrens Hospital will open a Rare The Charitable Foundations 25th anniversary proved to be a record Disease Ward and East Anglias Childrens Hospices EACH will year for fundraising in St. Jamess Place.
Here are some of the 2017 be supported with a grant of 1.2 million to enable them in fundraising highlights, excluding Company matching: building a new hospice.
A Charitable Foundation dinner at the Grosvenor House Hotel in We raised a record amount in 2017 which will allow us to Park Lane to celebrate the 25th anniversary raised 1.2 million significantly increase our support to good causes: charities The annual Triathlon and Duathlon at St. Albans raised 65,000 which match our main giving themes will benefit throughout the Big Walk 2017 took place on The Gower, Wales and raised year with further grants to be announced.
50,000 The French Alps Cycle Challenge raised 50,000 The main areas of focus for the Foundation remains children and The Slovenia Julian Alps Challenge raised 20,045 young people, those who are socially or economically The annual Summer Swing event at Knutsford, Cheshire, raised disadvantaged as well as people who have an illness or disability 67,075 this applies to causes in the UK and overseas.
A Run Across Scotland event raised 10,000 We have now added Improved Mental Health for all ages to that list and have joined forces with the Heads Together Campaign to support former soldier Dean Stott who plans to raise 1 million for the eight charities that make up the campaign.
Together the aim is to raise awareness and challenge mental health stigma.
Dean is cycling the Pan-American Highway from Argentina to Alaska beginning in February 2018 and aims to beat the current record of 117 days!
We are proud supporters of Dean and wish him all the very best of luck.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 67 Governance Corporate governance reporting 68 St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 70 Board of Directors 72 Chairs Report 74 Corporate Governance Report 83 Report of the Audit Committee 90 Report of the Risk Committee 94 Report of the Nomination Committee 97 Report of the Remuneration Committee 114 Directors Report 117 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc
