Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 53 Strategic Report Directors Report Governance Financial statements Further information The Directors present their report for the year Directors and officers As required by the Listing Rules, the Directors ended 31 December 2017. liability insurance confirm that, with respect to the year under The Companys Articles of Association contain a review: Information in Directors Report provision whereby each of the Directors is i. the Company has complied with the The Directors Report comprises the Corporate indemnified by the Company in respect of liability independence provisions included in the Governance Report from pages 55 to 66, this in relation to: i any negligence, default, breach Relationship Agreement: and Report on pages 53 and 54, and the of duty or breach of trust relating to the Company ii.
so far as the Company is aware: Supplementary Information on pages 67 to 69. or any associated company: ii execution of his Other information that is relevant to the her duties as Director of the Company: and iii a. the independence provisions included Directors Report, and which is incorporated by the activities of the Company or any associated in the Relationship Agreement have reference comprises: company as trustee of an occupational pension been complied with by the Controlling scheme.
For these purposes, associated company Shareholders or any of their associates: and Greenhouse gas emissions included in the has the meaning given to it by Section 256 of the Sustainability Report on page 43: and b. the procurement obligation included in the Companies Act 2006.
Policy on Financial Risk Management in note 36 Relationship Agreement has been complied However, a Director will not be indemnified for to the consolidated financial statements.
with by the Controlling Shareholders.
any liability incurred by him her to the Company For the purposes of compliance with Disclosure or Group companies: any criminal or regulatory Conflicts of interest Guidance and Transparency Rules 4.1.
5R 2 and fines: the costs of defending any criminal The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of 4.1.
8R, the Strategic Report and this Directors proceedings in which he is convicted: or the public companies to authorise conflicts and Report including the other sections of the costs of defending any civil proceedings brought potential conflicts of interest of directors where Annual Report incorporated by reference by the Company in which judgment is given the Companys Articles of Association contain a comprise the Management Report.
Shareholders approved amendments to the Companys Articles of The Company has purchased and maintains Dividend Association at the AGM held on 9 May 2008, liability insurance for its Directors and officers as The Directors declared an interim dividend of which included provisions giving the Directors permitted by law.
1.38US cents per ordinary share in the year ended authority to authorise matters which may result 31 December 2017 and is recommending a final in the Directors breaching their duty to avoid a Political and charitable donations dividend of 1.965 cents per ordinary share subject conflict of interest.
The Company does not make political donations.
to approval at the forthcoming Annual General During the year, the Group spent $5.623 million Meeting AGM, making a total dividend The Board has established effective procedures on supporting social and community welfare of $17 million 2016 total dividend: $14 million.
to enable the Directors to notify the Company activities surrounding its mining units 2016: of any actual or potential conflict situations $4.389 million.
Dividend waiver and for those situations to be reviewed and, The trustee of the Hochschild Mining Employee if appropriate, to be authorised by the Board, Relationship agreement Share Trust the Employee Trust has waived, subject to any conditions that may be considered Pelham Investment Corporation the Major on an ongoing basis, the right to dividend necessary.
In keeping with the approach agreed Shareholder, Eduardo Hochschild who, payments on shares held by the Employee Trust.
by the Board, Directors conflicts were reviewed together with the Major Shareholder are during the year under review.
collectively referred to as the Controlling Directors Directors of the Company who have an interest in Shareholders and the Company entered into The names, functions and biographical details of matters under discussion at Board meetings are arelationship agreement the Relationship the Directors serving at the date of this report required to declare this interest and to abstain Agreement in preparation for the Companys are given on pages 50 and 51.
With the exception from voting on the relevant matters.
Any related IPO in 2006 and which was amended and of Dionisio Romero Paoletti, who was appointed party transactions are approved by a committee restated during 2014. tothe Board on 1 January 2018, all other of the Board consisting solely of Independent Directors were in office for the duration The principal purpose of the Relationship Directors.
In addition, the Directors will be able oftheyear under review.
Agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable to impose limits or conditions when giving any of carrying on its business for the benefit of the Roberto Daino and Nigel Moore retired from authorisation, if they think this is appropriate.
shareholders of the Company as a whole, and the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM that transactions and relationships with the and Enrico Bombieri retired from the Board on Controlling Shareholders and any of their 31 December 2017. respective associates are at arms length and on Each of the Directors will be retiring and seeking normal commercial terms.
re-election by shareholders at the 2018 AGM in Further details of the Relationship Agreement line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
with regard to the conduct of the Major Shareholder are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 56 and, with regard to the right to appoint Directors to the Board, are set out on page 69.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 54 Hochschild Mining plc Directors Report continued Going concern AGM Statement of Directors The Groups business activities, together with The 12th AGM of the Company will be held responsibilities the factors likely to affect its future development, at 3 pm on 25 May 2018 at the offices of The Directors confirm that to the best performance and position are set out in the Linklaters LLP.
The shareholder circular of their knowledge: Strategic Report from the Inside Front Cover incorporating the Notice of AGM will be the financial statements, prepared in accordance to page 49.
The financial position of the Group, sent separately to shareholders or, for with the applicable set of accounting standards, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowings those who have elected to receive electronic give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, are described in the Financial Review on pages communications, will be available for viewing financial position and profit of the Company and 30 to 35.
In addition, note 36 to the financial at www.
com the undertakings included in the consolidation statements includes the Groups objectives, taken as a whole: and The shareholder circular contains details of the policies and processes for managing its capital: business to be considered at the meeting.
the Management Report includes a fair review its financial risk management objectives: details of the development and performance of the of its financial instruments: and its exposure to Auditor business and the position of the Company and credit risk and liquidity risk.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP the undertakings included in the consolidation As described in the Market Review on pages 10 as Auditor will be put to shareholders at the taken as a whole, together with a description and 11, 2017 saw an increase in the price of gold forthcoming AGM.
of the principal risks and uncertainties that of c. 13% and silver relatively underperformed, they face.
Statement on disclosure of information to Auditor Disclaimer The Group has achieved record levels of Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of Neither the Company nor the Directors attributable production of 38 million silver the Companys Auditor, each Director confirms accept any liability to any person in relation equivalent ounces 513.6k gold equivalent that, to the best of his her knowledge and belief, to this Annual Report except to the extent ounces with strong contributions from there is no relevant audit information of which the that such liability could arise under English law.
Inmaculada and the Groups joint venture, Companys Auditor is unaware.
Furthermore, Accordingly, any liability to a person who has San Jose.
With the increase in production and each Director has taken all the steps that he she demonstrated reliance on any untrue or the positive gold and silver price performance, ought to have taken as a Director in order to misleading statement or omission shall be the Group generated robust cash flow during the make himself herself aware of any relevant audit determined in accordance with Section 90A year despite a fall in profitability due to the information and to establish that the Companys of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. expected rise in overall costs.
Auditor is aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board As part of its risk management responsibilities, This confirmation is given, and should be the Board continually reviews its capital interpreted, in accordance with the provisions structure, initiatives to reduce operating costs of Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
Raj Bhasin and, furthermore, contingency measures that Company Secretary can be implemented in the event that precious Statement of Directors with respect 20 February 2018 metal prices conditions deteriorate.
to the Annual Report and financial In conclusion, having considered financial statements forecasts and projections which take into As required by the UK Corporate Governance account i possible changes in commodity price Code, the Directors confirm that they consider scenarios: and ii the contingency measures that that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, could be taken to alleviate pressure on the balance balanced and understandable and provides the sheet in the event of a fall in prices, the Directors information necessary for shareholders to assess have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Companys performance, business model the Company have adequate resources, including and strategy.
access to contingent resources, that would see it continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
