20 | How we are different Our approach to value creation Our business model is at the heart of our ability to deliver on our strategy, operate efficiently and effectively, and continue to generate value for our stakeholders.
We have an ongoing programme of investment in the key areas thatdrive our value creation process.
Our vision: protecting 1 in 10 by 2020 By investing in our 4Cs we leverage our key differentiators Straightforward service proposition Our colleagues Talent, expertise, training & development Sophisticated data capture Refined and optimised our pricing strategies Our customers Data capture, pricing, products & marketing A differentiated product portfolio Our company Brands, technology & distribution Disciplined risk selection and counter-fraud Leading edge technology Our community Local initiatives & charitable donations Underpinned by our strategic drivers Growth Discipline Focus Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 21 we leverage our key differentiators... to create value.
We have a straightforward approach, to provide our UK car, van, bike and home insurance customers with great service and straightforward products at competitive prices, however theychoose to interact with us.
Our colleagues 3,100 Colleagues in Bexhill, Leicester, Both Retail and Underwriting employ teams of highly specialised people Gibraltar and London who are empowered to drive sophisticated pricing capabilities.
A dedicated team of decision scientists are focused on improving pricing and assessing overall customer lifetime value within Retail, whilst the underwriting team is built on a bedrock of sophisticated risk selection.
Sophisticated data capture allows us to refi ne and optimise our pricing 2.6 million Our customers strategies.
Our Underwriting business focuses on pricing the risk.
Live customer policies Agilepricing in our Retail business maximises customer conversion.
Our company 184.1m Adjusted operating profit Our disciplined approach to risk selection using data enrichment tools and processes, coupled with our strong counter-fraud capabilities, generates value for our shareholders.
The business is underpinned by sophisticated IT systems to analyse and Our community 88,000 process applications and e ciently process claims.
These help to optimise Charitable donations in the claims process by providing colleagues with greater control, reducing the year the claims lifecycle work ow and facilitating activity management and earlyliability decisions.
Agile Invest Expand Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc
