Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Liquidity Going concern and viability statement Our principal sources of liquidity have historically been cash The Directors have concluded after reviewing the future funding generated from operating activities and commitments available requirements for the Group over the next eighteen months by under our credit facilities, which currently consist of a revolving reference to the headroom on the committed banking facilities and facility under our cash flow credit agreement of $125 million the expected performance of the Group, that it is appropriate for 104.1 million and an asset backed loan ABL facility of the financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
The availability under both facilities as of 31 December 2017 was 173.5 million.
In accordance with provision c2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the Outlook viability of the Group over a three year period to 31 December For 2018, excluding the impact of currency movements, 2020.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference we expect continued revenue growth in excess of global light to the Groups current position and prospects, the Groups vehicle production volume growth with Adjusted EBIT margin existing committed finance facilities, the Groups strategy and and Adjusted Free Cash Flow consistent with prior year levels.
the potential impact of the principal risks and how these are We plan to reduce net leverage through earnings growth and cash managed, as detailed in this strategic report.
flow generation and to maintain a consistent dividend policy.
The Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and Non-IFRS Measures review along with procedures to forecast its profitability, capital In addition to the results reported under IFRS, we use certain position, funding requirement and cash flows.
These plans nonIFRS financial measures to monitor and measure performance provide information to the Directors which are used to ensure of our business and operations and the profitability of our divisions.
the adequacy of resources available to the Group to meet its In particular, we use Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBIT, Adjusted business objectives, both in the shortterm and on a strategic Net Income, Adjusted Basic EPS, Adjusted Free Cash Flow and basis.
The plans for the period commencing on 1 January 2018 Adjusted Effective Tax Rate.
These nonIFRS measures are not were reviewed and approved by the Board on 12 December 2017. recognised measurements of financial performance or liquidity under IFRS, and should be viewed as supplemental and not In making their assessment the Directors have stress tested the replacements or substitutes for any IFRS measures.
Such Groups financial projections to 31 December 2020 by modelling measures are also utilised by the Board of Directors as targets the impact of lower global production volumes and the effect of in determining compensation of certain executives and key operating margin reductions caused by operational and quality members of management.
issues, which best reflect the likely impact from the principal risks facing the Group.
The Directors also considered the Adjusted EBITDA is defined as profit for the year adjusted beneficial impact arising from potential mitigating actions.
for income tax expense, net finance expense, depreciation, amortisation and impairment of PP&E and intangible assets, Considering the Groups current financial position, the net foreign exchange gains losses and other reconciling items.
geographic spread of its operations, its established customer Other reconciling items include adjustments for restructuring relationships, its principal risks, headroom under the committed charges, the Bain management fees and adjustment for banking facilities and the Boards assessment of the Groups associate income.
future, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be viable and able to continue in operation meeting Adjusted EBIT is defined as Adjusted EBITDA less depreciation its liabilities as they fall due over the period of at least three including PP&E impairment and amortisation including intangible years to 31 December 2020. impairment arising on tangible and intangible assets before adjusting for any purchase price adjustments to fair values arising on acquisitions.
Adjusted Net Income is defined as Adjusted EBITDA less net finance expense before exceptional items, income tax expense before exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation including PP&E and intangible asset impairments and non controlling interests share of profit.
Adjusted Basic EPS is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by the number of shares in issue at the current balance sheet date.
Adjusted Free Cash Flow is defined as cash generated from operating activities, less cash used by investing activities, adjusted for acquisitions and cash payments related to IPO costs.
Adjusted Effective Tax Rate is defined as Adjusted Income Tax before exceptional items as a percentage of Adjusted Profit before Income Tax.
Timothy Knutson Chief Financial Officer 29 March 2018 For more information about our company go to www.
com TI Fluid Systems plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 TI Fluid Systems plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance 32 Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance 34 Board of Directors 36 Corporate Governance report 40 Nomination Committee report 41 Audit & Risk Committee report 44 Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 46 Directors Remuneration Policy 55 Annual report on remuneration 59 Directors report 61 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements TI Fluid Systems plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
