60 | Board of Directors Maintaining eff ective governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
Our Board structure and governance approach are designed to ensure that we retain our strong focus on value generation and that we operate throughout as a highly ethical and responsible business.
01 Mike Fairey C Chai hair rman man Board structure Gender Male Female 02 Board composition Experience Gary Hoff man Chairman Finance Banking Chief Executive Offi cer Exec Insurance INED Technology Telecoms NED Legal Consultancy 1 3 7 2 6 2 1 6 1 03 Richard Hoskins Chief Financial Offi cer Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 61 04 07 10 Herman Bosman Ian Cormack Sumit Rajpal Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director 05 08 11 Alison Burns Pierre Lefvre Teresa Robson-Capps Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director 06 09 12 Thomas Colraine Malcolm Le May Selina Sagayam Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 62 | Board of Directors Maintaining effective governance The Directors who were in office and their Committee memberships asat31December 2017 were as follows.
01 02 03 Mike Fairey Gary Hoffman Richard Hoskins Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Re N Appointed Appointed Appointed 15 June 2015 3 September 2015 3 September 2015 Experience Experience Experience Mike has been the Chairman of the Group Gary has been the Chief Executive Officer Richard has been the Chief Financial since June 2015.
Mike was Deputy Chief of the Group since November 2012 and Officer of the Group since April 2015 Executive of Lloyds Banking Group for joined the Board in September 2015. and joined the Board in September 10 years until 2008 and currently holds He has extensive experience in the 2015.
He is a Chartered Accountant with anumber of non-executive positions.
Prior extensive experience in the insurance to joining the Group, Gary was Chief industry.
Prior to joining the Group, Executive Officer of NBNK Investments, Richard was the Chief Financial Officer an investment vehicle formed in of Global Commercial Insurance at AIG.
04 August 2010 to establish personal and Prior to that he served at Aviva as Chief Herman Bosman business retail banking in the UK.
Prior Executive of the groups North American to that, he led the UK governments operations and as Chief Financial Non-Executive Director turnaround of Northern Rock as its Officer of Old Mutuals North American Chief Executive.
He is also a Non-Executive Appointed he was Vice-Chairman of Barclays PLC, Director of Aztec Group Limited based having previously been Chairman of UK in Jersey.
14 March 2017 Banking and Barclaycard at Barclays PLC following five years as Chief Executive Experience of Barclaycard.
He is the Non-Executive Herman is the CEO of RMI and its sister 06 Chairman of VISA Europe and a Noncompany RMB Holdings, having joined Executive Director of VISA Inc and Thomas Colraine the companies in April 2014.
Prior to his Chairman of the UK sports charity, Senior Independent Director current role he was Head of Corporate the Football Foundation.
Finance at Rand Merchant Bank from 2000 until 2006 and CEO of Deutsche A N Re Appointed Bank South Africa from 2006 to 2013.
Herman is a Non-Executive Director of 3 September 2015 05 Discovery Limited, First Rand Limited, Alison Burns OUTsurance Limited and Merchant Experience Independent Non-Executive Capital Limited.
He also serves on the Tom brings a wealth of experience from Board of Governors of the University Director the insurance and financial services of Johannesburg, is Chairman of sector.
He was previously Group Chief R Re Appointed Endeavor South Africa and Business Financial Officer and Co-Chief Operating and Arts South Africa and served eight 12 July 2016 Officer at Willis Group Holdings, and years as a trustee of the Deutsche Chief Financial Officer at AIG Europe Bank South Africa Foundation.
He is a Chartered Accountant, holds a BCom LLM and is a Chartered Alison has held executive and nonon the Board of Schroder & Co. Limited FinancialAnalyst.
executive roles within Aviva plc, including and is also Chairman of Cambridge the position of Chief Executive Officer of Topco Limited, the holding company for Aviva Ireland.
Alison has extensive financial the Compre Group.
services experience, gained in senior roles with Santander, Bupa, Lloyds TSB and AXA UK, and brings strong leadership and executive management experience.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 63 Re Key: Chair Remuneration Committee R A Audit Committee Risk Committee N Nomination Committee 07 08 09 Ian Cormack Pierre Lefvre Malcolm Le May Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director A N R A Re R Appointed Appointed Appointed 3 September 2015 3 September 2015 3 September 2015 Experience Experience Experience Ian has spent 30 years at Citibank where Pierre serves as a Non-Executive Malcolm has extensive experience he was appointed head of UK and CoDirector on the Board of the Groups within the UK insurance industry from Head of the Global Financial Institutions subsidiary AICL, where he is also his previous role as a Non-Executive business before becoming Chief Chairman of the Risk Committee and a Director at RSA plc.
He is a Chartered Executive Officer of AIGs European member of the Audit Committee.
He has Accountant and Group Chief Executive business from 2000 until 2002.
He extensive international experience in the Officer of Provident Financial plc and currently serves as a Non-Executive on insurance industry and has previously Senior Independent Director on the board the boards of JRP Group plc, Phoenix held Chairman and Chief Executive roles of IG Group plc and a Partner at Opus Group Holdings plc, and National Angels at Groupama and AXA and is currently Corporate Finance.
He is also a Limited, and is Chairman ofTemporis a member of the Supervisory Board of Co-Founder of Juno Capital.
Capital LLP and Maven Income & Vivat NV Netherlands and a Director of Growth VCT4 plc.
ABBH Belgium NV and Fidea NV.
12 Selina Sagayam 10 11 Non-Executive Director Sumit Rajpal Teresa Robson-Capps Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Appointed Director 14 August 2017 Appointed A R Appointed 3 September 2015 12 July 2016 Experience Selina is the Head of UK Transactional Experience Experience Practice Development of international Sumit was appointed as Non-Executive Teresa is currently a Non-Executive law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher.
Director of the Group as part of the Director for Clydesdale and Yorkshire She is an English qualified corporate investment made by Goldman Sachs Bank Group plc and Yorkshire Water.
finance lawyer who joined the firms in the Group in 2014.
Sumit Co-Heads Teresa was previously a Non-Executive London office as a partner in 2007 the Corporate Private Equity business Director for National Australia Bank: and chairs its Talent and Community globally and runs the Americas Europe Clydesdale Bank.
Her appointment Corporate Private Equity business in the significant experience with international to the Companys Board is in a personal Merchant Banking Division of Goldman blue chip companies including HSBC, capacity and unconnected to her Sachs.
He also serves on the boards Accenture and Cable & Wireless, and position with Gibson Dunn.
Selina of K&N Engineering, Ipreo, ProSight experience of the insurance industry.
serves as a Non-Executive Director Specialty Insurance, TransUnion and on the Board of the Companys FCA Safeguard Products.
regulated subsidiary entity, Hastings Insurance Services Limited and also chairs its Risk Committee.
Selina also sits on the Advisory Board of Diversity UK, chairs the cross-industry group NetworkForKnowledge and serves as a board member of the Corporate Finance Faculty of the ICAEW and the Development Board of In Their Lifetime Christian Aid.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc
