Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report | 51 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Statutory information contained elsewhere Articles of Association in this Annual Report Any amendment to the Companys Articles of Association may only be made by the passing of a special resolution of the Information required to be part of the Directors Report can shareholders of the Company.
be found elsewhere in this document, as indicated, and is incorporated into this Report by reference: Substantial shareholdings results and dividend in the Chairmans Statement, page As at 1 March 2018 the Company was aware of substantial 12and the Chief Financial Officers Statement, page 27: interests in the Companys shares or had been notified corporate governance, the Groups financial risk of interests in voting rights under Chapter 5 of the DTR, management, internal control objectives and policies in asfollows: the Corporate Governance Statement on page 64 and Managing Our Risks on page 43: % of issued Shareholder Shareholding share capital Holding details of the salaries, bonuses, benefits and share interests of Main Street 1353 Directors in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 87: Proprietary Limited 196,508,074 29.9 Direct Directors Responsibility Statements on page 56: Goldman Sachs Interests 76,372,246 11.6 Direct how the Board takes into account the views of all Fidelity Management stakeholders and promotes the long term success of the Research 37,719,098 5.7 Direct Company on pages 69 and 70.
Neil Utley 30,000,000 4.6 Direct Management Report Share capital structure, issue and buying The Strategic Report and this Directors Report, with its back and shareholder rights inclusions as indicated above, form the Management Report as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR The number of Ordinary Shares of 2 pence each issued and fully paid at 31 December 2017 was 657,217,641.
Shares have equal rights to dividends and capital and to vote at general meetings of the Company, as set out in the Directors and Directors interests Companys Articles of Association.
The names of the Directors of the Company and changes to directorships during the reporting period are shown on There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the page 60.
Biographical details of the current Directors of the Company are shown on page 77.
Directors interests in the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 87. between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Directors indemnities and insurance No person has any special rights of control over the The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
provisions for the benefit of its Directors which remain in force at the date of this report.
In certain circumstances, the Company can indemnify Directors, in accordance with its Articles of Association, against costs incurred in the defence of legal proceedings brought against them by virtue of their office.
Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover remains in place to protect all Directors and senior managers.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 52 | Strategic report Directors report continued During the year, shareholders Hastings A, L. P. Hastings B, A relationship agreement RA2 was entered into between L. P. Goldman Sachs & Co. and the Founder Shareholders the Company and RMI so that, for so long as RMI holds a collectively Significant Shareholders had significant direct direct or indirect interest of between 15% and 29.9% in the and indirect investment in the Company via Hastings Investco issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company, RMI is able Limited.
Pursuant to a Relationship Agreement RA1 entered to nominate a Director for appointment to the Board of the into by the Company, Hastings A, L. P. Hastings B, L. P. and Company.
Herman Bosman, Chief Executive Officer of RMI Goldman Sachs & Co. GS Shareholders and the Founder was appointed as a Director of the Company on 14 March Shareholders collectively are each able to appoint two of the 2017.
RA2 contains the same independence provisions as RA1, Directors to the Board while they or persons connected to however the Company confirms that, as at 31 December 2017, them continue to hold a direct or indirect interest in 20% or RMI was not a controlling shareholder as defined by Listing more of the Companys shares and one Director while they Rule 9.2.
or persons connected to them continue to hold a direct The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed or indirect interest in at least 5% but less than 20% of the by the Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Companys shares.
Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related On 1 March 2017 Hastings Investco Limited, along with legislation.
7.1 of the Code, all certain individual shareholders, reached an agreement Directors will be subject to annual election by shareholders.
to sell a proportion of its shareholding in the Company to Resolutions to provide authorities to Directors to allot shares, Rand Merchant Investment Holdings Limited and its wholly to disapply certain pre-emption rights and to make market owned subsidiary Main Street 1353 Proprietary Limited RMI, purchases of the Companys own shares, all subject to whereby RMI acquired a holding of 29.9% in the Company.
appropriate limits, will be put to the Annual General Meeting As a consequence of that transaction, and under the terms AGM.
Shareholder resolutions put to the AGM held in May of RA1 with the Company, the GS Shareholders and Founder 2017 providing authority for the purchase by the Company of Shareholders respective entitlement to nominate directors its own shares remained valid as at 31 December 2017. for appointment to the Board reduced from two Directors each to one Director each.
On 14 March 2017, Michele The Company confirms that during the financial year ended Titi-Cappelli resigned as a Director representing the GS 31December 2017, no shares in the Company were purchased Shareholders and Edward Fitzmaurice resigned as a Director by the Company or acquired by it by forfeiture or surrender representing the Founder Shareholders.
As at the end of the in lieu of forfeiture: or were acquired by a Company nominee, year, the appointees are Sumit Rajpal for the GS Shareholders or by another with the Companys financial assistance, the and Selina Sagayam for the Founder Shareholders.
Company having a beneficial interest in accordance with section 671 of part 18 of the Companies Act 2006: or were The Company confirms that Hastings Investco Limited was made subject to a lien or other charge taken by the Company.
a controlling shareholder as defined by Listing Rule 6.1.
2AR The Company has not held any Ordinary Shares in treasury in during the year being a shareholder who exercised or the period under review.
controlled at least 30% of the voting rights in the Company.
On 1 March 2017, Hastings Investco Limited ceased to be a Under the Companys Share Incentive Plan SIP Trustees of controlling shareholder of the Company.
The Company was an employee benefit trust EBT hold shares on behalf of SIP notified in June 2017 that Hastings Investco Limited was to participants for a three year service period.
The Trustees be dissolved and that the indirect interest in the Companys will vote on, and receive dividends, in accordance with a shares held by GS Shareholders and certain Founder participants wishes.
The Group satisfies matching share Shareholders were converted into direct holdings awards in the SIP as described in Note 29 to the Financial in theCompany.
Statements through the acquisition by the EBT of the Companys Ordinary shares in the market.
During the three In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14 c the Company year service period these matching shares are held by the EBT.
confirms that it complied with the independence provisions The EBT is consolidated within the Companys Consolidated included in RA1: that as far as the Company is aware Financial Statements.
independence provisions included in RA1 were complied with during the period under review by Hastings Investco Limited and the Significant Shareholders: and that the procurement obligations included in RA1 were complied with during the period under review by Hastings Investco Limited and the Significant Shareholders.
Although Hastings Investco Limited ceased to be a controlling shareholder of the Company duringthe year, RA1 remains in force and all relevant provisions continue.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 53 Emissions for 2017 were 15% below the tonnage seen in 2016 Change of control significant contracts and are 23% below the emissions from the base year 2013 There are several commercial agreements that take effect, total of 1,479 tonnes.
Over 79% of Group emissions were alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company: produced from grid electricity consumption.
Greenhouse none is considered to be significant in terms of its potential gas emissions primarily arise from the Groups electricity, impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
The Company gas, gasoil and refrigerant gas consumption through the does not have agreements with any Director or colleague that operation of its offices.
Only offices which are solely occupied would provide compensation for loss of office or employment by the Group have been included in the reporting scope and resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the therefore exclude the leased offices in London, Leicester Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and and Newmarket Hyperion House, for which energy data is awards granted to colleagues under such schemes and plans not available or accurate.
Full-time colleagues based in the to vest on a takeover.
excluded offices are not counted towards the CO e per full 2 time colleague FTE figure quoted above.
Branches The reduction in reported carbon emissions was primarily a The Company and its subsidiaries do not have any branches in result of less grid electricity consumption, owing to the closure any other country.
of Franklin House, Newmarket, coupled with the discontinued use of a generator in Bexhill and that carbon emissions Greenhouse gas emissions resulting from grid electricity consumption in the UK were lower than in 2017 due to fide-carbonisation, reflected in the Tonnes CO2e 2017 2016 2015 emissions factors published annually by DEFRA: 0.35156kg Scope 1 235 277 369 CO e kWh in 2017 compared to 0.41205 kg CO e kWh in 2 2 Scope 2 906 1,064 1,201 2016.
As part of the refurbishment of the Groups office in Total Footprint 1,141 1,341 1,570 Bexhill, the generator was replaced and is now only used Full time colleagues 1,798 2,001 1,994 for standby generation in the event of power loss from the 2 CO e per FTE 0.63 0.67 0.78 national grid.
Despite the total number of colleagues working for the Group having now exceeded 3,100, the number of FTE Scope 1 Direct emissions resulting from natural gas & gasoil noted above has reduced compared to the prior year primarily consumption and refrigerant gas release.
due to the growth of the leased office in Leicester where Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions from purchased grid electricity.
accurate data is not available and the increase in the number All emission sources have reported on as required under the of colleagues who now work from home.
Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts The Company does not own any vehicles and business travel and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The reporting through private vehicles is limited and the necessary data boundary used for collation of the above data is consistent is not available.
Transport emissions have therefore been with that used for consolidation purposes in the Financial excluded from the reporting scope.
The Group has followed the methodology laid out in DEFRAs Environmental Reporting Guidelines The reporting period is in line with the Companys financial and calculated the carbon emissions using the year, which is the same as the calendar year.
relevant carbon conversion factors as issued by DEFRA: www.
Emissions have been reported in tonnes of CO e carbon dioxide 2 Political contributions equivalent which include CO, CH and N O.
2 4 2 There were no political contributions during the year 2016: nil.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 54 | Strategic report Directors report continued Directors statements Our colleagues As required under the Companies Act 2006, the Code and We consider our most important asset to be our colleagues the DTRs, various statements have been made by the Board who are the cornerstone of our business.
The ability to deliver as set out on page 56 and are incorporated into this Report straightforward insurance comes from a high performing, byreference.
dedicated and customer focused team.
We invest in our colleagues and provide them with an environment in which they feel included, valued, empowered and able to reach their Auditor full potential.
Every colleague is expected to contribute to the KPMG LLP were initially appointed as the Companys Auditor success of the business.
Accordingly, we recognise the hard in December 2015 for the financial year ended 31 December work and dedication of our team by linking remuneration to 2015 and their re-appointment was approved by shareholders personal performance in a way which does not compromise at the AGM in 2017 for the current financial year.
KPMG have the impact on customer outcomes we do not remunerate confirmed that they are willing to be reappointed as auditor colleagues through sales incentives.
We actively encourage for the financial year ending 31 December 2018.
In accordance personal development by offering a range of training options to with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution build the capabilities of our teams for the future and encourage proposing the appointment of a statutory Auditor will be the behaviours needed to deliver our business strategy.
We foster a culture of freedom to contribute and make The Audit Committee report on page 71 provides details on things happen, aiming to be a progressive insurance industry the length of tenure and re-appointment of the Auditor and innovator.
We promote communication and collaboration to when the tender was last conducted.
harness the talent of our colleagues and reward and recognise both individual and team success.
Directors statement of responsibility for The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities and disclosure of information to auditor ensuring that colleagues are able to work without discrimination.
Full and fair consideration is given to employment applications As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each from all candidates with a disability.
If a colleague were to Director serving at the date of approval of the Financial become disabled whilst in employment, the Group would make Statements confirms that: every effort to enable the colleague to continue in employment to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no and would make arrangements for additional equipment, information relevant to the preparation of their reports of support and training as appropriate.
which the Companys auditor is unaware: and The Group is also committed to providing a professional and he or she have taken all the steps a Director might safe working environment for all our colleagues, which is reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of achieved through the application of our policies throughout relevant audit information and to establish that the the organisation.
Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Our colleagues have a broad range of backgrounds and Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be the Group has not adopted a quota system, preferring to interpreted in accordance with section 418 of the Companies appoint the best candidate for any position.
Our approach Act 2006. to recruitment is to elicit candidates from as many different backgrounds as possible.
As at 31 December 2017, the Companys Board had 12 Directors of whom nine were male and three female.
Of the Groups 3,188 colleagues, 1,586 were male and 1,602 werefemale.
The Board composition of the Groups trading subsidiaries, Hastings Insurance Services Limited and Advantage Insurance Company Limited, at the end of the year was: Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 55 Male Female Financial instruments Hastings Insurance Services Limited 4 3 The objectives and policies for managing risks in relation to Advantage Insurance Company Limited 5 0 financial instruments held by the Group are set out in note 25 to the Financial Statements.
The Group has a responsibility to conduct its business in an ethical and transparent way.
Accordingly, we adhere to a set Going concern of business principles which include a commitment to human rights principles.
The Group has policies in place to support The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial these principles which include non-discrimination, health resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and safety, anti-bribery, human slavery and trafficking and and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern environmental issues.
We maintain a zero tolerance approach basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
In considering the to bribery, corruption and slavery.
appropriateness of this assumption, the Board has reviewed the Groups projections for the next 12 months and beyond, Mandatory training is required for all colleagues to ensure including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
that all of our colleagues are aware of Company policies, the Companys values and legislative requirements and cover The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved subjects ranging from data protection to whistleblowing to by the Board on 28 February 2018 and are signed on its diversity and inclusion in the workplace.
Training outcomes behalfby: aremonitored and remedial training is provided as appropriate.
Anthony S Leppard Suppliers of key services to the Group are subject to a Company Secretary robust due diligence process under a Supplier Relationship 28 February 2018 Management Framework in order to enhance relationship and risk management.
Critical suppliers are subject to ongoing reviews throughout the year at which service levels and adherence to processes and procedures are discussed and improvements made as appropriate.
Further information on colleague engagement can be found in the Corporate Responsibility statement on pages 36-42.
Contractual arrangements The Group considers its co-insurance and reinsurance contracts as well as contracts with PCW to be essential to the running of the Groups business.
No other contractual arrangements are considered to be essential.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc
