18 | Market overview Whats shaping our market We review the trends and dynamics of our market on an ongoing basis to stay ahead of the curve in terms of competitive positioning.
Our industry expertise informs how we develop products, approach industry issues and ensure continuing growth.
Distribution trends market, and the implementation of our We continue to monitor the progress Guidewire platform is further enhancing of the whiplash reforms, following the The private car, van and bike insurance our capability.
We continually monitor all announcement of a cap to the amount markets in the UK are some of the segments of the market and are able both people can claim for whiplash injuries most competitive markets in the world.
to react quickly to changes, and to identify in the Chancellors 2016 autumn The internet and digital age have and quickly explore opportunities.
statement, and a ban on the right to enabled customers to access a large cash compensation.
An increase is also amount of information about their car Claims trends planned to the small claims court limit insurance quickly and the growth of In recent years we have seen continued for all personal injury claims from 1,000 price comparison websites PCW has claims infl ation of 5-6% per annum, to 5,000 with the aim of reducing the been instrumental in creating such attributable to increases in the volume of fraudulent whiplash claims anenvironment.
average cost per claim, driven in part across the industry.
by increasingly expensive technology The number of cars on the road has Hastings continues to benefi t from remained relatively stable and grew by an built into vehicle components as well its risk selection techniques and use as the change to the Ogden rate in average of 1% per year between 2007 and of technology to monitor and report 2017.
However, over the same period the February2017.
claims in order to minimise costs and proportion of car new business sales from This is particularly the case for third the impact on its customers.
We also PCW has increased from 24% to 70%.
party property damage, where the actively monitor fraud activity in the Consumers are increasingly using digital impact of the Coles Hetherton case market and continue to invest in our devices and technology to purchase their continues to drive up repair bills.
In such an intensely also true for personal injury, where competitive market, only the most agile claims management companies remain and adaptive businesses can outperform.
active and solicitors appear to be taking At Hastings, our way of thinking, a more aggressive approach in relation processes and procedures are optimised to larger personal injury claims.
for the digital distribution and PCW Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 19 Pricing trends The level of pricing sophistication in the car, van, bike and home insurance Price increases have continued across markets continues to increase through the market during 2017, sustaining the an improvement in both the breadth momentum of premium inflation since and quality of data being used and the beginning of 2015, with premium the mathematical techniques utilised increases exceeding claims inflation.
by insurers to analyse the data.
Our Weexpect future premium rate changes passion for data and analytics underpins to follow claims inflation, which may be our advanced risk selection and, impacted by the proposed changes to the alongside our award winning counterOgden rate, and any effect this may have fraud capabilities, enables the Group to on personal injury settlement amounts sustain strong loss ratios whilst gaining and excess of loss reinsurance rates.
Year on year change in average comprehensive car insurance premiums 40% 30% 20% 10% 0 10% 20% Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Annual premium increase Annual premium decrease Source: Confused.
com car insurance price index, in association with Willis Towers Watson.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc
