Annual Report & Accounts 2017 52 Hochschild Mining plc Senior management Ramn Bara Isac Burstein Eduardo Landin Jos Augusto Palma Eduardo Villar Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Vice President, Legal & Vice President, Exploration & Business Corporate Affairs Human Resources Development Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Ramn Bara was appointed Isac Burstein joined the Group Eduardo Landin was appointed Jos Augusto Palma joined Eduardo Villar has been with CFO of Hochschild Mining as a geologist in 1995.
Prior to COO of Hochschild Mining in Hochschild in July 2006 after a the Group since 1996.
Prior to his his current position, Isac served March 2013.
Eduardo joined 13-year legal career in the his current position, he served appointment, he served in as Manager for Project Hochschild in January 2008 United States, where he was a as Human Resources Manager, various positions with other Evaluation, Exploration as General Manager of the partner at the law firm of Deputy HR Manager and Legal companies associated with the Manager for Mexico, and Companys operations in Swidler Berlin, and Counsel.
Eduardo holds a law Group, namely CEO of Fosfatos Exploration Geologist.
In 2011 he became subsequently at the World degree from the Universidad fide del Pacifico S. A.
General assumed responsibility for the General Manager of Projects Bank.
He also served two years Lima and an MBA from the Manager for Hochschild Groups exploration activities in with direct responsibility over in the Government of Peru.
Universidad Peruana fide Minings Mexican operations February 2014.
Isac holds a BSc the development of the Jos has law degrees from Ciencias Aplicadas.
In addition, and Deputy CEO and CFO of in Geological Engineering from Inmaculada and Crespo Georgetown University and the Eduardo has postgraduate Cementos Pacasmayo.
Prior to the Universidad Nacional fide Advanced Projects.
Before Universidad Iberoamericana in qualifications in Business from joining Hochschild, Ramon was Ingeniera, an MSc in Geology joining Hochschild, Eduardo Mexico and is admitted to IESE Business School and a Vice President of Debt Capital from the University of Missouri held the position of Corporate practise as a lawyer in Mexico, Harvard Business School and in Markets with Deutsche Bank and an MBA from Krannert Development Manager at New York and the District of Human Resources from and a sales analyst with Banco School of Management, Cementos Pacasmayo and, Columbia.
Prior to his current London Business School and Santander.
Ramn is an Purdue University.
prior to that, he worked in the role, Jos served as VP Legal.
economics graduate of Peruvian Ministry of Energy and Universidad fide Lima and holds Mines.
Eduardo began his an MBA from Columbia career at Repsol S. A where he Business School.
Ramon serves worked for over 10 years in as an Independent Director of England, Spain and Peru.
Goldspot Discoveries Inc, a Eduardo is a Chartered technology company that Mechanical Engineer and supports mineral exploration holds a B. Eng Honours in activity in which Hochschild Mechanical Engineering from Mining is an investor.
Imperial College, London and an Executive MBA from the Universidad fide Piura, Peru.
