Annual Report & Accounts 2017 50 Hochschild Mining plc Board of Directors A strong and experienced team Eduardo Hochschild Ignacio Bustamante Dr Graham Birch Jorge Born Jr. Chairman Chief Executive Officer Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Experience Experience Experience Experience Eduardo Hochschild joined the Ignacio joined the Board as CEO in April Graham joined the Board in 2011.
Up Jorge joined the Board in 2006.
Hochschild Group in 1987 as Safety 2010 having previously served as Chief until his retirement in 2009, he was a Previously, he served as a Director and Assistant at the Arcata unit, becoming Operating Officer and General Manager Director of BlackRock Commodities Deputy Chairman of Bunge Limited Head of the Hochschild Mining Group in of the Groups Peruvian operations.
He Investment Trust plc and manager of having served as Head of European 1998 and Chairman in 2006.
Eduardo is served as Chief Financial Officer of BlackRocks World Mining Trust and operations from 1992 to 1997 and as the Companys majority shareholder Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
A. an affiliate Gold and General Unit Trust.
He Head of its UK operations from 1989 with a c. 51% interest.
of the Company, between 1998 and previously worked at Kleinwort Benson to 1992.
2003, and as a Board member from Securities and Fleming Ord Minnett Other Directorships Other Directorships 2003 to 2007. before joining Mercury Asset Commercial: Cementos Pacasmayo Commercial: Consult & Co. President Management in 1993, where he launched S. A.
Chairman, COMEX Peru, Banco Other Directorships and CEO, Caldenes S. A. Dufry AG a number of mining and natural fide Crdito del Per.
In 1997, Mercury Asset Scotiabank Peru S. A.
Management was acquired by Merrill Non-Profit: UTEC Chairman, TECSUP, Non-Profit: Bunge and Born Charitable Lynch Investment Managers which was Sociedad Nacional fide Minera y Petrleo, Foundation President.
itself eventually acquired by BlackRock Conferencia Episcopal Peruana.
Graham has a PhD in mining geology from Imperial College London.
Other Directorships Commercial: ETF Securities Limited.
Audit Committee CSR Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 51 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Eileen Kamerick Michael Rawlinson Dionisio Romero Paoletti Sanjay Sarma Raj Bhasin Independent Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Company Secretary Non-Executive Director Director Non-Executive Director Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Eileen joined the Board on Michael joined the Board in Dionisio was appointed to the Sanjay joined the Board on 1 Raj joined Hochschild in 1November 2016 having 2016 and was appointed Senior Board on 1 January 2018 as a January 2017 and is Professor of October 2007 as Company formerly served as CFO of Independent Director on nominee of the Companys Mechanical Engineering at Secretary and UK Counsel.
He was formerly majority shareholder.
Dionisio Massachusetts Institute of He is a solicitor and Chartered served as CFO in various the Global Co-Head of Mining is Chairman and CEO of Technology MIT and the Vice Secretary with almost 20 years industries including healthcare and Metals at Barclays Credicorp and its subsidiary, President for Open Learning at experience gained in FTSE-listed consultancy Press Ganey investment bank 2013-2017 Banco fide Crdito del Peru MIT.
Sanjay was the founder and companies.
Raj previously served Associates, investment bank and prior to that, he worked at BCP, Perus largest bank.
Chief Technology Officer of as Deputy Company Secretary Houlihan Lokey and BP Amoco a number of banks as a Mr Romero has served as a OATSystems subsequently and Commercial Counsel at Americas.
Eileen lectures on corporate financier and board member of BCP since acquired by Checkpoint Burberry Group plc.
corporate finance and research analyst.
Most recently 2003 and was appointed Vice Systems and has worked at governance at several he helped found the boutique Chairman in 2008 and Schlumberger Oilfield Services USuniversities.
investment bank, Liberum Chairman in 2009. and at the Lawrence Berkeley Capital, in 2007.
Sanjay also advises Other Directorships Other Directorships Michael worked at Flemings several national governments Commercial: Associated Commercial: Numerous and Cazenove.
Chair of the directorships held including Nominating and Governance Other Directorships Credicorp Group companies Other Directorships Committee and member of the None.
Banco fide Crdito fide Bolivia, Commercial: Top Flight Compensation Committee, El Pacifico-Peruano Suiza Cia.
Legg Mason Closed End Mutual fide Seguros y Reaseguros S. A.
Non-Profit: G1S US and edX, Funds Chair of the Audit and El Pacifico Vida Cia.
fide the entity set up by MIT and Committee, AIG Funds and Seguros y Reaseguros S. A. Harvard to facilitate the Anchor Series Trust Audit Alicorp S. A.
A, Inversiones distribution of free online Committee Financial Expert.
Tenure of Independent Balance of independence Directors on the Board 0-3 years 3 Independent Directors 5 3-6 years 1 Non-independent Directors 3 6 years 1
