Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 83 Remuneration Committee Role The Committee is a formal sub-Committee of the Board with its own Terms of Reference.
Its primary role is to review and set the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, within the context of salaries and benefi ts paid across the Group as a whole.
It also makes discretionary performance related awards to Executive Directors and senior management.
NoDirector or manager is involved in any decisions as to theirown remuneration.
The remuneration of the Chairman is a matter for the full Board, whilst the Chairman shall determine the remuneration of the Independent Non-Executive Directors within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
TheCommittee meets at least fourtimes a year as a minimum andatother times as required.
Membership Biographies of the Committee members are set out on page Dear Shareholders 62.
Edward Fitzmaurice and Richard Brewster resigned as Committee members upon their resignation as a Director I am pleased to present the report of and Rajpal resigned as a member of the Committee only.
TheCompany Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
the Remuneration Committee for the The Terms of Reference for the Committee have been agreed bythe Board and are can be viewed online at www.
financial year ended 31 December 2017. com company-information corporate-governance.
The Committee met six timesduring the Member Member since period to assess performance and Malcolm Le May Chairman September 2015 consider developments in the external Alison Burns July 2016 markets along with reviewing external Thomas Colraine September 2015 Mike Fairey September 2015 benchmark data including giving Edward Fitzmaurice September 2015 consideration to alternative long-term until March 2017 incentive plan proposals.
Richard Brewster March 2017 until August2017 Sumit Rajpal September 2015 untilNovember 2017 Priorities for 2018 In the coming year the Remuneration Committee will focus on: The Chief Executive Offi cer may be invited, from time to time, to in relation to the Chief Executive Offi cer, Chief Financial attend meetings of the Committee.
No individuals are involved Offi cer and senior executive management within the Groups in decisions relating to their own remuneration.
The Committee trading entities: obtained information and advice during the period under assessment of Group performance against 2017 budget review from the Group HR Director, the Company Secretary and, and approval of bonus awards for 2017: where appropriate, the Executive Directors.
It may also seek advice from any other employees as required.
As permitted by approval of bonus performance measures and targets for its Terms of Reference, the Committee has engaged the advice 2018: and support of Deloitte LLP as independent remuneration review of any issues raised by shareholders in relation to consultants at the expense of the Company.
remuneration and the remuneration policy: assessment of the ongoing appropriateness of remuneration arrangements and remuneration trends and market practice: recommendation for approval by the Board awards and performance conditions under the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan for 2018: and analysis of performance conditions under the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan at the year end.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 84 | Corporate governance Remuneration Committee continued Meetings The Committee met six times during the year.
Thefollowing matters were considered at these meetings: Meetings Area of focus Matter considered Remuneration policy and practice Performance review of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and senior executives in context of bonus plan performance targets and overall colleague bonus pool Approved changes to remuneration of certain senior executives in context of appointments and role changes endorsed by the Nomination Committee Reviewed performance measure projections for the 2016 LTIP Reviewed proposed performance measures for the 2017 LTIP and approved theaward Considered market and other benchmark data for Executive Director remuneration and that of other senior executives as well as the BoardChairman Reviewed alternative long-term incentive plan proposals Reviewed draft gender pay reports forthe Group Narrative reporting Reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 Reviewed investor engagement proposals for remuneration reporting for 2017 Remuneration governance Reviewed published voting guidelines from institutional shareholder advisers and practice developments Received updates from Deloitte LLP on current developments for executive remuneration Reviewed UK government green paper on corporate governance reform relating to executive remuneration Governance othermatters Reviewed its Terms of Reference and confirmed the Committees terms of reference had been adhered to during2017 Conducted an annual review of Committee effectiveness and agreed an action plan to further enhance Committee activities As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted TheCommittee is conscious of the importance of inOctober this year, the Remuneration Committee was remuneration strategy and practice andthe considerable also subject to an appraisal by its members.
The evaluation attention it is attracting from institutional shareholders, considered how it discharged its responsibilities as well as governments and other stakeholders.
The Committee will theperformance of the Committee members.
The Committee continue to follow developments and where appropriate has agreed a number of actions for the coming year.
recommendations from evolving market practice and, as permitted under its Terms of Reference, use its discretion The activity of the Committee is detailed in table above and toensure remuneration policy remains in the best interests further explanation on these activities is provided in my ofthe Company.
annual Committee Chair statement on page 85.
For and on behalf of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Report and Policy The Directors Remuneration Report and Remuneration Malcolm Le May Policyfollows this Committee report.
The Remuneration Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Policy Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 28 February 2018 2016 and no changes to the Policy are proposed at this time.
In accordance with the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, a new Policy will be placed before shareholders at the AGM in 2019 for approval.
Should any substantive changes be proposed to the existing Policy, the Companyintends toconsult with major shareholders.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017
