Our business model Creating consistent Key resources and long term value and relationships for key stakeholders.
Employees We employ 28,000 people globally across our 118 manufacturing locations, at our global and regional technical and applications centres and at our headquarters offices.
Customers Our products are sold to all major global OEMs.
We have deep customer relationships with senior purchasing, engineering and management teams.
Suppliers We purchase raw materials from suppliers including resin, steel and aluminium as well as subcomponent parts used in production.
Sourcing is dependent on available quality, supply and location.
In some instances, our suppliers are directed and mandated by the OEMs.
Technology We have made and continue to make significant investment in development of our products and manufacturing processes and protecting related intellectual property in our major markets.
Governance We are subject to a variety of laws, rules and regulations in connection with our global operations.
We are committed to ensure that we maintain compliance.
Brake and fuel line bundle Brake lines used for the transfer of hydraulic liquid in brake systems.
Fuel lines used for the transfer of fuel in internal combustion engine applications TI Fluid Systems plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information How we Stakeholders create value who benefit Global market and technology leadership Shareholders Profit growth We aim to generate progressive shareholder Strong cash generation returns in the long term.
Employees We employ 28,000 people in 28 countries and aim to ensure we have a skilled and motivated workforce.
Technology and innovation We seek to improve the quality Customers of existing products and processes We provide value to our customers through and introduce new fluid handling our leading technology, strong reputation products through innovation and investments in new technology.
for quality and manufacturing capabilities.
We support OEMs to meet regulated emissions and fuel economy requirements.
Manufacturing Our competitive global footprint with regional manufacturing and small assembly facilities has been established to deliver quality products, efficient manufacturing, optimised capital allocation and minimised freight costs.
Market leadership Our highly engineered products, longterm customer relationships, employees and global footprint, including China, combine to make the Group highly competitive while delivering strong financial returns.
TI Fluid Systems plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
