Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 10 Business Model We operate a business model with mutually reinforcing strengths which delivers superior outcomes Key strengths Operating Model Scalable operating model Our scalable operating model is focused on growing our addressable market by increasing our access to customers and Our People Service serving them profitably.
The combination of Just Retirement We have a proud and consistent record and Partnership created an opportunity - of Financial Adviser 5 Star service awards.
which we seized - to create a best of both We are rewarded for this with high levels worlds staffing model, backed by a renewal of trust from our distribution channels.
Multi-channel distribution of our culture to also preserve the best We maintain a multi-channel approach, giving us market access through of our heritage.
intermediaries and partner businesses to distribute our individual and corporate solutions.
Our focus is on strong long-term and mutually beneficial relationships with financial intermediaries, corporate partners and employee benefits consultants EBCs.
Our in-house corporate solutions advice and distribution business HUB Financial Solutions provides a range of services to our partners and their customers and employees.
Our market leadership in retirement income positions HUB Financial Solutions well to win Digital Capabilities Distribution mandates to provide insurance companies We stay abreast of developing business Our multi-channel distribution model with a range of insourced and outsourced models, digital capabilities, and ways of maximises our reach into the market services for their customers.
Project delivery focuses on lean and creates an in-built resilience if the approaches.
We have dedicated digital fortunes of one channel shift.
automated underwriting innovation teams looking to keep us at the Our fully automated underwriting systems leading edge of internal and external uses offer efficient data capture, fast turnaround times and scalability.
This differentiates our service delivery, and delivers benefits to financial intermediaries, corporate partners and customers.
Leading service, reputation AND brand The foundations of our service culture and record are our systems, our fair approach, and a culture of ensuring issue resolution rather than speedy closure.
Our new retail brand, Just, is gaining increasing recognition in corporate, intermediary and retail markets.
The brand continues to build on our ambition Market position INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IP to provide customers with a fair, fulfilling and We have strong positions in the majority of We continuously invest in our proprietary IP secure retirement.
our markets with attractive market shares to increase profitability through superior risk underpinned by compelling products and the selection, lifetime mortgage origination and power of our operating model.
This gives us multi-channel distribution to identify and the capability to lead and influence market secure high-value opportunities.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 11 Generating Value Investors By managing our resources effectively and creatively we generate profits, which benefit shareholders through dividend payments and shareholder value.
Dividends paid in 2017 33m Operating Model RETAIL CUSTOMERS We improve our customers later lives by providing Superior risk selection Strong financial model straightforward, good value products, and excellent service.
We have world-class capabilities in The Group creates value by taking on selecting risks that help us focus on those risks which we believe can be Number of customers creating value for shareholders and fairly rewarded.
Dec 2017 delivering better outcomes for customers.
0.55m Next generation underwriting system: Capital efficient model BUSINESS CUSTOMERS Our synergistic suite of products results in an PrognoSys We deliver solutions to solve the efficient and balanced use of capital.
PrognoSys is a powerful proprietary tool for challenges and needs of our Just Retirement Limited, the Groups principal pricing and reserving that allows the Group life assurance company, uses an internal corporate customers and to identify and price for the risks we want and model to calculate our capital requirements provide improved outcomes for customers.
more accurately than a standard model and Whilst it is already market-leading, we approval is only granted to companies who continue to invest in PrognoSys to ensure have met the Prudential Regulation OUR PEOPLE continued leadership.
Recent enhancements are allowing us to Developing, recognising and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited fine-tune our offers to healthier customers, rewarding our colleagues secures is currently in the process of seeking approval offering the personalisation that we a skilled and motivated team.
from the PRA for authorisation to use an originally brought to the medically internal model.
underwritten market to a far greater number of customers.
Staff numbers dec 2017 Financial risk management Our operating model is complemented by a Experienced medical team and 1,108 conservative approach to risk management.
underwriters We have strong experience of delivering Our in-house medical team is made up of accurate longevity estimates coupled with epidemiologists, doctors and bio-statistical COMMUNITIES prudent reserving.
This team enables us to develop The majority of longevity risk for both DB and We are a significant local superior pricing and reserving processes and GIfL business is held by high quality employer in our home stay as up to date as possible with latest international reinsurers.
Our We benefit from a deep understanding of the communities benefit from job whole spectrum of lifestyle, medical and Investment management creation, our tax payments, and behavioural factors and their impact on Our investment policy enables us to provide our community outreach life expectancy.
attractive returns to customers and to activities.
Our experienced underwriters enable us to optimise risk-adjusted returns for apply our proprietary IP in our pricing and shareholders, while ensuring that cash flows reserving.
from assets under management are Corporation tax and national sufficient to meet payment obligations to our insurance paid in 2017 DB and GIfL portfolios.
Unrivalled proprietary data We follow an enhanced buy-and-maintain Our extensive database means we 56m investment strategy whereby we purchase understand the likely impact of medical and assets with attractive riskreward lifestyle information on life expectancy.
characteristics and hold them to maturity to We have combined Just and Partnership SUPPLIERS capture the full risk premium, particularly the datasets, creating an unrivalled breadth illiquidity premium.
We replace assets where We maintain a significant supply and depth of resource for our analysis.
this makes sense, taking into account We now hold over 2.6 million person-years chain, working with businesses of frictional costs.
of medical and mortality data.
As we create value, we The majority of our financial asset portfolio is this gives us into customer lifestyle help them to create further value held in investment grade, fixed income and medical outcomes is a significant and impact.
securities such as government and corporate competitive advantage.
The Group also invests in lifetime mortgages, private placements, commercial Payments made to suppliers property mortgages and infrastructure loans.
