Our strategic priorities How we aligned our customer offer with our marketplace in 2017 Our Services-led strategy is focused on enabling users and their business.
The Groups progress against its strategic objectives is transparently measured by an associated key performance indicator.
Three of the strategic objectives cover different aspects of the Services business: how well we are growing our overall Services revenue, how well we manage the productivity of our people delivering these Services and how well we are able to acquire longer-term Services contracts that help retain our customer relationships.
The final strategic objective also encompasses our Supply Chain business and shows how well we are profitably penetrating our customers with our complete portfolio of Services and products.
Each objective is managed by a member From left to right: of the Group Executive team Andy Stafford, Group Chief Operating Officer: To improve our Services productivity and enhance our competitiveness Neil Hall, Managing Director, UK: To lead with and grow our Services business Mike Norris, Chief Executive Officer: To retain and maximise the relationship with our customers over the long term Mo Siddiqi, Group Development Director: To innovate our Services offerings to build future growth opportunities Related material: 2017 highlights Inside front cover Our marketplace page 06 Resources and relationships page 26 Principal risks and uncertainties page 30 Directors Remuneration Report page 74 16 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 HOW IT ALL FITS TOGETHER Linking our strategy to market trends, customer offer, risk, performance and remuneration Our four strategic Strategic objective 1: Strategic objective 2: Strategic objective 3: Strategic objective 4: objectives To lead with and grow our To improve our Services To retain and maximise the To innovate our Services Services business productivity and enhance our relationship with our offerings to build future competitiveness customers over the long term growth opportunities Megatrends Megatrend 1: The shift to digital Megatrend 2: The subscription or as-a-service economy Megatrend 3: Globalisation of our markets Megatrend 4: Shortage of talent The Computacenter portfolio DIGITAL WORKPLACE HYBRID IT SECURITY DATA & CLOUD & END USER NETWORKING SECURITY ANALYTICS DATACENTER Consult & Change Source & Deploy Manage & Transform Friend of the CIO Friend of the CIO F riend of the CIO Friend of the CIO How we use our Focus on end users Focus on end users F ocus on end users Focus on end users competitive Customer intimacy Customer intimacy C ustomer intimacy Customer intimacy advantage End-to-end solutions End-to-end solutions E nd-to-end solutions End-to-end solutions Partnering service lifecycle Partnering service lifecycle P artnering service lifecycle Partnering service lifecycle Alignment to Strategic Strategic Strategic Strategic Contractual Contractual Contractual Contractual relevant principal Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructure risks and Financial Financial Financial Financial uncertainties People People People People Measuring success Services Contract Base Services revenue generated Number of customer Services revenue Why this is With an ever increasing per Services head accounts The Services business is important to demand from our customers Our relentless focus on Analysing growth in the strategically relevant in Computacenter: to make digital work, we are finding the most effective and number of customers two ways: Managed Services confident of continuing to cost efficient method of generating more than 1 are the prerequisite for grow our Services Contract helping our customers with million of profit shows that long-term customer Base in 2018. their technology challenges is profitability increases at the relationships and retention, key to our competitiveness same rate, demonstrating the whereas Professional and hence our future growth importance of these Services give us visibility and agenda.
customers to our bottom line.
recognition, by helping the CIO to make his IT infrastructure suitable for digital services.
Linked to remuneration 17 Our strategic priorities continued STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1 To lead with and grow our Services business Description Target for 2018 Over the last two years, we have created a In 2018, the Managed Services market will central Group function that brings together remain mature and relatively saturated, with some of our key aligned service resources, limited growth.
We therefore need to grow our tools and processes focused on bidding.
It aims market share to outperform our peers.
With to grow our Services beyond market rates, our healthy pipeline showing ever-increasing whilst ensuring we take a disciplined approach demand for digital workplace services, to contract quality.
The function incorporates combined with our credibility and capability design, architecture, solution and sales in this area, we are in a very good position to resources, supported by enabling functions take advantage.
We have a clear view of the such as account-based marketing.
It has customers we want to be relevant with and the helped to share best practice and lessons Services we want to offer.
We will continue to learned, contributing to key new wins and invest in key areas such as automation and renewals.
Some recent successes have come analytics to help drive our service productivity from key customers such as Rolls-Royce, along and develop our enabling user offering.
We with new customer acquisitions including expect to grow our underlying Contract Base a leading German bank.
by around 5.0 per cent, however the already notified loss of a single major contract, to Progress in 2017 occur in mid-2018, reduces our growth In 2017, we grew the annual Contract Base to expectations to flat overall.
756 million, which represents circa 11 million growth on 2016.
Key wins included Credit Why this is important to Computacenter Suisse, Heathrow and the Home Office, along With an ever increasing demand from our with some significant renewals.
The growth customers to make digital work we are was predominantly seen in the UK, with modest confident of continuing to grow our Services growth in Germany and a decline in France, Contract Base in 2018. after losing a large customer contract in the energy sector.
How we define Services Contract Base This is our forward order book of committed Now that we have standardised our approach Managed Services spend as at the year end.
at Group level, we will return the sales functions The prior year comparatives are restated on 2 to the Country Units and the design function to a constant currency basis to provide a better the newly formed Group Design and Delivery.
We expect this change will help to accelerate our Services growth, while maintaining Services Contract Base m standards and predictability of outcome.
756 1.5% 17 756 16 745 15 719 14 705 13 651 18 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 MATURING OUR SERVICES LEADERSHIP In 2014 we formed Business Enablement and Contractual Services BECS, a Group function to standardise how we take our Managed Services to market.
BECS established consistent processes for developing, designing and articulating our Managed Services offerings, enabling us to mitigate bid risk and embed consistent discipline in our approach.
As BECS people, processes and tools have matured, its output has been proven by the success of our Services business.
We are now able to bring this capability closer to the sales force, by embedding it within the Country Units.
The combination of flexibility and responsiveness to our customers, with mature Group standards, will enable the Contract Base growth we are targeting.
19 Our strategic priorities continued STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2 To improve our Services productivity and enhance our competitiveness Description Target for 2018 Technology encourages standardisation and 2018 will see further leveraging of our commoditisation.
Organisations such as ours investments in automation, customer must therefore differentiate the way we deliver reporting and tooling.
This foundation value to customers.
We do this by rigorously is helping us bid for new contracts more applying effective processes and utilising the cost effectively, encouraging greater right resources, including automation and industrialisation and driving further robotics, in suitable locations.
This allows us to cost efficiency.
best meet the needs of our global customers, at a competitive price.
We will establish a Service Desk location in Poland for lower-cost German language Progress in 2017 support, and are assessing demand for a In 2017, we continued our global expansion of lower-cost French language option.
We also our Service Desk and Infrastructure Operations.
anticipate expanding our capacity in Asia.
We established a new location in Mexico, helping us to meet the needs of particular Why this is important to Computacenter global clients.
In addition, we expanded our Our relentless focus on finding the most operations in South Africa, where customers effective and cost efficient method of appreciate the high quality of skills at an helping our customers with their technology attractive price.
We have also increased the challenges is key to our competitiveness number of infrastructure services we operate and hence our future growth agenda.
How we define Services revenue generated Many customers have welcomed these per Services head investments, which have led to significant This is our Group Services revenue divided by revenue growth.
However, as these are lower the number of employees directly involved in cost locations this has an adverse effect on the provision of either our Managed Services or the measure of the strategic objective, as the Professional Services offerings.
The prior year revenue per head is relatively lower.
comparatives are restated on a constant 2 currency basis to provide a better indicator Early this year, we established a dedicated of underlying growth.
Global Automation team, focused on applying robotics and other automation methods to Services revenue generated repetitive customer challenges.
We now have per Services head 000 several early adopter customers embracing our offering, which frees up people for more 89 valuable activities.
Computacenter has constantly focused on 0.3% enabling customers to benefit from our scale.
To that end, we are changing the way we 17 89 manage and utilise our engineering teams, 16 89 following the successful deployment of new 15 92 Field Service & Scheduling tools, initially in the UK.
This new standardised operating model 14 91 with a direct productivity benefit, is a core 13 89 component of both current and future bids.
20 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 COMPETITIVE DELIVERY The improvements we drive by implementing this strategic objective directly influence our ability to deliver competitively for our customers.
This includes the agility to establish new approaches and delivery locations with the necessary urgency.
We set up our new Service Centre in Mexico, as pictured, in record time, giving us a tangible competitive advantage in 2017.
The low cost of delivery, coupled with the economies of scale through consolidation, enabled us to retain and or grow a number of Computacenters largest global customers.
We anticipate further expansion of our global delivery capability in 2018, with the opening of our new Service Centre in Poland.
21 Our strategic priorities continued STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3 To retain and maximise the relationship with our customers over the long term Description Target for 2018 Computacenter focuses on the large account We believe that in 2018, we will see a continued market, in both the public and private sectors, drive to digitalisation and investment in new and maintaining these customers for the long technology.
The number of large customers we have expand its geographical footprint to address has a direct relationship to our profitability over customers needs and attract more clients.
Growing the number of customers Ultimately, the competitiveness of our who contribute more than 1 million of margin offerings coupled with our sales execution is therefore a key driver of Computacenters is how we will improve the measure of this profitability.
Progress in 2017 Why this is important to Computacenter In 2017, the number of Group customers who Analysing growth in the number of customers generate more than 1 million per year of generating more than 1 million of profit shows 2 gross profit, measured in constant currency, that profitability increases at the same rate, increased from 102 to 107.
The trend amongst demonstrating the importance of these our customers has been consistent across customers to our bottom line.
geographies, as they invest in digitalising their businesses to improve their relationships with How we define customer accounts with their customers and enhance their profitability.
contributions of over 1 million This has enabled us to significantly increase A customer account is the consolidated spend our revenues and margins in these areas.
by a customer and all of its subsidiaries.
Where However, we have also seen customers focus our customer account exceeds 1 million of 1 on reducing their operating costs, which has contribution to Group adjusted gross profit it meant downward pressure again to revenues is included within this measure.
The prior year and margins in our long-term Managed comparatives are restated on a constant 2 Services business.
We have also seen more currency basis to provide a better indicator buoyant investment in Germany, compared of underlying growth.
with the other countries in which we operate.
These trends have been easier to deal with due Number of customer accounts with to our breadth of services and geographical contributions over 1 million diversity, which have helped us to retain and grow our customer base.
107 5.0% 17 107 16 102 15 95 14 90 13 86 22 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 THE POWER OF SUPPLY CHAIN Winning by putting customers first is a key value at Computacenter and helps us to grow our base of large customers, which in turn underpins our financial success.
A major factor in this growth has been our ability to bring new levels of innovation to our Supply Chain offering.
Large organisations have sophisticated requirements, from the commercial models they apply, to digital ordering frameworks and the logistical challenge of providing a consumer-like user experience in all parts of the world.
We can meet these requirements because our maturity gives us unrivalled commercial, technical and logistical capabilities, coupled with our Group Partner Management function to manage vendor partner collaboration.
Supply Chain is an important component of our portfolio and has vital synergies with our Services business, so we continue to invest in our global capability.
The image below shows our major new logistics centre we are building in Kerpen, Germany.
23 Our strategic priorities continued STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 4 To innovate our Services offerings to build future growth opportunities Description Target for 2018 Annual Services revenue, which comprises Our quantitative target is to achieve a our Managed Services Manage & Transform continuous long-term organic growth rate and Professional Services Consult & Change that is well above the market average across businesses, is the key measure for this all our geographies.
However, the equally strategic objective.
Our portfolio and Services important qualitative goal is to develop development activities are focused on innovative services and solutions that are improving our differentiation and building relevant for the digital transformation agendas competitive advantage, thus laying the of our customers and thus tap into the foundation for future Services growth.
business-led investments that CIOs are increasingly supporting or even driving.
Progress in 2017 This was a successful year, with Services Why this is important to Computacenter revenue returning to growth with a 7.3 per cent The Services business is strategically relevant 2 increase on a constant currency basis.
Over in two ways: Managed Services are the the last four years, our Services revenue has prerequisite for long-term customer risen at a compound annual growth rate of 4.6 relationships and retention, whereas per cent, ahead of the average market growth.
Professional Services give us visibility and recognition, by helping the CIO to make his IT Digital Me, our Digital Workplace proposition infrastructure suitable for digital services.
and offering, is already becoming a key differentiator in contracts we have won in How we define Services revenue the UK, Germany and France.
The pipeline for Services revenue is the combined revenue transformational and Windows 10-based of our Professional Services and Managed Digital Workplace contracts is growing, as the Services business.
The prior year comparatives 2 extended support for Windows 7 will end in are restated on a constant currency basis to January 2020.
Our sustained position as provide a better indicator of underlying growth.
Challenger in Gartners Magic quadrant for Managed Workplace Services, Europe Services revenue m recognises our strategic direction and ability to execute.
1,157 Additionally, in 2017 we have launched our 7.3% Hybrid Cloud IT Digital Power and Cyber Security Digital Trust offerings as part of our 17 1,157 customer offer.
Both underpin our customers 16 1,078 Digital Workplace requirements in areas such as endpoint security and support for cloud- 15 1,084 based workplace apps, as well as providing 14 1,024 genuine Services growth, primarily in 13 980 transformational Professional Services.
24 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INNOVATE FOR GROWTH We need to constantly innovate in our services and solutions portfolio to stay relevant to our customers.
To do this, we have a significant investment programme, through which we will continue to integrate new chat, automation and analytics capabilities into our Services.
An additional focus in 2018 will be the launch of our standard portfolio of Windows 10 Evergreen Services.
We will also continue to look at opportunities to enhance our capabilities through acquisitions.
In 2017, we made the strategic acquisition of TeamUltra, to allow us to integrate our solutions with the ServiceNow platform, which is increasingly important to many of our customers.
TeamUltras 60 ServiceNow specialists will allow us to link ServiceNows platform with Computacenters Next Generation Service Desk and other services, to provide a more integrated user experience.
In Switzerland, we also acquired cITius, a provider of virtual workplace and mobility solutions, to strengthen our competitive position in the Swiss market.
Pictured is our refurbished London office, 100 Blackfriars Road, which was reopened at the beginning of 2017.
