Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 16 Strategic Objectives 1 2 Grow our markets Give customers We aim to deliver AND broaden our a distinctly just consistent growth distribution reach experience every time in revenues and profits through risk We increase sales in our markets by working We align our customer experience with to grow market demand: we capture our our brand promise across all channels and margin selection share of these growing markets by ensuring andbusinesses growth in distribution reach and customer in our current access markets combined with growth into new markets and Why this is important Why this is important strong internal cost We have a fundamental belief that our Our brand embodies fairness, a strong products meet needs that, if unaddressed, social purpose and our desire to improve and capital discipline create risks to the quality of later life that retirement for customers by providing them our customers may experience.
So its with simple-to-use products and services.
It important to grow markets and reduce the expresses our ambition to present ourselves When we succeed in addressing all experience of those risks.
Of course, larger differently, provide outstanding service to of our strategic objectives we will markets create more sales opportunities for our customers and support people with the be achieving consistent growth in us and more value for shareholders.
And a broader challenges of later life.
shareholder value and be addressing combination of distribution reach and larger an ever greater number of later markets means greater opportunity for us to life needs.
We will also be laying select the risks we want to address.
progressively stronger foundations to pursue our fifth objective to diversify and build businesses outside of our current core, meeting more needs and generating more valuable growth.
Our strategic choices are also made with a view to reducing the principal risks our business faces and making How we achieve this How we achieve this our business more resilient.
In our UK DB fide-risking business we continue We have defined our customer experience to drive growth in the small and medium principles and framework to ensure that our transaction segment of the DB fide-risking products and services live up to the brand market.
Our innovative medical underwriting promise we live by.
solutions enable us to provide more options We are working hard to ensure that our postfor pension scheme trustees.
merger culture embraces the brand promise and customer perspective.
For instance, We support growth in the UK GIfL, LTM in our call centres, no one is measured Key: Principal risks and uncertainties see page 20 and care markets through market and againstcall-handling time.
Such measures distributor education and regulatory undermine willingness to spend time on the A Market environment engagement.
We expand our distribution phone to fully address customer needs.
reach through the active pursuit of new B Pricing assumptions We measure, share and celebrate great partner business relationships.
C Regulatory changes D Economic environment A C E F A E F E Operational processes and systems F Brands and reputation Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 17 3 4 5 Make smart risk Focus on strong financial Diversify our business away choices management from any single business line or market We identify and price for the business we We ensure that we spend money wisely, We grow outside our core businesses by want.
We ensure new business complements avoid waste and deliver value for the leveraging our insights, capabilities and our balance sheet and provides the best business.
We consider the capital impact intellectual property.
We diversify to grow balance of risk, reward and capital usage andreturn of all our decisions and also to reduce dependency on any one business line, distributor or market Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Efficient deployment of our capital is key We have a firm target to achieve capital selfOur current markets have growth potential, to optimising the amount of business that sufficiency, which we will only achieve with but we already have substantial market we write, at what margin, and with what the careful application of our available capital shares and a focus on profitable new capital use.
In addition, we seek to ensure and a focus on ensuring that expenses business over growth for the sake of it.
that the synergies between our businesses are aligned to the scale and needs of the So identifying new markets helps us are maximised through careful matching of business.
Careful stewardship of our finances access profitable and potentially higher amongst other factors the likely duration of makes money available to fund our existing growth potential.
mortgages, DB and GIfL solutions.
Just as importantly, new markets are a means to diversify away from any concentration in market, regulatory or balance sheet risk.
With diversification we can seek to develop businesses that have a lower new business strain on capital, meaning growth is not constrained by our balance sheet.
How we achieve this How we achieve this How we achieve this We combine customer insight, market Having delivered the synergy benefits of the We are selective in pursuing a limited knowledge and unrivalled medical IP to merger, we are continuing to use the strict number of diversification prospects.
Our target the business and customer segments governance demanded in this delivery to focus is on opportunities in which our existing that are most attractive.
Our distribution focus on our on-going operating costs.
A assets and capabilities create advantage, reach gives us access into our target strong cost-benefit approach is embedded maximise potential, and minimise downside segments and significant business flows into all our investment decision making.
We closely monitor progress and act fast fromwhich to pick our preferred risks.
when expectations are not met.
The evolution of our new culture includes Strong relationships with high quality a strong emphasis on avoiding waste.
reinsurers allow us to mitigate risks We use our internal model to drive a cost-effectively.
disciplined approach to pricing our services and to continuously improve our capital management activities.
B D E B C D E A C E F Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 18 Strategy in Action DELIVERING Delivering profit from sustainable advantage Our focus on effective use of capital leads to attention on margin over market share.
As a result PROFIT our IFRS new business margin has increased from 6.8% pro forma in 2016 to 9.0% in 2017.
The Guaranteed Income for Life category has been an important driver of this improvement, and a key factor in doing this is the unique and granular data that allows us to make accurate risk selections.
We are a pioneer in medically We are a pioneer in medically underwritten GIfL and have collected more details, of more customers, for underwritten Guaranteed longer, than our competitors.
This brings unique insight to our pricing and risk-selection decisions, Income for Life solutions and enabling us to be selective in the business we write, and offering better rates than competitors, while have collected more details, achieving attractive margins.
of more customers, for longer By closely aligning our operational processes and underwriting approach we are able to optimise than our competitors outcomes for both customers and shareholders, a win-win that provides a great return on the HUGH MCKEE investments we have made over many years in these key components of our business model.
MANAGING DIRECTOR, UK RETAIL BUSINESS Why we win Risk selection We have long, broad and deep datasets driving a detailed understanding of risks and the ability to micro-segment our markets, helping us to target where to compete for attractive margin.
Grow Markets As a market leader we have a strong voice with commentators and market participants.
We use this to grow our core markets, for instance in helping financial intermediaries understand GIfL, Care, Equity Release and defined benefit fide-risking markets and increase their activity in these areas.
IFRS NEW BUSINESS MARGIN Digital solutions We are hands-on where it creates value, for instance in customer contact, but look to streamline where possible.
Our 9.0% highly automated underwriting, with low processing cost and fast turnaround, 2016 pro forma: 6.8% both manages our expenses and improves outcomes for our customers.
Customer Our focus on service not only creates customer fans and wins awards, but is a key aspect of the trust that corporate partners and distributors have in using us and recommending their customers to us.
