T N E M E G A N A M O I L O F T D R I O S P P O S A L S E R V I C E N S O E K A T & T N E M L I I F N L T U E F R N A T I O N A L M A N A G E M E N T G N I K R A M H C N E B L O G Developing our long-term relationships Adding value through our Supply Chain Services Kevin James Technology sourcing lifecycle Group Chief Commercial Officer Our technology sourcing and lifecycle management services are fundamental parts of our offering for our customers.
Reselling leading manufacturers hardware and software products enables us to Source & Deploy technology solutions for customers, and underpins our Professional Services and transformation solutions.
In fact, most GLOBAL LOGISTICS customers require a comprehensive solution, SOLUTIONS CENTRES combining our services with the systems they CENTER need to meet their IT and business objectives.
Our ability to seamlessly integrate vendor technology into our solutions for customers is therefore critical.
The value we deliver is highly prized and our performance in 2017 reflects this.
Supply Chain revenues were higher in all of our key Segments, with Germany up 19.7 per cent, UK up 10.1 per cent and France up 12.4 per cent, resulting in 14.3 per cent growth for the Group, 2 all on a constant currency basis.
Although enabling them to leverage the most appropriate Centres support a range of other critical there were movements in each country, across technologies to meet their specific needs.
We functions, from tagging and logging customers the Group our top five vendor partners help to develop the business case for investment assets to managing product warranties.
Over remained consistent against the prior year.
and ensure the customer understands the true recent years we have invested significantly in The top five were Cisco Gold Partner : Lenovo cost of ownership.
Our heterogeneous Global our centres in the UK, France and Germany.
Platinum Plus : DellEMC Titanium Black : HP Solutions Center encompassing our regional In 2018 we will replace our Kerpen Germany Enterprise Platinum and HP Inc.
Customer Experience Showcase centres allow Logistics Centres, to enable the growth Together, they account for over 52 per cent of our customers to try before they build, test predicted in enterprise technology solutions.
our Supply Chain revenue 2016: 51 per cent.
proposed solutions in a risk-free environment There were three additions to the top ten, and ensure compatibility with their existing Many Enterprise customers want to implement including Apple Inc. which together account systems and processes.
Once the customer is their technology solutions internationally.
for 68 per cent of revenue 2016: 69 per cent.
ready to proceed, we work with our vendors to Through our Supply Chain offering, customers achieve the best value for the customer and gain the benefit of centralisation, consistency A service that spans the product lifecycle manage the complex contracts, assisting them and cost effectiveness, combined with our Our Supply Chain business ensures our to achieve competitive commercial terms.
ability to deliver solutions in more than 100 customers receive the right technology countries.
We do this through a combination solution, at the right price, at lower risk and Our Logistics Centres are key assets of our own Logistics Centres, alongside our without the need to manage multiple vendors.
We can store products managed ecosystem of approved distribution We support them every step of the way, from and release them as projects demand, and service partners.
initial advice through to safely and securely simplifying scheduled implementations.
We disposing of products at the end of life.
also configure technology for our customers in At the end of the product lifecycle, we help advance, ensuring effective connectivity with customers to maximise the value of their Computacenter has always invested in, and their infrastructure and deploying customers redundant IT assets.
We free up customer worked in partnership with, our key technology own user interfaces.
This is key to making sure resources by collecting assets, securely vendors to deliver value to our Enterprise that the solution we provide integrates into our eradicating data, testing and assessing customers.
Alongside our strong partnership customers IT systems.
Within our Logistics equipment for resale and, when necessary, approach, we can also act as an independent Centres, we replicate our customers network recycling with zero waste to landfill.
and trusted advisor to our customers in and server infrastructure, which we can then strategic technology sourcing decisions, deliver pre-built.
In addition, the Logistics 12 I S T I C S T N E M E G A N A M P A M D A O R C O N F I G U R A T I O N & S T A G I N N O G I T C E L E S T C U D O R P W A R E H O U S I N G S E C I V R E S Y R O S I V D A STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 VENDOR PARTNER SOLUTIONS Within excess of 3,500 technical accreditations and 1,000 partner sales accreditations our expertise in our partners solutions is unrivalled.
Important trends are driving demand Vendor partner facts and figures for products We are the preferred route to market for We are the largest DellEMC partner in EMEA The pace of innovation continues to increase, technology partners to Enterprise customers.
and one of only eight Titanium Black partners driving customer demand for our key worldwide.
We are the largest Lenovo partner in propositions, Digital Me, Digital Power and With a product revenue of over 2.6 billion EMEA and the largest Cisco partner in Germany.
This in turn is leading to significant 2 19.4 per cent year-on-year constant currency customer investment in both hardware and growth we are the largest Solutions Provider software.
As part of our Digital Me for in EMEA.
Workplace transformation, our customers are already starting to invest in migrating to With over 3,500 technical accreditations and Windows 10, which we expect to require new over 1,000 sales accreditation we are uniquely devices for more than 30 per cent of users.
positioned as an independent technology Customers face time pressure to complete integrator.
their upgrades, with support for Windows 7 scheduled to end in January 2020.
The ongoing transition to mobile technologies is also Top 10 vendor partners by sales creating demand for devices and apps.
As part of the transformation, customers will continue to invest in their core infrastructure through management of hybrid IT and transformed, secure networks, enabling the shift to digital.
All of this complexity drives the need to seamlessly integrate hardware and software solutions across the infrastructure stack.
Selected 2017 vendor partner awards An important channel for our vendor partners Our ecosystem of vendor partners is pivotal to Cisco DellEMC the value engagement with which we drive our Wordwide Enterprise Partner of the Year Enterprise Partner of the Year UK Supply Chain business.
We provide the partners EMEA Enterprise Partner of the Year Storage Partner of the Year UK with one of their most important routes to Partner of the Year fide market.
Our customer intimacy, alongside Public Sector Partner of the Year fide NetApp the depth and breadth of our engagement, Security Partner of the Year UK EMEA Partnership Award represents an ideal platform for partners to EMEA FlexPod Partner of the Year have access to customers, ensuring they Hewlett Packard Enterprise understand the value we deliver.
EMEA Synergy Partner of Choice Lenovo Partner of the Year FR 2 in 1 Award fide This mutually beneficial approach is reflected Hybrid Partner of the Year fide in the 3,500 technical and 1,000 sales Intelligent Edge Partner of the Year UK accreditations which we hold.
Our partner status is generally the highest available, indicating the level of influence we have to Partner Advisory Boards support and enable their technology.
We are a valuable member of many Global Partner Advisory Boards giving us the ability to influence partners at the highest levels.
Some of the Partner Advisory Boards we attend include: Cisco Global Partner Operations Advisory DellEMC Titanium Black Global Forum Board and Executive Exchange DellEMC EMEA Partner Advisory Board HP Enterprise Global Partner Advisory Board VMware Worldwide Partner Advisory Board Lenovo EMEA Channel Executive Forum Splunk EMEA Partner Advisory Board HP Inc Global Partner Advisory Board Check Point EMEA Partner Advisory Forum Related material: How it all fits together page 17 13
