Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Governance 73 Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial Having due regard to these matters and after making appropriate statements for Just Group plc Just, registered in England & Wales enquiries, the Directors confirm that they consider it appropriate to No: 8568957, for the year ended 31 December 2017. prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.
Overview Viability statement The Annual Report contains forward-looking statements.
These The Directors also confirm that they have a reasonable expectation forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future statements.
that the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities, as Rather they are based on current views and assumptions and involve they fall due, over the next five years.
The Directors have carried out known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including cause actual results to differ from any future results or developments those that would threaten its business model, future performance, expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements.
Each solvency or liquidity, and make this assessment with reference to the forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of that risk appetite of the Board and the processes and controls in place to particular statement.
mitigate the principal risks and uncertainties as detailed in the Strategic Report.
The Directors Report of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 is set out on pages 73 to 76 inclusive.
Additional information The Group undertakes stress and scenario testing to consider the which is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report, Groups capacity to respond to a series of relevant financial, including information required in accordance with the Companies Act insurance, changes to financial regulations, or operational shocks 2006 and the Listing Rule 9.8.
4R of the UK Financial Conduct should future circumstances or events differ from current Authoritys Listing Rules, can be located as follows: assumptions.
The review also considers mitigating actions available to the Group should an extreme stress scenario occur.
Disclosure Location Description of the Groups business Throughout the Strategic Report The Directors note that the Group is subject to the Prudential model and information relating to pages 1 to 36 Regulatory Regime for Insurance Groups which monitors the Groups the performance of the Groups compliance with Solvency Capital Requirements.
While the Directors business during the financial year, have no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over a the position of the Group at the longer period, given the inherent uncertainty which increases as end of the year, and likely future longer time frames are considered, the Directors consider five years developments to be an appropriate time frame upon which they can report with a reasonable degree of confidence.
A five year time frame has been Employee involvement Our colleagues page 13 selected for this statement, although the Group, as with any Financial risk management Note 34 to the financial insurance group, has policyholder liabilities in excess of five years and objectives and policies including statements pages 119 to 123 therefore performs its modelling and stress and scenario testing on hedging policy and use of financial timeframes extending to the expected settlement of these liabilities, instruments with results reported in the Groups ORSA.
Details of long-term incentive Note 11 to the financial Results and dividend schemes statements pages 101 to 104 The financial statements set out the results of the Group for the year Directors Responsibility Page 77 ended 31 December 2017 and are shown on page 85.
Statement The first interim dividend for the year of 1.17 pence per ordinary share Both the Directors Report and the Strategic Report have been drawn was paid on 24 November 2017 to shareholders on the register at the up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable close of business on 3 November 2017 2016: first and second interim English company law.
The liabilities of the Directors in connection dividends of 1.1 pence per share.
with those reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 2.55 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend, The Company does not have any overseas branches within the makes a total dividend for the period of 3.72 pence 2016: 3.5 pence meaning of the Companies Act 2006. per ordinary share.
Subject to approval by shareholders of the recommended final dividend, the dividend award to shareholders for Going concern and viability statement 2017 will total 34.8m.
If approved, the Company will pay the final The Directors are required to assess the prospect of the Group as a dividend on 25 May 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close going concern over the next 12 months, and also its longer-term of business on 4 May 2018. viability in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
Directors The current Directors of the Company, including their biographical Going concern details, are set out on pages 38 to 41.
Each served throughout the Under the annotated version of the UK Corporate Governance Code, year ended 31 December 2017. the Directors are required to state whether in their assessment the business is a going concern.
In considering this requirement, the Directors have taken into account the following: The Group plan, which was approved by the Board in the first quarter of 2018, and in particular the forecast regulatory solvency position calculated on a Solvency II basis.
The findings of the August 2017 Group Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA, and in particular sensitivity to the most significant risks faced by the Group as referred to on pages 19 to 23 of this report.
The projected liquidity position of the Group as at 31 December 2017, current financing arrangements and contingent liabilities.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 74 Directors Report continued Directors on the Board during the year and up to the date of this The Companys Articles specify that, subject to the authorisation of report are as follows: an appropriate resolution passed at a General Meeting of the Company, Directors can allot relevant securities under Section 551 of Chris Gibson-Smith, Chairman the Companies Act up to the aggregate nominal amount specified by Tom Cross Brown, Deputy Chairman the relevant resolution.
In addition, the Articles state that the Rodney Cook, Group Chief Executive Officer Directors can seek the authority of shareholders at a General Meeting David Richardson, Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer and to allot equity securities for cash, without first being required to offer Managing Director, UK Corporate Business such shares to existing ordinary shareholders in proportion to their Simon Thomas, Group Chief Financial Officer existing holdings under Section 561 of the Companies Act, in Paul Bishop, Non-Executive Director connection with a rights issue and in other circumstances up to the Peter Catterall, Non-Executive Director resigned 17 May 2017 aggregate nominal amount specified by the relevant resolution.
Ian Cormack, Non-Executive Director Michael Deakin, Non-Executive Director At the Annual General Meeting held on 18 May 2017, the Directors James Fraser, Non-Executive Director resigned 17 May 2017 were i authorised to allot ordinary shares in the Company up to a Steve Melcher, Non-Executive Director maximum aggregate nominal amount of 62,194,736 and ii Keith Nicholson, Senior Independent Director empowered to allot equity securities for cash on a non pre-emptive Clare Spottiswoode, Non-Executive Director basis up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,664,605 and further granted an additional power to disapply pre-emption rights In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company representing a further 5% only to be used in specified circumstances, is continuing to follow the recommendation that all Directors seek and iii authorised to make market purchases of up to an aggregate their election or re-election, as relevant, at the 2018 AGM.
The of 93,292,104 ordinary shares, representing approximately 10% of the shareholders may by special resolution, remove any Director before Companys issued ordinary share capital as of 9 March 2017.
No the expiration of that Directors period of office.
shares were purchased by the Company during the year.
The Directors propose to renew these authorities at the 2018 Annual General Copies of Executive Directors service contracts and the NonMeeting for a further year.
In the year ahead, other than in respect of Executive Directors letters of appointment are available to the Just Groups ability to satisfy rights granted to employees under shareholders for inspection at the Companys registered office and at its various share-based incentive arrangements, the Directors have the AGM.
Details of the Directors remuneration and service contracts no present intention of issuing any share capital of Just Group plc.
and their interests in the shares of the Company are included in the Directors Remuneration Report which is set out on pages 55 to 72.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements.
Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at Company general meetings including the AGM, to appoint proxies and to Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code exercise voting rights.
The statements describing how the Company has applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code are set The share price on 31 December 2017 was 1.704. out in the Companys Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 47, and together with the information on share rights set out in note 11 Further information relating to the Companys issued share capital on pages 101 to 104 forms part of this Directors Report and is can be found in note 21 on page 112. incorporated by reference.
Securities carrying special rights The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions of the No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights Code during the year and up to the date of the Directors Report.
with regard to control of the Company.
The Code recommends that at least half the Board, excluding the Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Voting Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by The Companys Articles of Association Articles do not contain any the Board to be independent in character and judgement and free specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the transfer of from relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could shares, except that certain restrictions may from time to time be appear to affect, their judgement.
More than half of its members imposed by laws and regulations for example by the Market Abuse including the Chairman comprised of Non-Executive Directors, are Regulations MAR and insider trading law or pursuant to the independent in the manner required by the Code and the Board feels Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority whereby certain that there is a right balance of skills and experience to support the employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to Groups challenges ahead.
deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may Directors insurance and indemnities result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The Directors and Officers of the Company benefit from an indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of Association against any liability No person has any special rights with regard to the control of the they may incur in relation to the Companys affairs, subject to the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
This is a provisions of the Companies Act 2006 as amended.
Each Director of summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles should be the Company benefits from a deed of indemnity in respect of the consulted if further information is required.
costs of defending claims against him or her and third party liabilities the terms of which are in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Share Plans as amended.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains The Group operates a number of share-based incentive plans.
For in force at the date of this report.
Directors and Officers liability these plans the Group can satisfy entitlements by the acquisition of insurance cover was maintained throughout the year at the existing shares or by the issue of new shares.
Existing shares are held Companys expense and remains in force at the date of this report.
in an employee benefit trust EBT.
The trustee of the EBT purchases shares in the open market as required to enable the Group to meet Share capital liabilities for the issue of shares to satisfy awards that vest.
The As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued share capital trustee does not register votes in respect of these shares and has of 938,308,340 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
No shares are held in waived the right to receive any dividends.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Governance 75 During the 12 months to 31 December 2017, 5,424,307 ordinary Employee communication shares of 10 pence each were issued in satisfaction of the exercise of We want to ensure that Just is a great place to work and employee share options under the terms of the Just Retirement Share communicating and engaging with our employees is critical to our Plan 2013. success.
We have a well-defined communication and engagement programme in place so that all employees understand our Details of the Groups employee share plans are set out on pages 101 organisations goals and how we need to work together to achieve to 104. them.
This includes regular emails to all employees, news items on our intranet, videos, face to face briefing sessions, breakfast Substantial Shareholdings Interests in the Companys shares gatherings, events and lunch and learns.
We also encourage The Company had been notified in accordance with DTR 5 of the employees to communicate directly with each other through our Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests of 3% or collaboration tool, Yammer.
more, of its issued ordinary shares.
The information below was correct at the date of notification.
We consistently monitor the engagement of our employees and their views on things that are important to them, including their wellbeing, Ordinary Ordinary opportunities for personal growth and if they feel recognised for the shareholdings shareholdings good work that they do.
This is achieved through formal methods, at 31 December at 14 March 1 Shareholder 2017 % of capital 2018 % of capital such as surveying, as well as informal approaches which include gathering feedback via word of mouth.
All of these insights allow us Avallux S.. r. l. 216,057,001 23.03 166,057,001 17.70 to put in place specific and tangible actions to ensure that our Standard Life employees find Just a fulfilling place to work and are proud to be part Aberdeen plc 73,710,039 7.86 77,961,248 8.31 of our organisation.
Baillie Gifford & Co 58,079,222 6.19 58,515,211 6.24 Further information on employee communications, development and Schroder diversity is given on page 13.
Investment Management 62,872,803 6.70 47,477,165 5.06 Change of Control Provisions Kames Capital 29,524,556 3.15 46,608,826 4.97 There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such as commercial Cinven Limited contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and Cinven Funds 51,479,320 5.49 N A 0 employee share plans.
In the context of the Group as a whole, none of 1 Being the last practical date prior to publication of the Annual Report these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact except for the following: Directors interests The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary The Relationship Agreement with Avallux S.. r. l. dated 12 November shares of the Company as disclosed in accordance with the Listing 2013 the Companys principal shareholder holding 17.70% of Rules of the UK Listing Authority are as set out on pages 66 and 69 of the issued ordinary share capital will continue for so long as the the Directors Remuneration Report and details of the Directors Company is premium-listed on the London Stock Exchanges main long-term incentive awards are set out on pages 67 and 68. market and is entitled to control the exercise of 15% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general There are no potential conflicts of interest between any duties owed by meetings of the Company.
Under the Relationship Agreement, the Directors to the Company and their private interests or other duties.
Avallux S.. r. l. is entitled to appoint one Non-Executive Director to No other Director had any material interest in any significant contract the Board of the Company, but has chosen to waive its right to do so.
with the Company or with any Group undertaking during the year.
Employees Equal opportunities employment Just Group plc is an equal opportunities employer and decisions on recruitment, development, training and promotion and other employment related issues are made solely on the grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
These principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis, without regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, belief, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason not related to job performance or prohibited by applicable law.
If there were to be an instance of an employee becoming disabled during their employment with the Group, support for continued employment would be provided and workplace adjustments made as appropriate in respect of their duties and working environment.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 76 Directors Report continued The following reinsurance treaties may be terminated by the reinsurer Financial instruments on a change of control as set out below: Derivatives are used to manage the Groups capital position which the Hannover Re treaty between Just Retirement Limited and entails a surplus of long dated fixed interest assets when liabilities are Hannover Rueck SE, Hannover dated 20 September 2012 and as measured on a realistic basis.
Details of these derivatives are amended on 16 October 2013, 22 December 2014 and contained in note 16 to the financial statements.
Disclosure with 17 December 2015 in relation to Just Retirement Limiteds GIfL respect to financial risk is included on pages 20 to 23 of the Strategic non-profit pension annuities policies written from 1 July 2004 to Report and in note 34 to the financial statements.
31 December 2015 and underwritten using the Merica underwriting system: Political contributions the Hannover Re treaty between Just Retirement Limited and No political contributions were made, or political expenditure Hannover Life Reassurance Bermuda Ltd dated 17 December incurred, by the Company and its subsidiaries during the year 2017: 2015 in relation to Just Retirement Limiteds GIfL non-profit nil.
pension annuities policies written for the underwriting years 2004 05, 2005 06 and 2006 07, and underwritten using the Modern Slavery Merica underwriting system: In compliance with section S4 1 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, the the RGA lead treaty between Just Retirement Limited and RGA Group published its slavery and human trafficking statement online.
International Reinsurance Company Limited acting as lead reinsurer and the treaty between Just Retirement Limited and Greenhouse gas emissions RGA Americas Reinsurance Company Ltd acting as following Information on our reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and the reinsurer both treaties dated 19 June 2013 and as amended on methodology used to record these is given on page 36.
26 September 2013, 1 January 2014, 23 July 2014 and 1 June 2015 in relation to Just Retirement Limiteds GIfL non-profit pension Amendment of Articles of Association annuities policies written from 1 July 2012 to 31 December 2014 The Company may make amendments to the Articles by way of and underwritten using the Merica underwriting system: special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act.
the Achmea Re treaty between Just Retirement Limited and Interpolis Reinsurance Services Limited as novated to Achmea Disclosure of information to the auditor Reinsurance Company NV dated 1 December 2005 and as Each of the persons who is a Director of the Company at the date of subsequently amended, most recently on 1 January 2013 in approval of this Directors Report has confirmed that, so far as the relation to Just Retirement Limiteds GIfL non-profit pension Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the annuities policies written from 1 July 2004 to 30 June 2012 and Companys auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps underwritten using the Merica underwriting system: and that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make the Nomura treaty between Just Retirement Limited and Nomura himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to Reinsurance 51C Limited dated 30 September 2015 in relation to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Just Retirement Limiteds GIfL individual underwritten annuities This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance policies written from 1 July 2009 to 1 July 2013 and underwritten with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. using the Merica underwriting system.
Auditor In the case of the RGA reinsurance treaties, the reinsurer can The Companys auditor has indicated its willingness to continue in immediately terminate if there is any material change in the office.
The Board has agreed, based on the recommendation of the ownership, management or control of Just Retirement Limited, its Audit Committee, that a resolution will be put to shareholders at the parent or ultimate parent.
In the case of the Achmea Re treaty, the forthcoming AGM for the appointment of KPMG LLP as Auditor of the reinsurer can immediately terminate if there is any material change Company for the period ending 31 December 2018 and to authorise in the ownership, management or control of Just Retirement Limited.
the Boards Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the In the case of the Hannover Rueck SE and Hannover Life Reassurance auditor.
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the auditor Bermuda Ltd treaties Hannover, and in the case of the Nomura and the auditors effectiveness and relationship with the Group, treaty, the reinsurer may terminate upon three months prior written including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid.
Further details on notice, if i the new controller has a long-term credit rating below the work of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 50 to 52 in the BBB as rated by Standard and Poors or if Standard and Poors does Corporate Governance Report.
not provide a credit rating, an equivalent rating of Moodys or Fitch: or ii if the new controller does not have a long-term credit rating and Annual General Meeting such change of control has or is likely to have a material adverse The Companys 2018 AGM will be held at 8 Fenchurch Place, effect on the creditworthiness of Just Retirement Limited: or in the Fenchurch Street, London EC3M 4PB at 10:00am on 17 May 2018.
The case of Hannover only the new controller of Just Retirement Limited Notice is being sent separately to shareholders with this Report.
If such termination occurs, the treaty is terminated in respect of new business and the reinsurer may exercise The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and is signed an option either to continue the treaty in respect of business already on its behalf by: written or to require recapture of that business, which has the effect of withdrawing the reinsurance in respect of past business subject to any repayment by Just Retirement Limited not causing it to breach its PRA minimum capital requirements.
Simon OHara The Company does not have any agreements with any Non-Executive Group Company Secretary Director, Executive Director or employee that would provide 14 March 2018 compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of control.
