Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 38 Board of Directors Chris Gibson-Smith, Tom Cross Brown, Rodney Cook, Chairman Deputy Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Appointed: 04 April 2016 Appointed: 25 October 2006 Appointed: 05 July 2010 Chris Gibson-Smith was appointed Tom Cross Brown was appointed Rodney Cook was appointed as Deputy Chairman of Just Group plc Group Chief Executive Officer of Chairman of Just Group plc in April 2016.
He previously served as in April 2016.
He was Chairman Just Group plc in April 2016.
He of Just Retirement Group plc from was Chief Executive Officer of Chairman of Partnership Assurance Group plc from April 2013 until August 2013 until April 2016.
Just Retirement Group plc from Tom became Chairman of Just August 2013 until April 2016, April 2016.
Retirement Holdings Limited from and was appointed as Chief 2006 to 2014, on its admission to Executive Officer of Just Retirement Chris brings over 46 years business experience across a wide range AIM.
Holdings Limited in July 2010. of industries.
This includes over 40 years of cumulative FTSE main Until 2003, Tom was Chief Executive Previously, Rodney was Managing Officer of ABN AMRO Asset Director, Life and Pensions of board experience, 26 of which as Chairman.
Prior to joining ABN Liverpool Victoria.
Rodney, a AMRO Asset Management in 1997, qualified actuary, has 40 years the role of Vice Chairman of UBS Investment Bank as of July 2016, he spent 21 years at Lazard Brothers experience in financial services, & Co. latterly as Chief Executive having led businesses in both the and was previously Chairman of the London Stock Exchange Officer of Lazard Brothers Asset United Kingdom and Australasia.
He commenced his career with Group plc from 2003 to 2015.
He was Chairman of the British Land He is currently Chairman of Xafinity AMP, which culminated in his plc, Artemis Alpha Trust plc, and appointment as Managing Director Company plc from 2007 until 2012, and was a Director of the a Non-Executive member of the of Pearl in 1999.
This was followed Management Committee of Artemis by time at Zurich Financial Services Qatar Financial Centre Regulatory Authority from 2006 to 2012.
as Managing Director of Sterling Assurance, Eagle Star Life and as Chris was Chairman of NATS from 2001 to 2005, Group Managing Tom is Chair of the Market Zurich Financial Services Customer Disclosure Committee, a member Solutions Director, before joining Director of BP from 1997 to 2001, a Director of Lloyds TSB from 1999 of the Group Risk and Compliance Prudential as PruLab Director.
Committee and Nomination to 2005 and a Director of Powergen from 2001 to 2002.
He has also Committee, the Just Retirement Rodney is a member of the Market Limited Partnership Life Assurance Disclosure Committee, and is also a served on UK Government advisory committees on aviation and oil Company Limited Investment Director of Just Retirement Limited Committee, and a Director of and Partnership Life Assurance and gas and was awarded the CBE for his services to the Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited.
Company Limited and Just financial industry.
Chris is Chair of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Market Disclosure Committee, Group Risk and Compliance Committee and Remuneration Committee, and Director of Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited and Just Retirement Limited.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Governance 39 Senior Independent Director David Richardson, Simon Thomas, Keith Nicholson, Group Deputy Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Officer and Managing Director UK Corporate Business Appointed: 04 April 2016 Appointed: 24 July 2006 Appointed: 09 October 2013 David Richardson was appointed Simon Thomas was appointed as Keith Nicholson was appointed as as Group Deputy Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer of Senior Independent Director of Just Officer and Managing Director of Just Group plc in April 2016.
He was the UK Corporate Business of Just was Group Finance Director of Senior Independent Director of Just Group plc in April 2016.
He was Just Retirement Group plc from Retirement Group plc from October Chief Finance Officer of Partnership August 2013 until April 2016, 2013 until April 2016.
Assurance Group plc from February having been appointed as Group 2013 until April 2016.
Finance Director of Just Retirement Keith is Chairman of Liberty Holdings Limited in July 2006.
Speciality Services Limited Previously, David was Group Chief including the businesses of Liberty Actuary of the UKs largest closed Previously, Simon was Finance Managing Agency Limited and life assurance fund consolidator, and Customer Services Director Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe Phoenix Group, where he was at Canada Life Limited, the UK Limited and Deputy Chairman responsible for restructuring the subsidiary of Great West Life.
of The Equitable Life Assurance groups balance sheet and overall Prior to this, Simon was Head of Society.
He was Deputy Chairman capital management.
Prior to Finance at HECM Limited formerly of Wesleyan Assurance Society this, David worked in a number Equitable Life and spent ten until he resigned from its board in of senior roles at Swiss Re, across years at Nationwide Building September 2014.
He was a partner both its Admin Re and traditional Society, latterly as Group Financial at KPMG where he led their UK reinsurance businesses.
Simon has over 16 years insurance practice until he retired roles included Chief Actuary of its experience in the UK life assurance from the firm in March 2009.
Life and Health business, Head of industry, and is a Chartered Products for UK and South Africa Accountant ACA.
Keith is Chairman of the Group Risk and Global Head of its Longevity and Compliance Committee and a Pricing teams.
David commenced Simon is a member of the Market member of the Audit, Nomination his career at the actuarial Disclosure Committee and a and Market Disclosure Committees.
David is a Director of Just Retirement Limited He is also a Director of Just Fellow of the Institute and Faculty and Partnership Life Assurance Retirement Limited and Partnership of Actuaries and a CFA charter Company Limited.
Life Assurance Company Limited, holder.
and Director of HUB Financial Solutions Limited.
David is a member of the Market Disclosure Committee and a Director of Just Retirement Limited, Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited, Just Retirement Money Limited, and Partnership Home Loans Limited.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 40 Board of Directors continued Non-Executive Directors Paul Bishop, Ian Cormack, Michael Deakin, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: 04 April 2016 Appointed: 04 April 2016 Appointed: 30 April 2014 Paul Bishop was appointed as Ian Cormack was appointed Michael Deakin was appointed a Non-Executive Director of as a Non-Executive Director of as a Non-Executive Director of Just Group plc in April 2016.
He Hepreviously served as a NonHe previously served as Senior previously served as a NonExecutive Director for Partnership Independent Director for Executive Director for Just Assurance Group plc from May Partnership Assurance Group plc Retirement Group plc from April 2014 until April 2016. from May 2013 to April 2016.
Paul has spent the majority of his Prior to his appointment, Ian Michael is a qualified actuary and career at KPMG, and from 1993 spent over 30 years at Citibank up has over 26 years investment to the end of January 2014 was a until 2000, latterly as UK Country management experience.
He Partner apart from a brief period Head and Co-Head of the Global joined Clerical Medical in 1974 when he was employed at Atos Financial Institutions Group.
where he was appointed Director KPMG Consulting as a Managing From 2000 to 2002, he was Chief of Investments in 1995 and in Director.
Paul has specialised in the Executive Officer of AIG Europe.
2001 Chief Investment Officer of insurance sector for over 30 years, He was previously a Non-Executive Clerical Medical Investments, later particularly life insurance, and Director of Pearl Group from 2005- named Insight Investments.
Since led KPMGs insurance consulting 2009, Aspen Insurance Holdings retiring from Insight in November practice for much of his time as a from 20022012, Qatar Financial 2003, he has served as a NonPartner.
Paul also spent 18 months Centre Authority from 2006 2012, Executive member of the board of on secondment at Standard Life Bloomsbury Publishing from 2011- the Pension Protection Fund and as Head of Financial Change 2015, Xchanging from 2012 2016, was Chairman of its Investment in the period leading up to its and previously Chairman of the Committee from 2004 to 2010, and demutualisation and IPO.
Paul is a CHAPS hi-value payment system.
a board member of the London Chartered Accountant ACA.
Paul is Ian is a former Chairman of the Pension Fund Authority from 2006 currently a Non-Executive Director LSE Taurus Review Committee, and to 2012 Deputy Chairman from of NHBC, and was appointed as a former member of the board of 2009.
Non-Executive Director of the Cedel, the Executive Committee of Police Mutual Assurance Society the European Securities Committee, Michael is Chair of the Just in April 2017. the settlement board of the London Retirement Limited Partnership Stock Exchange, the Council of Life Assurance Company Limited Paul is Chair of the Audit the British Bankers Association Investment Committee, and Committee, and a member of and a former member of APACS.
a member of the Nomination the Nomination Committee and In addition to the Just Group, Ian Committee and Remuneration the Just Retirement Limited is Chairman of Maven Income Committee.
He is also Chair of Just Partnership Life Assurance & Growth VCT 4, Non-Executive Retirement Money Limited and Company Limited Investment Director of Hastings Group Holdings Partnership Home Loans Limited, Committee.
He is also a Director plc, and Senior Independent and Director of HUB Financial of Just Retirement Money Limited, Director of Phoenix Group.
Solutions Limited, Just Retirement Partnership Home Loans Limited, Limited and Partnership Life Partnership Life Assurance Ian is Chair of the Remuneration Assurance Company Limited.
Company Limited and Just Committee, and a member of the Retirement Limited.
Nomination and Group Risk and Compliance Committee.
Ian is also a Director of HUB Financial Solutions Limited, Just Retirement Money Limited, Partnership Home Loans Limited, Just Retirement Limited, and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Governance 41 Steve Melcher, Clare Spottiswoode, Past Directors Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Peter Catterall and James Fraser resigned from the Just Group plc Board immediately before the May 2017 AGM Appointed: 15 May 2015 Appointed: 04 April 2016 Steve Melcher was appointed as Clare Spottiswoode was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Just as a Non-Executive Director of Group plc in April 2016.
He was Just Group plc in April 2016.
She Non-Executive Director of Just was Non-Executive Director of Retirement Group plc from May Partnership Assurance Group plc 2015 until April 2016. from October 2014 to April 2016.
Steve has worked in financial Clare is a mathematician and services for over 40 years during economist by training: in June which time he has held posts at 2010, she was appointed by HM JP Morgan, Marsh & McLennan Treasury to the Independent and as Chief Executive Officer of Commission on Banking The Eagle Star, Allied Dunbar and Sun Vickers Commission.
Clares career Life of Canada UK.
He now has a has involved acting as Policyholder portfolio of roles, including as a Advocate for Norwich Unions Non-Executive Director of Allianz Re with-profits policyholders at in Dublin and as Chairman of Euler Aviva, in which role she acted on Hermes Pension Fund.
He is also an behalf of one million policyholders executive mentor which takes him tasked with reattributing Avivas inside many different industries.
inherited estate, and included time as Director General of Ofgas, the Steve is Chair of HUB Financial UK gas regulator.
Clare previously Solutions Limited, and a member served as Chairman of FlowGroup of the Audit Committee, Group Risk plc from 2011 to June 2017. and Compliance Committee, and the Remuneration Committee.
He In addition to the Just Group, is also a Director of Just Retirement Clare is a Non-Executive Director Limited, Partnership Life Assurance of BW Offshore Limited, Ilika plc, Company Limited, Just Retirement G4S plc, Payments UK and British Money Limited and Partnership Management Data Foundation, Home Loans Limited.
and Chairman of Gas Strategies Group, and Gas Strategies Holdings Limited.
Clare is a member of the Audit Committee, Group Risk and Compliance Committee, and a Director of HUB Financial Solutions Limited, Just Retirement Limited, and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited.
