Directors Report Computacenter plc is incorporated as a public The Directors recommend a final dividend of Subject to applicable law and the Companys limited company and is registered in England 18.7 pence per share 2016: 15 pence per share Articles of Association, the Directors may and Wales with the registered number 3110569. totalling 21.3 million 2016: 18.2 million.
The exercise all of the powers of the Company.
The Computacenter plcs registered office address dividend record date is set on Friday 1 June Companys Articles of Association provide for a is Hatfield Avenue, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, 2018, and the shares will be marked exBoard of Directors consisting of not fewer than AL10 9TW.
The Companys registrar is Equiniti dividend on Thursday 31 May 2018.
This is in line three, but not more than 20 Directors, who Limited, which is situated at Aspect House, with the normal dividend procedure timetable manage the business and affairs of the Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
as set by the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors may appoint additional or replacement Directors, who shall serve until The Directors present the Directors Report, Following the payment of a first interim the following AGM of the Company, at which together with the audited accounts of dividend for 2017 of 7.4 pence per share on point they will be required to stand for election Computacenter plc and its subsidiary 13 October 2017, the total dividend per share by the members.
A Director may be removed companies the Group for the year ended for 2017 will be 26.1 pence per share.
The from office by the Company as provided for by 31 December 2017.
Board has consistently applied the Companys applicable law, in certain circumstances set Dividend Policy, which states that the total out in the Companys Articles of Association, The pages from the inside front cover to 97 dividend paid will result in a dividend cover of and at a general meeting of the Company, by of this Annual Report and Accounts are 2 to 2.5 times.
Further detail on the Companys the passing of an Ordinary Resolution provided incorporated by reference into the Directors Dividend Policy can be found within the Group special notice has been given in accordance Report, which has been drawn up and presented Finance Directors review on page 48. with the Companies Act 2006. in accordance with English company law, and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with Dividends are recognised in the accounts in Members have previously approved a resolution that report shall be subject to the limitations the year in which they are paid, or in the case to give the Directors authority to allot shares, and restrictions provided by such law.
of a final dividend, when approved by the and a renewal of this authority is proposed at shareholders.
As such, the amount recognised the 2018 AGM.
This authority allows the Strategic Report in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, as Directors to allot shares up to the maximum The Companies Act 2006 requires the Group to described in note 12, is made up of the 2016 amount stated in the Notice of AGM prepare a Strategic Report, which commences final dividend 15.0 pence per share and the approximately one-third of the issued share at the start of this Annual Report and Accounts 2017 interim dividend 7.4 pence per share.
In addition, the Company may not allot up to page 55.
The Strategic Report includes shares for cash unless pursuant to an information about the Groups operations and Articles of Association employee share scheme without first making business model, particulars of all important The Companys Articles of Association set out an offer to existing shareholders in proportion events affecting the Company or its the procedures for governing the Company.
This is known as subsidiaries, the Groups financial performance A copy of the Articles of Association, which were rights of pre-emption.
Two resolutions allowing in the year and likely future developments, key not amended during the reporting period, is a limited waiver of these rights were passed by performance indicators, principal risks and available on the Companys website investors.
the members at last years AGM.
At the information regarding the Groups sustainable computacenter.
The Companys Articles of Companys 2017 AGM, members also approved a development plan.
Association may only be amended by a special resolution giving delegated authority allowing resolution at a general meeting of the the Company to make market purchases of its Corporate governance shareholders.
own shares, up to a maximum of 10 per cent of Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, the the Companys issued share capital, subject to Company is required to include a Corporate Directors and Directors authority certain conditions including price of purchase, Governance Report within the Directors Report.
The Directors who served during the year amongst others.
Each of these standard ended 31 December 2017 were Tony Conophy, authorities will expire on 30 June 2018, or at Information on our corporate governance Philip Hulme, Greg Lock, Mike Norris, Peter the conclusion of the Companys 2018 AGM, practices can be found in the Corporate Ogden, Minnow Powell, Ros Rivaz, Regine whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will seek Governance Report on pages 58 to 90, and the Stachelhaus and Philip Yea.
to renew each of the authorities at the 2018 reports of the Audit, Remuneration and AGM, and full details are provided in the Notice Nomination Committees on pages 64, 68 and 74 Biographical details of each Director, as at of AGM.
As at 28 February 2018, none of these respectively, all of which are incorporated into 31 December 2017, are given on pages 60 and authorities approved by shareholders at the the Directors Report by reference.
The Companys Articles of Association 2017 AGM had been exercised.
require that at each AGM, those Directors who Management Report were appointed since the last AGM retire, as well Directors indemnities This Directors Report, together with the other as one-third of the Directors who have been the The Company has executed deeds of indemnity reports, forms the Management Report for longest serving.
The Board has decided, in with each of the Directors.
These deeds contain the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency accordance with the Code, that all Directors qualifying third-party indemnity provisions, Rule 4.1.
8. will retire at each forthcoming AGM and offer indemnifying the Directors to the extent themselves for re-election.
The Nomination permitted by law, and remain in force at the Results and dividends Committee has considered the re-election of date of this report.
The indemnities are The Groups activities resulted in a profit before each Director and recommends their uncapped and cover all costs, charges, losses tax of 111.7 million 2016: 87.1 million.
Further details on the Committees and liabilities the Directors may incur to third Group profit for the year, attributable to recommendations for the re-election of the parties, in the course of acting as Directors of shareholders, amounted to 81.3 million 2016: Directors are set out in the Notice of AGM, which the Company or its subsidiaries.
summarises the skills and experience that the Directors bring to the Board.
92 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Directors conflicts of interest The Board has put in place a process whereby the Directors are required to notify the Company Secretary of any situations appointments, holdings or otherwise, or any changes to such, which may give rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest with the Company.
These notifications are then reviewed by the Board and recorded in a register maintained by the Company Secretary and, if appropriate, are considered further by the Directors who are not conflicted in the matter, to if deemed appropriate authorise the situation.
The register of notifications and authorisations is reviewed by the Board twice a year.
Where the Board has approved an actual or potential conflict, it has imposed the condition that the conflicted Director abstains from participating in any discussion or decision affected by the conflicted matter.
Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company, at the start and end of the reporting period, were as follows: As at 31 December 2017 As at 1 January 2017 Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial Executive Directors Mike Norris 1,208,088 1,142,157 Tony Conophy 1,871,668 1,786,915 Non-Executive Directors Greg Lock 600,000 120,000 600,000 70,000 Philip Hulme 10,567,582 10,377,815 10,867,582 10,077,815 Peter Ogden 20,119,473 8,718,748 20,119,473 8,718,748 Minnow Powell 1,340 1,340 Ros Rivaz 1,382 1,382 Regine Stachelhaus Philip Yea 8,000 8,000 Note: Apart from participation in the Tender Offer during February 2018, there has been no grant of, or trading in, shares of the Company between 1 January 2018 and 13 March 2018.
For further information on the Tender Offer, and for details on the Directors participation, refer to the Companys shareholder circular dated 23 January 2018 and to page 53 of the Strategic Report.
Major interests in shares In accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, between 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2017 the Company was notified of the following updates to disclosable interests in its issued ordinary shares: Percentage of total Name of major shareholder voting rights held Investec Asset Management Ltd 4.73 An updated list of the Companys major shareholders is available at investors.
93 Directors Report continued Capital structure and rights attaching In the event that another entity or individual Employee share schemes to shares takes control of the Company, the employee The Company operates executive share option As at 28 February 2018, there were 122,687,970 share schemes operated by the Company have schemes and a performance-related option fully paid ordinary shares in issue of which the change of control provisions that would be scheme for the benefit of employees.
During Company held 8,546,861 ordinary shares in triggered.
Participants may, in certain the year, no options were granted under the treasury.
The total number of voting rights circumstances, be allowed to exchange their executive share option schemes.
in the Company which may be used by existing options for options of an equivalent shareholders as the denominator for the value over shares in the acquiring company.
At the year end, the options remaining calculations by which they can determine if Alternatively, the options may vest early, in outstanding under these schemes were in 5 they are required to notify their interest in, or which case, early vesting under the executive 9 respect of a total of nil ordinary shares of 7 a change to their interest in the Company, schemes will generally be on a timepence each 2016: nil shares.
During the year under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, apportioned basis and under the Sharesave options over 30,000 shares were exercised and is 114,141,109.
The percentage of voting rights scheme, employees will only be able to exercise no options over shares lapsed.
The Company attributable to those shares it holds in treasury their options to the extent that their also operates a Performance Share Plan PSP following the share buy-back completed in accumulated savings allow at that time.
During the year, 5 February 2018 is 6.97 per cent.
There are no the period no shares were purchased for 783,750 ordinary shares of 7 9 pence each specific restrictions on the transfer of securities cancellation.
Further detail on the results of the were conditionally awarded 2016: 609,748 in the Company, which is governed by its Articles Tender Offer completed in February 2018 can shares.
At the year end, awards over 1,993,785 of Association and prevailing legislation.
be found in the Group Finance Directors review shares remained outstanding under this on page 53. scheme 2016: 1,988,947 shares.
During the The holders of ordinary shares are entitled, year, awards over 542,692 shares were subject to applicable law and the Companys Significant agreements and relationships transferred to participants and awards over Articles of Association, to: Details regarding the status of the Groups 226,351 shares lapsed.
In addition, the have shareholder documents made various borrowing facilities are provided in the Company operates a Sharesave scheme for available to them, including notice of any Group Finance Directors review on pages 52 to the benefit of employees.
As at the year end, general meetings of the Company: and 53.
These agreements each include a change 4,307,465 options granted under the Sharesave to attend, speak and exercise voting rights of control provision, which may result in the scheme remained outstanding 2016: 4,099,366. at general meetings of the Company, either facility being withdrawn or amended upon a in person or by proxy.
change of control of the Company.
It is also not Corporate sustainable development and extraordinary within our business sector for political donations The Company is not aware of any arrangements our longer-term Services contracts to contain The Board recognises that acting in a socially between shareholders which may result in change of control clauses that allow a responsible way benefits the community, our restrictions on the transfer of securities or counterparty to terminate the relevant customers, shareholders, the environment and other voting rights.
contract in the event of a change of control employees alike.
Further information can be of the Company.
found in the report on pages 26 to 29 and Additionally, there were 292,944,196 deferred covers matters regarding health and safety, shares in issue which carry no voting rights.
The Company does not have any agreements equal opportunities, employee involvement and The rights attaching to each of the Companys with any Director or employee that would employee development.
During the year, the ordinary shares and deferred shares are set provide compensation for loss of office or Group did not make any political donations to out in its Articles of Association.
employment resulting from a change of control any political party or organisation and it did on takeover, except that provisions of the not incur any political expenditure within the Pursuant to the Companys share schemes, Companys share schemes and plans may meaning of Sections 362 to 379 of the there are two employee benefit trusts which, cause options and awards granted to Companies Act 2006. as at the year end, held a total of 1,777,816 employees under share schemes and plans to 5 ordinary shares of 7 9 pence each, vest on a takeover.
representing approximately 1.45 per cent of the issued share capital.
During the year, the Financial instruments trusts purchased a total of 959,551 shares The Groups financial risk management in order to ensure that the maturities occurring objectives and policies are discussed in the pursuant to these share option schemes could Group Finance Directors review on page 53. be satisfied.
In the event that shares are held by these trusts before being transferred to employee participants pursuant to the schemes then, in line with good practice, the Trustees do not exercise the voting rights attaching to such shares.
The Trustees also have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of each of the trusts.
During the 2017 financial year, no ordinary shares in the Company were issued for cash to satisfy the exercise of options exercised under the Companys outstanding option schemes.
94 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Equal opportunities Employee consultative forums exist in each Going concern The Group acknowledges the importance of Group country, to consult staff on major issues The Directors statement regarding adoption equality and diversity and is committed to affecting employment and matters of policy, of the going concern basis of accounting in equal opportunities throughout the workplace.
and to enable Management to seek the views preparation of the annual Consolidated The Groups policies for recruitment, training, and opinions of employees on a wide range of Financial Statements is set out within the career development and promotion of business matters.
Should there be crossStrategic Report on page 54. employees, are based purely on the suitability jurisdictional issues to discuss, a facility exists of the employee and give those who may be to engage a European forum made up of Long-term Viability Statement disabled equal treatment to their able bodied representatives from each country forum.
The Directors statement regarding the colleagues.
Where an employee becomes long-term viability of the Company is set out disabled subsequent to joining the Group, all The Group regularly reviews the performance within the Strategic Report on page 55. efforts are made to enable that employee to of its employees through a formal review continue in their current job.
However, if, due to process, to identify areas for development.
the specific circumstances, it is not possible Managers are responsible for setting and for an employee to continue in their current job, reviewing personal objectives, aligned to they will be given suitable training for alternative corporate and functional goals.
The Board employment within the Group or elsewhere.
closely oversees and monitors Management skills and the development of talent to meet The Group monitors and regularly reviews its the current and future needs of the Group.
The policies and practices to ensure that it meets Board directly monitors and closely reviews current legislative requirements, as well as its succession and plans for developing identified own internal standards.
The Group is committed key senior managers.
to making full use of the talents and resources of all its employees and to provide a healthy The development of employee skills and environment that encourages productive and careers, as well as the communication of mutually respectful working relationships the Groups goals, are driven by our Winning within the organisation.
Policies dealing with Together processes and tools.
Annual equal opportunities are in place in all parts of assessments via our Winning Together the Group, which take account of the Groups processes and tools are a formal requirement overall commitment and also address local of all managers.
The Group operates a Save As You Earn SAYE Employee involvement and development share scheme, which is open to eligible The Group is committed to involving all employees, where employees are encouraged employees in significant business issues, to save a fixed monthly sum for a period of especially matters which affect their work either three and or five years.
Upon maturity of and working environment.
A variety of methods the scheme, participants can purchase shares are used to engage with employees, including in the Company at a price set at the start of the team briefings, intranet, email and in-house savings period.
The Group uses one or more of these channels to brief employees on the Business ethics Groups performance and the financial and A Group Ethics policy is in place, which commits economic factors affecting the Groups employees to the highest standards of ethical performance.
The primary method used to behaviour in respect of customers, suppliers, engage and consult with employees is through colleagues and other stakeholders in the team briefings, where managers are tasked business.
The policy includes a requirement with ensuring that information sharing, for all employees to report abuses or nondiscussion and feedback happen on a conformance with the policy and sets out the regular basis.
95 Directors Report continued Greenhouse gas emissions The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from Group activities.
Details of this can be found below.
Further details of our environmental policies and programmes can be found on our corporate website investors.
Computacenter plc mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting Methodology Recent UK-based emission reduction projects Global GHG emissions data for period: We have used the main requirements of Continued investments in new technology helping 1 January to 31 December 2017. the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and reduce emissions in datacenters.
The electricity Reporting Standard revised edition.
used in the datacenters is circa 56 per cent of the Emissions metric tonnes of CO e total for the UK.
These datacenters host customers 2 Emission factors used are from the UK Information Technology in the form of servers thus Year 2017 2016 Governments Conversion Factors supplied reducing their carbon footprint: however, this Scope 1 3,352 3,304 by Defra.
increases the emissions for Computacenter as we become the landlord.
Scope 2 19,310 22,214 Based on external consultants Excel Total 22,662 25,518 spreadsheets were further developed Computacenter datacenters continually adopt internally to include the full requirements best practices in this field and are signed up to the Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and to collate the additional emissions such European Code of Conduct for datacenters.
This refrigerants usage as refrigerants.
year we attended the best practice review meeting Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and at the European Commission Joint Research Centre cooling purchased for own use This activity has been conducted as part of in Italy discussing progress and new initiatives.
Our our UK Environment Management System 2017 projects delivered a 10 per cent kwh reduction Groups chosen intensity registered to ISO 14001:2004 EMS 71255. in one datacenter saving 117 tonnes of C0 : this is measurements: 2 the equivalent of 40 tonnes of coal burned for Emissions as reported above are Group properties included in this report are all electricity or the energy associated with continually 6.20 metric tonnes per m value of current locations in the UK, Germany, France, powering a 42 inch TV for 79.8 years.
Activities Group revenue 2016: 7.86, a decline Belgium, Spain, South Africa, USA, Switzerland, included installation of intelligent lighting and of 21 per cent.
Malaysia, China, Mexico and Hungary.
We have more exciting projects planned for 2018.
Emissions as reported above are 1.54 We have reported on all of the emission metric tonnes per Group employee sources required under the Companies Act The UK warehouse continued to have more lighting 2016: 1.80, a decline of 14 per cent.
2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports replaced with energy efficient LED devices.
The Blackfriars office refurbishment was completed Limitations to data collection in January 2017 and included an air conditioning Less than 5 per cent of emissions were upgrade to a more energy efficient system, LED estimated or based on an average energy lighting throughout the building and new electrics.
usage per square foot of space occupied.
Environmental awareness training has been rolled out to UK employees with the aim of making everyone aware of energy waste and the potential savings that could be made in the future.
Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC The UK continues to fully comply with this scheme registered as a participant.
CRC8804716 Packaging Waste Regulation Via the compliance company Paperpak, the UK are registered as a distributor of product ensuring full compliance since 2000.
ISO 14001:2004 The EMS of the UK has been registered to this standard since 2003.
EMS 71255 Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme Computacenter complied with this new law by submitting our energy report which covers the period ESOS 5 December 2015 to 4 December 2019.
The chart below shows how the UK Energy The chart below shows how the emissions are split by country showing the percentage: Usage is divided by percentage: Emissions 22,662 metric tonnes of CO e 2 1 2 3 5 7 10 1 2 1.
UK 47.26% 96 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Auditor A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Group was approved by the Companys shareholders at the Companys 2017 AGM.
A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as the auditor of the Group will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming 2018 AGM.
Disclosure of information to auditor In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken, to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
Listing rule LR disclosures For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4CR, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R are set out below along with cross references indicating where the relevant information is otherwise set out in the Annual Report and Accounts or can be found in the following locations: Interest capitalised N A Publication of unaudited financial information N A Details of performance share plans Details of the Companys performance share plan scheme can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report on page 77.
Waiver of emoluments by a Director N A Waiver of future emoluments by a Director N A Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash N A Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major subsidiary undertakings N A Contracts of significance Details of significant contracts are set out in the Group Finance Directors review on pages 52 to 53.
Details of transactions with related parties are set out on page 150 in note 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Provision of services by a controlling shareholder N A Shareholder waiver of dividends The Trustees of the Companys employee share schemes have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of each of the trusts.
Shareholder waiver of future dividends The Trustees of the Companys employee share schemes have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of each of the trusts.
Agreements with controlling shareholder Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30 per cent or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings are known as controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules now require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement a Relationship Agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence related provisions.
The Company confirms that it has undertaken a thorough process during the reporting period to review whether it has any controlling shareholders.
Following this process, it was determined that there was no requirement on the Company to enter into a Relationship Agreement with any of its shareholders.
The Company confirms that this remains the case as at 31 December 2017, but will keep the matter under review.
MJ Norris FA Conophy Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director 13 March 2018 13 March 2018 97 Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Computacenter plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated balance sheet, Consolidated statement of changes in equity, Consolidated cash flow statement, Company balance sheet and Company statement of changes in equity and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 2.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 19 May 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the three financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole 4.5m 2016:4.0m 4.2% 2016: 4.7% of normalised profit before tax Coverage 93% 2016: 92% of Group profit before tax Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Recurring risks Professional Services and Managed Services contract accounting Supply Chain revenue cut-off Recoverability of Parent Companys investment in subsidiaries Parent 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement When planning our audit we made an assessment of the relative significance of the key risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements initially without taking account of the effectiveness of controls implemented by the Group.
As part of our audit planning procedures, we presented and discussed our initial assessment of key risks to the Audit Committee.
This is shown in our risk map below and identified two key audit matters that were expected to have the greatest effect on our audit.
Throughout our audit we continually reassess the significance of each of these key audit matters.
We made no changes to the key audit matters initially reported to the Audit Committee.
Professional Services and Managed Services contract accounting Supply Chain revenue recognition Vendor management, Presentation of Fraud risk from rebates and cost exceptional items and Management override management adjusted profit of controls Supply Chain New consolidation tool revenue cut-off Impairment Fraud risk from of non-current revenue recognition assets Tax positions and transfer pricing New accounting disclosures IFRS 15 and 16 Bad debt exposure Deferred tax assets New commercial lease agreements Share option judgements and accounting Lower Likelihood of occurrence Higher Key audit matter Presumed fraud risk per auditing standards Other financial statement risk 98 Lower Magnitude of potential impact Higher FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below, the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and our findings from those procedures in order that the Companys members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
These matters were addressed, and our findings are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Revenue Professional Services and Subjective estimate Our procedures included: Managed Services contract accounting The contractual arrangements that underpin Contracts were selected for substantive audit 1,157.2 million: 2016: 1,037.8 million the measurement and recognition of revenue procedures based on qualitative factors, such as by the Group can be complex, with significant commercial complexity, and quantitative factors, estimation of future financial performance in such as financial significance and profitability that Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report, fulfilment of the contract required.
Key sources we considered to be indicative of risk.
Our audit pages 109 to 117 accounting policy and of estimation uncertainty include: testing for the contracts selected included the pages 118 to 157 financial disclosures.
assessment of stage of completion by following: reference to estimated costs to complete Our sector expertise: Assessing whether the a contract.
These significant estimates revenue recognition methodology applied was include total contract costs taking into consistent with accounting standards.
consideration contract risks, technical Our sector expertise: Inspecting and risks, and other delivery assumptions: and challenging accounting papers prepared by the where an onerous contract provision is Group to understand the support provided in required, estimation is required in respect of key contract estimates and onerous assessing the level of provision, including contract provisions.
estimated cost to complete and total Tests of detail: Inspecting the detailed contract revenue, taking into account contractual terms to identify the service performance and delivery risks to the end obligations and inspecting customer sign-off of the contract, contractual obligations, on acceptance of the sample of deliverables extension periods and customer to determine the appropriateness of revenue negotiations.
Tests of detail: Consider contradictory evidence for future forecast costs including the risks and estimates within these forecasts by obtaining evidence through discussions with key management personnel, relevant correspondence with customers and delivery performance to date.
Tests of detail: Inspecting relevant correspondence with customers and third parties, in instances where contractual variations and claims have arisen on selected contracts, to inform our assessment of the revenue and costs recorded up to the balance sheet date on those contracts.
Historical comparisons: Comparing the previous contract forecasts to historic and in year performance to assess the historical accuracy of the forecasts for a sample of completed projects in the year and specifically for those contracts where an onerous contract provision is recorded.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosure about estimation uncertainty regarding Managed and Professional Services revenue: Our results We found the resulting estimates of revenue to be mildly cautious 2016 finding: mildly cautious.
We found the Groups disclosures to be proportionate in their description of the estimation uncertainty regarding Managed and Professional Services revenue.
99 Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc continued The risk Our response Revenue Supply Chain revenue cut-off 2017 2018 sales Our procedures included: 2,636.2 million: 2016: 2,207.6 million Supply Chain revenue includes revenues from Control operation: Testing automated controls numerous product groups each sold with that are designed to ensure that Supply Chain varying contractual terms and conditions that revenue transactions are recognised in Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report, in turn impact the point in time at which all accordance with the Groups accounting pages 109 to 117 accounting policy and delivery obligations, and therefore the transfer policies.
of the risks and reward of ownership, have Tests of details: Inspecting proof of delivery or been fulfilled, and hence revenue is recognised.
signed buy and store agreements for a sample of orders selected close to year-end in order to Whilst there is little judgment required in assess whether the policy had been correctly identifying the appropriate accounting policy, applied to recognise revenue in the appropriate the volume of orders close to year-end gives period.
This sample is selected on the basis of rise to some risk that revenue is recognised a statistical sample methodology combined too early or late.
with items over a determined threshold.
Tests of details: Inspecting sales invoices and proof of delivery for a sample of credit notes raised subsequent to the year end in order to assess whether Supply Chain revenue related to a valid sale and was recognised in the correct period, and whether there were any systemic issues around revenue cut-off.
Our results Our testing over Supply Chain cut-off did not find any accounting errors 2016: no errors found.
Recoverability of Parent Companys Low risk, high value Our procedures included: investment in subsidiaries The carrying amount of the Parent Companys Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying 206.8 million: 2016: 200.6 million investments in subsidiaries represents 47% amount of material investments with the 2016: 49% of the Companys total assets.
relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheet Their recoverability is not at a high risk of to identify whether their net assets, being Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report, significant misstatement or subject to an approximation of their minimum pages 109 to 117 accounting policy and significant judgement.
However, due to their recoverable amount, were in excess of their pages 118 to 157 financial disclosures.
materiality in the context of the Parent carrying amount and assessing whether Company financial statements, this is those subsidiaries have historically been considered to be the area that had the greatest profit-making.
effect on our overall Parent Company audit.
Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed by the subsidiary audit teams of those subsidiaries where audits are performed and considering the results of that work on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Our sector experience: For the investments where the carrying amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing the carrying amount of the investment with the expected value of the business based upon a simple discounted cash flow model.
Our results We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be balanced 2016: balanced.
We continue to perform procedures over the presentation of exceptional items and adjusted profit.
However, following a reduction in the level of judgement around these items and an established track record of compliance, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 3.
Our application of materiality and an Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude Group Materiality overview of the scope of our audit exceptional items 4.5m 2016: 4.0m Materiality for the Group financial statements 106.0m 2016: 85.7m 4.5 million 2016: 4.0m as a whole was set at 4.5m 2016: 4.0m, Whole financial statements materiality determined with reference to a benchmark 4.0 million 2.0m to 4.0m 2016: 2.0m to 3.5m of group profit before tax of 106.0m 2016: Range of materiality at 4 components 85.7m, normalised to exclude this years exceptional items as disclosed in note 6, of which it represents 4.2% 2016: 4.7%.
Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 4.0 2016: 3.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets, of which it represents 0.9% 2016: 0.9%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee 0.1 million 2016: 0.1m Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified Group profit before tax, normalised misstatements exceeding 0.1m 2016: 0.1m, to exclude exceptional items in addition to other identified misstatements Group materiality that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group operates a Shared Service Centre SSC in Budapest, Hungary, the outputs of which are included in the financial information Group revenue Group profit before tax of the three reporting components subject to full scope audit and therefore it is not a 97 93 separate reporting component.
Audit 97 92 procedures were performed at the SSC which focus on the testing of trade receivables and trade payables transaction processing.
Of the Groups 16 2016: 15 reporting components, we subjected four 2016: four to full scope 97% 93% audits for Group purposes.
The components 2016: 97% 2016: 92% within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
For the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group Group total assets Group profit before exceptional items and tax team approved the components materialities, which ranged from 2.0m to 4.0m 2016: 2.0m 97 91 to 3.5m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
92 92 The work on two of the four components 2016: two of the four components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the Group team.
For those items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax, the 97% 91% 2016: 92% 2016: 92% component teams performed procedures on items relating to their components.
The Group team performed procedures on the remaining excluded items.
The Group team visited the two overseas component locations in France and Germany, in addition to the Shared Service Centre in Hungary 2016: France and Germany to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 Full scope for group audit purposes 2016 Residual components team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
101 Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc continued 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term 6.
We have nothing to report on the other We are required to report to you if: viability matters on which we are required to report we have anything material to add or draw Based on the knowledge we acquired during by exception attention to in relation to the Directors our financial statements audit, we have Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required statement on page 95 to the financial nothing material to add or draw attention to to report to you if, in our opinion: statements on the use of the going concern in relation to: adequate accounting records have not basis of accounting with no material the Directors confirmation within the been kept by the Parent Company, or uncertainties that may cast significant viability statement that they have carried returns adequate for our audit have not doubt over the Group and Companys use of out a robust assessment of the principal been received from branches not visited by that basis for a period of at least 12 months risks facing the Group, including those that us: or from the date of approval of the financial would threaten its business model, future the Parent Company financial statements statements: or performance, solvency and liquidity: and the part of the Directors Remuneration the same statement is materially the Principal Risks and uncertainties Report to be audited are not in agreement inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
disclosures describing these risks and with the accounting records and returns: or explaining how they are being managed certain disclosures of Directors We have nothing to report in these respects.
and mitigated: and remuneration specified by law are not the Directors explanation in the viability made: or 5.
We have nothing to report on the other statement of how they have assessed the we have not received all the information information in the Annual Report prospects of the Group, over what period and explanations we require for our audit.
The Directors are responsible for the other they have done so and why they considered information presented in the Annual Report that period to be appropriate, and their We have nothing to report in these respects.
together with the financial statements.
Our statement as to whether they have a opinion on the financial statements does not reasonable expectation that the Group will 7.
Respective responsibilities cover the other information and, accordingly, be able to continue in operation and meet Directors responsibilities we do not express an audit opinion or, except as its liabilities as they fall due over the period As explained more fully in their statement set explicitly stated below, any form of assurance of their assessment, including any related out on page 91, the Directors are responsible conclusion thereon.
disclosures drawing attention to any for: the preparation of the financial statements necessary qualifications or assumptions.
including being satisfied that they give a true Our responsibility is to read the other and fair view: such internal control as they information and, in doing so, consider whether, Under the Listing Rules we are required to determine is necessary to enable the based on our financial statements audit work, review the viability statement.
We have nothing preparation of financial statements that are the information therein is materially misstated to report in this respect.
free from material misstatement, whether due or inconsistent with the financial statements to fraud or error: assessing the Group and or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that Corporate governance disclosures Parent Companys ability to continue as a going work we have not identified material We are required to report to you if: concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters misstatements in the other information.
we have identified material inconsistencies related to going concern: and using the going between the knowledge we acquired during concern basis of accounting unless they either Strategic Report and Directors Report our financial statements audit and the intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Based solely on our work on the other Directors statement that they consider that Company or to cease operations, or have no information: the Annual Report and Financial Statements realistic alternative but to do so.
we have not identified material taken as a whole is fair, balanced and misstatements in the strategic Report and understandable and provides the Auditors responsibilities the Directors Report: information necessary for shareholders Our objectives are to obtain reasonable in our opinion the information given in those to assess the Groups position and assurance about whether the financial reports for the financial year is consistent performance, business model and strategy: statements as a whole are free from material with the financial statements: and or misstatement, whether due to fraud or other in our opinion those reports have been the section of the Annual Report describing irregularities see below, or error, and to issue prepared in accordance with the Companies the work of the Audit Committee does not our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable Act 2006. appropriately address matters assurance is a high level of assurance, but does communicated by us to the Audit not guarantee that an audit conducted in Directors Remuneration Report Committee.
accordance with ISAs UK will always detect In our opinion the part of the Directors a material misstatement when it exists.
Remuneration Report to be audited has been We are required to report to you if the Corporate Misstatements can arise from fraud, other properly prepared in accordance with the Governance Statement does not properly irregularities or error and are considered Companies Act 2006. disclose a departure from the 11 provisions of material if, individually or in aggregate, they the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by could reasonably be expected to influence the the Listing Rules for our review.
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 A fuller description of our responsibilities 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom is provided on the FRCs website at we owe our responsibilities www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Irregularities ability to detect Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 We identified areas of laws and regulations and the terms of our engagement by the that could reasonably be expected to have Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken a material effect on the financial statements so that we might state to the Companys from our sector experience, through discussion members those matters we are required to with the Directors and other management state to them in an auditors report, and the as required by auditing standards.
further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed with We had regard to laws and regulations in the Company, and for no other purpose.
To the areas that directly affect the financial fullest extent permitted by law, we do not statements including financial reporting accept or assume responsibility to anyone including related company legislation and other than the Company and the Companys taxation legislation.
We considered the extent members, as a body, for our audit work, for this of compliance with those laws and regulations report, or for the opinions we have formed.
as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Tudor Aw Senior Statutory Auditor In addition we considered the impact of laws for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory and regulations in the specific areas of health Auditor and safety, anti-bribery and employment law, Chartered Accountants recognising the nature of the Groups activities.
15 Canada Square With the exception of any known or possible London non-compliance, and as required by auditing E14 5GL standards, our work in respect of these was 13 March 2018 limited to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
103 Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Note 000 000 Revenue 4 3,793,371 3,245,397 Cost of sales 3,297,142 2,817,350 Gross profit 496,229 428,047 Administrative expenses 390,583 341,668 Operating profit: Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items 105,646 86,379 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 225 710 Exceptional items 6 1,371 1,876 Operating profit 106,792 87,545 Exceptional gain on disposal of an investment property 6 4,320 Exceptional loss on disposal of a subsidiary 6 522 Finance income 8 1,521 1,629 Finance costs 9 938 1,579 Profit before tax 111,695 87,073 Income tax expense: Before exceptional items 30,030 23,108 Exceptional items 6 351 192 Income tax expense 10 30,381 23,300 Profit for the year 81,314 63,773 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent 81,314 63,773 Profit for the year 81,314 63,773 Earnings per share: basic 11 67.3p 52.9p diluted 11 66.5p 52.3p 104
