Our marketplace Connecting everything up Computacenters customers need to make digital work, so they can deliver their products and services more effectively, attract and retain talent, and drive growth.
To ensure we continue to meet their needs in a fast-changing and increasingly complex world, we have to do two things: 1.
Stay abreast of changes in the global market This section looks at the global megatrends that are changing our markets, considers our competitive environment and explains the dynamics of the key countries we operate in.
Innovate and deliver our customer offer, so we succeed in the market In this section, we describe our portfolio of complementary service offerings, our global delivery capabilities and what makes us different.
06 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T AN ANN NU UAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A ACCO CCOU UN NT TS S 2 20 01 17 7 THE GLOBAL MARKET Four megatrends are shaping our markets worldwide.
services where, when and as needed, and Megatrend 1: turns a larger, fixed and upfront cost for the customer into a smaller, variable and ongoing The shift to digital cost.
In addition to this, customers can also benefit from, for example, ongoing services upgrades and innovation for the life of Description their contract.
The rate of digitalisation continues to increase 1. for all of our customers, across every industry.
What this means for Computacenter This adoption of new technologies, where This presents a risk for Computacenter, as service is primarily provided with or through some parts of our product business move Staying abreast software and augmented with data insights into the public cloud, but it also gives us the and artificial intelligence, is changing our opportunity to support our customers on their of changes in the customers business models and increasing journey with our Professional and Managed complexity for them.
The pace of change is also Services capabilities.
rising with, for example, the proliferation of and global market ever-shorter lifecycles for devices and apps.
Added to this, almost every digital innovation In this section: raises security and privacy risks that need to Proof The global market be tackled at the same time.
Record as-a-service ACV growth up 48 per The competitive market cent YoY in EMEA: Source: ISG Index Q3 2017, What this means for Computacenter Our regional markets Information Services Group The difficulty of navigating this environment makes our offer as a value-added-service provider increasingly attractive to customers.
At the same time, we need to keep up with the pace of innovation, so our offering remains Megatrend 3: relevant to our customers.
Globalisation of our markets Proof Why software is eating the world, Marc Andreessen, WSJ, 20 Aug 2011 Description Every aspect of our market is globalising.
Customers are increasingly looking for providers who can support their businesses worldwide.
This benefits providers with Megatrend 2: international reach and gives us the opportunity to follow and provide Services to our customers The subscription in different parts of the world, for example in the US.
However, it is also encouraging or as-a-service competitors to globalise, including providers from places such as India or Eastern Europe, economy where people costs are lower.
What this means for Computacenter We need to be able to meet the needs of our Description The market is moving away from customers customers globally but also qualify and focus on those customers where we will add the buying hardware and software outright, with the growth in subscription models or the ability greatest value.
to use an asset as-a-service.
This increases their ability to access, scale and adjust the Related material: Developing our long-term relationships page 12 07
