Our business model How we create sustainable value Our resources and relationships Our brand The following resources and relationships Our brand helps us to win and retain underpin our business model: customers and to attract new employees.
We recognise that the strength of our brand Our people depends on how we are perceived in the Computacenter employs more than 14,500 market, which in turn depends on how we people worldwide, including more than 1,700 behave.
This means our brand is directly project managers and consultants accredited connected to how we live our values.
In to industry standards, and 1,300 remote particular, we maintain a strong brand by infrastructure management and ITIL process putting customers first, being straightforward, staff.
Between them, our people support our keeping promises and considering the long customers in 30 languages.
term, whilst understanding people matter and inspiring success.
More information about how we attract, retain and develop our people can be found on pages More information about our values can be 26 to 29. found on page 27.
Our customers Our infrastructure and physical assets Our target market is the top 500 customers Our infrastructure and physical assets take in each of our core geographies.
We have significant our account managers, sales specialists, infrastructure underpinning the global consultants, and service and project capabilities described on page 11, which managers, we maintain unique customer we expand as necessary to support our intimacy.
More than 80 per cent of our customers.
We also have Logistics Centres customers have been with us for more than in the UK, France and Germany, which are 10 years, showing they value this close sophisticated facilities supporting our Supply relationship.
We also consistently score Chain business.
highly in the Whitelane customer survey, which independently researches customer In addition, we have a number of underlying satisfaction across the industry.
systems that support our business, including our SAP system, systems that connect us to our The value we add for our customers and the customers sourcing functions, and systems ways we engage with them are described that underpin our Next Generation Service Desk under the Solutions, Shared Services and and Field Force Enablement tools.
Engagement models on the following page.
We translate our experience and knowledge Our partners into  frameworks such We have relationships with more than 1,500 as Inventox, our technology deployment tool, to vendor partners, many of which span more make sure our customers have access to best than 20 years, and over 4,500 technical and of breed solutions to their problems and to sales accreditations.
For some of our vendors, differentiate from our competition.
we are the number one partner and we are a regular winner of partner awards.
Through our deep product knowledge and vendor independence, we are able to recommend and support best of breed solutions for our customers.
Information about how we select and manage our vendors can be found on page 29.
14 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 HOW IT WORKS AT A GLANCE Making all of the elements of our business model work together.
How we create value Our resources and relationships We create value by: Our Our Our Our Our Providing end-to-end solutions and people customers partners brand infrastructure innovative services, through our and physical Solutions Model assets Industrialising our capability to provide high-quality, efficient and consistent services, through our Shared Services Model Solutions Model Building trusted customer relationships, interacting seamlessly with them and END USER TECHNOLOGY helping them to innovate and transform, through our Engagement Model ENTERPRISE INFRASTRUCTURE Solutions Model Our portfolio spans the end user to Enterprise infrastructure services and solutions, which we can deliver end-to-end from sourcing, Shared Services Model to consulting and integration, to managed operations.
Our innovative Digital Workplace, Hybrid Cloud IT and Cyber Security offerings address our customers most pressing needs when transforming their IT.
See our customer offer on page 10.
CONSULT & CHANGE SOURCE & DEPLOY MANAGE & TRANSFORM Shared Services Model We provide consistent services around the world: Consult & Change, Source & Deploy and Manage & Transform see page 11.
Our ability to always deliver to a high standard is Engagement Model underpinned by our global facilities see page 11 : our tool suites, which cover Professional Services, Supply Chain Services, and Managed USER EXPERIENCE CUSTOMER INTIMACY Services: our people see page 26 : our processes and knowledge-centred support: and our vendor partnerships see page 12.
Engagement Model Teams across our business engage with customers and build trusted relationships.
Our Customers In particular, these include our Service Management teams, whose customer value strategy ensures we deliver high-quality service.
We also have systems of engagement, which are digital interfaces to drive productive interactions with our customers.
These include CIO USER BUSINESS our Next Generation Service Desk and our ServiceNow capability see page 25.
Our Engagement Model also includes our facilities and methodologies for driving innovation and change.
Key examples include our Hothouse facilities in the UK, France and Germany, where Creating value for all stakeholders we bring together customers, technology specialists and vendors to develop innovative Our Our Our Our partners, Our transformation plans for the customer.
customers people communities vendor partners shareholders Related material: Our resources and relationships page 26 15
