Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 06 Market Context Defined benefit pension schemes with fewer members offer the greatest opportunity for medical underwriting to deliver benefits.
This potentially occurs if there are a small number of scheme members, with a high proportion of the schemes liabilities that are assessed by using medical underwriting to have life expectancies below average.
Medical Driving underwriting has become well established in the defined benefit fide-risking market and its benefits are well understood.
Current market and outlook There are approximately 2tn in UK defined growth benefit pension scheme obligations source: PPF, which is driving high demand for fide-risking solutions, with Buy-in transactions forecast over the next decade to be approximately 350bn source: Hymans Changes in consumer expectations, Robertson.
While insurer capacity will increase in the long term, over the medium in regulatory intervention and in term we believe the demand for fide-risking the competitive landscape are solutions exceeds the current supply available from providers.
The defined benefit driving growth in our key markets fide-risking market is projected to grow further over the next decade with transactions expected to double to over 30bn per year.
This level of activity would result in only 2% of total defined benefit pension assets each year being fide-risked, providing significant UK markets potential upside.
The total volume of fide-risking transactions in 2017 is expected Defined benefit to exceed 10bn source: LCP.
fide-risking solutions Introduction The capacity of companies to deliver Defined benefit pension schemes have an fide-risking solutions is constrained.
Defined obligation to pay a pre-determined monthly benefit pension schemes are competing retirement income based on an employees for the same resources as a number of life earnings history, tenure of employment insurance companies who have explored, and age.
Operating these schemes has or are exploring, selling their large books of become unattractive and more costly for Guaranteed Income for Life business.
employers over the last decade and this has View the investor presentation created an opportunity for guaranteed to see how Just wins in this market income providers to fide-risk, fully or partially, www.
co. uk DB17 an employers existing defined benefit obligations to its members.
Individual retirement income market Introduction Taking the risk out of Guaranteed Income for Life GIfL products paying company pensions are bought by individual customers to Defined benefit fide-risking can occur via a convert some or all of their accumulated Buy-in, whereby a pension scheme pays a pension savings into a guaranteed lifetime single premium to an insurance company to retirement income.
The solution provides purchase an income stream that matches its people with peace of mind from the security obligations to its members, but retains legal of knowing the income will continue to be responsibility for those obligations.
An paid for as long as the customer and where alternative is a Buy-out, where a pension relevant, for as long as they or, typically, their scheme removes its obligations by spouse lives.
In the UK, GIfLs traditionally purchasing individual insurance policies to offered an income payable without reference replicate its obligations to some or all of its to the individuals health or lifestyle, and pension scheme members, who then become were differentiated only by reference to a customers of the fide-risking provider.
limited number of factors such as age, postcode, premium size and, prior to The solutions for fide-risking can be medically 31 December 2012, gender.
underwritten, meaning that insurers use individual members medical and lifestyle An individually underwritten GIfL takes into information to assess their longevity as account an individuals medical conditions opposed to relying on proxies such as the and lifestyle factors to determine their life members age, pension amount and possibly expectancy.
People who are eligible and postcode.
For some schemes, medically purchase an individually underwritten GIfL underwritten pricing is typically better typically achieve double digit percentage value than traditional non-medically increases in income compared to purchasing underwritten pricing.
a GIfL which is not individually underwritten.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 07 85% of DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION schem es are closed, Providing security and increasingly to future accrual as well as new members % peace of mind The proportion of people purchasing an individually underwritten GIfL is continuing to 100 increase and our view is this will become the minimum standard for all providers over the 80 next few years.
60 Pension customers are encouraged to compare the GIfL offer provided by their existing pension company to those offered on 40 what is the open or external market.
In March 2018 the FCA introduced rules requiring 20 pension companies to provide customers with an external GIfL quotation showing the 0 best quote available from the external 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 market alongside the quotation from the Closed to new members Closed to future accrual Source: The Purple Book 2017, PPF incumbent firm.
This should provide new opportunities for Just Group as we compete in the open market when these customers Expected growth in DB fide-risking transactions bn choose to shop around: this is our addressable market as we do not have an 9.0 existing base of pension savings customers.
The open market increased from 45% in 2016 to over 48% in 2017 of the total GIfL market and over 49% in the final quarter of 2017 13.2 source: ABI.
12.3 12.0 10.2 Continuing developments are driving growth in our addressable market: 7.5 the structural drivers of growth in the 5.2 4.4 retirement income market are strong and assets accumulating in defined contribution DC pension schemes are 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 projected to increase consistently over the forecast next decade.
This growth arises from an Buy-in Buy-out Backbook acquisition Source: Just analysis, Hymans Robertson, LCP increase in the number of people joining workplace pension schemes as a result of potential external gifl market size 2020 bn the successful state auto enrolment policy and the increase in contribution rates due 4.9bn to be implemented in 2018: 2.0 growth in DC pension assets also arises as companies close down final salary or defined benefit DB pension schemes and offer their employees DC pensions instead: thousands of people are transferring out of DB pension schemes into DC pension 1.9 2.9 schemes to take advantage of Pension Freedoms.
When transferring, many people are choosing to secure a guaranteed income for life, by using some of the transfer value to purchase an 2016 Demographic Previous zero Guaranteed Individual Life insurance 2020 income Drawdown annuity rate DB transfers companies forecast individually underwritten GIfL: and Base case Potential Source: Just estimates many life and pension companies are choosing to put in place broking solutions to offer their pension savings customers External GIfL market m access to the best individually underwritten GIfL deals in the market.
Some are choosing to transfer their 2,119 obligations to provide a guaranteed GIfL 1,917 rate to their customers to an alternative 1,728 product provider or broking solution.
This grows our addressable market and provides customers with better outcomes.
Our Group business HUB Financial Solutions is providing many of these corporate services.
View the investor presentation to see how Just wins in this market www.
co. uk RI17 2015 2016 2017 Source: Just analysis, ABI CAGR 10.7% CAGR 11% Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 08 Market Context continued Lifetime Mortgages Long-term care solutions Introduction Introduction A lifetime mortgage LTM allows Care Plans, or immediate needs annuities homeowners to borrow money secured INA, are a segment of purchased life against the equity in their home without the annuities.
A Care Plan offers a guaranteed need to move out.
The amount borrowed is income paid directly to a registered care repayable together with accrued interest on provider or an individual for the life of the the death of the homeowner or moving insured, in exchange for an up-front lump permanently into residential care.
Under current rules this can be used by retirees to supplement savings, income is tax free when paid directly to the top up retirement income or to settle any registered care provider.
Care Plans are outstanding indebtedness.
available to individuals entering care facilities or receiving domiciliary support.
As such, The typical lifetime mortgage customer is Care Plans provide a form of longevity around 70 years old, has a house valued at insurance to the individual against the costs around 200,000 and agrees a facility to of receiving care until their death.
borrow up to 30% of the house value.
Just has a strong pedigree in the market, Enabling people to improve their having been one of the market leaders later-life living standards for 16 years.
People are becoming increasingly positively Current market and outlook disposed to accessing some of the equity in There is a substantial market for care in their homes to improve the quality of their the UK.
The drivers of the need for care are later lives or to help their family.
The strong because: compound annual growth rate of the lifetime there are currently around 1.6m people mortgage market between 2001 and 2017 aged 85 or over in the UK this is the was 26% and this has attracted new providers average age at which people go into care to enter the market in the last few years.
It is expected that this number Homeowners aged over will more than double over the next two 55 are estimated to own Just Group is a leading product provider of decades suggesting a growth rate in lifetime mortgages.
Our HUB Financial excess of 3%: property wealth of over Solutions business is a leading distribution around 33% of women aged 65 and 20% 2.5 trillion business providing consumers with regulated of men aged 65 are likely to enter a care advice on equity release solutions from home at some point in the future: and across the market.
there is uncertainty over government policy for long-term social care.
The Current market and outlook government has withdrawn the cap Homeowners aged over 55 are estimated to on care fees that was due to become own property wealth of over 2.5 trillion effective in 2020 and plans to publish source: ONS.
We estimate that the existing a Green Paper on care and support for industry loan book including interest is just older people by summer 2018.
The market remains under-penetrated set out how the government proposes and there is significant headroom for growth.
to improve care and support for older people and tackle the challenge of an Just is forecasting that the LTM market will ageing population.
grow to around 6bn by the end of 2021, which is a compound annual growth rate of 18% from 2017.
The primary drivers of growth are: Households wanting to top-up their retirement income to improve their standard of living in later life: An increase in the number of people with outstanding interest only mortgages who are entering retirement and require a solution to settle the debt with the existing mortgage company: Strong demographic growth.
The number of people aged 65 and over is forecast to increase from around 12 million today to over 18 million in by 2040: and An increase in new entrants who spend money on advertising which results in people becoming aware of LTMs combined with people becoming more disposed to using some of their housing equity.
co. uk LTM17 Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 09 six YEARS OF CONSECUTIVE GROWTH OF LIFETIME MORTGAGE SALES International markets IN THE UK M South African retirement income market South Africa has one of the five largest immediate guaranteed income for life 3,057 markets in the world, with many structural similarities to the UK including legislative framework, products and distribution.
2,149 Limited state social security, tax incentives for private retirement provision and 1,602 increased compulsion to purchase a 1,379 guaranteed income for life or drawdown 1,073 solution mean the retirement market is 920 772 expected to grow significantly over the coming years.
The market is dominated by defined contribution arrangements.
The market that 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 could annuitise includes approximately 3bn Lump sum mortgage sales New drawdown mortgages initial advance at-retirement and 18bn in-retirement Existing drawdown mortgages further advances Source: Equity Release Council savings, however currently the great majority of consumers use drawdown plans.
Number of people millions ageD 65 Just has introduced an innovative new product to the South African market which 18% 19% 20% 22% 24% 24% of UK population provides the customer with the benefit of a guaranteed income for life solution within a 18.1 17.2 drawdown product.
15.7 14.0 Prudential regulation is moving from the 12.7 current regulatory basis to Solvency 11.6 Assessment and Management SAM.
This was delayed from 1 July 2017 to 1 July 2018: SAM is recognised as equivalent to the Solvency II regime.
Additionally, the government-led reform to retirement legislation was introduced in 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 August 2017.
This makes trustees of Source: ONS retirement funds responsible for providing default solutions at retirement, with retirement benefit counselling provided by Just have been leaders for each pension scheme to provide information on default options at retirement.
US care market The US represents an opportunity for our 16 years Group in this significant market.
Within the In UK long-term care care segment, the US has a similar backdrop to the UK with a government-funded safety net but significant volumes of self-funders.
Total annual spending is estimated at $145bn, of which $45bn is self-funded.
There is widespread acceptance of the need to self-fund, with many wishing to avoid State dependency.
There are very limited underwritten guaranteed income for life options available to consumers in the US market.
The target market for our Groups products are US residents in later life receiving, or about to receive, long-term domiciliary or residential care and able to afford a single premium.
