Board of Directors A strong team The appointment of Peter Ryan will bring Greg Lock Mike Norris an objectivity and fresh perspective on Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer both new and existing business that the and Chairman of the Board considers at its meetings, and will Nomination Committee complement the continuity of service and knowledge of the Company brought by the remaining members of the Board.
His significant operational expertise in large enterprises and deep knowledge of the Companys sector, and the challenges therein, complements the skills of our other Board members.
Committee membership: N, R Board member attendance: 8 8 Board member attendance: 8 8 Greg 1947 is non-executive Chairman of UBM Mike 1961 graduated with a degree in plc.
He has more than 45 years experience in Computer Science and Mathematics from the software and computer services industry, East Anglia University in 1983.
He joined including seven years as Chairman of Kofax plc Computacenter in 1984 as a salesman in the and four years as Chairman of SurfControl plc.
Following appointments in senior From 1998 to 2000, he was General Manager of roles, he became Chief Executive in December IBMs Global Industrial sector.
Greg also served 1994, with responsibility for all day-to-day as a member of IBMs Worldwide Management activities and reporting channels across Council and as a governor of the IBM Academy Computacenter.
Mike also led the Company of Technology.
through flotation on the London Stock Exchange in 1998.
Mike was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Science from the University of Hertfordshire in 2010.
Philip Hulme Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Board member attendance: 7 8 Committee membership: A, N, R Board member attendance: 7 8 Philip 1948 founded Computacenter with Regine 1955 is a member of the Board of Peter Ogden in 1981 and worked for the SPIE SA in Cergy and SPIE Deutschland und Company on a full-time basis until stepping Zentraleuropa GmbH, a member of the down as Executive Chairman in 2001.
He was Supervisory Board of Covestro AG and Covestro previously a Vice President and Director of Deutschland AG and a member of the the Boston Consulting Group.
Supervisory Board of Ceconomy AG.
She was previously on the Board of Directors at E. ON SE, a major energy company included in the Eurostoxx 50 index, where she had a broad range of operational responsibilities including for Legal & Compliance, Group Procurement, Group Human Resources and Group IT.
Before that, she worked for several years as Vice President, Imaging and Printing Group of HP Germany.
60 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Tony Conophy Philip Yea Peter Ogden Group Finance Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director andChairman of the Remuneration Committee Board member attendance: 8 8 Committee membership: A, N, R Board member attendance: 8 8 Board member attendance: 8 8 Tony 1958 has been a member of the Institute Philip 1954 is Chairman of Greene King plc and Peter 1947 founded Computacenter with of Chartered Management Accountants since Equiniti Group plc and a Non-Executive Director Philip Hulme in 1981 and was Chairman of 1982.
He qualified with Semperit Ireland Ltd of Marshall of Cambridge Holdings Limited and the Company until 1998, when he became and then worked for five years at Cape Aberdeen Asian Smaller Companies Investment a Non-Executive Director.
Prior to founding Industries plc.
He joined Computacenter in 1987 Trust plc.
He is also an independent trustee of Computacenter, he was a Managing Director as Financial Controller, rising in 1991 to General the Francis Crick Institute.
He has chaired a of Morgan Stanley and Co.
In 1996, he was appointed number of private and public companies and Finance and Commercial Director of has significant previous Executive Management Computacenter UK Limited with responsibility experience in both private equity and public for all financial, purchasing and vendor companies, having served as the Chief relations activities.
In March 1998 he was Executive of 3i Group plc between 2004 and appointed Group Finance Director.
Prior to this, he was also the Finance Director at Diageo plc, the global drinks group.
Committee Membership Key Minnow Powell Ros Rivaz A Audit Committee Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director N Nomination Committee and Chairman of the R Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Committee membership: A, N, R Committee membership: A, N, R Board member attendance: 8 8 Board member attendance: 8 8 Minnow 1954 is a Non-Executive Director and Ros 1955 is a Non-Executive Director of Chairman of the Audit Committee of Superdry ConvaTec Group plc where she is a member plc.
He was a Director and chaired the Audit of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee of Tui Travel plc from 2011 to 2014 Committees, RPC Group plc where she is and was a member of the Supervisory Board of a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Tui AG from December 2014 to February 2016.
Nomination Committees, Boparan Holdings Minnow spent 35 years with Deloitte where he Limited where she is a member of the Audit became a Partner in 1985.
Minnows audit client and Remuneration Committees, and she is portfolio included companies within the same a Non-Executive Director on the MOD Defence sector, and with similar business models, as Equipment and Support Board where she is Computacenter.
He is a Chartered Accountant also a member of the Remuneration and was a member of the Auditing Practices Committee.
Ros stepped down from her Board for six years.
position as the Deputy Chair of the Council of the University of Southampton after 10 years, where she holds an honorary doctorate.
Ros served as the Chief Operating Officer for Smith & Nephew plc and has held senior management positions in global companies including Exxon, Diageo, ICI and Tate & Lyle Group.
