FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 147 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board continually monitors the interests of the Companys minority shareholders in order to ensure that those interests are being properly respected, and that they are aligned as far as possible with those of the majority shareholders.
The Company has an office in London where the Head of Investor Relations is based.
During 2017, the Group maintained a strong communications and investor relations programme, as detailed in the table below.
2017 INVESTOR RELATIONS AND INDUSTRY ACTIVITIES January Publication of the 4Q 2016 production report February March Roadshow following the preliminary results announcement and presentation: UK, USA and France Nordea Mining Reverse Roadshow Citi Global Resources Conference Canaccord Mining Forum April Publication of the 1Q 2017 Production Report followed by investor conference calls UBS Reverse Roadshow May Annual General Meeting BAML Global Metals and Mining Conference June July Publication of the 2Q 2017 Production Report August Publication of the half-year results and UK roadshow September Denver Gold Forum HSBC EEMEA and LATAM Conference October Publication of the 3Q 2017 Production Report followed by investor conference calls November JP Morgan Best of British Conference December The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer also meet with analysts, hold conference calls after production reports and engage with shareholders by participating in the major roadshows after preliminary and half-yearly results are announced.
They are joined by other members of the Executive Committee for some of these visits.
This is done to give the investors and analysts the chance to discuss the results of the Group while also giving them an opportunity to raise any queries or concerns they may have.
The table below outlines some examples of the discussion points at such meetings and the response from the Company.
Progress at the Fresnillo mine Clear explanation of the decisive plan to stabilise the mines ore grade and throughput while outlining the reasons for progressing at a slower than anticipated pace.
Delivery of San Julin Updates on the commissioning and ramp up of phase II in addition to principal statistics of both phases.
Performance at our operating mines Provide a clear update on the performance of all operating mines including the reduction of inventories at Herradura.
Projects progress Keep the market up to date with progress at the Pyrites Plant project and the second line of the DLP at Herradura, both due to be commissioned in 2018.
Juanicipio Updates on the progress of this joint venture project including principal statistics where available, timing for the completion of the feasibility study and its subsequent approval.
Exchange rate effects Clear and detailed articulation of the different exchange rate effects on production costs in conjunction with other line items in the income statement, including the charge for taxation.
148 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED Costs Detailed breakdown of cost metrics on a year-by-year basis highlighting and clarifying variations: cost inflation deflation by component.
Capital allocation: Capex versus dividends Reiteration of the Companys unchanged dividend policy of balancing quality growth with returns across the cycle.
Production profiles and long-term goals Reaffirm Fresnillos long-term targets set in 2008 during the Companys IPO, set to be achieved by the end of 2018.
Economic outlook for the mining industry in Mexico Articulate the market conditions seen in Mexico with special emphasis on the mining industry.
Additionally provide relevant updates of the ongoing NAFTA negotiations and upcoming presidential elections.
The Head of Investor Relations in London is tasked with maintaining existing relations with analysts and major shareholders on a day-to-day basis, which is done by way of telephone calls and meetings.
The Company also attends a full programme of mining conferences in order to meet with current and prospective investors.
Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained through the Investor Relations Office in Mexico City.
The Chief Financial Officer gives a report at each Board meeting on communications and shareholder activity.
GEOGRAPHICAL SHAREHOLDER BASE The following graph IPO in 2008 until January 2018 demonstrates the Companys global appeal to investors with a significant shift from a predominantly UK shareholder base to a much more globally diverse shareholder base.
United Kingdom Europe North America Rest of the world % 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 IPO 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES As at 23 February 2018, the Company had been advised of the following notifiable interests whether directly or indirectly held in its voting rights: Number of voting rights % Industrias Peoles S. A.
B. fide C. V. 552,595,191 74.99 First Eagle Investment Management LLC 34,958,545 4.74 BlackRock Inc. 34,614,063 4.70 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, all resolutions put to shareholders were passed by a majority.
Prior to the AGM, the Company consulted with a number of shareholders in relation to the resolutions to re-elect the Directors.
In accordance with UK Listing Rules applicable to companies with a controlling shareholder, the resolutions relating to the re-election of the independent Non-executive Directors required approval by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders as well as all the shareholders of the Company.
Further to the Code provisions, details of proxy voting are presented at the AGM and final figures are announced to the London Stock Exchange and uploaded to the Companys website as soon practicable after the AGM.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 149 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys tenth Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 30 May 2018 at 12.00 noon.
The business of the Annual General Meeting AGM will be conducted in accordance with the provisions B.
The Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of each of the Board Committees will be available to answer questions put forward to them by shareholders of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
In planning the business of each AGM, the Board takes account of institutional shareholder guidelines on pre-emption rights, share buy-backs and shareholder rights in relation to general meetings when drafting the usual resolutions dealing with those matters.
In each case, resolutions are presented to the AGM to give the Board flexibility to respond to market developments.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2017 to purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued and authorised share capital.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority for a further year will be proposed.
No shares were purchased by the Company during the year.
The Corporate Governance Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc Signed on behalf of the Board Charles Jacobs Senior Independent Director 26 February 2018
