48 48 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 VIABILITY STATEMENT & GOING CONCERN STATEMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH PROVISION C. 2.2 OF THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE, AND TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE GROUPS CURRENT POSITION AND ITS PRINCIPAL RISKS FOR A PERIOD LONGER THAN THE 12 MONTHS REQUIRED BY THE GOING CONCERN STATEMENT, MANAGEMENT PREPARED A VIABILITY ANALYSIS WHICH WAS ASSESSED BY THE BOARD FOR APPROVAL.
The Directors reviewed the viability It was determined that none of the Scenario 4: Flooding at a mine.
An period and confirmed that a five-year individual risks would in isolation unforeseen fault containing water is cut period to December 2022 remained compromise the Groups viability.
The into, with water then entering the mine suitable, in line with the nature of Directors therefore went on to Group in excess of pumping capacity, thereby planning in the mining industry and the principal risks into the following severe halting production of one of the main Companys five-year forecast period but plausible scenarios, in each case areas in the mine.
The ramp-up to normally used to evaluate liquidity and determining the risk proximity how pre-event production levels commences contingency plans.
This is important, soon the risk could occur and velocity once management determines that it is given that our business activities cover the speed with which the impact of a safe to do so.
Singular event the full value chain from exploration to risk could be felt : mine operation.
It allows us to model Scenario 5: Action by the government capital expenditure and development Scenario 1: Impact of metal prices and at a mine.
Explosives are stolen on site programmes planned during the global macroeconomic developments.
causing the authorities to suspend the timeframe, and reflects cash flows Over a period of a year, precious metal mines explosives permit.
Production generated by the projects currently prices fall and then remain at a low is halted while an investigation into under development.
Due to the long level for the following four years of the matter is completed.
Once permits business cycles in our industry, the the viability period, varying between have been restored, production ramps Directors considered that a shorter US$1,130-1,225 per gold oz.
and back up to pre-event levels.
time period would be insufficient.
To create Principal risk this impartial projection for the future Reporting on the Companys viability low metal price environment, the Scenario 6: Access to land at a mine.
requires the Directors to consider Directors used an average of the three Conflicts with local communities arise those principal risks that could lowest forecasts from each year of the resulting in the Company having to impair the solvency and liquidity of the assessment, based on consensus cease operations, until negotiations Company.
In order to determine those estimates published by institutional can be finalised and the land can be risks, the Directors robustly assessed financial analysts.
This low metal price re-occupied.
Principal risk the Group-wide principal risks and environment was deemed to be the operation-specific risks by undertaking most significant risk and pervasive Scenario 7: San Julin suspension consultations with executive across the Company.
Principal risk due to government actions.
Members management, mine managers and of the local community are poisoned other personnel across our operations.
Scenario 2: Bench collapse at an open due to the rupturing of a cyanide tank.
Through these conversations, the pit mine.
A landslide occurs covering Pressure from social activists results Directors also identified low probability, the lower pit of one of our mines.
Due in the Mexican government withdrawing high loss scenarios singular events to the unexpected nature of the event, all permits, with no intention of with the potential magnitude to fatalities occur.
Production is gradually reinstating them in the future.
This severely impact the solvency and or ramped back up and re-established to leads to the permanent closure of the liquidity of Fresnillo.
Singular event San Julin mine for the duration of the viability period, while mitigating actions For the purpose of assessing the Scenario 3: Tailings dam breach at are executed.
Principal risk Groups viability, the Directors identified a mine.
A tailings dam collapses and that of the principal risks detailed on tailings are released into the surrounding page 35, the following are the most area, causing environmental damage.
important: A fund is created by the Company to be Impact of metal prices and global used to remediate and compensate for macroeconomic developments, any damages caused.
The investigation specifically volatility in the prices of into the causes of the event is drawn gold and silver over a period of time.
out and further time is needed for all Access to land.
environmental permits to be reinstated.
Potential actions by the As a result, the mine remains closed government which could include throughout the viability assessment a delay in obtaining permits and or period.
Principal risk new restrictive regulations.
FRESNILL FRESNILLO O STRA STRATEGIC TEGIC CORPORA CORPORATE TE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL T TO OD DAY AY REPORT REPORT GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 49 49 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 The hypothetical scenarios above are and investment fund available for sale events as they develop.
Dedicated extremely severe in order to create of US$20 million positions Fresnillo personnel for managing media, outcomes that have the ability to plc in a healthy financial situation.
In engaging with authorities and other threaten the viability of the Group.
addition, the current macroeconomic stakeholders are appointed at each However, multiple control measures circumstances, metal prices and level of the organisation, depending are in place to prevent and mitigate any exchange rates MXN USD, contribute on the magnitude of the crisis.
Should any of these to the preservation of a positive cash scenarios take place, various options balance position through the In connection with longer-term viability, are available to the Company in order scenarios assessed.
the US$800 million Senior Notes issued to maintain sufficient liquidity to in 2013 are due for repayment in 2023, continue in operation.
When quantifying The lowest cash balance level was one year after the end of the viability the expected financial impact and identified in scenario number seven, review period.
It is currently anticipated remediation time required for each of in combination with the low metal that all or part of these US$800 million these risks, management performed prices scenario.
However, even in will be refinanced.
If, however, market benchmarking against the Groups this scenario a positive cash balance conditions then will not permit own experience and against publicly would be maintained throughout the refinancing on acceptable terms, under available information on relevant, viability period, with a minimum level all the scenarios outlined above with similar incidents in the mining industry.
of US$197 million during the third depressed metal prices, the Company year 2020, meaning that mitigating would have adequate resources to All scenarios were first evaluated using actions would not be required.
Risk repay the US$800 million in full.
1 average metal prices, and once the management and internal control mitigation plans had been applied systems are in place page 34 Based on the results of this robust where necessary, it was decided that throughout the Group.
Through the analysis and having considered the there was no threat to the viability of the internal control systems, the Directors established controls for the risks and Company.
To create a more stringent monitor key variables that have the the available mitigating actions, the test and further challenge the resilience ability to impact the liquidity and Directors have a reasonable expectation of the Group, all scenarios were then solvency of the Group, and we are that the Group will be able to continue overlaid with scenario one, low metal confident that management is able in operation and meet its liabilities as prices and then re-evaluated.
to sufficiently mitigate any situations they fall due over the five-year period of as they might occur.
This longerWhen these scenarios were reterm assessment process supports the modelled, none led to an extremely low Risk mitigation and control measures Directors statements on both viability, or negative cash balance because the that are in place include a Crisis as set out above, and going concern, strong cash balance at the end of 2017 Committee, while the Board would set out below.
US$896 million comprising cash and also be briefed and convened as cash equivalents of US$876 million necessary, in order to respond to 31 December 2019.
In addition, they could be deferred without GOING CONCERN STATEMENT reviewed a more conservative cash adversely affecting production The Groups business activities, flow scenario with reduced silver and profiles throughout the period.
together with the factors likely gold prices of US$15.6 and US$1,133, Finally management could amend to affect its future development, respectively, throughout this period, the mining plans to concentrate on performance and position are set while maintaining current budgeted production with a higher margin in out above in the Strategic Review on expenditure approved by the Executive order to accelerate cash generation pages 8-115.
This resulted in our without affecting the integrity of the of the Group, its cash flows and current cash balances reducing mine plans.
liquidity position are described in the over time but maintaining ample Financial Review in pages 104-115. liquidity throughout the period.
After reviewing all of the above In addition, note 31 to the financial considerations, the Directors statements includes the Groups The Directors have further calculated have a reasonable expectation objectives, policies and processes prices US$12.5 and US$865 for silver that management have sufficient for managing its capital: its financial and gold, respectively, which should flexibility in adverse circumstances risk management objectives: details they prevail to the end of 2019, would to maintain adequate resources to of its financial instruments and result in cash balances decreasing continue in operational existence hedging activities: and its exposures to minimal levels by the end of 2019, for the foreseeable future.
The to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Directors, therefore, continue to adopt the going concern basis of In making their assessment of the Should metal prices remain below accounting in preparing the annual Groups ability to manage its future the stressed prices above for an financial statements.
cash requirements, the Directors extended period, management have have considered the Company and identified specific elements of capital Group budgets and the cash flow and exploration expenditures which forecasts for the period to 1 The average metals price derived from a range of Financial Institutions analysis as of December 2017.
