Oncology IVF Maternity & Fertility Neurology Mothercare Nephrology Orthopedics S L A C Strategic Report Business Model How We Operate Community Est.
1975 c. 108,900 SKUs Local City Regional UAE Est.
2015 265 beds CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE Est.
1975 1,168 beds HEALTHCARE DIVISION CONTINUES HEALTHCARE INCREASING... AS WELL AS TO TO INCREASE SHARE OF TOP AND CONTRIBUTION TO TOP LINE... PROFITABILITY BOTTOM LINES NMCs business is built upon 5 distinct R Re ev five en nue ue S Sha har re e EBITDA Share business verticals, 4 within Healthcare as well as Product Distribution.
The 2017 2017 Companys primary focus in terms of 70.5% 29.5% 87.3% 12.7% expansion remains in the Healthcare 2016 2016 businesses, as a result of which its 65.6% 34.4% 83.7% 16.3% contribution to the top and bottom lines 2015 2015 continues to increase.
Management 56.8% 43.2% 75.9% 24.1% expects this trend to continue.
Healthcare Healthcare Distribution Distribution Source: NMC Source: NMC 18 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I T R E V Pediatrics Infrastructure network Distribution Cosmetics Operational know-how & experience Operation & Management Urology Home care Long-term & Home Care Multi-specialty network Cardiology Long-term care I. II.
V. Healthcare Distribution The primary source of NMCs revenue a dual focus on 1 unaddressed medical PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION & WHOLESALE and net income generation is provision service requirements and 2 filling in NMCs distribution business ranks as one of medical services to the Companys geographic gaps within its target of the largest in the UAE, offering over patient base.
These range from outpatient markets.
The former is achieved by 108,900 products across five verticals: and inpatient services provided at NMCs continuous development of Centres Pharma, Medical equipment & network of clinics and hospitals to medical of Excellence, which are then upgraded consumables, Consumer, Education diagnostics and sales at pharmacies.
The to business vertical status, where and Veterinary.
With regards to the Groups encompasses all of NMCs hospitals, geographic spread, NMC continues to Despite being characterised by a slower remains the single largest contributor to expand its network within existing growth profile than that for the the Companys income, accounting for markets, as well as entering new Healthcare division, Distribution remains 72% of Healthcare revenues in 2017.
Insured countries, to capitalise on opportunities.
a vital part of NMCs business.
In addition individuals account for the majority of to healthy top and bottom line NMCs patient base and as such insurance From a geographic standpoint, NMC has contribution, the Distribution division accounts for 80% of Healthcare revenues, adopted a three-tiered approach for its offers three distinct benefits: while cash payments account for the Healthcare division: remainder.
Insurance claims are typically 1 Strategic market intelligence due to processed over a 90-day time period.
The GCC remains the primary focus its role as one of the leading suppliers With regards to the Distribution business, for expansion of the groups own to healthcare and FMCG companies NMC offers its clients an end-to-end solution.
Outside NMCs in the UAE: Customers are offered payment terms home market of UAE, Saudi Arabia 2 Consistent cash flow generation ranging from 1 month for small enterprises represents the largest opportunity and throughout the year and: to 120 days for large corporations.
NMC also as such remains a key focus area for 3 Synergistic opportunities for improving acquires inventory as part of the distribution future growth.
efficiencies at businesses being chain and as such, the business requires 2.
Given the nascent stage of IVF managed by NMC under Operation funding for working capital.
technology around the world, fertility is & Management contracts.
being developed as a global business HEALTHCARE DIVISION by NMC.
As the worlds second largest NMCs Distribution offers a complete The Healthcare division is built upon 4 player in the fragmented IVF market, supply chain solution, with a wide range verticals: multi-specialty, maternity & the Group is well positioned to become of services offered to clients: sales, fertility, long-term & home care and a consolidator in the fertility space.
marketing, merchandising, promotions, Operations & Management.
The O&M vertical is being utilised to warehousing, delivery, analytics and 51 facilities across its healthcare network, extend NMCs reach beyond the GCC technical service.
The Groups distribution with a total of 1539 licensed beds, along into wider emerging markets.
In capabilities are supported by a network with another 78 managed facilities.
In addition to generating high-margin of over 725,000 sqft of warehousing space terms of geographic reach, NMCs facilities revenues, O&M contracts provide NMC across the UAE, more than 230 vehicles both owned and managed are spread with vital market intelligence on new and 820 professionals across the entire across 13 countries.
markets, which could subsequently value chain ensuring that over 13,000 translate into further growth customers of the Distribution division are NMC continues to cater to underserved opportunities for the Groups own catered to properly.
segments of the healthcare industry, with healthcare network.
1,539 LICENSED BEDS SPREAD ACROSS INSURED PATIENTS MAIN SOURCE 13 COUNTRIES OF HEALTHCARE REVENUES Licensed beds by country Revenue mix for Healthcare business UAE 75% Insurance 80% KSA 18% Cash 20% Source: NMC Oman 7% Source: NMC NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19
