Governance Directors Report The Directors of NMC Health plc are pleased to present their Annual Report including the audited consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and forms part of the management report as required under Disclosure & Transparency Rule 4.
Certain information required to be set out in this Directors Report can be found elsewhere in the 2017 Annual Report and is referenced below.
This information is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
DIRECTORS STATEMENTS The Directors are required to make a statement regarding the preparation of the financial statements and also to provide details regarding the disclosure of information to the Companys auditor.
The Code also requires the Board to review and make statements in relation to managements report on internal controls, the adoption of the Going Concern method of accounting and the long term viability of the Group.
All of these statements are set out on pages 82 to 85.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 41 to 57 is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY The Strategic Report set out on pages 12 to 35 includes the Companys business model and strategy.
DIRECTORS The following served as directors of the Company during the 2017 financial year: Director H. J.
Mark Tompkins Dr B. R. Shetty Prasanth Manghat Khalifa Bin Butti see note below Hani Buttikhi see note below Dr Ayesha Abdullah Abdulrahman Basaddiq Jonathan Bomford Lord Clanwilliam Salma Hareb Keyur Nagori see note below Binay Shetty see note below Dr Nandini Tandon Mr Keyur Nagori and Mr Binay Shetty both resigned as Directors of the Company with effect from 28 June 2017.
Mr Khalifa Bin Butti and Mr Hani Buttikhi were both appointed as Directors of the Company on 28 June 2017.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE All information relating to the Companys capital structure, including changes to the Companys share capital in the year, the rights attaching to shares, details of the Companys principal shareholders and other shareholder information in contained on page 160.
DIVIDENDS Details of the Companys dividend policy and proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 31 December 2017 are set out in the Financial Review on page 25.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 C In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in the Annual Report, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors Report, with the exception of transactions with controlling shareholders which is set out on pages 135 to 136 note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and interest capitalised which is set out on pages 128 to 129 note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT The way in which the Group engages with its employees, and the Groups approach to diversity, is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 32 to 35.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Companys disclosure in relation to its greenhouse gas emissions is included within the sustainability section of the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 34 to 35.
78 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. POLITICAL DONATIONS Neither the Company nor any subsidiary company in the Group made any political donations during the year ended 31 December 2017.
Whilst the Company has no intention of making formal political donations in the future, the Board acknowledge that given the wide interpretation of such donations, certain business events in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or the Board, may wish to participate may be caught under the formal definition of political donations.
The Company will therefore again be seeking approval from shareholders at this years annual general meeting, for a small approved limit for political donations, for use in such circumstances.
If this is approved by shareholders, the Board will provide full details of any such payments made in the next annual report.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, and the exposure of the Group to financial instruments, are included in note 36 to the financial statements on pages 141 to 142.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Details of any important and material events affecting the Group which have occurred since the end of the 2017 financial year, are set out in note 41 to the consolidated financial statements on page 145.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The Groups strategy and potential future development are outlined in the Group Strategic Report on pages 12 to 35.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Eugin Foundation, part of the Clinica Eugin business, carries out research and development focused on fertility and human reproduction with particular regards to personal and social aspects as well as promotion of health.
BRANCHES The Group normally operates across all jurisdictions where it has a business presence through the incorporation of registered entities, but also operates through a number of branches where this is considered appropriate from an operational or regulatory perspective.
A detailed list of entities and branches in the Group is provided in section 2.2 of financial statements.
CONTRACTS OF SIGNIFICANCE AND CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT Under UAE law and regulations, with the exception of certain specific areas designated by the Government as such, all land must be held legally by a UAE National.
In addition, all healthcare facility and pharmacy operating licences may only be held legally by a UAE National, and not a body corporate.
As a result, some of the property owned beneficially by the Group and all the Groups medical facility and pharmacy licences, are held legally in the name of either H. E. Saeed Bin Butti or Mr Khalifa Bin Butti, both continuing significant shareholders of the Company.
The Company has an agreement with Dr B R Shetty, H. E. Saeed Bin Butti and Khalifa Bin Butti Controlling Shareholders under which the Controlling Shareholders agree to comply with the independence provisions of the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Company has complied with the independence provisions contained in that agreement and, as far as the Company are aware, the Controlling Shareholders and any of their associates have also complied with such provisions and the procurement obligations included in the agreement.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 6 March 2018 and is signed on behalf of the Board by: SIMON WATKINS Group Company Secretary NMC Health plc registered in England and Wales, number 7712220 Level 1, Devonshire House, One Mayfair Place, London W1J 8AJ NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Financial Statements Financial Statements The Company has concentrated on structuring its financing facilities to ensure a strong balance sheet for the medium to long term.
80 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81
