Strategic Report Our Strategy Since its IPO in 2012, NMC has been successfully implementing a three-part growth strategy, with the first stage entailing capacity build-up from 2012 onwards, a shift in focus towards capabilities from 2015 onwards and geographic expansion beyond UAE from 2016 onwards.
An update to the Groups strategy was NMC has made considerable progress 1 Addition of new verticals: NMC intends announced in 2015, which highlighted on its strategic goals, the most notable to add new healthcare verticals, the following: of these include: focusing on highly underserved segments in the UAE, as well as the Accelerate the establishment of Successful execution of the organic wider GCC.
Furthermore, the Group Centres of Excellence in key specialties expansion plan outlined during NMCs continues to develop its underlying within its existing hospitals: IPO.
The major asset additions in this Centers of Excellence, with the Increase its participation in the rapidly regard include Brightpoint Royal potential for some to be upgraded to growing medical tourism industry Womens Hospital, NMC General new verticals in the medium term.
within the UAE by establishing its Hospital Dubai Investment Park and 2 Targeting wider emerging markets: facilities as a destination of choice for NMC Royal Super Specialty Hospital.
After successfully growing its medical tourists: Expansion of NMCs portfolio of geographic footprint outside the UAE, Grow its medical specialty offering medical services and geographic NMC is now expanding its target and clinic network within the UAE and footprint in the UAE through carefully market focus from the GCC to wider maximising operational synergies in executed acquisitions and emerging markets for the healthcare the region: investments.
The Distribution business will Selectively establish a strategic include ProVita and Americare, which continue to be focused on the UAE.
presence outside the UAE via led to NMCs entry into the long-term 3 Fertility to be developed as a global acquisitions of, or collaborations with, and homecare markets, as well as business: NMCs fertility business leading global medical institutions in Dr.
Sunny Network and Al Zahra remains the only exception within the order to further enhance and expand Hospital, which have helped NMC healthcare segment, as it will continue the technological know-how and become the dominant healthcare to be developed globally.
Given the medical expertise available across all provider in the Sharjah emirate.
nascent stage of the fertility sector of NMCs facilities: and NMCs ranking as the second largest around the world, both developed and Increase its footprint in Saudi Arabia fertility treatment provider in the world emerging markets offer substantial and the broader Gulf Cooperation through a combination of acquisitions, growth opportunities.
As the worlds Council GCC region via organic particularly of Clinica Eugin in Spain second largest player in the initiatives and acquisitions.
and Fakih IVF in UAE, as well as fragmented IVF market, NMCs strategy organic growth.
of developing an institutionalised Expansion in to the GCC healthcare business makes it a prime candidate market through establishment of a to become a global consolidator.
firm foothold in Oman and Saudi 4 Rapid adoption and deployment of Arabia.
NMC continues to rapidly technological innovation: NMC aims increase its presence in the GCC to embrace technological disruption through a combination of acquisitions instead of becoming disrupted by it.
A number of innovative projects are already under way that will 1 add new NMCs enlarged size, both in terms services which were not achievable of medical service offerings and previously without new technology, geographical footprint, now offers the 2 improve patient experience and 3 Group substantial new growth improve operational efficiencies.
As a result, the Group is developing a robust innovation recently announced a further update to structure and will not rely on its strategy, which is aimed at enhancing acquisitions alone.
the depth and breadth of the existing infrastructure.
The augmented Growth Strategy entails: 20 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
