S E I G R E N Y Overview Value from Acquisition Strategy Post-acquisition Integration and Synergy Benefits IDENTIFYING AND DEVELOPING SYNERGIES THAT FOSTER VALUE CREATION Our approach to integration has been Our approach to integration has been to: to bring in greater operational efficiencies simple yet effective.
communicate our values: and improving patient experience.
give a new direction to the acquired We recognise that each entity has its entities: and NMC continues to encourage and support own focus areas and has developed and focus on identifying synergies in the entrepreneurial drive that has made updated its unique business model over specific areas that are not disruptive each of our businesses and brands a the years to suit its specific business to the business.
success in their own marketplaces by requirements.
Becoming a part of a larger allowing them the managerial freedom group like NMC opens the resources and This has allowed our entities to mutually to identify and pursue win-win synergies know-how of the wider Group to the share their knowledge and best practices with the wider Group.
entity while it continues to focus on what it does best.
By developing specialised verticals within RESOURCE INTEGRATION OPERATIONAL SYNERGIES THROUGH the broader healthcare delivery platform, AND OPTIMISATION SHARING TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE NMC has been able to integrate gradually NMC has established a rigorous program AND STANDARDISED PROTOCOLS with all its acquisitions thus providing to achieve optimum resource sharing Capitalising on Eugins R&D activities and sufficient time for growth and synergy.
including back office integration in HR, excellence in medical management, NMC Finance, IT, fleet and facilities, and medical has integrated the technical know-how NMCs collaborative approach to operations to ensure full value potential by sharing protocols and analysing results integration provides operational is achieved.
This has given enhanced autonomy to the acquired entities.
patient care outcomes and resulted in We then look for specific activities that, FINANCIAL EXPERTISE, FUNDING negotiations for competitive pricing for if coordinated, will yield cost savings or CAPABILITIES AND MANAGEMENT the new services offered.
enhance revenues without disrupting INTEGRATION either companys core business.
A professional and effective managerial initiative through a more defined team CENTRALISED PROCUREMENT structure, with optimal deployment of AND COST OPTIMISATION resources, and appropriate supervision We have consolidated the procurement and controls has enabled alignment function across the Group in UAE and of the Group-wide objectives and outside UAE in Spain, enabling the Group achievement of cost synergies.
to take advantage of its scale to get preferential terms from suppliers.
8 8 N NM MC H C He ea allt th p h pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 S T S O C S E I G R E N Y S I. Overview II.
V. We have deployed effective financial The role of NMC leadership and management controls from the Group into each of has been to encourage open dialogue between our acquired businesses and put in place robust financial reporting standards and the different units and to facilitate the unified consolidation processes.
implementation of synergy-yielding opportunities We believe our integration strategy identified by the businesses.
has created within each of the acquired businesses a strong sense of shared PRASANTH MANGHAT purpose and belonging to the NMC family, Chief Executive Officer paving the way to pursue value adding synergies and efficiencies.
The effort and initiative shown by each PROJECT EXPANSION MANAGEMENT A DIFFERENTIATED FERTILITY PLATFORM business to identify synergy yielding CAPABILITIES AND TRACK-RECORD ADAPTED TO EACH OF ITS MARKETS opportunities has even brought in The alignment of our internal processes NMC fertility has developed a panrevenue synergies while also resulting has enabled us to achieve  presence across Middle East, in improved patient care.
wide expansion projects such as: Europe and Latin America that gives the the early commissioning of a 26 bed scale and flexibility to drive quality, access THE STARTING POINT FOR A CONTINUUM long term care wing at NMC Royal to treatment and innovation.
An intricate OF CARE CROSS REFERRALS Hospital last year: and network of clinics helps patient referrals Leveraging the wide spectrum of services a 16 bed long term acute care unit at Al and transfers within the Group and our delivered by the different entities in the Zahra Hospital, Sharjah taking ProVitas patients can choose to receive treatment Group, NMC has been able to create a success story and expertise to Sharjah, at any facility in any country.
Our agile Continuum of Care for its large patient bringing easier access to long term platform provides us with an unrivalled base.
Thanks to a well-established cross care services for patients in the advantage of shifting or transporting referral system, over 2,000 patients have Northern Emirates of UAE.
sperms and embryos from one country benefited from this and were able to to another, thus saving on time and achieve a seamless patient experience PAYOR RELATIONS, REVENUE CYCLE dramatically reducing waiting periods.
AND CLAIMS MANAGEMENT NMCs expertise in revenue cycle CROSS PRACTICING DOCTORS AND management and its wider network SHARING EXPERTISE IN COMPLEX CASES.
of insurance companies has helped us Integrating the medical resources and to add more mid-tier insurance networks clinical capabilities across the Group, NMC to Al Zahra Hospital Sharjah enabling has been able to introduce new services reach to a wider patient base.
The training at its facilities.
Cross-practising of doctors imparted by the NMC team has also has enabled the introduction of improved the efficiency of claims specialised treatments such as IVF, management processes across cardiothoracic surgery, long term care, the Group.
bariatrics and aesthetics at various facilities across the Group.
N NM MC H C He ea allt th p h pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 9 9 E U N E V E R
