Financial Statements Directors Statements STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are required by Company Law to prepare financial statements for the Group and the Company in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The financial statements are required to present fairly for each financial period the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
In preparing the Group and parent company financial statements the Directors are also required to: Properly select and consistently apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors also confirm that they consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm to the best of our knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITORS Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors: The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors Report are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys Auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is, information needed by the groups Auditor in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
EY have confirmed that they are willing to be reappointed as auditor for the financial year ending 31 December 2018.
GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY GOING CONCERN The Group has two diverse operating divisions, both of which operate in a growing market.
Management have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to.
In this assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, management have considered: Operating risk: The management team prepare a Group budget for each financial year and a cashflow forecast for the following 18 months which allows the Board to monitor the financial position of the Group and to consider appropriate risks which the business may face from a financial perspective.
Included in this review are future cashflow, both acquisition costs and subsequent cashflow generation, associated with acquisitions agreed but not completed at the end of the 2017 financial year.
The Board receives monthly management reports covering key operational matters, monthly comparison to budget and updated forecasts on a half yearly basis for the full financial year to ensure that the business is trading in line with its expectations.
82 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY CONTINUED GOING CONCERN CONTINUED Financing risk: The Company has worked to structure its financing facilities for the medium and long term as well as utilising short term facilities to meet the Groups working capital requirements.
The Group entered into two syndicated loan facilities amounting to US$825m and US$350m in 2017.
New facilities are repayable over 60 and 84 monthly instalments respectively with a grace period of twelve months.
The Group has banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups.
Debt covenants are reviewed by the board each month.
The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group and the spread of bankers providing these facilities mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its acquisitive growth strategy and in relation to working capital requirements.
Customer and Supplier risk: The Group delivered a robust performance in 2017 both at the overall and at the divisional level primarily due to strong in-patient and out-patient performance at our existing hospitals and medical centres including the new sites commissioned during the previous years.
The acquired assets over the fertility segment, homecare and long term segments as well as the chains for clinics and pharmacies in the emirate of Sharjah delivered good performance.
The Board has reviewed a high level budget for 2018 as well as considered growth forecasts for the healthcare sector in UAE, in particular the continued positive impact from the introduction of mandatory healthcare insurance in Dubai, and from the Groups newly opened and newly acquired businesses, and considers the Groups future forecasts to be reasonable.
Impairment risk: The Board has considered the carrying value and useful economic lives of inventories, accounts receivable, property and equipment and intangible assets and concluded that there are no indicators of material impairment of these items and therefore no material cash flow impact associated with any loss in those areas.
In its review, management also considered other areas of potential risk, including regulatory risk, insurance and legal risks and potential areas of material contingent liability and found no matters which are likely to affect the viability of the Group in the medium term.
The Board has reviewed and considered managements formal assessment of the going concern concept of accounting and the cash flow forecast that has been prepared for the period to 30 June 2019 and has concluded that this assessment and forecast indicates that the Group has positive cash flows with sufficient headroom and will comply with all debt covenants.
The Directors therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
VIABILITY To protect longer term shareholder value, the Board have always considered how Group performance and its strategic decisions will affect the financial and operational prospects of the Group in the longer term.
As recommended by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have conducted a formal assessment of the prospects of the Group over a longer period than the 12 months review period required under the Going Concern basis of accounting.
As part of this assessment for consideration by the Board, Management conducted a formal viability review looking forward for a period of three years.
This period was selected as the most appropriate timeframe over which the prospects of the Group should be considered given the Groups recent acquisitions, changing nature, significant growth, the time taken to fully integrate acquired businesses and ramp-up newly opened facilities and the maturity date of current debt obligations.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Financial Statements Directors Statements continued GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY CONTINUED VIABILITY CONTINUED In its review, management considered the current position of the Group and the following principal risks associated with the business: Description Potential impact and mitigation a Risks associated with investments Discussed in the risk management section of the annual report b The impact of market competition investments Discussed in the risk management section of the annual report c The impact of regulatory changes with respect Implementation of VAT to the implementation of VAT in the GCC and Earlier in the year, the Gulf Cooperative Council GCC member states diagnostic based billing in the UAE : agreed on a common framework for the introduction of Value Added Tax VAT.
The framework agreement was published in April 2017 and since then both the UAE and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia KSA introduced a VAT system with effect from 1 January 2018.
NMC completed its VAT registrations in both the UAE and KSA ahead of this planned implementation of VAT.
As the health care services provided by NMC in both the UAE and KSA are classified as being zero-rated and the Group make minimal supplies that are categorised as being exempt, the implementation of VAT is not likely to result in any material erosion of Group profitability.
The implementation of VAT may however have some impact on the groups working capital requirements due to the time lag between the recovery of any VAT refunds from the Tax Authority and the payment of any input VAT to our suppliers.
Implementation of diagnostic based billings The Dubai Health Authority announced the implementation of a new health insurance payment system across the Emirate of Dubai Diagnosis Related Groups.
This is now expected to be implemented later in 2018.
Preparations are ongoing for the implementation of Diagnosis Related Groups in Dubai with NMC planning to implement shadow billing prior to the full implementation.
d Potential instability associated with the The regulatory, political and macroeconomic environment in which regulatory and macroeconomic environment the Group operates can provide volatility and have an effect on Group in which the Company operates.
In the GCC, the price of oil can have an effect of both government and business spending and confidence, including governments approach to healthcare provision.
In addition, the evolving regulatory position relating to the structure of healthcare provision in the GCC can result in changes that may be detrimental to NMC and other healthcare providers, An example of such changes is the introduction of a new Diagnostic Related Group payment system in Dubai and the new JAWDAH performance based insurance re-imbursement system introduced by the Health Authority of Abu Dhabi.
Finally, uncertainty in global financial markets may affect the Group in relation to its exposure to currency fluctuations and ability to raise financing for Group operations and future strategic growth.
Any downturn in major global economies may reduce the flexibility that the Group has in relation to its future strategy.
This includes, but not to any material effect, any uncertainty in European markets as a result of the Brexit negotiations between the UK and European Union.
Overall, we are confident that NMC is well positioned through its long-term financing arrangements, appropriate treasury policies and procedures and increasing breadth of service provision and geographic spread to cope with the changing macroeconomic and regulatory environment.
84 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY CONTINUED VIABILITY CONTINUED The three-year review considered the Groups profitability, cash flows, banking covenants and other key financial ratios over the period.
The plan makes certain assumptions about the ability to refinance debt as it falls due and the acceptable performance of the core revenue streams and market segments.
The plan is stress tested using sensitivity analysis which reflects severe but plausible combinations of the principal financial risks of the business and then the potential impact of each scenario, using certain assumption on the following levers which were stress tested: reductions in revenue per patient: reduction in market share impacting the number of patients and occupancies: increase manpower cost due to shortage of talent: cost escalation due to inflation and new tax regime: impact on revenue due to currency fluctuations: increase in accounts receivable debtor days due to increase in insurance business: a larger increase in accounts receivable debtor days than expected: and increase in interest rate.
Where appropriate, an analysis was carried out to evaluate the potential impact of any of these principal risks actually occurring.
Based on the results of this formal assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of the assessment.
By Order of the Board SIMON WATKINS Group Company Secretary NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85
