Overview Joint Chairmens 2017 Report to Shareholders CONTINUED GROWTH, EFFICIENCY AND EXTENSION OF REACH 2017 was largely a year in which the Group focused on integration and the realisation of Group synergies and efficiencies.
FOREWORD FROM INDEPENDENT Dear Shareholder, These changes have resulted in an NON-EXECUTIVE JOINT CHAIRMAN efficient operational structure focused on A key change in the structure of our We are writing to you at the end of a year clear business verticals within our management team occurred in March in which much progress has again been divisional segments and overseen 2017 when our founder and one of our made by your Company in the continued through a more extensive management principal shareholders, Dr B R Shetty, execution of its growth strategy and its structure.
In addition, integration projects decided to step down from his day to day integration of the businesses now have enabled the Group to consolidate Executive role in the Group.
Dr Shetty has making up the wider NMC Group.
a number of back-office processes and been instrumental in the development structures.
This focus in 2017 leaves the and continued success of the NMC Health 2017 has seen Group Revenue increase Group well placed and efficiently Group over the last 45 years.
Under his from US$1.2bn in 2016 to US$1.6bn in structured to progress with further guidance and commitment, NMC has 2017 with Consolidated EBITDA also growth initiatives.
grown from a small clinic in Abu Dhabi, increasing by 43.6% to US$353.4m over to a multi-national Group providing an the same period.
This continued excellent OPERATIONAL EXPANSION extensive network of healthcare services growth and strong support from our Our existing facilities also performed across 13 countries.
In addition, NMC investor base has resulted in a market well during the year.
Our 250 licensed operates one of the top 3 IVF businesses capitalisation as of the end of February bed flagship super specialty Hospital, NMC in the World together with a significant 2018 of 7.1bn.
Royal Hospital, in the Khalifa City suburb distribution business.
The NMC Group and of Abu Dhabi, which opened for inpatient the Board are extremely grateful to INTEGRATION AND EFFICIENCIES services in 2016 continues to ramp up Dr Shetty for his vision and very deep 2017 commenced with completion well, as have Brightpoint Royal Womens commitment to NMC over those 45 years of our largest acquisition to date, Al Zahra Hospital in Abu Dhabi and NMC General and we were delighted that he accepted Hospital in Sharjah, UAE.
The acquisition Hospital Dubai Investment Park.
Our IVF the role of Non-Executive Joint Chairman, of Al Zahra Hospital provided the businesses and our Long-Term acute a role in which his continued guidance Company with a unique opportunity care business, ProVita, have continued to and regional knowledge and standing to increase its presence in the attractive grow significantly taking advantage of the particularly benefits the Board and Group.
Sharjah market in the UAE.
A number of opportunities now available for expansion other acquisitions were completed during of their specific business areas across our the year, particularly focused on enlarged healthcare network.
MARK TOMPKINS geographic expansion outside of our Independent Non-Executive home market and further into the GCC.
STRATEGY Joint Chairman Our year one performance achieved in Having successfully progressed our initial our new Saudi Arabian and Oman organic growth strategy followed by businesses was encouraging.
a period of acquisition-led growth, 2017 was largely a year in which the Group 2017 has also been an important year focused on integration and the realisation of consolidation.
Alongside our strategic of Group synergies and efficiencies.
This growth plan, we have been keen to set in place an organisational structure ensure that the enlarging group is which provides the Group with a good integrated appropriately to enhance platform for future strategic growth.
asset utilisation and Group performance.
The Board has been extremely pleased In December 2017, we re-iterated and with managements partnership updated our growth strategy.
In addition approach to integration which has to adding additional healthcare verticals allowed the Group to incorporate and developing Fertility as a global business and organisational structure business, focus will be to expand the changes, with commitment and drive provision of healthcare services from both existing and acquired geographically both within the GCC businesses, to ensure that the Group and in other selected emerging markets.
operates as efficiently as possible.
In addition, the Group intends to embrace 10 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. Overview II.
V. technological innovation to ensure that The Board continues to have a wide OUTLOOK its long term success within the cultural and ethnic mix, significant female Economic conditions remain positive healthcare sector is secured.
representation and a wide range of skills in most of the markets in which we and operational experience from different operate.
Moreover, the ongoing drive DIVIDEND parts of the world.
Shareholders can to increase private healthcare As a result of our growth, good therefore take continued re-assurance participation in a number of our primary performance and continuing financial that different viewpoints are well markets, rising affluence and increasing stability, your Board intends to retain its represented during board discussions.
awareness of the importance of dividend payment policy of distributing proactive healthcare result in generally a dividend of approximately 20% of profit The increasing size of the Group and the favourable conditions within our areas after tax.
Therefore, the Board plans to Boards focus on continued strategic of operation and your Board continues submit a resolution to shareholders at growth, has led Prasanth Manghat to to view the outlook for your Group the 2018 Annual General Meeting restructure and provide additional depth with confidence.
authorising payment of a cash dividend to his management team.
This should of 13 pence per share, an increase of 22.6% ensure that the demands of the Groups compared to the 2016 dividend payment.
additional business streams, and in H. J.
MARK TOMPKINS particular the pressure of geographical Independent Non-Executive Joint BOARD AND MANAGEMENT CHANGES expansion into new markets, can be Chairman Following Dr Shettys decision to step managed efficiently.
The Group now down from his day to day Executive role, has a wider and more experienced the Board appointed Prasanth Manghat management team which is well placed DR B. R. SHETTY as the Groups new CEO, as part of a to progress our further planned Non-Executive Joint Chairman planned succession plan.
held the position of Deputy CEO for two years prior to his promotion, and was CFO Finally, but certainly not least, the growth of the Group for the 4 years prior that.
achieved by your Company in recent Prasanth has been instrumental in the years, with the share value accretion successful execution of the Groups that this has created, resulted in your strategic growth plan to date and is Company being promoted into the therefore well placed to manage that FTSE-100 index of the London Stock strategy on behalf of the Board and Exchange.
This was a remarkable shareholders going forward.
achievement, and a very proud moment, for our founder and Non-Executive Joint In June 2017, we appointed two new Chairman, Dr B. R. Shetty, as well as our Executive Directors to the Board.
Khalifa CEO, Prasanth Manghat, his management Bin Butti re-joined the Board as Executive team and for the Board.
Such an Vice Chairman and Hani Buttikhi joined achievement against a back-drop of the Board as Chief Investment Officer.
significant growth and transformation, Both Khalifa and Hani are welcome particularly in recent years, is a testament additions to the Board and are focused to the hard work of all our management particularly on supporting Prasanth team and staff since the Groups with driving business growth.
Also in June inception, in growing and delivering 2017 two of our Non-Executive Directors, quality services for our patients and Binay Shetty and Keyur Nagori, stepped returns for our shareholders.
Their contribution continued commitment of our to the Board over recent years was management and staff during this period invaluable and they will be missed of transformational change and growth, in board deliberations.
is much appreciated by the Board.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 Strategic Report Strategic Report Our long-term growth strategy continues to accelerate our expansion into more complex medical, and thus higher value added, specialty healthcare segments.
12 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. PRASANTH MANGHAT Chief Executive Officer Page 14 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
