Strategy in action Responding to market needs Synthomer launches SyNovus Continuing our leadership in synthetic Nitrilelatex in 2017 we launched our latestpatented innovation, SyNovus.
Designed as a low energy Nitrile with reduced maturation needed, SyNovus offers superior tensile strength and higher Accelerator free levels ofdurability and chemical resistance.
Chemical resistance A significant improvement in colour and Durability odour improvement makes SyNovus a Tensile strength superior product of choice for the glove industry.
It is the answer to the industrys needs lower operating costs and improved efficiency, and is accelerator free which is Lower operating costs attractive to glove producers and which helps Reduced maturation reduce the risk of allergic reactions for end improving customer users.
This presents theglove industry with throughput the opportunity todevelop new market Colour and odour opportunities whilstimproving the improvement sustainability of manufacturing processes.
SyNovus is the latest innovation andindustry benchmark for disposable glove manufacturing.
It is a leading solutionthat makes manufacturing smarter, transforming chemistry into business value and safer healthcare for all.
Concept to commercialisation 18 months 20 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Investment in Investment organic growth largest ever capital investment in Synthomer Largest Nitrile latex 45m Pasir Gudang Nitrile latex Emulsion plant 1.
2009 Initial Capacity inSynthomer Located in the heart of 100ktes pa Glove DippingIndustry New Big Reactor Technology Supported by a robust 2.
2013 Phase 1 Expansion supply chain &long term market dynamics 30ktes pa 3.
Future Phase 4 New Capacity 60ktes pa Work on the Phase 3 expansion began in 2016 and hasprogressed safely, on time and onbudget through 2017.
Our dedicated team has so far completed more than 1 million safe hours of work.
All of This project represents a significant the major construction iscomplete commitment to the glove dipping with system handover and market where market demand commissioning starting in Q1 2018 exceeded 1 million tonnes for the and commercial production first time in 2017.
With the global anticipated to begin before the end gloves market growing at circa.
As part of this project, per annum, this investment will allow ground works and infrastructure us to maintain and grow our market have been completed to allow a fast share.
Plans are already well execution of the Phase 4 expansion.
Derick Whyte, Jason Davies, SBU Director, Executive Vice President, Asia Health & Protection Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 21 Strategy in action continued Business growth through acquisition The acquisition of BASF BASF Pischelsdorf Austria: Pischelsdorf underscores Acquired January2018 ourlong term commitment No of sites: 1 toour customers in the paper No of employees: 42 industry, whilst providing uswith an additional site to The Business produces Styrene Butadiene Rubber SBR used in the paper industry, strengthen our network and notably in packaging end-markets and will giving us stronger access enhance Synthomers SBR business and togrowing packaging production network for paper packaging end-markets in Europe.
applications as well as increase the Groups access to attractive new opportunities Bettina Peck, SBU Director, across Europe.
Paper, Carpet and Foam Expands manufacturing network Strengthens market leadership This bolt-on acquisition by our ENAbusiness meets all of the criteria that we apply to M&A opportunities and is a welcome addition to the Group.
Our integration team have been working with the newly acquired business from the date of acquisition to ensure that the process goes to plan and delivers to all stakeholders safely and quickly.
Synthomer is the clear leader in the European market.
Calum MacLean, CEO 22 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Successfully completed business integrations PAC Dispersions R&D location Acquired June 2016 Markets: Dispersions, additives, Sites powder coatings and speciality 1 monomers, Synergies: $12m annualised from 7 end 2018, including further $2m annualised in 2019 Key actions undertaken: Disposal of Leuna Germany site Restructuring of Ribcourt France site We have substantially completed the integration of PAC Dispersions by initiating the final two major actions in 2017 and are on target to achieve and exceed our synergy goals.
Christoph Breucker, Vice President Europe Employees Speciality Additives 760 Acquired March 2017 Markets: Niche performance additivesforthe decorative and industrialcoatings industries Synergies: cross selling opportunities into existing customer scope Employees Key actions undertaken: Deployment of Synthomer ERP Sales and customer services successfully transferred from Perstorp 40 Planning for site expansion Speciality Additives was fully integrated into Synthomer in 2017 which is a testament to the employees there and within the wider Synthomer business.
This speciality additives business, which is highly complementary to our existing markets and customers, has strong market leadership positions #1 or #2 and serves a highly attractive, blue-chip customer base.
Neil Whitley, Vice President Specialities, M&A and HR Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 23
