Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS described on pages 105 to 111, the Directors are required to make The Group operates six defined benefit pension schemes.
All postjudgements other than those involving estimates that have a employment benefits associated with these schemes have been significant impact on the amounts recognised and to make estimates accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
As and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities detailed within the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies on that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and page 111, in accordance with IAS 19, all actuarial gains and losses associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other have been recognised immediately through the Consolidated factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ Statement of Comprehensive Income.
For all defined benefit pension schemes, pension valuations have The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an been performed using specialist advice obtained from independent ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in qualified actuaries.
In performing these valuations, significant the period in which the change takes place if the revision affects only actuarial assumptions have been made to determine the defined that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the benefit obligation, in particular with regard to discount rate, inflation revision affects both current and future periods.
Management considers the key assumption to be the discount rate applied.
In determining the appropriate discount CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING THE GROUPS rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high quality corporate ACCOUNTING POLICIES bonds excluding university bonds.
If the discount rate were to be The following is the critical judgement that the Directors have made increased decreased by 0.1%, this would decrease increase the in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and Groups gross pension scheme deficit by 3.4m as disclosed in Note that has had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 29c.
At 31 December 2017 the Groups retirement benefit obligations Financial Statements.
The judgements involving estimations are dealt were 30.4m 2016: 37.1m.
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFICATION OF OTHER ITEMS IN THE CONSOLIDATED The Group tests goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and INCOME STATEMENT equipment annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are As described in the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies, indications that an impairment may be required.
certain items are presented in the separate column of the Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of Consolidated Income Statement entitled Other items where they the value in use of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
are significant in size and nature, and either they do not form part The key estimates made in the value in use calculation are those of the trading activities of the Group or their separate presentation regarding discount rates, sales growth rates, and expected changes enhances understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
to selling prices and direct costs to reflect the operational gearing Operating results from businesses identified as non-core see Note of the business.
The Directors estimate discount rates using pre-tax 32 of the Financial Statements do not form part of the ongoing rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of trading activities of the Group and are therefore also recorded money for the Group.
separately in Other items in order to enhance the understanding of the ongoing financial performance of the Group.
The nature and For the majority of the CGUs, the Group performs goodwill impairment amounts of the items included in Other items, together with the reviews by forecasting cash flows based upon the following years overall impact on the results for the year, is disclosed in Note 2 of the budget, which anticipates sales growth, and a projection of cash flows Financial Statements.
based upon industry growth expectations 0%-3.4% over a further period of four years.
Where detailed five-year forecasts for a CGU have KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY been prepared and approved by the Board, which can include higher The key estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of growth rates or varied results reflecting specific economic factors, causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of the assets and these are used in preparing cash flow forecasts for impairment review liabilities within the next financial year are detailed below.
After this period, the sales growth rates applied to the cash flow forecasts are no more than 1% and operating profit growth no REBATES RECEIVABLE more than 3.4% in perpetuity.
The discount rates applied to all CGUs Supplier rebate income is significant to the Groups result, with a represent pre-tax rates.
substantial proportion of purchases covered by rebate agreements.
Supplier rebate income affects the recorded value of cost of sales, Assumptions regarding sales and operating profit growth, gross trade payables, trade and other receivables, and inventories.
The margin, and discount rate are considered to be the key areas of amounts payable under rebate agreements are often subject to estimation in the impairment review process, and appropriate negotiation after the balance sheet date.
A number of agreements sensitivities have been performed and disclosed in Note 12. are non-coterminous with the Groups financial year, requiring Impairments are allocated initially against the value of any goodwill estimation over the level of future purchases and sales.
At the and intangible assets held within a CGU, with any remaining balance sheet date the Directors estimate the amount of rebate impairment applied to property, plant and equipment on a pro that will become payable by and due to the Group under these rata basis.
agreements based upon prices, volumes and product mix.
At 31 December 2017 trade payables is presented net of 58.8m 2016: 72.6m restated due from suppliers in respect of supplier rebates where the Group has the right to net settlement, and included within prepayments and accrued income is 55.2m 2016: 52.8m restated due in relation to supplier rebates where there is no right to offset against trade payable balances.
Of these balances, 19.6m relates to agreements which are non-coterminous with the financial year end and therefore involves estimates regarding future purchase and sales, and the amount received could therefore vary from the amount recorded, positively or negatively by c. 5m.
112 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six The carrying amount of relevant non-current assets at 31 December 2017 is 471.6m 2016: 556.9m.
The most recent results of the impairment review process are disclosed in Note 12 and indicated that the carrying value of non-current assets associated with the Groups Building Systems, GRM, IBSL and Metechno CGUs were no longer supportable and the non-current assets have been impaired to reflect the recoverable amount expected from associated sale proceeds or other amounts.
Impairment reviews performed during the year indicated that the carrying value of the Groups other noncurrent assets at 31 December 2017 were considered supportable.
Whilst the Directors consider the assumptions used in the impairment review to be realistic, if actual results are different from expectations then it is possible that the value of goodwill and other intangible assets included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet could become impaired.
These sensitivities are disclosed in Note 12.
PROVISIONS AGAINST RECEIVABLES At 31 December 2017 the Group has recognised trade receivables with a carrying value of 362.3m 2016: 417.0m.
Using information available at the balance sheet date, the Directors make detailed estimates based on experience regarding the level of provision required to account for potentially uncollectible receivables.
Changes in the economic environment or customer-specific circumstances could have an impact on the recoverability of amounts included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2017.
The total provision recorded at 31 December 2017 is 41.1m 2016: 33.9m.
The bad debt to sales ratio of the Group has varied by up to 0.2% over recent periods, therefore this gives an indication that the bad debt experience could vary by c. 6m.
Further detail on trade receivables and the allowance for doubtful accounts recognised is disclosed in Note 16.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS
