Governance | Directors and officers Scott Forbes Peter Brooks-Johnson Robyn Perriss Chairman Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 13 July 2005 10 January 2011 30 April 2013 Committee membership Current external commitments Current external commitments Nomination Chairman None None Current external commitments Previous roles and relevant experience Previous roles and relevant experience Chairman of Ascential plc Peter joined Rightmove in 2006 and became Robyn joined Rightmove in 2007 as Financial Non-Executive Director of Travelport Worldwide Ltd Chief Operating Officer in April 2013 having Controller with responsibility for day to day Chairman of Innasol Group Limited been Managing Director of rightmove.
co. uk financial operations and was promoted to the Chairman of Cars.
com Inc since 2011 and head of the Agency business Board as Finance Director in April 2013.
He was promoted to Chief Executive was also Company Secretary from April 2012 Previous roles and relevant experience Officer in May 2017.
Prior to joining Rightmove, to July 2014 and from June to October 2016.
Chairman of Orbitz Worldwide until September 2015.
Peter was a management consultant with Robyn qualified as a chartered accountant in Director of NetJets Management Ltd, a subsidiary of Accenture and the Berkeley Partnership.
South Africa with KPMG and worked in both Berkshire Hathaway until October 2009.
Scott has over audit and transaction services.
Prior to joining 35 years experience in operations, finance and mergers Rightmove, Robyn was Group Financial and acquisitions including 15 years at Cendant Controller at the online media business, Corporation which was formerly the largest worldwide Auto Trader.
provider of residential property services.
Scott established Cendants international headquarters in London in 1999 and lead this division as Group Managing Director until he joined Rightmove.
Rakhi Goss-Custard Ashley Martin Andrew Findlay Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 28 July 2014 11 June 2009 1 June 2017 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Remuneration, Nomination Audit Chairman, Nomination Audit, Nomination Current external commitments Current external commitments Current external commitments Non-Executive Director of Kingfisher plc Non-Executive Director of Zegona Director of easyJet plc Non-Executive Director of Schroders plc Communications plc Previous roles and relevant experience Non-Executive Director of Intu Properties plc Previous roles and relevant experience Andrew has been the Chief Financial Officer of Non-Executive Director of Be Heard Group plc Ashley qualified as a chartered accountant easyJet plc since 2015.
Before joining easyJet, Previous roles and relevant experience in 1981 and has a career in finance spanning Andrew was Chief Financial Officer of Halfords Rakhi was previously Director of UK Media at 35 years.
He was previously Global Chief Financial plc and prior to that Director of Finance, Tax and Amazon to June 2014.
She held various other Officer of Engine Holding LLC and Group Finance Treasury at Marks and Spencer.
He formerly senior positions during her 11-year tenure at Director of Rok plc, the building services group, held senior finance roles at the London Stock Amazon including Media, Entertainment, and Group Finance Director of the media Exchange and at Cable and Wireless, both in General Merchandise and Book divisions as services company, Tempus plc.
Andrew qualified as a chartered well as Product Development.
Prior to Amazon, accountant with Coopers & Lybrand.
Rakhi previously advised Zappos and held strategy roles at TomTom and Oliver Wyman.
co. uk S Str trategic r ategic r eport eport Governance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Peter Williams Jacqueline fide Rojas CBE Lorna Tilbian Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 3 February 2014 30 December 2016 1 February 2018 Committee membership Committee membership Current external commitments Remuneration, Nomination Non-Executive Director of Jupiter UK Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination Growth Investment Trust plc Current external commitments Current external commitments Non-Executive Directorr of Proven VCT plc President of techUK Chairman of DP Eurasia NV Non-Executive Director of Finsbury Growth Non-Executive Director of Costain Group plc Chairman of boohoo.
com plc & Income Trust PLC Non-Executive Director of AO World plc Chairman of Mister Spex GmbH Non-Executive Director of Euromoney Chairman of U and I plc Previous roles and relevant experience Institutional Investor PLC Jacqueline has been employed throughout her career Previous roles and relevant experience Non-Executive Director M&C Saatchi PLC by global blue-chip software companies and has held Peter was previously senior independent director Previous roles and relevant experience senior positions at Citrix, CA Technologies, McAfee of ASOS plc and Sportech plc, Chairman of Lorna was Executive Director and Head of the and Ascential Software.
She was a non-executive Jaeger, held non-executive director roles in Media Sector in Corporate Broking & Advisory at director of Home Retail Group from 2012 to 2016.
Cineworld Group plc, the EMI group, Blacks Numis Corporation PLC until September 2017.
Jacqueline is an advisor to the Digital Leaders Leisure Group plc, JJB Sports plc, GCap Media plc She was a founder of Numis when it launched in T echnology Group and a passionate advocate for and Capital Radio Group plc.
In his executive 2001 having worked at Sheppards, as a director diversity and inclusion in the workplace with a particular career, Peter was Chief Executive at Alpha Group of SG Warburg and executive director of WestLB focus on getting women and girls into digital careers plc and prior to that, Chief Executive of Selfridges Panmure.
Lorna sits on the Advisory Panel of Tech and studying STEM subjects.
She was awarded a CBE plc where he also acted as Chief Financial Officer City UKs Future Fifty programme and has served for services to international trade in the technology for over ten years.
as a Cabinet Ambassador for Creative Britain industry in the 2018 New Years Honours list.
for the Department of Culture, Media & Sport.
Sandra Odell Company Secretary Appointment as officer to the Board 1 November 2016 Current external commitments None Previous roles and relevant experience Sandra is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Prior to joining Rightmove, Sandra was Company Secretary of Quintain, the London property developer, and before that held various senior company secretarial positions in listed financial services companies.
