Fidessa group plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 It is also clear that increasing numbers Strategic report continued of firms are going to need assistance in building out the platforms of the future and Fidessa is already seeing evidence of this within its pipeline registration, the implementation of dark pool caps, Outlook currently delayed until March, and Open Access for The gradual reduction in the amount of work required to derivatives trading, currently delayed until the middle support regulatory changes and also the improved of 2020.
Fidessa expects that, as a result, the MiFID II contribution of Fidessas derivatives business mean that programme will have a long tail and that additional Fidessa has increasing capacity as it moves into 2018 19. elements will continue to be required well into 2018.
Fidessa will adopt the new IFRS15 accounting standard in This is expected to provide further opportunities for 2018 and expects it will have less than a 1% impact on Fidessa to deploy new services to assist its customers reported revenue for 2018.
Overall, Fidessa expects to see in meeting their MiFID II obligations over this period.
similar levels of constant currency growth in 2018 to those As reported in the 2017 interim report, the US is currently seen during 2017.
For 2019, the increased capacity is seeing a period of regulatory uncertainty.
Fidessa noted expected to result in a greater ability to invest in further in previous announcements that despite unanimous opportunities as the markets develop, or if the right approval by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission opportunities are not clear, deliver an increase in margin.
CFTC, work on the definition of RegAT was not finalised Looking further ahead, it is clear that technology will play before the US election.
The new administration has a greater role in financial markets as the impact of new indicated a desire to review regulation generally and make regulation takes effect.
It is also clear that increasing significant structural alterations to the Wall Street Reform numbers of firms are going to need assistance in building and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 the Dodd-Frank out the platforms of the future and Fidessa is already Act and, at this point, RegAT is still pending and will seeing evidence of this within its pipeline.
Fidessa believes almost certainly be revised from its original form.
that there are few vendors who have the expertise and As expected, there has also been a slowdown in the scale of infrastructure, coupled with the technology focus drafting of new regulations, whilst others that are already required to support this activity.
As a result, Fidessa in progress, such as the Consolidated Audit Trail CAT, believes it is well positioned for this new environment and are continuing but have been subject to increased able to benefit by replacing in-house platforms, other scrutiny, particularly regarding security and Personally weaker vendors and also through specific consolidation Identifiable Information PII.
The challenges faced by participants who are subject to overlapping regulation from different regions are still to be fully worked out.
One such concern is MiFID II and its stipulations over research unbundling.
In light of this, Fidessa believes that most large firms will look to standardise on a single best practice approach when managing their risk and workflow and may adopt principles from a number of different regulatory regimes as their global standard.
