Fidessa group plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 considered and reviewed the Boards size, structure, composition and independence and concluded that following the changes to the Board during 2017 no changes were currently required: considered the time commitment of the non-executive directors and Chairman and was satisfied that the non-executive directors are able to commit the required time for proper performance of their duties: and reviewed its terms of reference.
Succession planning The Board recognises the importance of succession planning and the role it plays in maintaining a continuous level of quality in management and reducing the level of instability that may arise following unforeseen events, such as the departure of a key individual.
The Committee, in conjunction with the Board, formally discusses succession planning at least once a year to identify those individuals with potential for Board and other senior management positions.
Diversity The Committees and Boards statement on diversity is set out in the Directors and Corporate Governance Report.
Other statutory disclosures In accordance with Section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, to the extent they are not addressed in the Directors and Corporate Governance Report, the disclosures relating to the following matters are included in the Strategic Report: future developments: current and proposed product development and investment: risk management: equal opportunities for disabled persons, employee engagement and other employee related disclosures: environmental matters, including greenhouse gas emissions: and corporate social responsibility.
The financial results and position are shown in the financial statements.
A fuller explanation of the results, including the recommended dividend and financial position, is provided in the Overview, the Finance Review, the Market Review and Outlook sections of the Strategic Report and the notes to the financial statements.
Results and dividends The profit before income tax for the year is 50.0 million 2016: 48.8 million.
An interim dividend of 15.3p 2016: 14.3p per ordinary share was paid in respect of the half year on 21st September 2017, to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 25th August 2017.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 29.7p 2016: 28.2p together with a special dividend of 50.0p 2016: 50.0p per ordinary share be paid on 7th June 2018 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 11th May 2018.
The total dividend payable for the year will be 95p 2016: 92.5p amounting to approximately 36.8 million 2016: 35.6 million.
Research and development Fidessa has an active programme of research and development covering the expansion and improvement of its products and services.
Total expenditure on product development during the year was 44.5 million 2016: 39.7 million, as set out in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
Political donations No political donations were made by Fidessa during 2017 2016: nil.
Off-balance sheet arrangements There are no off-balance sheet arrangements 2016: nil.
Shares held in the employee benefit trust Details of the trusts relating to Fidessas share incentive plans, including any rights relating to the shares held by those trusts, are set out in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Fidessa group plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4C R Unless identified below, Fidessa has no further disclosures to make in relation to LR9.8.
4 R: Section Topic Location 10 Contracts of significance Directors report 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements Directors and their interests The directors of the Company in office throughout 2017, together with their biographical details, are as set out at the beginning of this Directors and Corporate Governance Report.
All the directors served for the whole of the year under review unless stated.
Richard Longdon and Ishbel Macpherson were appointed on 1st March 2017 and 1st May 2017 respectively and Elizabeth Lake retired from the Board on 31st December 2017.
Details of directors interests in shares are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Share capital, articles of association and restrictions on transfers of securities Details of the called-up and fully paid share capital are set out in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the shares and no person holds securities carrying special rights with regard to control.
As set out in note 17, the Fidessa group plc Employee Benefit Trust has waived its voting and dividend rights in connection with the shares held by it.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House.
The powers of directors are also set out in the Articles of Association together with applicable legislation.
The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the Articles of Association and the Nominations Committees Terms of Reference.
The Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, except: that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations: and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority whereby certain employees of the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
Fidessa has not been made aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors and Corporate Governance Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware and each director has taken the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 26th April 2017 shareholders approved a general authority to purchase up to 3,859,275 ordinary shares in the market.
This represented approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital at the time.
No purchase of shares has been made pursuant to this authority.
There is no present intention to use such authority, but the Board considers it desirable that the possibility of making such purchases under appropriate circumstances remains available.
A similar authority will be requested at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, again limited to a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
The Board intends only to exercise this authority if it believes that it will lead to an increase in earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
