Fidessa group plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report continued of workflow automation are now being felt across all tiers flows through the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock of the industry.
Furthermore, the growing deployment of Connect links to Hong Kong, and the inclusion of Fidessas platform means that its derivatives business Chinese stocks in the MSCI index during the year.
Fidessa remains on track to make a positive contribution to has also focussed on meeting the growing customer and Fidessas overall profitability on a run-rate basis by the regulatory demands across the region surrounding end of 2018. electronic flow.
This is helping the market to understand the benefits of using true workflow automation for their The derivatives market is set to continue to mature into electronic flow rather than more piecemeal approaches, 2018 with growing requirements around algo certification, and has resulted in a large Chinese broker signing for this more comprehensive trade reporting and the extension of service during 2017. the best execution obligation from equities into derivatives.
In addition, during the first few weeks of 2018, Japan is also reflecting the global trends towards passive there has been a substantial increase in volatility with the investment and electronic execution.
This is shown by the VIX hitting its highest level since 2011.
Fidessa expects Tokyo Stock Exchanges recent outreach for electronic that this market backdrop will drive the need for workflow market makers to help grow its domestic ETF market.
solutions and Fidessa continues to have a strong pipeline This fits well with Fidessas overall strategy and has for its derivatives platform.
In addition to providing resulted in growing interest in Japan for Fidessas low workflow solutions, Fidessa plans a range of extensions for latency platform.
Fidessa has also seen interest in its its derivatives workstation that has already established a Japanese low latency platform as a means of accessing base of around 1,000 users.
In particular, Fidessa believes some of the other markets within the region, where those that there is a need for a next generation multi-broker markets use similar technology to that used by the solution which will allow larger Futures Commission Japanese central markets.
In addition to Fidessas strong Merchants FCMs to deploy their own best execution presence with Japanese domestic customers, there has algos and other IP both to their buy-side customers and also been increased interest from foreign brokers looking also to other smaller brokers.
Fidessa has facilitated this to develop a local market presence as part of their global within its workstation and plans to add further tools to offering.
automate downstream processing within this platform.
Buy-side trading This allows larger FCMs to distribute a self-service Across all regions, regulations such as MiFID II have workstation to their customers offering greater placed new obligations on Fidessas asset management convenience to the user whilst reducing the operational customers requiring them to implement new audit trails, overhead within the FCM itself.
Two deals were announced take greater responsibility for execution quality and more during 2017 by FCMs planning to use the workstation in formally delineate the services they receive from brokers.
this way and the product has already won awards from Under the new MiFID II rules, buy-side firms are now CTA Intelligence in Europe and the US as Best Trading and required to provide enhanced trade data to Approved Execution Technology.
Publication Arrangement APA service operators to In Asia, Fidessa has continued to deliver solid growth create an audit trail.
To enable this, Fidessa has expanded its network, via partnerships with regulation reporting helped by a robust performance from Japan.
New deals have included the signing of a derivatives platform as vendors, to allow key transactional events to be recorded down to the microsecond so as to support forensic well as two additional Chinese brokers looking to operate their international business out of Hong Kong.
To ensure accuracy, all systems are synchronised to UTC time over the Fidessa Express Chinese brokers now using the platform in this way, Fidessa has a strong position in this market providing connectivity network.
it with the opportunity to develop its relations into Fidessa has also seen increasing interest in advanced mainland China in the future.
The Chinese market trading automation as buy-side firms face more pressure continues to open up slowly for international business, to take ownership of their execution.
The new environment as illustrated by the record northbound and southbound
