Fidessa group plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Significant agreements Under the DABP, MSPP and SIP, on a change of control, options and awards would vest in full subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time.
Part of the PSP awards would also vest subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time but these would be time pro-rated.
Other than a limited number of customer contracts that give additional termination rights upon a change of control, Fidessa is not party to any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover or upon a takeover bid.
No director had material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract, appointment letter or qualifying indemnity, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Relations with shareholders Fidessa values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interests in its strategy and performance.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer hold briefing meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders, primarily following the announcement of interim and preliminary results but also at other times during the year as may be requested or be suitable.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer provide feedback to the Board from meetings with shareholders and also provide the Board with updates on communications with shareholders.
The Board also obtains formal feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders via Fidessas PR adviser and financial advisers.
Communication with private investors is through the Annual Report and the Annual General Meeting.
Financial and other information is made available on the website, www.
com, which is regularly updated.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also meet with major shareholders as and when there is a requirement to do so.
Principal shareholders As at 16th February 2018, the following interests in voting rights over the issues share capital of the Company have been notified.
Percentage of Ordinary 10p issued share shares capital Lindsell Train Limited 6,318,707 16.3 MFS Investment Management 4,240,137 10.9 Liontrust Investment Partners LLP 1,978,763 5.1 DA Taylor 1,153,049 3.0 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 1,148,500 3.0 The date of notification was not during 2017 or 2018.
Going concern and longer term viability Fidessas business activities and position in its market are described in the Overview, Business Model and Strategy, Market Review, Outlook and Risks and Uncertainties sections of the Strategic Report.
The financial position, cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Finance Review and the notes to the financial statements.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include Fidessas objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Having reviewed the future plans and projections for the business, the principal risks that could impact on Fidessas liquidity and solvency over the next 12 months and its current financial position, the Board believes that Fidessa is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Therefore, the Board has a reasonable expectation that Fidessa has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
