Directors report considers it would be appropriate to renew it.
We intend to Group results and company dividends seek shareholder approval for the continued authority to The Rathbone Brothers Plc group profit after taxation for the year purchase own shares at the forthcoming AGM in line with ended 31 December 2017 was 46,829,000 2016: 38,157,000. current investor sentiment.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 39.0p Details of the resolution renewing the authority are included in 2017: 36.0p on 14 May 2018 to shareholders on the register on the Notice of AGM.
An interim dividend of 22.0p 2016: 21.0p was paid on 3 October 2017 to shareholders on the register on 8 September Corporate governance statement 2017.
This results in total dividends of 61.0 2016: 57.0p per ordinary share for the year.
These dividends amount to 30,429,000 As required by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, you can 2016: 28,267,000 see note 12 to the financial statements.
find our corporate governance statement in the governance report on pages 58 to 67 and it is incorporated into this directors report The company operates a generally progressive dividend policy by reference.
The aim is to increase the dividend in line with the growth of the business over each economic cycle.
This Appointment and removal of directors means that there may be periods where the dividend is maintained Regarding the appointment and replacement of directors, the but not increased and periods where profits are retained rather company is governed by the companys Articles of Association, than distributed to maintain retained reserves and regulatory the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 capital at prudent levels through troughs and peaks in the cycle.
Share capital Employee share trust The companys share capital comprises one class of ordinary During the year Accuro Fiduciary Services Jersey Limited shares of 5p each.
At 31 December 2017, 51,302,074 shares were in formerly Salamanca Trustees Limited retired as trustee of the issue 2016: 50,682,679.
No shares were held in treasury 2016: first employee benefit trust.
Details of the movements during the year are set out in note 28 to the financial statements.
The shares carry no rights to On 4 April 2017, Equiniti Trust Jersey Limited were appointed as fixed income and each share carries the right to one vote at trustee of the second employee benefit trust.
The trust is general meetings.
All shares are fully paid.
independent and holds shares for the benefit of employees and former employees of the group.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding or awards under the Executive Incentive Plan, Share Incentive Plan on the transfer of shares, which are both covered by the provisions and the Savings Related Share Option Plan.
As part of these of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
arrangements, the company issued shares to the trust to enable New issues of share capital the trustee to satisfy these awards.
Further details are set out in Under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, the board currently note 29 to the financial statements.
During the year, the number of has the authority to allot 16,894,680 shares approximately one shares issued by both trustees totaled 99,725 ordinary shares.
third of the issued share capital at 31 March 2017.
The existing In addition, under the rules of the Rathbone Share Incentive Plan, authorities given to the company at the last annual general shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan meeting AGM to allot shares will expire at the conclusion of the Trustees Limited the Trustee.
Voting rights are exercised by forthcoming AGM.
Details of the resolutions renewing these the Trustee on receipt of the participants instructions.
If no such authorities are included in the Notice of AGM.
instruction is received by the Trustee then no vote is registered.
Awards under the companys employee share plans are satisfied No person has any special rights of control over the companys from a combination of shares held either in treasury or in the share capital and all issued shares are either fully or nil paid.
employee benefit trust and by newly issued shares.
During the year, the company transferred 8,979 shares out of treasury for a Directors total consideration of 160,000, issued 181,712 shares to satisfy All those who served as directors at any time during the year are share awards and issued 437,683 shares to the companys listed on pages 62 to 63.
The directors interests in the share capital employee benefit trust, to satisfy future awards under the groups of the company at 31 December 2017 are set out on pages 98 to 101 share-based payment schemes.
of the remuneration committee report.
Purchase of own shares Employees Following the 2017 AGM, resolution to purchase own shares, Details of the companys employment practices, its policy the board currently has the authority to buy back up to regarding the employment of disabled persons and its employee 2,500,000 shares under certain stringent conditions.
During the involvement practices can be found in the corporate responsibility year, the company did not utilise this authority but the board report on pages 46 to 49.
104 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 104 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance herselfaware of any relevant audit information and to establish Corporate responsibility that the auditor is aware of that information.
Information about greenhouse gas emissions and our corporate social responsibility are set out in the corporate responsibility Going concern report on pages 50 to 53.
Details of the groups business activities, results, cash flows and resources, together with the risks it faces and other factors likely Financial instruments and to affect its future development, performance and position are set risk management out in the chairmans statement, chief executives review, strategic report and group risk committee report.
In addition, note 1.5 to the The risk management objectives and policies of the group are set financial statements provides further details.
out in note 31 to the financial statements.
The group companies are regulated by the PRA and FCA and Insurance and indemnification of directors perform annual capital adequacy assessments, which include the modelling of certain extreme stress scenarios.
The company The company has put in place insurance to cover its directors and publishes Pillar 3 disclosures annually on its website, which officers against the costs of defending themselves in civil legal provide detail about its regulatory capital resources and action taken against them in that capacity and any damages requirements.
In July 2015, Rathbone Investment Management awarded.
The company has granted indemnities, which are issued 20 million of 10-year subordinated loan notes to finance uncapped, to its directors and to the company secretary by way of future growth.
The group has no other external borrowings.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were therefore in place In 2017, the group has continued to generate organic growth in throughout 2017 and remain in force at the date of this report.
client funds under management and this is expected to continue.
The directors believe that the company is well placed to manage Substantial shareholdings its business risks successfully despite the continuing uncertain As at 31 December 2017, the company had received notifications in economic and political outlook.
As the directors have a reasonable accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue Transparency Rule 5, of the following interests: in operational existence for the foreseeable future, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Holding at % held at Shareholder 21 Feb 2018 21 Feb 2018 annual financial statements.
Lindsell Train Ltd. 7,099,014 13.84% MFS Investment 4,293,793 8.37% Political donations Mawer Investment Management Ltd. 4,021,545 7.84% No political donations were made during the year 2016: nil.
Aviva Investors 1,914,423 3.73% Troy Asset Management 1,795,500 3.50% Post-balance sheet events Heronbridge Investment Management 1,563,256 3.05% Details of post-balance sheet events are set out in note 37 to the financial statements.
Share price The mid-market price of the companys shares at 31 December 2017 FCAs Disclosure Guidance and was 25.54 2016: 19.83 and the range during the year was 19.79 Transparency Rules to 28.12 2016: 15.90 to 23.59.
8, this directors Auditor report and the strategic report comprise the management report.
The audit committee reviews the appointment of the external Annual General Meeting auditor and their relationship with the group, including monitoring the groups use of the auditor for non-audit services.
Note 7 to the The 2018 AGM will be held on Thursday 10 May 2018 at 12.00 financial statements sets out details of the auditors remuneration.
noon at 8 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7AZ.
Full details of all Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external resolutions and notes are set out in the separate Notice of AGM.
auditor, the audit committee has recommended to the board that the By order of the board existing auditor, KPMG LLP, be reappointed and a resolution appointing KPMG LLP as auditor and authorising the directors to set Ali Johnson their remuneration will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
Company Secretary The directors in office at the date of signing of this report confirm 21 February 2018 that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information Registered office: 8 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7AZ of which the auditor is unaware and that each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken to make him or rathbones.
com 105 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 105 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the report and accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the report and Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also accounts 2017, and the group and parent company financial responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors report, statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
under that The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in of the corporate and financial information included on the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU and preparation and dissemination of financial statements may applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial statements on the same basis.
Responsibility statement of the directors Under company law the directors must not approve the financial in respect of the annual financial report statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: of their profit or loss for that period.
in preparing each of the group the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the and parent company financial statements, the directors are applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view required to: of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them company and the undertakings included in the consolidation consistently taken as a whole: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant the strategic report and directors report includes a fair review and reliable of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the state whether they have been prepared in accordance with consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of IFRS as adopted by the EU the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
assess the group and parent companys ability to continue as We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information going concern necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either performance, business model and strategy.
intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease By order of the board operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Philip Howell companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at Chief Executive any time the financial position of the parent company and enable 21 February 2018 them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
106 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 98 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Financial statements rathbones.
