Strategic report Governance Financial statements EMPOWERING Strategic report | Business model What we do Rightmove is the UKs number The Rightmove network effect one property portal and the UKs largest property marketplace.
We bring the UKs largest and most engaged property audience and the largest inventory of properties together in one place.
We benefit from strong network effects as BUYERS our property audience and the SELLERS AGENTS RENTERS DEVELOPERS properties our customers LANDLORDS advertise create a virtuous circle enhancing the Rightmove value SIMPLICITY proposition.
Our customers are primarily The place consumers Unrivalled exposure, turn to first and leads and products for estate agents, letting agents engage with most our customers and new homes developers advertising properties for sale and to rent in the UK.
Our aim is to create a more efficient housing marketplace and make home moving easier The UK housing market, both in manual processes.
We believe By creating value for, and building sales and rentals, is complex and by creating a simpler and more long-term partnerships with, often inefficient.
Moving home can efficient marketplace we can make both consumers and property be a stressful and time consuming home moving in the UK easier.
professionals we are able to grow experience for consumers and an A better marketplace which our revenue.
Our continued inefficient, frustrating process for empowers consumers and growth allows us to innovate professionals often with elements property professionals alike to create more value for all.
of wasted effort and unavoidable creates a better housing market.
How we make the market more efficient for consumers Rightmove is free to consumers, The simplicity Rightmove brings can over two million people.
Knowing the and it is the only place where home reduce the stress of finding your moment a new property comes to buyers and renters can see almost next home.
The carefully designed market allows a home hunter to stay the entire UK property market in one website avoids distractions in abreast of the market wherever they place.
The ease of accessing the pursuit of simplicity, putting home are.
Combined with our near whole UK property market through fast, hunters in control of their search and of market view, consumers need not always available digital platforms research.
Rightmove takes some of fear missing their dream property means Rightmove has become the the effort out of the home search by when it comes to market.
place consumers turn to first when bringing suitable properties to home Rightmove uses its unrivalled data to they think about moving home.
hunters, and in 2017 we sent more create well-designed features which than half a billion instant alerts to Rightmove plc annual report 2017 5 EFFICIENCY Strategic report | Business model continued Where can I live?
mobile app screenshots How we make the market of location choices in the initial their home rank Rightmove as the more efficient for consumers stages of their property search and most important site for marketing continued opens up possibilities to find the their property.
next home which is right for them.
help people make more informed Beyond finding a buyer or tenant, decisions.
Finding the place to Rightmove is compelling to home the tools we provide for researching move to, that is affordable, meets sellers and landlords too.
Its no the market bring simplicity and ones commuting criteria and fulfils wonder, when home sellers and confidence to sellers and landlords ones property dreams can prove landlords are so much more likely as they consider one of the largest challenging.
This year we launched to find their buyer or tenant on transactions of their lives and the innovative Where can I live?
Rightmove compared to any other choose an agent to help them on feature which helps home hunters 1 portal, that 85% of people selling their home moving journey.
work through the bewildering array 1 Property Academy - Home Moving Trends Survey 2017 How we make the market more efficient for industry professionals By creating the UKs largest that delivers data, market insight where they can win new business.
property marketplace we have and tools to help them inform their Previously, many of our customers brought together virtually all the decisions.
90% of our Agency would have manually gathered audience our customers want to customers now use our software valuation and comparable data or attract.
We are able to offer the each month.
paid a third party to count For Sale most significant and effective and Sold advertising boards for We continue to innovate to create exposure for their brands and market share information.
This was value for our customers.
In 2017 we properties resulting in the largest quickly out of date whereas today significantly enhanced our market source of high quality leads, this is available in real time as part intelligence software, known as thereby significantly increasing our of their membership subscription.
Rightmove Intel focuses on the key Winning new business is a resource We also help drive efficiencies information a business owner intensive activity for our customers.
within our customers businesses wants to know: how they measure Rightmove Intel now highlights by providing best in class software up against their competition and both new and secondary business 6 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rightmove Intel homepage How we make the market property search and research, it majority of all successful mortgage more efficient for industry also helps make the process of applications.
The new version professionals continued valuing properties for mortgage supports our surveyor customers applications simpler and more increasingly mobile ways of working opportunities meaning agents can efficient.
In 2017 we released the both on and offline giving them spend more of their time on the latest version of our market leading flexible access to key data and most valuable opportunities.
allowing them to have more choice The value of our unrivalled whole The tool is used by surveyors to on where and when they work.
of market view extends beyond support their valuations in the How we create value for our shareholders Our principal sources of revenue In 2017 our Average Revenue Per will continue to be driven by are the monthly subscription fees Advertiser was again driven by our increased product penetration, paid by customers to advertise customers adopting our higher pricing and innovation and is all of their properties and the fees value packages and products.
underpinned by the value of our paid for our additional advertising We now have over 45% of audience and data, our substantial products and packages.
Our independent agency customers product inventory and our culture additional advertising products spending over 1,000 per month and track record of innovation.
increase a customers share of on Rightmove, up from 36% a We also continue to develop voice and competitiveness.
a number of smaller adjacent These are critical factors for our As the property industry becomes businesses such as advertising customers and particularly for more digital, Rightmoves market overseas and commercial an agent to help to win the leading audience and best in class properties and providing instruction opportunity to sell or software is becoming even more property related data and rent a home, which remains the valuable to customers.
Revenue Per Advertiser growth Rightmove plc annual report 2017 7
