Fidessa group plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 shareholders, will be paid at the same time as the final 50% which provides a reasonable return to shareholders dividend and bring total dividends for the year to 95.0 whilst also providing funds for potential acquisitions pence, a 3% increase from 92.5 pence in 2016. and replenishing the cash balance.
In the absence of acquisitions, Fidessa has a track record of returning Business model, purpose and strategy additional cash to shareholders in the form of special Fidessas vision is to make it easier for financial services dividends and as a result, over the last eight years, Fidessa firms to buy, sell and own financial assets of all types on has returned over 98% of earnings to shareholders.
Its mission is to deliver solutions that use technology to automate workflow and take cost Market review out of the system, and so make customers business Throughout 2017 much of the European industrys focus processes easier, quicker and cheaper.
has been on preparation for MiFID II which came into force across the EU on 3rd January 2018 with the principal aim Fidessas multi-asset trading, investment and information of making trading in financial markets more transparent.
solutions cover the complete lifecycle from investment decision through to actual trading in the marketplace In line with its long-term commitment to its customers, and are provided to both the buy-side and sell-side Fidessa has invested considerable resources in its MiFID II communities.
Historically, the solutions were delivered development programme, ensuring that it continues to be on a highly configured, enterprise basis, but for a number seen as a thought leader within the market and making of years the predominant delivery mechanism has been sure that its customers are best placed to benefit from the as a managed service through Fidessas own global changing environment.
As mentioned in previous results connectivity network and data centres.
announcements, Fidessa believes that the MiFID II regulation will result in a long tail of work moving into Fidessas sell-side solutions focus on cash equities and 2018, although this will be at a lower level of intensity to listed derivatives, whereas its buy-side solutions operate that seen in 2017.
This long tail is a result of both the across all asset classes.
Long-term commitments are delayed introduction of some areas of regulation as well as required for each asset class in order to build functionally the delayed enforcement of other areas.
In addition, it will rich offerings that are effective in all regions.
clearly take some time before the new market structures Fidessa maintains ownership of its product and service and practices are fully evolved and the technology architecture and is committed to internal development to required to operate successfully within these new obtain tight integration throughout its solutions.
As a structures becomes clear and established.
Throughout its result of this approach, growth has been predominantly MiFID II programme, Fidessa has maintained its pricing organic with only one significant acquisition in the last 20 commitment to its customers, only charging additional years.
Providing tailored products and services to a broad fees for new services and covering other costs through its range of customers on both the sell-side and buy-side normal service fees.
This ensures that Fidessa continues means Fidessa has a unique understanding of the to be seen as a key partner to its customers, able to complete marketplace.
balance out the long-term cost of operating these complex platforms and providing its customers with certainty over Fidessa charges for its solutions primarily on a rental their budgets.
and subscription basis which is reflected in the high level of recurring revenue reported each period.
This gives Whilst MiFID II is a European initiative, the demands for increased stability to the business and allows Fidessa to greater transparency and accountability through better commit to the long-term development of its products reporting and performance measurement are increasingly and services.
One of the key principles is the separation of research payments from trading commissions and a Fidessa has consistently been profitable and generated focus on best execution that now extends to the buy-side high levels of cash, and with the limited number of for the first time.
As a result, there is increased demand acquisitions, has built a healthy cash balance.
The annual across all the regions for automation and workflow dividend has a typical pay-out ratio of between 40% and
