Group executive committee report Executive committee chairmans annual statement Please see the chief executives review on pages 12 to 14.
Biographies for the executive committee members are available on our website.
Committee meetings We formally meet each month.
These formal meetings are minuted and copies of the minutes are sent to committee members and to the board.
Ad hoc and informal meetings are held as required.
Non-committee members are regularly invited to attend part of a meeting to report on a particular aspect of our business and non-executive directors may also attend meetings.
The committee has an agreed annual standing agenda to cover Membership and attendance key areas in the year.
Prior to each meeting, I agree the agenda with the company secretary.
Director Meetings attended eligible to attend P L Howell chairman 12 12 What we have done R N K Baron 11 12 M T Bolsover 11 12 Our main focus is on the implementation of the agreed strategy J A Butcher 11 12 and on the day-to-day management of the group.
We review I D Darnley 12 12 and discuss the annual business plan and budget prior to A T Morris 11 12 its submission to the board for approval.
We discuss the S Owen-Jones 11 12 management and performance of the operating businesses R I Smeeton 10 12 including their results compared to the budget, risks and R P Stockton 11 12 regulatory compliance and growth initiatives such as possible M M Webb 12 12 acquisitions and new products and services.
Items of particular focus in 2017 were as follows: Roles and responsibilities Implementation of the strategic initiatives relating to Rathbone The committee has been delegated the full powers of the Financial Planning board subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the board.
This list is reviewed annually and Development of intermediary distribution channel approved by the board.
The move to new London premises Full terms of reference for the committee are reviewed Implementation of an IT transformational programme annually and are available on the companys website.
Implementation of regulatory changes relating to the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR and MiFID II Markets in Financial Instruments Directive Review of investment processes and development of the client journey Review and assessment of annual budget 78 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 78 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance Our people are our main asset and so human resources HR Overview of priorities for 2018 matters and learning and development are important agenda As well as considering the standing items of business, the items.
The maintenance of, and improvement in, our core IT and committee will also focus on the following areas during 2018: operations infrastructure are key to the continuing success of the business and are subject to close scrutiny.
Implementation of planned enhancements to our investment process The chief risk officer reports on the work of the risk and compliance teams and updates us on risk and internal control Implementation of our IT transformation programme matters, as well as on industry developments.
We receive updates Implementation of new regulatory regimes including MiFID II from internal audit on their work schedule and discuss any and GDPR significant issues they raise following their work.
The head of Delivery of our strategic growth projects internal audit may attend any meeting.
We also have oversight of Formulation of the next five-year strategic plan business units, banking matters, marketing, social and environmental matters, business continuity and investor relations.
Sub-let of our former Curzon Street premises Philip Howell Chairman of the executive committee 21 February 2018 Executive committee members Our current members are below.
Philip Howell Paul Stockton Chief Executive Finance Director Rupert Baron Mike Bolsover Andrew Butcher Ivo Darnley Head of Investment Head of Strategy and Chief Operating Officer Head of Specialist and Charity Management in London Organisation Development Business Andrew Morris Sarah Owen-Jones Richard Smeeton Mike Webb Head of Investment Chief Risk Officer Head of Investment Chief Executive Unit Trusts Management outside London Management Special Projects and Head of Group Marketing and Recruitment and Distribution rathbones.
