Business model Creating and sustaining value through innovative solutions Logistics Our sustainable Our specialist logistics teams workon ensuring safe and timely deliveries of excellent products value chain inmore than 140 countries.
Quality control Our quality control procedures and laboratories ensure that we manufacture and store finished products in a manner that assures quality.
Production Experienced operations teams continue to optimise the production process to be most efficient by using complex production techniques and removing bottlenecks.
Sourcing raw materials We work closely with our suppliers to obtain competitive prices, correct specification, and to improve supply chain resilience.
Our strategy Our mission is to provide our customers 2.
Investment in capacity with innovative and high performance throughoperations We seek to add capacity ingrowth markets.
solutions that enable them to efficiently We operate continuous improvement produce their own high quality products.
across our operations toimprove production 5. Business growth through acquisition efficiency, sales effectiveness and functional We actively seek opportunistic bolt-on excellence.
We seektoidentify good Our strategy is composed of five key elements: acquisitions insimilar chemistries or practice in all areas of our business transformational step change transactions andensure thatrelevant learningsare not limited by geography or chemistry.
Research and development and technical disseminated throughoutthe business.
expertise toexploit new markets We anticipate market trends and customer 3.
Capacity utilisation requirements todeliver improved products Our aim is to drive profitability through with improved margin and product maximum utilisation of ourassets.
involves identifying theroot causes of production bottlenecks and finding Read more on pages 18-19 innovativesolutions to eliminate them.
16 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Synthomer is a speciality chemical company production processes which involve and our environmental impact.
We have which uses its Technical Services expertise controlling the pressure, temperature and leading market positions in Europe and and R&D capability to understand and duration of mixing reactions in order to South East Asia, which continue to be anticipate customer needs to drive create specific formulations.
Our highly underpinned by our drive for environmentally competitive advantage.
skilled and experienced Operations teams, friendly technology and exposure to global supported by R&D, deliver cost effective mega-trends.
and flexible operational capabilities to We produce chemical formulations for maximize output and quality.
thousands of customers in a range of Effective risk management is the key industries, from construction and coatings method we deploy to ensure our strategy to healthcare and automotive.
Our strategic Our production sites are local to our isdelivered and sustainable value created.
procurement specialists acquire the customers to better understand their upstream raw materials used in our complex needsand reduce the cost of logistics Research and development Under central leadership our four research and development centres of excellence work to both develop products that meet our customers needs and to improve the efficiency of theirmanufacture.
Consumers We monitor mega-trends and market developments to ensure our formulations meet the requirements not only of our customers but the end users oftheir products.
Technical services Our technical service teams work withour customers to ensure we provide the right formulation for their needs.
Formulations Our formulations are designed for use in customer specific products.
Key beneficiaries of our value chain Employees Communities Suppliers Our employees are a critical part of our We look to be a valued part of communities in Our suppliers are an important part of success.
Employees contribute to all aspects whichweoperate, providing highly skilled ourbusiness and we look to work closely of our value chain and all employees benefit employment opportunities, being aware of with them using the skills of our strategic from the success of our business.
We are how our plans may impact on a community, sourcing teams to ensure we get the right committed to providing a safe and rewarding and demonstrating that we respectthe specification of products for our needs at environment in which to work.
Governments Customers Shareholders We see local safety and environment Our customers expect us to provide them Our shareholders, as the owners of our legislative compliance as the minimum with innovative, high quality, competitive business, should seethe benefits of our focus levelat which we should operate, and products.
We seek to work in partnerships on long term sustainable growth, regulatory westrive forhigher standards.
We look to with customers, using our skilled R&D compliance and strong governance.
ensure that we follow the letter and spirit andTechnical Services teams, to develop oftaxregulations within each of the products that support their goals.
jurisdictions in which we operate and contribute fairly to public policy goals.
