Performance We are beginning to make initial progress towards the Groups medium term financial targets.
"""We have achieved much this year, beginning to stabilise the business, returning SIG Distribution to underlying profitability and rationalising the loss-making Offsite Construction division."
"We have begun to get a grip on operating costs and working capital and we have made significant steps in refocusing the portfolio, exiting from eleven businesses as we continue to strengthen our balance sheet. """
MEINIE OLDERSMA CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 24 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six Total Group revenue LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES RETURN ON SALES 2,878.4m 3.8% 3.4% 2016: 0.4% 2016: 2,845.2m 2016: 3.5% insulation and roofing businesses in the UK OVERALL PERFORMANCE have been combined and co-located in a In 2017, the Group delivered its first improvement in underlying operating profit in three single shared services centre in Sheffield.
years as well as an improvement in its underlying profit before tax PBT, up 4.3% to 79.2m A number of headcount reductions have 2016: 75.9m.
Progress has been made in the year against the Group's medium term also been made in the back office team in financial targets of like-for-like sales and headline financial leverage, with return on sales Germany.
The Group has terminated the and return on capital employed stabilised at similar levels to the prior year.
Included in the lease on its corporate office in Paddington underlying PBT for the year is 13.7m 2016: 3.3m of property profits relating to ongoing and will move to smaller, fit-for-purpose property portfolio management.
SIGs historical head On a statutory basis, the Group made a loss before tax of 51.2m in the year 2016: 110.0m office in Hillsborough, Sheffield, has been restated after 130.4m 2016: 185.9m restated of non-underlying items.
sold and will be vacated later this year.
As a result, underlying operating costs STABILISING THE BUSINESS excluding profits from property disposals Following a disappointing 2016, the Group has taken a number of preliminary actions over have now begun to fall as a percentage the past year to stabilise the business under its new leadership.
In particular, management of underlying revenue to 23.3% in the has restored customer focus by reducing the distraction from internal initiatives, is second half, from a peak of 23.9% in the bringing cost increases under control, is starting to reduce levels of working capital and first half.
Further progress is expected in debt including through debt factoring, and is simplifying the business through ongoing 2018, benefitting from the full year impact portfolio management.
of actions taken in 2017 and some further Internal initiatives which have been stopped or slowed down during 2017, in order to free initiatives currently in progress.
time for branch employees to refocus on customers, include the suspension of the Groups Initial steps have also been taken to bring Regional Distribution Centre programme and the completion of roll-out of a new ERP system levels of working capital under control.
across the core UK businesses.
In combination with improving construction market conditions Like-for-like working capital as a percentage across Mainland Europe and Ireland, this renewed focus on our customers has helped the of sales fell from 9.9% at the end of 2016 Group to deliver LFL sales growth of 3.8% in 2017 2016: 0.4% and a 1.2% increase in total to 9.0% at the end of 2017, benefitting revenue to 2,878.4m 2016: 2,845.2m.
from a number of non-recourse factoring The Group has also looked to address the rapid rise in costs across the business: eliminating arrangements and other short term actions duplication and reducing discretionary expenditure.
Group functions have been significantly to improve the balance sheet.
Management scaled back and a number of layers of management have been removed, including the continues to focus on delivering sustainable UK & Ireland executive management team.
The back office support functions for both the improvements in the Groups working capital, in particular its levels of stock, with the aim of reducing average working capital levels REPORTING OUR PROGRESS throughout the year and beyond.
Medium term Key financial SUBDUED UK TRADING ENVIRONMENT financial targets outputs The UK & Ireland business generated 1.6% like-for-like sales growth, primarily reflecting Like-for-like sales growth % Revenue m industry price inflation, with volumes falling Return on sales % 2.9%.
Operating margins fell 50bps as Underlying gross the business only partially recovered the Return on capital employed % margin % deterioration in performance seen in the Headline financial leverage x second half of 2016.
Underlying PBT m UK trading conditions have become increasingly challenging in recent months, Underlying EPS p Other indicators reflecting increased macro uncertainty and of progress recent events in the construction industry.
Dividend per share p Whilst new housing starts continued to grow, Opex as % of sales RMI markets remained subdued and there have been some delays to new starts in Net debt m Working capital as % of sales commercial new build.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Performance The Groups Air Handling business also RETURN TO UNDERLYING finished the year on a record high, delivering PROFITABILITY IN SIG RETURN growth of 22.2% in underlying revenues, DISTRIBUTION benefitting from a healthy LFL sales growth On 1 February 2018, the Group announced of 10.9%.
Management expects the air that it had identified accounting irregularities ON CAPITAL handling market to continue to outperform relating to rebates and other potential the wider construction sector due to supplier recoveries at SIG Distribution, the continuing strong demand drivers, EMPLOYED core insulation and interiors business in the including higher energy efficiency and air UK, resulting in an overstatement of profit quality standards.
for the years ended 31 December 2016 and % 31 December 2015, further details of which As we move into 2018, the early signs are 10.3 are set out on page 31.
In addition, the that the market confidence witnessed across business saw intensified competition and a our European business is continuing and we weaker performance during 2016, resulting do not expect any erosion in gross margin.
in the business falling into loss in the second Since the 2017 year end, the Group has However, management recognises that half of the year.
confirmed the disposal of the trade and there were some indications of both labour assets of SIG Building Systems, its UK and capacity constraint during the second From this loss-making position, management modular offsite construction business, half of 2017, and so will continue to monitor has made some initial progress during and also of GRM, a small manufacturer developing trends closely.
2017 in restoring underlying profitability of phenolic pipe insulation serving UK to SIG Distribution.
The business returned industrial and HVAC markets.
The Group ONGOING PORTFOLIO to profitability in the first half of 2017 and has also disposed of IBSL, a UK fabricator MANAGEMENT delivered full year underlying operating profit and supplier of cryogenic and highThe Groups medium term strategy of 9.9m 2016: restated 18.2m on revenue temperature insulation solutions used by recognises that there are a number of of 797.5m 2016: 781.2m.
the petrochemical, power generation, and smaller businesses which are peripheral to offshore exploration industries.
SIG has also The business has a new leadership team its core focus.
Management has identified recently announced the exit from its Dubaiwhich is placing particular focus on a number of businesses as potential exit based distribution business, SIG Middle operational efficiency through improved cost candidates, representing around 13% or East, which will be completed over the and working capital control, and on customer 0.4bn, of the statutory Group revenues coming months.
value from effective pricing pass-through as reported at the FY 2016 results, either and improved management of customer because they have limited fit with Group A reconciliation of underlying revenue profitability.
Following the accounting strategy or because their small scale is a to statutory revenue for 2017 as a result irregularities identified during the year, the management distraction.
In many cases, of these portfolio changes is set out on team is also further developing the controls these businesses are also suffering from page 33 and in Note 32 of the Financial environment within SIG Distribution.
Statements, together with the impact on 2016 comparatives.
Although there remain competitive pressures At the end of FY 2016, the Group announced in the UK specialist insulation and interiors the disposal of Carpet & Flooring, a UK In total, this means the Group has exited sector, the business is optimistic that it can distributor of floor covering products, as 11 businesses since 2016, representing make further increases in profitability in 2018 well as the sale of its joint venture interest 9.1% of statutory Group revenue reported at both a gross and operating margin level.
in Drywall Qatar, an independent material in the 2016 full year results.
The Group supplier and specialist installer of interior continues to review its ownership of a EUROPEAN RECOVERY finishing materials.
During the first half number of other peripheral businesses The Groups Mainland Europe businesses of 2017, the Group closed Metechno, and will update on further changes to the benefitted from improving construction the offsite manufacturer of bathroom portfolio in due course.
market confidence during 2017, with LFL pods and utility cupboards part of its UK revenues increasing by 5.9% for the full year.
Offsite Construction division and exited RATIONALISATION OF UK OFFSITE Underlying revenues increased by 12.8% to its small-scale Austrian operation, WeGo CONSTRUCTION DIVISION 1,473.2m 2016: 1,305.9m.
During the year, As part of the portfolio rationalisation, the largely in line with 2016 and, as a result, the Group also completed the disposal Group has continued to review the potential underlying operating profit increased by of Building Plastics, a leading provider of for sustainable profits from the UK Offsite 23.5% to 59.4m 2016: 48.1m.
roofline, drainage and building plastics Construction division during the year and, products to the UK construction industry.
as a result, has now concluded an exit from In particular, SIG France posted an two of the three businesses in that division.
improvement in underlying operating profit, The sale of SIGs majority shareholding in its The only remaining offsite construction up 1.8m on 2016 at 26.2m.
Underlying small Air Handling business in Turkey, ATC business is RoofSpace, a panelised room-inrevenues grew by 12.1% to 660.7m, with Turkey was also finalised in December 2017. roof manufacturer serving the UK new LFL sales in France up by 5.9%.
SIG operates In the same month, SIG Poland ceased the build residential market, which continues three market leading businesses in France, processing of insulation product at its to deliver above-market growth at attractive and management anticipates all three Sitaco subsidiary.
margins, and has been transferred into continuing to grow through 2018.
SIG Distribution for management and reporting purposes.
26 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six In parallel, SIG is reinforcing the breadth INITIAL PROGRESS ON LEVERAGE SIGNIFICANT BENEFIT FROM and depth of its management capability to PROPERTY PROFITS At 31 December 2016, the Group reported improve on a poor track record of delivering headline financial leverage of 2.1x, based One of the actions taken by the Group to successful changes to the business.
on net debt of 259.9m and made leverage reduce leverage during 2017 was the sale of reduction a key priority for the Group during a number of properties across the Groups During the initial weeks of 2018, the 2017.
Management accordingly took a portfolio for a total net cash consideration leadership team presented the strategy and number of short term actions to strengthen of 33.4m 5.7m being received in January detailed action plans across the operating the balance sheet, including asset disposals, 2018, on which it realised an underlying companies to around 1,200 managers from debt factoring and a tighter control over profit of 13.7m and a non-underlying profit eleven countries, followed by a cascade of cash, coupled with some short term working of 5.8m.
The non-underlying element the same key messages to all employees capital improvements and temporary relates to the unutilised proportion of across the Group.
All parts of the business constraints over capital expenditure.
In the property and land and therefore not related have aligned around the key strategic first half of the year, this enabled the Group to the ongoing operations of the Group.
priorities, with robust messaging about to reduce headline financial leverage to 1.6x the need to simplify, focus and deliver.
Excluding the underlying property profits, as reported at the half year.
Performance management mechanisms SIGs underlying PBT was 65.5m have been revised to support the strategy, On 9 January 2018, the Group announced 2016: 72.6m.
with tools now in place for close monitoring that it had identified a historical and support, and the realignment of reward STRATEGY REVIEW BUILDING overstatement of cash and trade payables structures up and down the organisation.
ON OUR POTENTIAL related to cash cut-off procedures in SIG There remains considerable work to be In parallel with operational improvements Distribution, associated with the issue of done to improve returns over the medium to stabilise the business, management cheques around previous period ends.
This term and highly disciplined execution will be conducted a review of the Groups strategy resulted in a overstatement of net cash critical to success.
This review concluded that of 19.8m at 31 December 2016, which, there is considerable opportunity for a when adjusted, led to a restated net debt at CURRENT TRADING significant improvement in the operational 31 December 2016 of 279.9m and headline AND OUTLOOK and financial performance of the Group financial leverage of 2.4x.
The restated 2017 has been a year of challenge and over the medium term.
To deliver that headline financial leverage at 30 June 2017 change for SIG, reporting an underlying improvement, management is focusing increased to 2.0x.
profit before tax of 65.5m 2016: 72.6m on the execution of initiatives across the The Group ended 2017 with net debt of excluding property profits.
operating companies in support of three key 223.8m and headline financial leverage of strategic levers: customer service, customer As the Group moves into 2018, we are 1.9x, an improvement of 0.5x on the restated value and operational efficiency.
seeing increasingly confident markets across 2016 closing position.
A reconciliation of the Mainland Europe and Ireland, but also the improvement in net debt in the year is set Customer service activities focus primarily first signs of capacity and labour constraint out on page 34. on investment in sales capability and the in buoyant construction markets.
In contrast, effectiveness of the sales effort to deliver LFL This is still considered by management to be we are seeing an increasingly challenging sales growth and gross margin improvement.
at a higher level than is desirable, taking into environment in the UK, created by macro Customer value targets improved account cyclical risk, and further leverage uncertainty and recent events in the management of pricing and customer reduction remains a key priority.
Accordingly, construction industry, such as the liquidation profitability, along with the development a number of actions have been initiated with of Carillion.
Notwithstanding this outlook, we of the Groups specialist and own-label the aim of delivering sustainable reductions see considerable potential for a significant product offerings to drive LFL sales growth in levels of working capital, as well as seeking improvement in operational and underlying and gross margin improvement.
Operational to monetise a number of businesses for financial performance, with execution largely efficiency seeks to deliver improved control cash proceeds as part of the refocusing of within managements control, and we are over operating costs and working capital, the portfolio.
working to ensure effective delivery.
to improve return on sales and return on capital employed.
These actions are expected to deliver further The Group will provide a further update on reductions in net debt during 2018, which, trading and outlook on 10 May 2018, when it Delivery of these initiatives is being coupled with improvements in the level of will hold its Annual General Meeting.
supported by investment in three key profitability, mean the Group continues to enablers: data, IT and capability.
During Read about KPIs on pages 22 and 23 target a 1.0-1.5x leverage range during 2018.
2018, SIG is rolling out a consistent data SIG's infill acquisition programme remains foundation, making it easier to analyse and suspended until leverage has been brought improve performance.
In IT, SIG is working under control and the Group continues towards a common infrastructure and to target leverage below 1.0x over the central portfolio management, with projects medium term.
delivered under a standard framework, building a platform for future integration.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT
