Fidessa group plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Fidessa believes that it is Strategic report continued uniquely placed to deliver and power the trading platforms of the future as the markets continue to evolve products that provide greater control and visibility, customers that wish to distribute algos or other pieces of including metrics that allow firms to prove how well they discrete functionality within the financial community.
The best execution regime that applies Looking ahead Fidessa believes this distribution network to cash equities is also starting to apply to other asset can be leveraged by other third parties looking to sell into classes, including derivatives, which is fuelling the the capital markets space.
requirement for equity-like algos and analytical tools that Overall, Fidessa believes that the trends now clearly enable derivatives traders to both improve and visible within the marketplace show the extent to which demonstrate their execution capabilities.
participants are continuing to move towards Fidessas Across the markets there is an increasing desire to create a core vision of a highly automated, global and scalable transparent trading environment, with MiFID II in particular electronic workflow and that regulation is driving a greater seeking to limit the activities of dark pool trading and convergence in the way in which different asset classes are prohibit broker dealers from running their own internal traded.
As a result, Fidessa believes that it is uniquely crossing networks.
In practice, the effect of this has been placed to deliver and power the trading platforms of the to introduce new trading constructs such as block trading future as the markets continue to evolve.
This means that Sell-side trading market participants now need to monitor and interact with Whilst the primary focus for many of Fidessas European a more complex range of trading destinations in addition sell-side customers during 2017 was the introduction of to their traditional sources of liquidity.
MiFID II, Fidessa has continued to make steady progress In addition to regulatory change, Fidessa continues to see across all regions.
The emphasis on improving the quality further structural changes within the market, such as those and measurement of execution, dealing with a more caused by the large inflow of investment into Exchange complex market landscape and handling increased Traded Funds ETFs and the growing use of more reporting and compliance requirements is global in scope.
These changes are fuelling demand Furthermore, this all has to be handled within the context for increasingly sophisticated program trading platforms of a tightly cost constrained environment.
These pressures as well as support for correlated assets and tighter are particularly evident within the larger sell-side firms integration of electronic execution.
As a result, Fidessa is where Fidessa has seen a marked increase in activity.
seeing evidence that many of the top-tier firms believe These firms are evaluating their market position and themselves to be in need of assistance in these areas as a looking for partners that can assist them to quickly and new arms race develops.
This is driving a requirement for cost effectively re-position in the most strategic areas third party solutions that can be used as part of an overall of their business.
For Fidessa, this represents an programme which also leverages the power of their underpenetrated segment of the market and one where it in-house teams, and means that a new platform can be is continuing to develop its pioneering ideas for a servicebrought into play far more quickly and with greater based platform which addresses the customisation needs precision than is possible for either party alone.
This is of the largest firms.
In its work with these larger firms, particularly suited to Fidessas platform-based approach Fidessa is seeing specific opportunities in the areas of which manages the core functionality for its customers electronic execution, program trading and support for whilst allowing them to deploy their own unique correlated assets and expects that this will result in intellectual property IP and integrate with other in-house significant contracts during 2018. systems.
Electronic execution continues to be an active area with Fidessa has continued to develop its global infrastructure many firms searching for a new approach.
Buy-side firms to ensure that it meets the stringent performance, are now under much stricter requirements to measure cybersecurity and regulatory requirements of the industry.
execution outcomes and this results in these firms As well as powering the majority of Fidessas trading automating more of their order flow.
As a result, Fidessa applications, this infrastructure acts as a network for has seen increased requirements across sell-side firms for Fidessa group plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 globally consistent yet very fast market access.
In addition, Fidessa has also developed the Block Shadow suite of a generic management capability is required to operate algos that enable customers to trade concurrently across and, just as importantly, measure in-house and third party the new Large in Scale LIS dark pools that have developed algos.
Fidessas approach has been to meet emerged.
In developing this functionality, Fidessa has these needs whilst allowing its customers to share worked with a number of innovative specialist brokers common infrastructure with their other higher touch who have moved quickly to take advantage of the business lines.
This provides operational efficiency and changed landscape.
also allows orders to change lanes between high and Fidessas MiFID II programme successfully delivered in low touch so as to achieve the best possible execution time for the scheduled commencement on 3rd January outcomes.
Fidessa has continued to sign further deals and 2018.
The scope of the programme affected all of Fidessas deploy this platform at a number of sell-side firms in the European and global customers, providing support for the US, Asia and Europe.
new compliance rules as well as handling the upgrade Across the markets there has been a continued shift into programmes of over 40 exchanges across nearly 30 passive investment either directly via ETFs or through countries.
This incorporated over 1,400 change requests, smart beta products.
ETFs now represent over $5 trillion 900 separate software releases and culminated in running of Assets Under Management AUM and attracted $69 over 40,000 separate integration checks the weekend billion in the first 11 months of 2017, the fastest growth before go-live.
Upgrades were also made across Fidessas since 2009 source: ETFGI.
As a result, this has increased entire connectivity network affecting thousands of the need for large scale program trading capabilities that connections.
In addition, new services were rolled out can automate the trading of large baskets, containing a to support Assisted Trade Reporting for the buy-side, variety of different asset types, in a systematic fashion, Systematic Internaliser SI auto-quoting and enhanced globally.
Fidessa already has the execution platforms that risk management functionality.
firms need in order to succeed in this space and is now Fidessas unparalleled track record in providing the working with strategic partners to develop the next innovative solutions that firms of all sizes need within generation of workflow automation for program trading.
the equity trading space was recognised with a number This provides the scale, performance and operational of awards.
These included Best Front-Office Execution precision to successfully trade hundreds of baskets, Platform in the Waters Sell-side Technology Awards, Best containing thousands of global stocks and other assets Sell-side Order Management System OMS in the Markets daily.
The growth of ETFs represents just one facet of an Choice Awards, Best Sell-side OMS and Best Cross Asset increase in the use of a range of equity correlated products Trading System in the 2017 Intelligent Trading Technology including swaps, convertibles, corporate bonds and Awards and Equity Trading System of the Year at the FOW options.
As these products grow, large customers, who and Global Investor Asia Capital Markets Awards.
have historically been equipped for manual trading, are Despite the significant gains on many stock markets, levels needing to re-think their infrastructure as the need for of volatility remained unusually subdued in 2017, with the automation becomes more pressing.
These requirements Cboe Volatility Index VIX reaching a record low in July.
map well against Fidessas multi-asset vision and Fidessa This negatively affected the level of derivatives trading continues to work with partner customers to develop around the world.
The derivatives industry also faced its workflow automation in some of these areas.
further regulatory uncertainty as European regulators For the large number of specialist brokers who do not delayed the introduction of Open Access which will allow have the scale of the tier 1 firms, the challenge is to greater competition between trading venues.
Despite demonstrate their relevance in the new trading landscape.
these challenges, Fidessa continued to make good Fidessa has helped these firms through the continued progress with its derivatives programme, signing 10 new roll-out of its advanced order handling tools such as the deals during 2017.
These deals were focussed amongst Order Performance Monitor OPM and Prospector.
smaller regional brokers and demonstrate that the benefits
