Fidessa group plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 pushes firms to take a more prescriptive approach to Fidessa has continued its development in the post-trade delivering and measuring execution outcomes.
As result space using its unique partnership across tier-one asset of this, Fidessa is now seeing areas where some of its managers, clearing brokers and executing brokers to sell-side trading automation software can be directly extend its award winning AMS service to support relevant to help buy-side firms meet these requirements.
Originally slated to go As part of this move, the buy-side is also exploring the live in Q4 2017, the launch was postponed to Q1 2018 in new electronic sources of fixed income liquidity that have the light of ongoing MiFID II development work.
This creates challenges, however, in terms of replaces the current manual process with true exceptions efficiency and also with compliance as traders grapple with based workflow and so provides much needed structure, multiple screens.
To address this, Fidessa has expanded its rigour and control.
This utility is particularly suited to integration with some of these venues so that liquidity brokers that wish to reduce their own operational can be accessed directly from within its buy-side OMS.
workload whilst, at the same time, offering a more precise This means that there is a single audit trail that can be service to their own customers in the post-trade arena.
used to demonstrate adherence to a firms best execution This service has a strong pipeline to develop over the next policy.
As a result, Fidessa has added feeds from Neptune, year and was recently recognised by the Fund Technology TradeWeb, and MarketAccess and implemented direct & WSL Awards as Best Utilities Technology.
order routing to LiquidNet and ITG Posit.
As buy-side firms continue to adjust to the new Buy-side compliance teams continue to be challenged to environment, many are looking for a full service approach do more with limited resources.
Nevertheless, they still to their execution, custody and clearing operations.
need to implement new controls driven by regulation and Fidessa has recognised this trend and already supports a client mandates both at a firm and a fund level.
In response number of firms that operate outsourced trading desks, to this, Fidessa has made its rules engine simpler to security services and post-trade services.
Fidessa believes modify, and added Liability Risk Limits to support the that its service based model is well positioned to capitalise Solvency II requirements and Mortgage Settlement Dates on this trend and will seek to work with additional industry to support FINRAs rule 4210 for margin requirements.
partners to expand this into a full  growing number of firms are also using their compliance service model.
systems to proactively control trading operations as well Regulation as their fund positions.
This can present a real challenge Regulation continues to be a key focus across Fidessas when multiple trading solutions are spread geographically customer base, with attention centred on the effects from across different asset classes.
Sentinel is well suited to the recent introduction of MiFID II in Europe and some meet this need especially in terms of achieving a degree of regulatory uncertainty in America.
consistent level of oversight and reporting.
Additionally, the Department of Labor DOL Fiduciary Rule places new In Europe, Fidessa has worked closely with its customers demands on private wealth investors who increasingly to deliver an extensive MiFID II upgrade programme.
need to evidence that they are trading in the best interests The programme provided enhanced controls, increased of their customers.
As a result, further customers have transparency, regulatory order and trade data, compliance signed to use Fidessas Sentinel Trading Compliance to monitoring and SI quoting capabilities.
Fidessa believes monitor and control their trading operations in this way.
that the introduction of MiFID II is a landmark event for the financial markets and the impact is already being seen as Fidessa is also seeing increasing levels of interest in the trading shifts from the Over the Counter OTC market to new Incident Approval Matrix built into the Sentinel more transparent platforms including some of the new compliance service as buy-side firms look to better block trading venues or routing through to SIs.
Whilst the monitor and manage positions whilst minimising erroneous regulation went live as planned on 3rd January 2018, there alerts.
In response, Fidessa is exploring the application of are still some significant elements that have either not gone machine learning techniques in this area to intelligently live or are not currently being enforced.
These include SI identify, manage and oversee the compliance function.
