Strategic report | The EU referendum The result of the UKs EU referendum in 2016 increased the Around two-thirds of our estate agency customers also level of macroeconomic uncertainty and could increase the provide lettings services which may mitigate the impact of likelihood of the housing market macroeconomic risks set any downturn in the property market on their business: and out on page 22.
A reduction in housing market activity increases the During 2017 the Board has continued to assess the impact propensity for advertisers to evaluate their marketing of the EU referendum result on the Group and its potential spend both offline and on other portals and we remain implications and has concluded that there has been no confident in the strength of the Rightmove value material change to the severity of this risk.
directors considered the following: The directors believe that our strong market position and The Rightmove business is largely subscription based and relationships with our customers, and the value embedded is therefore less susceptible to short-term shocks or in our membership continue to position us well providing variations in the property market or wider economy: that housing transaction volumes do not take a sharp downward turn.
Strategic report | Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the Code, the directors revenue streams and considers the Groups profitability, have assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year cash flows and dividend cover over the period.
period, taking into account the Groups current position and The plan is subject to robust downside sensitivity analysis the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions set out on pages 22 to 23.
Based upon the robust underlying the plan.
Where appropriate, analysis is carried assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including out to evaluate the potential financial impact over the those that would threaten its business model, future period of the Groups principal risks actually occurring.
performance, solvency or liquidity, the directors have a Specific scenarios that have been modelled include reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company will downside scenarios in relation to the key drivers of revenue be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they being customer numbers and ARPA together with the fall due over the three-year period to 31 December 2020. impact of a plausible combination of these scenarios.
The directors have determined that a three-year period Furthermore, our business model is structured so that the to 31 December 2020 constitutes an appropriate period Group is not overly reliant on a small customer base with no over which to provide its viability statement, as the Group single customer constituting more than 3% of Group sales.
operates within the online digital marketplace, and Also, given our significant free cash flow and our ability projections looking out further than three years become to adjust our discretionary share buyback programme significantly less meaningful in the context of the fast provides long-term comfort around viability in the face moving nature of the market.
Three years is also the period of adverse economic or competitive conditions.
considered under the Groups current three-year strategic plan.
The three-year plan is reviewed by the directors and is Whilst this review does not consider all the risks that the Group developed on a segment by segment basis using a bottom may face, the directors consider that this stress-testing based up model.
The three-year plan makes certain assumptions assessment of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the about Agency and New Homes customer numbers, Average circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
Revenue Per Advertiser ARPA growth and other breadth 24 rightmove.
