Our market review Global trends driving ourgrowthstrategy What we make Dispersions Nitrile Butadiene Rubber NBR Styrene Butadiene Rubber SBR Specialities including compounds, high solid SBR formulations What we do No.
1 producer in Europe and Middle East No.
Construction, coatings, adhesives Health and protection.
Paper, carpet and foam markets.
Specialist markets including automotive, PVC manufacture, Principal andtextiles.
markets served Cement modification, primers, flooring Medical gloves, medical devices e. g. catheters and other Coated paper, packaging, bindings for carpet, foams for Automotive sound dampening, PVC, polyester resins for Main product adhesives, flexible roof coatings, dipped latexproducts.
Compounds for carpet backing powder coatings, catalysts, flameretardants and monomers.
areas emulsion andspecialist paints, coatings and high solid latex applications.
Mega-trends Urbanisation Ageing demographics Europe and North America USA, Germany, Italy, Spain, France, UK Italy.
Germany, Italy, Finland, UK, Netherlands and Egypt.
UK, Italy, Belgium and Czech Republic.
Where we and Czech Republic.
manufacture Revenue 315.7m 25.3m 449.7m 344.2m Market trends Markets are growing, environmental Demand in line with strong growth mainly Asia US markets.
Foam and compounds growing, carpet flat, graphic paper Positive outlook, though challenges incertain catalysts Outlook regulations moving to waterbased declining being partly offset by speciality paper and packaging.
Continued operational and sales synergies.
Integration of new acquisition, debottlenecking and asset Innovation, integration, operational efficiencies, capacity Priorities Capacity and capability expansion and rationalisation.
debottlenecking, operational efficiencies andplant network optimisation.
Asia and Rest of the World Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and Malaysia.
manufacture Revenue 68.3m 210.5m 9.2m 57.3m Market trends Market growth forecast in South High growth in end user demand for Nitrile latex gloves.
Strong demand expected medium term, particularly in niche Increase in demand expected.
Middle East construction Next generation of product introduced to the market.
Bring Thailand up to Synthomer Delivery of Nitrile latex project in Malaysia, commercialisation Expansion of local market with products from Europe and look to Continue to supplement market growth from Europe.
of SyNovus and operational efficiencies.
14 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report We provide products to a broad range of manufacturing industries.
arethekey driver for Synthomers investment decisions.
These Whilst trends within the various industries vary, we aim to drive value trends and industry descriptions arecontained in the table below.
from the differing market dynamics whilst focusing our investments Read more about our Business Model and Strategy in action ongrowth markets.
on pages 16 23 One of our aims is to add value by differentiating ourproducts tomake them more efficient in use, offering superior quality and Read more on how we manage risks on pages 32 37 enhanced product performance.
The trends in the market segments What we make Dispersions Nitrile Butadiene Rubber NBR Styrene Butadiene Rubber SBR Specialities including compounds, high solid SBR formulations What we do No.
Mega-trends Energy conservation Green clean Europe and North America Read more on pages 26 28 USA, Germany, Italy, Spain, France, UK Italy.
Asia and Rest of the World Read more on pages 29 31 Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and Malaysia.
