Segmental review: Europe and North America ENA Europe and North America ENA Highlights Good underlying Volume and margin growth in both Europe and North America organic growth Leading market position in aqueous polymers in Europe and successful PAC Dispersions and Speciality Additives acquisitions successfully integrated and integration of contributing to performance.
Acquisition of BASF Pischelsdorf completed acquisitions on31 January 2018 Revenue % of Group Underlying operating profit % of Group 77% 77% 26 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report ENA revenue increased from 746.1m to 1,134.9m, an increase SBR volumes and unit margins in our Carpet and Foam markets of 52.1%.
The rise in revenue mainly reflects incremental volumes increased in 2017.
Paper volumes were slightly lower in line with associated with the PAC Dispersions and Speciality Additives the market but margins have been maintained, despite the volatility acquisitions, the positive impact of weaker Sterling, and the higher in raw material prices during the year.
SBR benefitted from capital average raw material prices year on year.
investment to debottleneck our facility in Marl Germany which delivered additional capacity and allowed us to take advantage of growing opportunities in the attractive Asian Foam market.
Underlying operating profit at 117.1m was 25.5% higher 2016:93.3m, and IFRS operating profit at 77.5m was 2.8%higher 2016: 75.4m.
Our Dispersions business increased volumes but, consistent with other market participants, saw a marginal unit margin decline as a result of rising raw material prices.
Unlike the SBR business, the The significant improvement in ENAs Underlying operating contracting model in this market is to negotiate prices mainly on a profit was due to good underlying growth of the existing business monthly basis.
The integration of the PAC Dispersions business, 16.0m including the full year benefit of PAC Dispersions, the including the consolidation and reallocation of production, allows acquisition of Speciality Additives 3.7m and the favourable currency this business better control over its cost base and improved translation associated with the depreciation in Sterling 4.1m.
flexibility to serve customers through our strategically located manufacturing network.
The segment achieved an improved overall margin, driven by higherunit margins in our SBR and Specialities businesses.
Volumes were 1,067.7ktes 14.0% with volume increases in most markets compensating for a further reduction in paper volumes.
Underlying performance Increase decrease 2017 2016 % reported % constant currency Volumes ktes 1,067.7 936.7 14.0 Revenue m 1,134.9 746.1 52.1 47.6 EBITDA m 140.9 111.2 26.7 22.5 Operating profit Underlying performance m 117.1 93.3 25.5 21.1 Operating profit IFRS m 77.5 75.4 2.8 Constant currency revenue and profit: these reflect current year results for existing business translated at the prior years average exchange rates, and include the impact of acquisitions.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 27 Segmental review: Europe and North America ENA continued The integration of the PAC Dispersions business, acquired in 2016 has been substantially completed with a number of actions taken Priorities for 2018 this year: Looking ahead to 2018, ENA management is focused Our small manufacturing site in Leuna Germany was disposed on driving growth and the future profitability of the of on 1 January 2018.
This small site lacked the operational scale business.
In delivering this growth strategy the key required for our manufacturing network and, while the site will priorities for 2018 are: continue to manufacture products for Synthomer for a short period, its production will be moved to other facilities in our Organic growth at least in line with GDP network in due course: and During December 2017, we commenced a restructuring Continued delivery of acquisition synergies programme at our manufacturing site in Ribcourt France to Integration of the BASF Pischelsdorf acquisition right size and simplify the site operations commensurate with its core activities of dispersion and spray drying redispersible into our existing plant network powders.
The site simplification will enhance its operational Commissioning our capacity and efficiency by reducing the product portfolio as well as reducing capabilityexpansions the fixed cost base.
This restructuring programme is expected tocomplete in 2019.
These actions will complete the integration of the PAC Dispersions acquisition and will allow us to deliver, as previously announced, therun rate synergies savings of $12m by the end of 2018, with a The acquisition of the Pischelsdorf site firmly cements Synthomer further incremental $2m of run rate savings to be delivered in 2019. as market leader in European aqueous polymers, a significant milestone in the development of our ENA business.
Our niche businesses in Specialities showed strong underlying volume and margin growth along with the contribution made by the Our organic growth strategy is as important to our ENA business as acquisition of Speciality Additives.
Speciality Additives, a niche our inorganic M&A growth strategy.
We have committed significant performance speciality additives business serving the decorative capital resources this year to meet the growing demand for our and industrial coatings industries, has strong market leadership products across Europe and America, through targeted growth positions #1 or #2 and serves a highly attractive, blue-chip capex at our principal sites.
These investments included: customer base.
The business operates from a well located, single site in Ghent, Belgium where there is potential for growth in capacity to meet future demand.
The business is highly complementary to 17m in Worms Germany to build made-to-order speciality Synthomers existing markets and customers and the Group is acrylic lines which is on time for commissioning in early 2019: focused on expanding its market position through developing closer 12m investment in Roebuck USA on a new acrylic reactor relationships with customers and driving operational performance.
line scheduled to be ready in early 2019: 3m to expand capacity at our powder coatings business in SantAlbano Italy which will come online in Q4 2018: and On 31 January 2018 we completed the acquisition of the SBR 2m in our SBR facility in Oulu Finland scheduled to come business and assets of BASF Pischelsdorf Austria for an enterprise online in Q3 2018 to expand our capabilities to supply the value of 30 million.
The business produces SBR used in the paper growing packaging and speciality paper markets.
industry, notably in packaging end-markets.
The acquisition enhances Synthomers SBR business and production network for paper and packaging applications as well as increasing the Groups access to attractive new opportunities across Europe, underscoring our long-term commitment to our valued customers in the paper industry.
28 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Segmental review: Asia and Rest of the World ARW Asia and Rest of the World ARW Highlights In line with Resilient volumes in Nitrile latex in a challengingmarket expectations, Nitrile latex unit margins in line with Q4 2016 Continued expansion of our sales portfolio Nitrilelatex inChina Successful launch of SyNovus, patented marginsstable nextgeneration Nitrile latex technology Revenue % of Group Underlying operating profit % ofGroup 23% 23% Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 29 Segmental review: Asia and Rest of the World ARW continued The performance of our ARW business in 2017 was in line with Volumes in the Dispersions business were also broadly in line expectations, with the lower profitability principally driven by the with the prior year despite the disposal in 2016 of our South African well trailed softer Nitrile latex margins, the disposal of our South business but, like others, margins were impacted by the rise in African business in August 2016, and the ongoing investment rawmaterial prices.
The start-up production facility in Chonburi at our PAC Chonburi Thailand site to integrate it into the Asia Thailand, which joined the Group as part of the PAC Dispersions dispersion network system.
acquisition in 2016, continued to require operational support to bring it into line with Synthomer standards and had a negative contribution of 2.3min the year.
A new management team has Underlying operating profit at 35.1m was 27.9% below the prior been now put in place to take the site forward.
year 48.7m, and the IFRS operating profit at 31.2m was 61.6% below the prior year 81.3m.
The 2016 IFRS operating profit included the profit on the Malaysian land sale of 33.2m and Research and development is a critical part of our Nitrile latex theprofit on the sale of the South African business of 4.7m.
and Dispersions businesses, and we are currently evaluating the opportunity to invest in a new state-of-the-art Innovation Centre in the region by 2020 and in continuing developmental research in our The Nitrile latex margins, whilst lower overall than 2016, have core markets.
been reasonably resilient and appear to have settled at a lower level in 2017, broadly consistent with the margins seen in Q4 2016.
Reassuringly, the Nitrile latex margins achieved have improved University level sponsorship has been a core part of building over earlier years when new capacity was brought on line and now Synthomers technology and innovation capability.
This year our reflect the level of substantial investment made in our customer PhD sponsored student at Manchester University successfully focussed research and development, capacity expansion, service completed his studies and joined our R&D Team in Kluang, and in and quality.
We are committed to this market and to our important Asia the Group continued its collaboration with Universiti Teknologi customer relationships, and our investment in both increased Malaysia UTM, where a Masters Level student has been sponsored capacity and the patented SyNovus product are testaments to work on a Synthomer defined emulsion polymerisation project.
On completion of her degree in Q1 2018, she will also join the R&D team in Kluang.
For the second year running, Synthomer sponsored an award for Best PhD thesis in Polymer Science at the Institut Our 2017 Nitrile latex volumes were broadly flat relative to 2016 with Kimia Malaysia IKM, Malaysian Chemistry Society.
our existing capacity sold out, except for modest volumes foregone in short shutdown periods to integrate the incremental capacity to be brought on line later in 2018.
Underlying performance Increase decrease 2017 2016 % reported % constant currency Volumes ktes 376.1 388.2 3.1 Revenue m 345.3 299.6 15.3 14.8 EBITDA m 48.2 60.4 20.2 20.4 Operating profit Underlying performance m 35.1 48.7 27.9 28.1 Operating profit IFRS m 31.2 81.3 61.6 Constant currency revenue and profit: these reflect current year results for existing business translated at the prior years average exchange rates, and include the impact of acquisitions.
30 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report The Nitrile latex market reached the milestone of one million tonnes per annum of demand during 2017 and continues to grow Priorities for 2018 at between 8% to 10% per annum.
In September 2017, Synthomers Innovation Group responded to the demand of end users and glove Turning to 2018 activities, the business is well manufacturers by launching SyNovus, a ground breaking patented placedto secure future growth in profitability and new product.
SyNovus is designed to have significantly reduced management is keenly focused on the principal maturation time, superior tensile strength properties, higher levels of durability and improved chemical resistance with unprecedented activities that will allow this potential to be unlocked.
This new product was warmly The priorities for 2018 are: received by industry leaders at a dedicated launch event in Kuala Successful completion of capital investment Lumpur.
The Innovation Group also launched a new higher programme in Pasir Gudang performing XSBR latex application for the Carpet market during the year.
Continue to manage Nitrile latex margins in an evolving and competitive market Our 90ktes capacity expansion of our Nitrile latex facility in Pasir Gudang Malaysia, the largest capital investment undertaken Improve operational efficiency of Chonburi to by the Group at 45m, is progressing safely, on time and on Synthomer standards budget.
We have now completed all the major construction work with commissioning later in 2018 when our installed capacity will Market penetration of SyNovus increase by approximately 40%.
As the current expansion moves Finalise planning for the next phase of Nitrile latex into the commissioning phase we have started the evaluation capacity expansion process for the timing of the next stage of the Pasir Gudang expansion, the introduction of a further 60ktes of capacity, recognising the infrastructure and civil engineering for this further expansion has been undertaken in the earlier stage of the project.
The continued growth in demand for Nitrile latex remains significant and we are well placed to capitalise on this growth with our existing capacity, our incremental next stage 60ktes capacity expansion, and our exciting new patented SyNovus product.
