Our strategy OUR STRATEGIC GOAL Our goal is to deliver significantly improved operational and financial performance as a leading European supplier of specialist building materials.
OUR STRATEGIC LEVERS CS CV OE CUSTOMER CUSTOMER OPERATIONAL SERVICE VALUE EFFICIENCY Overhead control and Sales and service Pricing and products working capital management KEY STRATEGIC ENABLERS IT DATA CAPABILITY Optimise ways of working Raise talent levels across the Deliver improved reporting, to deliver effective organisation, supported by insight and ability to solutions focused on specialist short term change make informed decisions business priorities management DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY SIMPLIFY FOCUS DELIVER Reduce complexity and Concentrate on what Own our strategy and build get the basics right we do best on our potential 14 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six OUR STRATEGIC LEVERS The Group has identified three key strategic levers on which it is focusing to deliver its goal of improved operational and financial performance: Customer Service: Customer Value: and Operational Efficiency.
By concentrating on only a small number of short term priorities, the Group can ensure discipline around delivery on each priority and ensure that the transformation is embedded through the whole organisation, right down to branch level.
Our short term focus on operational improvement will ensure that SIG maintains its leading market positions in its three core markets of insulation & interiors, roofing & exteriors and air handling, while maintaining our reputation for customer service, technical excellence and added value, and delivering sustainable growth to Shareholders.
This step change in performance will be driven by a closer focus on operational and capital discipline in markets that offer limited front office synergy and modest top-line growth.
SIG aims to simplify the portfolio and enable a strong balance sheet, targeting a headline financial leverage of less than 1.0x in the medium term current position 1.9x, to protect the business from any market downturn.
These strategic levers will ensure that SIG focusses on being a market leading, operationally excellent and low cost-toserve provider in its core distribution markets.
KEY STRATEGIC ENABLERS Successful execution will require us to invest in three key strategic enablers.
SIG aims to focus on reducing the cost of IT service delivery but maintaining flexibility and choice.
Investment will be made in technology and systems that will help improve our understanding of our customers and our products.
Access to and the use of data is crucial in delivering on SIGs strategy.
By investing in the right tools that will improve reporting capabilities, management will have the right information in the right place at the right time to make more informed decisions quicker.
One of the key differentiators of SIG is its talented, loyal, committed people, and their success is our success.
SIG aims to raise the talent levels of all individuals within the organisation, through tailored training and development of existing employees to support the strategy.
We will develop our capability by investing in our skilled and talented people.
Overall this will allow SIG to become more agile and flexible in a changing world.
DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY To deliver our strategy, we have provided clarity of purpose to the organisation and we are tracking real and measurable actions to support highly disciplined execution.
This requires us to simplify, reduce complexity and get the basics right to provide our customers with what they need in the simplest possible way: to focus on the execution of customer service, customer value and operational efficiency by concentrating on what we do best: and to deliver, by owning our strategy and building on our potential.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy Strategy in action CUSTOMER SERVICE SIG is bringing increased value to our business customers across the construction industry by investing in the service standards and effectiveness of our sales force and branches.
EXECUTING OUR STRATEGY LINK TO KPIs Like-for-like sales Invest in trade counter, branch and sales staff training Return on sales Establish central telephony-enabled sales teams providing Return on capital employed consistent response levels Headline financial leverage Create specialist customer retention teams Lost work day rate UK & Ireland Restructure external sales teams to track performance and increase accountability Read about our KPIs on pages 22 and 23 Reduce administration distractions Improve process for inbound leads and use of CRM to drive quote prioritisation and conversion Develop enhanced B2B click and collect capability 16 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six INVESTING IN BRANCHES AND SALES Serving our Roofing customers CASE STUDY: Our customer service strategy in Branch trials our UK Roofing business is focused Plans to invest on enhancing the effectiveness 10-30% of our sales force by increasing 1.8m investment in our branches, fleet GROWTH and staff training.
The establishment 75 LOCATIONS IN CASH SALES of off-site telephony-enabled sales teams will provide consistent levels of response to our customers orders and enquiries, as well as providing a platform to support our branches in customer retention.
Further development of our network of IT systems, and in particular CRM, will enable us to increase the accountability of our sales teams through improved data management and performance tracking, as well as facilitating swift and robust quote conversion, ensuring we bring value to our Roofing customers.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy CUSTOMER VALUE Strategy in action SIG aims to deliver the right product to the right place at the right price in support of its customers needs.
EXECUTING OUR STRATEGY LINK TO KPIs Like-for-like sales Expand coverage of specialist product offering Return on sales Further develop own-label brands and value-add Return on capital employed fabrication capability Headline financial leverage Wider use of pricing tools and enhanced pricing data Lost work day rate UK & Ireland Systematic and prioritised approach to renegotiate or exit unprofitable or unattractive business Read about our KPIs on pages 22 and 23 Review and manage spot pricing Introduction of carriage and ancillary charges where appropriate Management focus and training to drive compliance to target price levels 18 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six DELIVERING VALUE TO OUR CUSTOMERS Delivering customer value in Air Handling CASE STUDY: Our European Air Handling business FY17 revenue is building on its position as a increased by leading distributor with unmatched Market product breadth through its focus on distribution, service and value.
An 18.2% 7-8bn expansion of the own-label products, FROM PRIOR AND GROWING trading as Cairox and Sufix, coupled YEAR TO 245.1M with an extension of the e-commerce offering is enabling the business to deliver rapid sales growth supported by the operational efficiency which can be derived from leveraging the existing platform.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY Strategy in action SIG is targeting robust cost and capital discipline as it strives for greater operational efficiency.
EXECUTING OUR STRATEGY LINK TO KPIs Return on sales Downsize Group and functional structure Return on capital employed Organisation redesign across major operating companies to Headline financial leverage allow for leaner structure and quicker decision-making Lost work day rate UK & Ireland Process standardisation and system integration at operating Read about our KPIs on company level to generate front and back office synergies pages 22 and 23 Optimise branch resource activity Close sub-performing branches and centralise stock around hubs Short term levers to reduce working capital: changes to purchasing rules, stockholding guidelines, number of SKUs, centralised stock control Medium term structural reduction in net working capital: stock, rebates 20 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six ROBUST COST AND CAPITAL DISCIPLINE Delivering operational excellence in France CASE STUDY: In France, SIG is pursuing a change Like-for-like Underlying programme aimed at leveraging sales LiTT operating profit best practice across the three margin of LiTT up French businesses.
This is focused c. 10% on driving operational excellence by 120bps to through organisational structure, AHEAD OF process standardisation and 5% PRIOR YEAR data alignment supported by the implementation of modern systems.
At LiTT this has started to deliver demonstrable results with a transformation of sales processes and a diversification of customer and product portfolios, delivering strong sales performance in the latter part of 2017. www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT
