SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED SAFETY AND HEALTH Raising employees and contractors awareness of risks and getting PEOPLE COME FIRST them fully committed to their own safety and that of their colleagues, remains a cultural challenge.
Their awareness is reinforced through People come first and their safety a variety of actions, including intensive onsite supervision, near-miss and health is the Groups top priority.
reporting, training, the wide distribution of information about the causes of severe accidents, extended safety meetings, public Antofagasta continuously strives to recognition of committed workers and increasing collaboration improve its performance in all matters that with the Safety and Health Committees of workers and managers.
could impact its employees, contractors Safety and health induction courses are mandatory for all new employees and contractors before they are allowed onsite.
workshops on safety policies and procedures are also mandatory and regular events are held to discuss lessons from near-miss incidents In 2017 Antofagasta achieved its goal of zero fatalities.
The Group and best safety practices.
remains fully committed to this goal while continuing to work to reduce the number and severity of accidents, which also fell by 18% Safety and health performance targets account for 5% of in its mining division during 2017.
FOCUS ON FATAL RISKS CONTRACTORS In line with international best practice the Groups safety and Antofagasta requires that all contractors apply its standards and health model is based on fatal risk prevention and self-awareness.
report contractors performance alongside its own.
This applies to the whole workforce, both employees and contractors.
Ensuring contractors fully comply with Antofagastas standards In 2017 further progress was made in standardising and simplifying remains a major challenge and through 2017 the Group continued to fatal risk prevention and controls.
Antofagasta focuses on 15 fatal help contractors embed its safety framework in their own practices and risks prevented through 72 critical controls.
It did this by using its Corporate Guidelines on Safety and contractors are encouraged to take responsibility for their own and Health for Contractors, and providing orientation, training and technical their colleagues safety through the continuous verification of the support, while closely monitoring compliance through onsite audits.
implementation of ethical controls, leadership, training, awareness initiatives, public recognition of safe conduct and the use of the best available safety technology.
IN FOCUS: INNOVATION TO IMPROVE SAFETY AND PRODUCTIVITY REPORTING AND AWARENESS Equipment maintenance often requires that the power is locked Visible leadership is paramount to Antofagastas Safety and Health out and isolated, a critical control.
However, the locking circuit Model.
The Executive Committee conducts regular onsite safety breakers are often a long way from the equipment that is being and health reviews verifying that critical controls for fatal risks maintained, and switching the circuits on and off can account are correctly applied.
Top management reviews and challenges for 2540% of a maintenance shift.
In 2016, 22% of the the investigation of high-potential events and recognises employees Groups high-potential safety incidents were related to who display outstanding safe conduct.
problems with isolating power supplies.
Safety performance is reported weekly to the Executive Committee The good news is that a mobile power-locking device has and monthly to the Board, and the Sustainability and Stakeholder been developed that has improved maintenance workers Management Committee reviews any serious safety incidents.
This idea originated from a Los Pelambres employee and was turned into reality by an international developer.
This is one of our InnovAminerals projects.
56 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH STANDARDS The Group developed 10 Occupational Health Standards using the same fatal risks approach, specific controls and regular onsite auditing as for safety.
Building on the experience of previous years, progress was made in assuring legal compliance, completing a health baseline, identifying higher exposure groups, raising awareness and standardising the health focus across operations.
Six workers with occupational diseases were identified during the year, three from Zaldvar and three from FCAB.
Of these six cases, four are related to work-related stress, one related to altitude sickness and one concerns hearing loss.
PERFORMANCE IN 2017 In 2017 Antofagasta achieved its zero fatalities goal and is determined to continue with this success.
It has also continued to reduce the severity and frequency of accidents.
During the year near-miss reporting increased by 162%.
These results confirm the value of near-miss reporting, which is one of the pillars of the Corporate Safety Model focused on risk prevention and operational control.
Compliance with the Safety and Health Model is audited twice a year at each site.
Additionally, members of the Groups Executive Committee make monthly visits to the sites specifically to review safety and health issues.
The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate is the numbers of accidents with lost time during the year per million hours worked.
The All Injury Frequency Rate is the total number of accidents during the year per million hours worked.
