22 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 ASSET MANAGEMENT THE ASSET MANAGEMENT DIVISIONS ACTIVITIES COMPRISE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT SERVICES.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES Value enhancement examples Investment Management Services IMS are provided to both To promote a culture of continuous improvement with JLIF and JLEN and also to our own investment portfolio.
public sector counter-parties: responding to their need for changes over the life of PPP infrastructure projects, External IMS JLCM provides advisory services to JLIF and JLEN reducing the public sector burden and, where possible, under investment advisory agreements.
As at 31 December 2017, to generate incremental revenues therefrom.
JLIFs and JLENs latest published portfolio values were 1,227.8 million at 30 September 2017 and 420.7 million at To optimise SPV management costs and project insurance 31 December 2017 respectively.
JLCM has an independent premiums through bulk purchasing or efficiency gains, chairman and two separate dedicated fund management teams thereby increasing investor returns.
whose senior staff are authorised and regulated by the FCA.
To optimise major maintenance and asset renewal costs The teams focus their advice primarily on sourcing new over the life of an infrastructure project and thereby investments for and arranging capital raisings by the two funds.
They operate behind information barriers in view of the market sensitive nature of their activities and to ensure the separation To maximise working capital efficiency within project of buy-side and sell-side teams if John Laing is selling companies.
Both funds have a right of first offer To ensure projects are efficiently financed over their over certain investments should they be offered for sale by the concessions or useful lives.
Group, and both are stand-alone entities separate from the Group.
Each fund maintains an independent board of directors The total IMS income for the year ended 31 December 2017 and is independently owned.
of 19.0 million 2016 17.8 million includes 2.3 million 2016 2.0 million of fee income for the provision by Fee income from external IMS grew from 15.8 million in 2016 John Laing of directors to project company boards.
Internal IMS John Laing actively manages its own Primary and PROJECT MANAGEMENT SERVICES Secondary Investment portfolios.
Our objective is to deliver the The Group also provides Project Management Services PMS, base case returns on our investments as a minimum and largely of a financial or administrative nature, to project additionally to enhance those returns through active asset companies in which John Laing, JLIF or JLEN are investors.
There are two main strategies: value protection These services are provided under Management Services and value enhancement: Agreements MSAs.
Value protection examples The Group earned revenues of 6.1 million from the provision of Where possible, to target PPP projects which have revenue PMS during 2017 year ended 31 December 2016 14.9 million.
streams based on availability of the underlying infrastructure In November 2016, the Group divested its PMS activities in the asset rather than revenues based on patronage or volume.
UK to HCP Management Services Limited HCP.
The activities sold contributed 7.9 million of the total PMS revenues of To ensure construction risks associated with design, 14.9 million in 2016. workmanship, cost overruns and delays lie with our construction supply chain partners who are best able to The remaining PMS activities are principally focused on MSAs manage them.
relating to projects outside the UK.
At 31 December 2017, the Group held 24 MSAs 31 December 2016 19 MSAs.
To ensure project operational performance and cost risks lie principally with our service supply chain partners.
To eliminate the risk of increased interest costs on third party project debt finance over the life of an infrastructure project by swapping variable interest rates to fixed interest rates.
To reduce the impact of short-term volatility on revenues from the projects underlying our renewable energy investments by entering into short or medium-term power purchase agreements with electricity suppliers.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION New Generation Rollingstock, Queensland, Australia 40% interest The project involves the provision and maintenance of 75 new John Laings investments in projects are managed by the six-car trains for the state of Queensland, which will be operated Asset Management division.
For each project we invest in, the by Queensland Rail, as well as a new maintenance facility at Asset Management division closely monitors the construction Wulkuraka, Queensland.
Whilst the programme is currently stage and provides active input where necessary to ensure that behind schedule, the maintenance facility has been completed deadlines are met.
Despite this, since the projects we invest and nine trains are currently in passenger service.
Additional in are principally large and sophisticated infrastructure assets, trains are expected to be accepted and enter passenger service delays can occur.
In all instances, the impact of construction ahead of the Commonwealth Games that start on the Australian delays and a judgement as to potential outcomes are taken Gold Coast in April 2018. into account when the portfolio valuation is prepared.
An update on significant projects under construction is set out Sydney Light Rail, New South Wales, Australia 32.5% interest below.
This light rail project will form an integral part of Sydneys public transport infrastructure network and pedestrianise one Intercity Express Programme IEP, UK Phase 1 15% interest: of its busiest streets, providing a commuter route into the Phase 2 30% interest Central Business District and access to the south east of the city.
John Laing is in partnership with Hitachi to manage the contracts While the overall programme is approximately 12 months behind that cover the design, manufacture, finance and delivery into schedule, the first light rail vehicles arrived in Australia in 2017 daily service and maintenance of a fleet of 122 intercity express and the total length of track installed is now 12.9 kilometres, trains for the UKs Great Western Main Line Phase 1 15 % more than 50% of the total.
interest and the East Coast Main Line Phase 2 30% interest.
With a total capital expenditure across the two phases of 3.4 billion, it is one of the largest PPP projects to be awarded.
In the last quarter of 2017, the first ten trains for IEP Phase 1 were accepted into passenger operations, achieving a key milestone for the project known as Minimum Fleet Acceptance.
As at 31 December 2017, 15 trains had been accepted into operational service.
Total fleet acceptance for Phase 1 is expected in late 2018 and commencement of train deliveries for Phase 2 is also expected in late 2018.
Denver Eagle P3, Colorado, US 45% interest This project is to design, build, finance, maintain and operate two new commuter rail lines and a section of a third in the Denver Metropolitan area.
The three rail lines run for a total of 36 miles, connecting Denver International Airport and Denver Union Station to each other and to other parts of the Denver Metropolitan area.
The fleet of rolling stock has been completed.
Following opening of the A line in 2016 and the B line in 2017, testing and commissioning of the G line is currently underway.
The project company is appealing against the Colorado Public Utility Commissions decision not to issue the required permit for the level crossings on the A line.
The outcome should be known in the second quarter of 2018.
I-4 Ultimate, Florida, US 50% interest This availability-based road project has total capital expenditure of US$2.3 billion and involves reconstructing 15 major interchanges, building more than 140 bridges, adding four variable toll Express Lanes, and completely rebuilding the general use lanes of 21 miles of the existing I-4 interstate in central Florida.
Construction is expected to be completed in 2021.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
