THE COPPER MARKET THE IMPORTANCE OF COPPER Expanding infrastructure and changes in technology, innovation and demographics have brought global demand for copper to the highest level it has ever been and it is expected to continue to grow steadily.
COPPERS ROLE IN THE MODERN WORLD Copper has for centuries played a central role in humankinds development, from the earliest civilisations to the modern world.
Its versatile properties high thermal and electrical conductivity, ductility, malleability and corrosion resistance have made it a key industrial metal.
Today, copper plays an important role in power generation and transmission, electric motors and consumer goods such as electronic devices, air conditioning units and refrigerators.
The global trend towards urbanisation has seen a rapid increase in demand for the metal over the last decade, as new houses are constructed, networks for electricity distribution are built and telecommunications infrastructure is put in place.
At the same time rising wealth in the developing world is driving demand for vehicles, electronic devices and other consumer goods.
As the world looks to new clean energy technologies to provide a greener and more sustainable future, copper remains centre stage.
From solar photovoltaic energy systems and wind turbines to electric vehicles and battery storage, the properties of copper have proven once again to be integral and ensure that it will continue to play a vital role in green energy systems for years to come.
Finally, copper is easy to recycle, with copper produced from scrap requiring 8590% less energy than copper produced from ore. Thisease of recycling in turn improves the reycling credentials ofproducts and applications that use copper.
8 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT MEETING THE WORLDS DEMANDS Copper is integral in the growth of clean, renewable energy systems and electric vehicles and also benefits from rising urbanisation and growing wealth across the globe.
CLEAN AND RENEWABLE ENERGY COPPERS CONTRIBUTION One of the United Nations Millennium Development Electricity generated from solar or wind, Goals is to ensure environmental sustainability.
together with the electricity distribution The generation of power from renewable sources systems required, are more copper is a contributor to the achievement of this goal, intensive than using conventional and global demand for clean and renewable energy technologies.
ELECTRIC VEHICLES COPPERS CONTRIBUTION Not many years ago electric vehicles were Copper is used in the batteries, windings regarded as a novelty rather than a mainstream and copper rotors found in electric mode of transport.
Now innovation is making them motors, wiring and busbars, as well a reality with far more efficient engines and as in EV charging infrastructure.
batteries and costs being driven down all the time.
An electric vehicle requires on average Today car manufacturers are making significant 80-85 kg of copper, compared with progress on e-mobility.
Furthermore, some 20-25 kg in a vehicle powered by countries have announced they will forbid the an internal combustion engine ICE.
selling of new cars with conventional engines By 2027 annual copper demand from within the next few decades.
the electric vehicles industry is estimated Studies commissioned by the International Copper to be approximately 1.7 million tonnes, Association ICA estimate that by 2027 some 27 compared to 185,000 tonnes in 2017. million electric vehicles will be produced each year up from an estimated three million in 2017.
This is good news for the environment as well as for copper, one of the key metals required for this emerging trend.
This is also one of the reasons the Group is sponsoring the Formula E race in Santiago, which raises awareness of the capabilities of electric vehicles.
URBANISATION COPPERS CONTRIBUTION Rising urbanisation and growing wealth across It is difficult to quantify the consumption the globe is driving up copper consumption in key of copper arising from urbanisation markets, especially in China, where almost half alone, but globally some 31% of copper of the worlds copper is consumed.
The migration is consumed in construction, 24% in of people from the countryside to cities increases electrical networks and 11% in transport.
the need for more and better infrastructure, from There is a correlation between GDP per houses to electrical networks infrastructure and capita and the demand for metals, such public transportation.
as copper, that are necessary to build infrastructure and are used in consumer products.
Therefore as developing countries and middle-class populations grow, more copper will be consumed.
The Group believes copper is a key contributor to sustainable development.
co. uk 9 THE COPPER MARKET CONTINUED RESPONDING TO A CHANGING WORLD As the world develops and transforms, the demand for copper increases.
The Group is responding by supplying the copper needed for a more sustainable world.
GLOBAL COPPER SUPPLY AND DEMAND 000 TONNES 40,000 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 1996 2001 2006 2011 2016 2021 2026 Primary demand Base case production capability Probable projects Possible projects Source: Wood Mackenzie Q4 2017 Copper Outlook December 2017 COPPER DEMAND BY SECTOR 10% Construction Electrical network 31% Consumer and general 11% Transport Industrial machinery 24% 24% Source: Wood Mackenzie Q4 2017 Copper Outlook December 2017 10 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT MARKET ENVIRONMENT Copper supply came under pressure during the first half of the year as strikes and other issues at some of the worlds largest mines led to significant disruptions.
In the second half of the year demand was supported by unexpected strength in key markets, particularly in China.
REFINED COPPER COPPER CONCENTRATE Some 70% of the Groups copper production is in the form of 2017 MARKET PERFORMANCE copper concentrates, so the dynamics of the concentrate market The LME copper price at the beginning of 2017 was $2.51 lb and are important and affect the level of treatment and refining rose to end the year at $3.27 lb, averaging $2.80 lb over the charges TC RCs paid by the Group.
These account for some whole year, an increase of 27% compared with 2016.
Copper 15% of the Groups cash costs.
supply came under pressure during the first half of the year as strikes and other issues at some of the worlds largest mines 2017 MARKET PERFORMANCE led to significant disruptions.
Additionally, in the second half of the An increasing proportion of new copper production in the world year demand was supported by unexpected strength in key is in concentrates, which has been absorbed by the new smelter markets, particularly in China.
There was therefore surplus smelter Global mine production accounts for some 87% of total refined capacity in 2017 and spot TC RCs traded below the benchmark supply and is estimated to have fallen by 1.5% during 2017, with price set for annual contracts.
labour and other disruptions offsetting new production coming MARKET OUTLOOK mainly from Peru.
Secondary supply from scrap increased as rising prices led to scrap dealers increasing their activity levels Further increases in smelter capacity are expected in 2018, following subdued activity in 2015 and 2016.
However, scrap while growth in concentrate production will be limited, leading to consumption is now coming under pressure in China as the declining TC RCs.
The annual terms for 2018 have been agreed country enacts  legislation restricting the at levels close to $80 per dry tonne of concentrate and 8c lb import of dirty lower-grade scrap.
of refined copper, well below the levels agreed for 2017.
On the demand side, the most important market is China, which accounted for approximately 46% of global copper consumption in 2017, significantly more than Europe and North GOLD America combined, which consumed 18% and 7% respectively.
An estimated 15-25% of Chinese consumption is re-exported The gold price during 2017 increased by more than 13%, peaking as manufactured products.
Macroeconomic events such as geopolitical tensions in south-east Asia and rising interest rates The Groups average realised price in 2017 was 7% above the in the US and Europe all impacted on the price of gold, which average LME price, reflecting a net positive provisional pricing is considered a safe-haven investment.
adjustment at the end of the year of $309 million.
Gold averaged $1,258 oz in 2017 compared with $1,248 oz in MARKET OUTLOOK 2016 and closed the year at $1,303 oz.
At the beginning of 2018 The consensus is that the market will be balanced or show a the consensus price forecast for the year was slightly under small surplus in 2018, although it is expected to be much tighter in $1,300 oz.
the second half of the year.
From 2019 many industry participants expect the market to be in balance or even deficit as mine supply continues to be affected by the long-term trend of grade decline and lack of new investment.
Considering the lead time between MOLYBDENUM the decision to proceed with the construction of a reasonableMolybdenum prices continued to perform strongly in 2017 sized mining operation and it coming into production, the few on increased demand from the steel industry.
The price averaged projects that have been approved or are awaiting the final stages $8.1 lb for the year compared with $6.5 lb in 2016, and the of permitting are only expected to come on stream in the consensus price for 2018 at the beginning of the year was next decade.
On the demand side, growth will continue to be driven by Chinese consumption, but the rise in demand from electric vehicles and renewables will be significant if they develop at the rates many analysts are expecting.
In addition, there are an unusually large number of labour negotiations taking place in Chile and Peru during 2018.
With the backdrop of stronger copper prices, employee expectations are raised and this may result in some supply disruptions.
