T H E C G G R O R O O W R W T T H E H B E Y O O STRATEGY STRATEGY OUR VISION To be an international mining company based in Chile, focused on copper and related byproducts, recognised for operating efficiency, for value creation and as a preferred partner in the global mining industry.
B 1 THE EXISTING CORE BUSINESS The first pillar of the strategy is to optimise and enhance the existing core business: Los Pelambres, Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar.
CURRENT STRATEGIC FOCUS: 2017 IN REVIEW OBJECTIVES FOR 2018 Further embed the Safety Model As a result of the consolidation Maintain zero fatalities by continuing across all operations to continue of the Safety Model, the Group had to embed the Safety Model.
to achieve zero fatalities each year.
Special focus on health standards.
Continue the Cost and Copper production of 704,300 tonnes, Copper production of 705-740,000 Competitiveness Programme representing a 0.7% decrease tonnes.
CCP to sustain the Groups compared to 2016. competitive position.
Group cash costs before by-product Group net cash costs of 1.25 lb, lower credits of $1.65 lb, higher than 2017 Seek long-term productivity than the initial guidance for the year.
due mainly to lower grades at Centinela.
improvements through the CCP achieved $166 million of mine cost development and application Sustain cost discipline achieved through savings, in line with target.
the CCP, with special focus on energy Corporate values reinforced and new efficiency and process productivity Embed the New Operating Model to Diversity and Inclusion Policy approved delivered by the New Operating Model realise its full potential and benefits.
Promote a culture which focuses on diversity and inclusion.
Labour agreements reached at Centinela Ensure New Operating Model delivers and Zaldvar.
the expected benefits to operations Continue to cultivate a proactive and releases spare capacity.
and inclusive approach to local communities and other stakeholders Implement the Diversity and in order to strengthen sustainable Inclusion Policy.
Maintain healthy relationships with communities and local stakeholders.
12 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 F N T D U T H H E E S C C O I O R E R N E E S S STRATEGIC REPORT 2 ORGANIC AND SUSTAINABLE GROWTH OF THE CORE BUSINESS The second pillar of the strategy is to achieve sustainable, organic growth by further developing the areas around the Groups existing asset base in Chile.
CURRENT STRATEGIC FOCUS: 2017 IN REVIEW OBJECTIVES FOR 2018 Obtain permits to begin construction Encuentro Oxides completed and Encuentro Oxides to reach design of Los Pelambres Incremental ramping up to full production.
capacity in the first half of the year.
Expansion Phase I. Molybdenum plant commissioned.
Molybdenum plant to start production Select preferred Centinela expansion in the first half of the year.
EIA of Los Pelambres Incremental Los Pelambres EIA approval achieved Expansion Phase I awaiting final February 2018. approval by the environmental Update capital estimate, complete authorities.
Detailed engineering additional geotechnical studies and of the project commenced.
obtain Board approval to proceed with Reviewed options to reduce capital Incremental Expansion.
cost of Centinela Second Concentrator Decision on whether to expand existing project and maximise synergies with Centinela concentrator or build Second existing operation.
Completed scoping study on the Advance innovation programme to expansion of the existing concentrator assess value-capturing technologies.
at Centinela as an alternative to the Second Concentrator.
Completed Los Pelambres Incremental Expansion Phase II environmental baseline study and advanced feasibility study.
3 GROWTH BEYOND THE CORE BUSINESS The third pillar of the strategy is to seek growth beyond the Groups existing operations, in Chile or internationally, through the acquisition of high-quality operating assets and or high-potential early-stage developments.
CURRENT STRATEGIC FOCUS: 2017 IN REVIEW OBJECTIVES FOR 2018 Advance the Twin Metals project.
Focused exploration programme, mainly Continue monitoring the market for on targets in Americas.
Develop the long-term growth pipeline beyond the Groups Commenced preparation of Twin Metals Advance exploration programmes existing operations.
Continue the exploration programme Twin Metals right to renew two federal Complete revised Twin Metals project focused on the Americas in order mineral leases was reaffirmed by the pre-feasibility study.
to identify long-term growth options.
US Department of the Interior.
Monitor the current market to assess potential accretive acquisitions or joint ventures.
