OPERATING REVIEW KEY INPUTS AND COST BASE The Groups mining operations depend on many inputs, ranging from energy and water to labour and fuel, the most important of which are reviewed below.
Concentrate producers such as Los Pelambres and Centinela require Water for each operation is sourced either from the sea or from other particular inputs such as reagents and grinding media.
Cathode surface and underground sources.
Each operation has the necessary producers such as Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar, which use the permits for the long-term supply of water at current production levels.
SX-EW process, require sulphuric acid.
The availability, cost and The Group optimises water efficiency by reducing demand, using reliability of these inputs are central to the Groups cost management untreated sea water and encouraging recycling across its operations.
strategy, which focuses on cost control and security of supply.
Water reuse rates depend on a range of factors and the Group The Groups two largest operations, Los Pelambres and Centinela, seeks to achieve a rate of 7693% depending on circumstances are already competitively positioned on the copper industry cost at each operation.
The Groups operations and the industry as a whole have a The Group pioneered the use of untreated sea water in the 1990s declining grade profile over time, which places upward pressure on and currently uses it at Centinela and Antucoya.
During the year the initiatives below have been accounted for 45% of total Group water use, a decrease from the implemented by the Groups Procurement Department to reduce the previous year.
unit cost of each operation and allow each to remain profitable as ore grades decline.
LABOUR Secure labour supply is key to the Groups success.
Labour ENERGY agreements with unions are in place at all of the Groups mining The Group sources its energy from the two electricity grids in Chile: operations, generally lasting for a period of three years.
In 2017, the northern grid SING, which supplies the Centinela, Antucoya the Group successfully entered into new labour agreements with and Zaldvar mines, and the central grid SIC which supplies Los the unions at Centinela and Zaldvar.
The SING has an installed capacity of 5.3GW, supplied The Group continues to foster good working relationships with its by coal-fired power stations and renewable sources such as wind employees and unions and to date there has been no industrial action.
The SICs installed capacity is 17.4GW, primarily from At Centinela, the Group was able to conclude labour agreements hydroelectric plants.
Due to this reliance on hydroelectric power, several months in advance of the formal negotiation period, the cost of energy on the SIC fluctuates depending on precipitation streamlining benefits across the three main unions at the mine.
levels, whereas on the SING costs tend to be more stable.
Contractors account for approximately 70% of the workforce across In 2014, the Chilean government began a process to connect the the Groups operations, and are responsible for labour negotiations SING and SIC power grids to increase the reliability of the national with their own employees.
The Group maintains strong relations power system.
This should be completed in 2018.
The new integrated with all contractors to ensure operating continuity and requires all grid will supply 99% of national demand, increasing customer access contractors to adhere to the same standards expected of its own to a range of power generation sources and bringing stability to employees, particularly in the areas of safety and health.
power prices throughout the year.
Approximately 19% of the Groups cash costs are energy related.
To manage price fluctuations, the Group has medium and long-term electricity contracts, called Power Purchase Agreements PPAs at each operation.
Pricing, in most cases, is linked to the cost of electricity on the Chilean grids or the generation costs of a supplier, the latter being subject to adjustments for inflation and fuel input prices.
The Group operations power requirements, which previously had some exposure to spot prices, are now all under PPAs.
All of the Group operations located on the SING benefit from long-term contracts, mostly indexed to the price of coal.
The first of these to expire will be the PPA supplying 100% of Zaldvars power until 2020.
The Group has invited several suppliers to bid for the long-term power contracts for Zaldvar, and hopes to conclude the process in 2018.
The Groups other PPAs continue until 202628.
WATER Water is a precious commodity in the regions where the Groups mines operate, so the efficient use and recycling of water is extremely important.
28 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT INPUTS SERVICE CONTRACTS AND KEY SUPPLIES The Groups Central Procurement Department negotiates corporatelevel agreements for key purchases such as mining equipment, tyres and reagents.
It also achieves synergies and economies of scale in other high-spend areas, while co-ordinating activities at each of the mining operations.
A core of experts defines product and service categories, and procurement policies and procedures are standardised across the Group.
The Group continually reviews its procurement processes and existing agreements, identifying additional cost-saving opportunities during the coming years as part of its Cost and Competitiveness Programme.
In total, the Group has over 3,000 suppliers for goods and services.
Key contracts, such as tyres, grinding media, mining and mobile equipment, chemicals, explosives, camp administration and maintenance, are under long-term agreements.
Price adjustment formulae reflect the market variations of key cost elements, such as steel, petrol and the Consumer Price Index CPI.
Contracts are normally negotiated between the operation and the supplier, but tenders and negotiations are generally co-ordinated, and sometimes SULPHURIC ACID led, by the Central Procurement Department in order to maximise leverage and benefits.
The sulphuric acid market was tight during 2017 due to supply disruptions in many regions of the world.
This increased the regional The Groups corporate procurement team uses a variety of strategies, deficit and caused prices to rise during the year.
such as full-price competition, price auctions, sourcing from China and working with strategic suppliers to reduce the costs to each party The Group secures most of its sulphuric acid requirements under and achieve a sustainable, longer-term, lower-cost base.
contracts for a year or longer, at prices normally agreed in the latter part of the previous year.
The tight market in 2017 is reflected OIL PRICE in lower acid prices in 2018.
Fuel represents approximately 7% of total cash costs and is used in EXCHANGE RATE trucks transporting ore and waste at the mine sites.
Improving fuel efficiency is a priority, with the amount of fuel consumed per tonne Costs are affected by the Chilean peso to US dollar exchange rate, of material extracted being a key measure.
Fuel is supplied by Chiles as approximately 35-40% of the mining divisions operating costs two largest suppliers to avoid sole supplier risk.
However, as over half of Chiles foreign exchange earnings are generated from copper sales, an increase The oil price tends to affect the spot price of energy, shipping rates in the copper price tends to weaken the Chilean peso and vice versa for supplies and products, and the cost of items such as tyres and and so a natural hedge exists for the Group.
During 2017, the Chilean conveyor belts, which contain oil-based products.
The oil price rose peso strengthened by 4.1% from Ch$677 $1 in 2016 to Ch$649 $1.
by approximately 15% during 2017, putting pressure on the Groups During the first two months of 2018 it strengthened further, operating cost base.
co. uk 29 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED KEY INPUTS AND COST BASE CONTINUED COST AND COMPETITIVENESS PROGRAMME Examples of Sustainable practice The Group introduced its Cost and Competitiveness Programme savings initiatives CCP in 2014, with the aim of reducing its cost base and improving the Groups competitiveness within the industry.
Renegotiation of truck Contract administration Since then, it has achieved savings in mine site costs of $525 maintenance contracts model million, approximately $166 million of which were made during Negotiation with explosive 2017.
These savings are equivalent to 11 cents per pound service providers for the year.
Optimisation of fuel The Group target for 2018 is for a further $100 million of operating transport services cost savings, to be achieved mainly through asset and labour Improving grinding media Maintenance strategy productivity improvements.
consumption The programme focuses on four areas: Minimising waste in blasting 1 to reduce explosives Services productivity: Improving the productivity and quality consumption of contracts while reducing costs New Operating Model New Operating Model 2 Operation and maintenance management: Improving implementation the performance of critical processes and finalising the strengthening of key implementation of standard maintenance management practices processes 3 Corporate and organisational effectiveness: Reducing costs Optimising the organisational and restructuring the Groups organisational framework structure 4 Energy efficiency: Optimising energy efficiency and lowering Modifying peak consumption Energy optimisation energy contract prices patterns to reduce power costs 30 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017
