BUSINESS MODEL THE MINING LIFECYCLE INPUTS Chile EXPLORATION To ensure the sustainability of its mining business in the long term, International RESOURCES AND the Group must focus on expanding its mineral resource base.
RELATIONSHIPS The Group undertakes exploration activities in Chile and abroad, The Groups mining with particular focus on the Americas.
Exploration programmes outside operations depend on a Chile are generally carried out in partnership with other companies range of key inputs such in order to benefit from their local knowledge and experience.
as energy, water, labour and fuel.
The management 3-5 years of these inputs has a significant impact on See page 33 for more information operating costs and the sustainability of mining operations, so ensuring the long-term supply of key Los Pelambres EVALUATION inputs is a vital part Incremental Effective project evaluation and design maximise value at this stage of the business.
Expansion of the mining cycle.
The Groups wealth of experience in both areas helps to make the best use of established mineral deposits.
The Group Centinela integrates sustainability criteria into the design process and project Expansion evaluation phase, developing innovative solutions for challenges such Twin Metals as water availability, long-term energy supply and community relations.
5 years See page 44 for more information Encuentro CONSTRUCTION Oxides Once a project has been approved by the Board, construction begins.
Centinela This stage requires significant input of capital and resources, and Molybdenum effective project management and cost control maximise a projects Plant return on investment.
The Group has a co-operative approach to developing projects.
Typically, after the feasibility stage, and before the construction phase, the Group seeks a development partner, generating an immediate cash return, diversifying risk and providing broader access to funding, while maintaining operating control of the project.
3-5 years See pages 44 to 47 for more information Los Pelambres EXTRACTION The Groups four operations in Chile are Los Pelambres, Centinela, Centinela Antucoya and Zaldvar.
Antucoya The world-class Los Pelambres and Centinela mining districts have Zaldvar long-life copper mining operations with large mineral resources and produce significant volumes of gold, silver and molybdenum as by-products.
All of the Groups mines are open pit operations.
Safety and health are key elements of operating efficiency and remain a top priority for the Board and management team.
20 years See pages 36 to 41 for more information See page 28 for more information CORE VALUES Sustainability Safety and health 26 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CREATING VALUE TROUGH THE MINING LIFECYCLE Mining is a long-term business and timescales can often run into decades.
The period from initial exploration to the start of production can exceed ten years and, depending on the nature of the project and the market conditions, it may take more than five years of operation to recoup the initial investment.
Where possible, mines exploit higher-grade areas towards the start of the mine life in order to maximise returns.
As a result, average ore grades may decline over time, with production volumes decreasing along with revenue.
OUTPUTS MINE CLOSURE During the operation of a mine, its impact on the environment and the neighbouring The Groups communities is carefully managed.
At the end of its life, a mine must be closed mining operations and its surroundings restored to their original state.
create significant economic and A closure plan for each mine is maintained and updated throughout its life to ensure social value for a wide compliance with the latest regulations and provide for a sustainable closure.
Local communities benefit See page 63 for more information from job creation and improved infrastructure, while the Chilean government and local municipalities receive tax payments and royalties.
There are also benefits to society in general, with the copper the Group MARKETING produces being used The marketing team builds long-term relationships with the smelters and fabricators across many sectors, from who purchase the Groups products, with approximately 70% of output going to industrial to medical, and Asian markets.
increasingly in renewable and green technologies.
As well as copper, Los Pelambres and Centinela produce significant volumes of gold, molybdenum and silver as by-products.
Gold and silver are sold for industrial and The copper and byelectronic applications and in jewellery-making.
Molybdenum is used to produce products from the Groups steel alloys.
mines go on to be further processed for use in Most copper and molybdenum sales are made under annual contracts or end markets, including longer-term framework agreements.
Sales volumes are agreed each year, property, power, which guarantees offtake.
electronics, transport and consumer products.
See page 31 for more information PROCESSING The Group mines both copper sulphide and copper oxide ores, which require different processing routes: Los Pelambres and Centinela Concentrates Mined sulphide ore is milled to reduce its size before passing to flotation cells where it is upgraded to a concentrate containing 2535% copper.
This concentrate is then shipped to a smelter operated by a third party and converted to copper metal.
Centinela Cathodes, Antucoya and Zaldvar Mined oxide ore, sometimes combined with leachable sulphide ore, is crushed, piled into heaps and then leached with sulphuric acid, producing a copper solution.
This solution is then put through a solvent extraction and electrowinning SX-EW plant to produce copper cathodes, which are sold to fabricators around the world.
See pages 36 to 41 for more information See pages 48 to 53 for more information CORE VALUES Respect Innovation Excellence Forward thinking antofagasta.
