"OUR UNIQUELY INTEGRATED FORMULATION, DEVICE AND DEVELOPMENT CAPABILITIES Uniquely integrated inhaled drug delivery platform Class-leading device technology Comprehensive Comprehensive enabling regulatory and formulation clinical expert technology capabilities Vectura fully integrated formulation, device and development capability 1 GMP Facilities Advanced Laboratories and analytical Manufacturing Suites capability Scale-up and industrialisation expertise We effectively integrate all technologies and disciplines required to deliver an inhaled product 1 ""GMP"" Good Manufacturing Practice."
18 18 V five ec ct tu ur ra G a Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC R RE EP POR ORT T Our uniquely integrated formulation, Differentiated from our competitors device and development capabilities As the respiratory disease space becomes more Class-leading sophisticated and challenging, Vectura is one of the device technology fewcompanies globally with the expertise to design, develop, industrialise and deliver the most Comprehensive Comprehensive regulatory and enabling complexproducts.
formulation clinical development technology capabilities Typical contract Vecturas breadth of capabilities enable products manufacturing utilising engineered particles, dry powders, aqueous organisation formulations for nebulisation, and pressurised 1 GMP Facilities Laboratories and Quality control propellant-based solutions or suspensions delivered analytics Manufacturing Suites via inhalers developed internally by our device design team.
We have more than 140 expert Scale-up and industrialisation pharmaceutical scientists and device engineers expertise focused on the development of inhaled products.
With vertically integrated capabilities and deep experience, Vectura can provide nimble solutions by delivering unique and differentiated medicines Class-leading device to fulfil both patient and partner needs.
technology Comprehensive Comprehensive Read more overleaf for detail enabling regulatory and of our development capabilities clinical expert formulation technology capabilities Typical device technology provider 1 GMP Facilities Advanced Laboratories and analytical Manufacturing capability Suites Scale-up and industrialisation expertise Class-leading device technology Comprehensive General regulatory and formulation clinical expert development capabilities Typical contract research organisation 1 GMP Facilities General Laboratories and analytics Manufacturing Suites Scale-up and industrialisation expertise A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 V five ec ct tu ur ra G a Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c 19 19 OUR UNIQUELY INTEGRATED FORMULATION, DEVICE AND DEVELOPMENT CAPABILITIES CONTINUED Class-leading device technology Vectura has expertise applied to its approved devices and across its innovative pipeline, spanning the complete range of inhalation delivery types.
These include cost-effective DPI and pMDI devices, through to smart nebulisers optimised for targeted lung delivery of a wide range of dose levels.
Inparticular,  smart nebuliser technology has the potential to demonstrate significant improvementin efficacy and or reduction in treatment time over conventional nebulisers.
Vectura's dry powder inhalers build on commercially validated platform Robust and low cost Enabled via add-on or integrated connectivity Simple and intuitive C onsistent performance userinterface GyroHaler Lever-operated across range of products Builds on proven Broad and long dated DPI platform patent coverage Open-Inhale-Close Multi-use single unit dose Vectura's pressurised metered dose inhalers are familiar and universally acceptable Portable and robust Active dispersion enables low inspiration flow rates S ynchronisation improved when combined with spacers Front-facing dose indicator Dose indicating pMDI actuator Br eath actuation in partnership Low cost with Mundipharma Designed for high volume manufacture Vecturas differentiated nebulised devices provide opportunity for enhanced outcomes and shorter treatment times Breath actuation Low inspiration flow rate Faster delivery Controlled inhalation volume FOX AKITA JET Potential to increase efficiency Potential for use with large and reduce drug dosage molecules including biologics 20 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Comprehensive enabling formulation technology Our range of device and formulation capabilities provides us with a competitive advantage for developing generics for Asthma and COPD, as well as products aimed at the enhanced delivery of known molecules to the lungs in specialist disease areas.
This includes inhaled reformulations of medicines normally delivered by the oral or injectable route, including biologics.
Our in-house capability to design and engineer our own formulations and adapt their aerodynamic properties by altering size, shape, surface roughness and surface chemistry to optimise them for their particular purpose.
For example, we can engineer a particle to make it less sticky, so that it flows and aerosolises better and has the potential to be delivered with higher efficiency to effect an increased efficacy.
The versatility and ability to alter drug formulations according to dosing regimens is key when delivering complex biologics and is increasingly demanded by regulators and physicians.
Our wide range of delivery devices also allows us to easily combine different molecules together in combination products.
We are an attractive partner for pharma companies, working closely with them to select the right technology for the intended patient and disease before the formulation or device becomes fixed in the later stages of development.
Advanced analytical capability Vecturas advanced in-house analytical capability further cements the Companys ability to support all phases of inhalation product development.
Vectura has extensive state-of-the-art analytical testing facilities and equipment, and an expertanalytical workforce able to fully develop and validate all of the methods required to characterise complex inhalation products not just for small molecules and combinations thereof but also for complex biologic inhalation products.
Thepharmaceutical development of inhalation products requires many decisions tobemade along the way.
Most decisions are based on the analytical data generated, making Vecturas advanced analytical capability a key strength oftheorganisation.
Scale-up and industrialisation expertise Vectura has the expertise to develop product manufacturing processes, ranging in scale from small laboratory, all the way through to commercially relevant scale, offering a seamless transition and transfer out to commercial product manufacturing sites.
The Group has a proven ability to advance products from early development stages all the way through to commercial production.
Vectura also has strong clinical and regulatory capabilities to complement its technical formulation, device, analytical and manufacturing expertise.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 21 OUR UNIQUELY INTEGRATED FORMULATION, DEVICE AND DEVELOPMENT CAPABILITIES CONTINUED 1 GMP Facilities Laboratories and Manufacturing Suites We have the expertise to develop manufacturing processes ranging inscale from laboratory testing all the way through to commercially relevant scale-up, including the manufacture of clinical supplies for large scale clinical studies.
This enables us to offer a seamless transfer out to commercial manufacturing sites.
Comprehensive regulatory and clinical expert capabilities Vectura has a strong team of experienced professionals in all developmentrelated disciplines required for taking drugs and drug-device combinations from pre-clinical development right through to regulatory submission MAA Marketing Authorisation Application or NDA New Drug Application and post-approval.
The Clinical Regulatory Development team is composed of more than 40 scientists with experienced background and positive track record in the respiratory field emanating from different biotech, medtech, pharma-industries and also academia.
Outside of the big pharma organisations active in the field of inhalation product development it is really only Vectura that is able to bring together all of the disciplines required to seamlessly work together to create a successful product.
It is Vecturas ability to successfully combine all of the required technologies and capabilities that makes the Company a global leader in the field of inhalation product development.
"40 experienced scientists in our clinical and regulatory teams 1 ""GMP"" Good Manufacturing Practice."
22 22 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY: Breelib meets iloprost amodern nebuliser for an established drug What is Breelib?
Scale-up, industrialisation and GMP manufacturing Breelib is a small handheld, battery-powered, breath activated, Vectura handled all aspects of industrialisation and supply of the TM vibrating mesh technology inhalation system utilising the FOX s Breelib inhalation device, and were responsible for the GMP unique flowrate and volume control technology.
It is a smart manufacturing of the device from clinical trials throughto commercial nebuliser device designed to provide patients with both an easier launch.
Vectura supported Bayer by enabling aseamless transition TM tousedevice and improved delivery of Ventavis iloprost, and transfer of the Breelib design to commercial manufacturing awell-established inhaled treatment for patients with pulmonary sites to support the scale-up and industrialisation of the device.
Market launch Drug product is available at 10 microgram ml 1ml ampule Working closely with Bayer, Vectura was part of the market launch and20microgram ml nebuliser solution through the technology.
team, performing device workshops and training for the Bayer Patients can initiate on Ventavis iloprost with this device or commercial team and healthcare professionals.
History Spotlighting our capabilities In October 2012, Vectura established a collaboration with Bayer TM todevelop Breelib, a smart hand-held nebuliser device designed to provide patients with both an easier to use device and improved Breelib highlights our integrated development delivery of Bayers Ventavis iloprost, a well-established inhaled capabilities which enable us to support the development treatment for patients with PAH.
of complex inhaled products throughout the development lifecycle, from initial partner interaction, right down to Class-leading device technology product launch support and digital solution development.
Together with Bayer, Vectura used its in-house respiratory expertiseto customise its proprietary FOX platform to design Breelib is an alternative delivery mechanism for Bayers apatient-focused drug-specific nebuliser system to match the Ventavis iloprost to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension high-performance profile of the existing device.
Vecturas simple and easy to use proprietary hand-held FOX nebuliser enhances the delivery of this The Bluetooth enabled device incorporates a patient feedback known product, significantly reducing treatment times mechanism, which helps to guide a patient's breathing during the for patients.
To improve inhalation technique, the Breelib mouthpiece will glow green if the patient is breathing with the right The commercialisation of Breelibvalidates the potential speed and force and red for sub-optimal breathing.
Vectura also opportunity for multiple further developments, leveraging supported the development of the BreeConnect app solutions, which our device technology to enhance the delivery of existing helps patients to monitor the number of inhalations they have taken approved medicines.
a day, reminds them when to inhale and shares the data with their doctor, providing an enhanced patient experience.
In 2014, the FOX device won the Red Dot Award for productdesign.
Now approved in Poland, Germany, Austria, Portugal and the UK Faster delivery and an improved with further roll-out underway.
The adapted FOX handheld smart cleaning regime save the typical nebuliser, which utilises Vecturas unique FAVORITE inhalation technology, is able to significantly reduce each treatment time from patient over one hour a day.
eleven minutes to three minutes, whilst maintaining efficacy.
This reduction in treatment time, along with an improved cleaning regime, saves a typical patient over one hourper day.
Comprehensive regulatory support Leveraging our strong clinical and regulatory capabilities TM throughout the development of Breelib, Vectura supported theplanning of the required clinical studies with drug delivery, device and PAH experts providing support for the dosing strategy and patient-specific device parameters, and undertaking device Proprietary flow rate validation and device vigilance.
management with valve and colour changes reinforcing optimum inhalation technique
