GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS preference share carries 100 votes on a poll at any general meeting of the Company.
Directors who have served during the year and summaries of current Directors key skills and experience are set out in the Corporate When the preference shares were issued, they carried one vote on a Governance Report on pages 76 to 78. poll at any general meeting of the Company in parity with ordinary shares in issue at that time.
The number of ordinary shares in issue POST-BALANCE-SHEET EVENTS has increased since then through stock splits and bonus issues and There have been no post-balance-sheet events.
because the preference shares were not split at the same time as the ordinary shares, in order to maintain proportionate voting rights FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT attaching to the preference shares, the voting rights attaching to preference shares have increased to 100 votes on a poll at any Details of the Companys policies on financial risk management are general meeting of the Company.
set out in Note 24 to the financial statements.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares or on their RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS voting rights beyond those standard provisions set out in the The consolidated profit before tax has increased from $875.9 million Companys Articles of Association and other provisions of applicable in 2016 excluding exceptional items to $1,830.8 million in 2017. law and regulation including, in particular, following a failure to provide the Company with information about interests in shares as The Board has recommended a final dividend of 40.6 cents per required by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not aware of ordinary share 2016 15.3 cents.
An interim dividend of 10.3 cents any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may was paid on 6 October 2017 2016 interim dividend 3.1 cents.
This result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
gives total dividends per share proposed in relation to 2017 of 50.9 cents 2016 18.4 cents and a total dividend amount in relation to With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the 2017 of $501.8 million 2016 $181.4 million.
Company is governed by, and has regard to, its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, the Companies Preference shares carry the right to a fixed cumulative dividend Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be of 5% per annum.
The preference shares are classified within amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
There are no borrowings and preference dividends are included within finance significant agreements in place that take effect, alter or terminate costs.
The total cost of dividends paid on preference shares and upon a change of control of the Company.
There are no agreements recognised as an expense in the income statement was $0.2 million in place between the Company and its Directors or employees that 2016 $0.2 million.
Further information relating to dividends provide for compensation for loss of office resulting from a change is set out in the Financial Review on page 52 and in Note 13 to the of control of the Company.
The percentages of the total nominal share capital of the Company POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS represented by each class of share are: The Group did not make political donations during the year ended Nominal value Percentage 31 December 2017 2016 nil.
Class Number in issue per share of capital Ordinary shares 985,865,695 5p 96.10% AUDITOR of 5p each The Companys auditor, PwC LLP, has indicated its willingness to Preference shares 2,000,000 1 3.90% continue in office and a resolution seeking their reappointment will be of 1.00 each proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES AND AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS OWN SHARES The Directors in office at the date of this report have each At the 2017 AGM, held on 24 May 2017, authority was given to the confirmed that: Directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Company up to a a so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information maximum amount equivalent to two-thirds of the shares in issue of of which the Groups auditors is unaware: and which one-third may only be offered by way of rights issue.
This b they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as authority expires on the date of this years AGM, scheduled to be held Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant on 23 May 2018.
No such shares have been issued as at the date of audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is this report or during the year.
The Directors propose to seek renewal aware of that information.
of this authority at this years AGM.
A further special resolution passed at the 2017 AGM granted authority CAPITAL STRUCTURE to the Directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital are without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act shown in Note 29 to the financial statements.
This authority also expires on the date of this years AGM and has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed the Directors will seek to renew this authority on similar terms by income.
Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general way of two separate resolutions, in line with the Investment meeting of the Company.
Associations guidance and the Pre-Emption Groups Statement Details of the preference share capital are shown in Note 22 to the of Principles.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
co. uk 123 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Company was also authorised by a shareholders resolution SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS passed at the 2017 AGM to purchase up to 10% of its issued ordinary As at 31 December 2017 and 12 March 2018, the following significant share capital.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held holdings of voting rights in the share capital of the Company had been as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Preference Companys issued and authorised share capital.
This authority will Ordinary share share Total share expire at this years AGM and a resolution to renew the authority for Shareholder capital % capital % capital % a further year will be proposed.
No shares were purchased by the 1.
Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 58.04 Company during the year.
Kupferberg Establishment 9.94 8.27 DIRECTORS INTERESTS AND INDEMNITIES 3.
Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54 Details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are both remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the shares of controlled by the E. Abaroa Foundation Abaroa, in which members the Company as at 31 December 2017, are given in the Directors of the Luksic family are interested.
As explained in Note 35 to the Remuneration Report.
No Director had any material interest in a financial statements, Metalinvest Establishment is the immediate contract of significance other than a service contract with the Parent Company of the Group and the E. Abaroa Foundation is the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
Aureberg Establishment is controlled by the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to Severe Studere Foundation that, in turn, is controlled by Jean-Paul the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors are Luksic, the Chairman of the Company.
granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities EXPLORATION AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT personally incurred as a result of their office.
The Company also maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy The Groups operating companies carry out exploration and research throughout the financial year.
A new policy has been entered into and development activities that are necessary to support and expand for the current financial year.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Each year, the Directors complete a form identifying interests The Corporate Governance Report on pages 66 to 122, the Statement that may constitute a conflict of interest including, for example, of Directors Responsibilities on page 125 and Note 24 to the financial directorships in other companies.
Directors are also required to statements are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
notify the Company during the year of any material changes in Other information can be found in the following sections of the those positions or situations.
Strategic Report: The Board, with assistance from the Nomination and Governance Location in Committee, considers the potential and actual conflict situations and Strategic Report decides in relation to each situation whether to authorise it and the Future developments in the business Pages 28 to 47 steps, if any, which need to be taken to manage it.
of the Group The authorisation process is not regarded as a substitute for Viability and going concern statement Page 18 managing an actual conflict of interest if one arises, and the Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Pages 28 to 47 monitoring, and, if appropriate, authorisation of actual and potential Employee consultation Pages 31 to 32 conflicts of interest is an ongoing process.
Greenhouse gas emissions Page 64 Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found on the following pages of the Annual Report: Location in Annual Report Statement of interest capitalised by the See Notes 5, 9 and 15 Group LR 9.8.
4 1 to the financial statements on Pages 147 to 151, 157 and 162 and 163.
4 14 Page 73 By order of the Board Julian Anderson Company Secretary 12 March 2018 124 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The Directors consider that the Annual Report and financial Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable accordance with the applicable law and regulations.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the the Group financial statements in accordance with International Corporate Governance Report, confirms that to the best of his or Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European her knowledge: Union, and the Parent Company financial statements in accordance the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, including view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework Group, and FRS 101.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and of the development and performance of the business and the fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of position of the Group, together with a description of the principal the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these risks and uncertainties that it faces.
financial statements, the Directors are required to: By order of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent Jean-Paul Luksic Ollie Oliveira state whether the IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Chairman Senior Independent Director applicable UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 12 March 2018 explained in the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
