46 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY Dr Phil Nolan Will Samuel Olivier Brousse Patrick OD Bourke Anne Wade Dr Jeremy Beeton Toby Hiscock David Rough Carolyn Cattermole EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Dr Phil Nolan BSc, PHD, MBA Will Samuel BSc, BA, FCA Olivier Brousse EP, ENPC Chairman Chairman Designate Chief Executive Officer Phil has been Chairman since joining John Laing Will joined John Laing in December 2017 as a Olivier joined John Laing in March 2014 as in January 2010 but will be stepping down after non-executive director and Chairman Designate.
He has a wealth of experience on Will is also Chairman of Tilney Group Limited.
from cole Polytechnique and cole Nationale the boards of many companies, private and Prior to this he was Chairman of TSB Bank plc, des Ponts et Chausses in France, he became public and in both an executive and non-executive which he took through IPO after its fide-merger Commercial Director of Unic Systems and then capacity.
He is also non-executive Chairman of from Lloyds Bank plc, Chairman of Howdens Chief of Staff to the Chairman and CEO of Associated British Ports Holding Limited.
He Joinery Group, Chairman of Ecclesiastical Compagnie Gnrale des Eaux in 1994, both in previously served as non-executive Chairman of Insurance Group plc, Chairman of H P Bulmer plc, France.
In 1998, he moved to London as CEO of Affinity Water Limited, Chairman of Ulster Bank Deputy Chairman of Inchcape plc, Senior Advisor Connex Trains and then moved to Washington DC Ireland Limited and as a non-executive director to Lazard & Co Ltd and Senior Advisor to the in 2003 as CEO of Veolia Transportation Inc.
He of Providence Resource Plc and EnQuest PLC.
Prudential Regulation Authority formerly the came back to France in 2007 as Deputy CEO of He was Chairman of Infinis, a then privately held, Financial Services Authority, a director of Veolia Transport Group, responsible for French leading renewable energy generator between Schroders plc, Co-Chief Executive Officer at and US businesses.
From 2008 to 2014, he served 2007 and 2010, Chairman of Sepura plc, a listed, Schroder Salomon Smith Barney a division of as CEO and then Executive Chairman of Saur SA global supplier of TETRA radios between 2007 Citigroup Inc, a non-executive director of the in France.
In 2016, he was awarded the Lgion and 2010 and CEO of Eircom, Irelands national Edinburgh Investment Trust plc and a Trustee d'Honneur by the French President Franois telecommunications supplier from 2002 to 2006. and Honorary Treasurer of International Alert.
Age 53 Prior to that, he served as an Executive Director Will is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered of BG Group plc and CEO of Transco plc from Accountants in England and Wales and has a 1998 and in 2000, led the demerger of Transco First Class Honours Degree in Chemistry from as CEO of the Lattice Group.
Age 64 Durham University and a Degree in Mathematics from the Open University.
Age 66 Patrick OD Bourke MA, ACA Anne Wade BA, MSc Dr Jeremy Beeton CB, BSc, CEng, FICE Group Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Patrick joined John Laing in 2011 as Group Anne joined John Laing in December 2014 Jeremy joined John Laing in December 2014 Finance Director.
He graduated from Cambridge as a non-executive director.
An asset manager as a non-executive director.
He is a Fellow of University and qualified as a chartered accountant by background, Anne has extensive experience the Institution of Civil Engineers with 40 years with Peat Marwick now KPMG before spending in capital markets.
From 1995 to 2012, she of international experience in project and nine years in investment banking with first Hill was Senior Vice President and Director of programme management over very large Samuel and then with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
Throughout her 17 year multi-site, multiple project operations portfolios In 1995, he joined Powergen plc where he was career with Capital, she was responsible for for and within government, public companies responsible for mergers and acquisitions before  investments.
Anne is a and private companies.
He is also currently an becoming Group Treasurer.
From 2000 to 2006, Director and member of the Audit Committee independent non-executive director of SSE plc, he was Group Finance Director of Viridian of Summit Materials Inc in the US, of the Heron an independent non-executive director of Group PLC, the Northern Ireland based energy Foundation in New York, and of Big Society WYG plc, an Advisory Board member of group, becoming Group Chief Executive in 2007 Capital in London.
She is also a Partner  LLP and Chairman after Viridian was taken private.
He joined the with Leaders Quest.
Anne was previously of Merseylink Ltd.
He has also been appointed Board of Affinity Water Limited in 2013 as a a non-executive director and member of the as an independent non-executive director of non-executive director.
Age 60 Governance and Strategy Committee of Holcim, OPG Power Ventures Plc.
Additionally, Jeremy based in Switzerland.
Anne has a BA from sits on the governing Court of Strathclyde Harvard and an MSc from the London School University.
He was Director General of the London of Economics.
Age 45 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games from 2007 until the Olympic Baton was passed on to Rio fide Janeiro in 2012.
For eight years prior to this, he was a Principal Vice President with Bechtel, responsible for their worldwide civil operations and has lived and worked extensively in the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
He was awarded CB in the 2013 New Year Honours and holds an honorary Doctorate of Engineering from Napier University.
Age 64 Toby Hiscock MA Oxon, FCA David Rough BSc Hons COMPANY SECRETARY Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Carolyn Cattermole LLB Toby joined John Laing in June 2009 as a David joined John Laing in December 2014 as non-executive director.
He is a qualified chartered a non-executive director.
He has spent his Group General Counsel and accountant with 36 years experience as a finance life working in the financial services sector Company Secretary professional.
He was the Chief Financial Officer predominantly in the investment management and an Executive Director of Henderson Group plc business.
He joined Legal and General in 1988 Carolyn joined John Laing in September 2012 as from 2003 until his retirement in 2009, and was and was made head of securities in 1989.
In 1991, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
responsible for all aspects of financial stewardship David was appointed to the group board as Her previous roles were General Counsel and of the Henderson Group.
Before Henderson, he Group Director Investments responsible for the Company Secretary of DS Smith Plc, the was a senior manager at Midland Bank Group groups investment operations.
He retired from international supplier of recycled packaging, in London and from 1981 to 1988 worked for the business in 2002.
During that time he also for ten years, and Company Secretary of Binder Hamlyn, Chartered Accountants after served as chairman of the Association of British Courtaulds Textiles plc for three years.
Prior graduating from Oxford University.
Toby is also Insurers Investment Committee.
David has been to that, she was a senior legal adviser with a non-executive director of and consultant to a a non-executive and senior independent director Courtaulds plc, having qualified as a solicitor number of other public and private institutions.
on a number of boards, including Land Securities, with Norton Rose.
Age 57 Age 58 London Metal Exchange, Friends Provident and Xstrata.
Since 2003, David has been a non-executive director of Brown Shipley, a wealth management business and he was appointed as a non-executive director of Hansteen Holdings plc in October 2015.
Age 67 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
