Management Fees 04 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS IS ORGANISED ACROSS THREE KEY AREAS OF ACTIVITY: Primary Investment: we Secondary Investment: we Asset Management: we actively source, originate, bid for and own a substantial portfolio manage our own Primary and win greenfield infrastructure of investments in operational Secondary Investment portfolios projects, typically as part of a infrastructure projects, and provide investment advice consortium in the case of PPP almost all of which were and asset management services projects.
Our Primary Investment previously part of our Primary to two external funds, John Laing portfolio comprises interests in Investment portfolio.
Infrastructure Fund JLIF and infrastructure projects which John Laing Environmental are in the construction phase.
Assets Group JLEN, through John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM, which is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
We create value by originating The John Laing business model and investing in new greenfield is based on strong investment and infrastructure investments asset management capabilities Post-construction, these investments are and is supported by the current designed to produce long-term predictable strong demand in secondary cash flows that meet our rate of return targets.
markets for operational Once operational, investments move from our Primary Investment portfolio to our Secondary infrastructure assets.
Operational investments can be sold to secondary market investors who target a lower rate of return OUR BUSINESS MODEL consistent with the reduction in risk for assets that have completed construction.
These realisations release capital to recycle into primary investment opportunities.
ASSET Alternatively, investments can be retained in MANAGEMENT the portfolio after construction to generate a cash yield and also offer potential for further value enhancement from changes that improve project cash flow.
PRIMARY SECONDARY Our asset management activities focus on INVESTMENT INVESTMENT management and reduction of project risks, especially during the construction phase, and enhancement of project cash flows.
Reinvestment in Sale of operational assets Operational greenfield projects and yield from projects Assets Management Fees John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 05 Location: Project: Texas, US Buckthorn Partners: NRG Energy Inc Wind Farm Description: Located in Texas, this project has a total capacity of 100 MW.
Partial operations commenced in November 2017 with full operations commencing in January 2018.
The wind farm benefits from a 13 year power purchase agreement.
