ACCOUNTABILITY: PROJECTS COMMITTEE REPORT The Projects Committee oversees the full project lifecycle, from concept to start of operations, carefully assessing, through robust challenge, investment proposals prior to submission to the Board.
Ollie Oliveira, Chairman 2017 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Number Other regular attendees include the CEO, Projects Vice President, attended Projects Finance Manager and Secretary to the Board.
Ollie Oliveira Chairman 8 8 Effective 1 January 2017, Ramn Jara joined the Committee.
1 Tim Baker 7 8 The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Tim Baker was unable to attend one Committee meeting during the year because of a commitment outside Chile.
Nevertheless, he reviewed Committee papers, sent questions and detailed comments to the Chairman and Committee members ahead of the meeting and validated meeting minutes.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Projects Committee reviews all aspects of projects to be The Committee adds an important level of governance and control submitted for Board approval, highlighting key matters throughout to the evaluation of the Groups projects, and plays a key role in the project lifecycle for the Boards consideration and making providing the Board with additional oversight of the projects recommendations to management to ensure that all projects portfolio, development proposals, milestones and performance submitted to the Board are aligned with the Groups strategy against key indicators.
KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Policies and Projects in study Lessons learned commitments execution phase from projects Reviewed the Groups mining projects Reviewed the Los Pelambres Incremental Reviewed Antucoyas dust control status portfolio including budget and schedule.
Expansion project, Phases 1 and 2. and work plan.
Reviewed risk management methodology Reviewed the Centinela Second used in project development.
Concentrator project and an alternative plan to expand the existing concentrator.
Reviewed the Encuentro Oxides project.
Reviewed the Molybdenum Plant project.
100 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE THOROUGH PROJECT REVIEW The Committee supports the Board to ensure that deliberations across projects are focused on comparable metrics and that project execution decisions are in the long-term interests of the Company.
What is the balance between decisions made by the CENTINELA Projects Committee and decisions made by the Board?
The Committee reviewed progress on the Centinela Second Concentrator projects feasibility study, including a detailed review The Committee is not responsible for approving projects that is for of crushing and grinding technology alternatives.
Our role is to assist the Board by ensuring that projects follow a standard, structured process with consistent The Committee also reviewed a scoping study on an alternative analysis, execution and evaluation practices.
As part of its review, expansion plan for Centinela with lower investment, taking advantage the Committee invites management to consider different perspectives, of the optimisation of the current tailings deposit, to be studied in ideas and improvements to enhance the value of the Groups projects, parallel with the Second Concentrator feasibility study.
The Committee enabling a focused discussion within the Board.
reviewed strategic options for Centinelas water pipeline.
The Committee reviewed the Encuentro Oxides project, including Q.
What tools does the Committee use?
construction and pre-commissioning activities and the The Committee provides guidance to each project manager from the commissioning plan.
early stages of project planning through completion, to ensure that policies, strategies, and the Groups standard ADS implementation The Committee reviewed the Molybdenum Plant project, including framework are applied.
construction and pre-commissioning activities, the commissioning plan and the engineering procurement and construction contract.
ADS is a project management system whose processes and practices are widely used in the mining industry.
ADS defines standards and ANTUCOYA common criteria, including governance by a steering committee, As a lesson for future projects, the Committee reviewed Antucoyas functional quality assurance reviews and risk management.
dust control status and work plan, assessing how this issue could have been identified and mitigated during project development.
What were the Committees key activities in 2017?
The Committee reviewed the risk management methodology applied In 2018, the Committee will review close-out reports to derive lessons to project development from the scoping study stage to project learned from the Encuentro Oxides and Molybdenum Plant projects.
execution, which includes risk identification, analysis, assessment and Q.
What are the Committees priorities in 2018?
The risk chapter for each feasibility study is formally assessed during the functional quality assurance review carried out after the To carefully assess progress of the Los Pelambres and Centinela completion of the feasibility study.
In addition, the corporate projects expansion projects, particularly with respect to critical path items team ensures that interconnectivity of risk is appropriately covered for investment decisions.
and this was discussed with the Committee in relation to the Groups To review the Twin Metals project and projects at Zaldvar and the projects during 2017. transport division.
To continue to review and further enhance the ADS framework.
LOS PELAMBRES The Committee reviewed the feasibility study results for Phase I of the Los Pelambres Incremental Expansion project as well Ollie Oliveira as the functional quality assurance review, Environmental Impact Chairman of the Projects Committee Assessment progress, technical permitting matters, detailed engineering, vendor and contracting strategy, project execution plan, and co-ordination with the community relations team.
A special area of focus was the planned operation of the desalination plant including testing potential cost savings.
The Committee also reviewed Phase 2 of the Los Pelambres Incremental Expansion project, including the work plan and budget for a feasibility study for the plant expansion, the increase in capacity of the Mauro tailings dam and tailings disposal alternatives, waste dumps and stability, bottleneck analysis, mining and environmental plans.
An Environmental Impact Assessment is planned for submission in 2018. antofagasta.
co. uk 101 REMUNERATION: REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee is focused on ensuring that the Groups remuneration and talent management arrangements support the Groups objective of generating value for stakeholders in a safe and sustainable way through the commodity cycle.
Tim Baker, Chairman 2017 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Number Effective 1 January 2017, William Hayes and Ollie Oliveira rotated attended off the Committee and Vivianne Blanlot and Francisca Castro Tim Baker Chairman 6 6 joined the Committee.
Vivianne Blanlot 6 6 The Committee held a special session in London in May 2017 with internal and external advisers to review the latest trends Francisca Castro 6 6 in executive remuneration, reporting and shareholder feedback Other regular attendees include the CEO, Vice President in the lead-up to the 2017 AGM.
of Human Resources, Company Secretary and Secretary The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
All Committee members are independent.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Remuneration and Talent Management Committee ensures strategy, level, structure and outcomes for the Executive Committee.
that the Groups remuneration arrangements support the effective The Committee is actively involved in the talent management implementation of the Groups strategy and enable the recruitment, strategy for the Groups senior management, including the motivation and retention of talent.
implementation and review of succession plans for members The Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration for of the Executive Committee excluding the CEO.
the Chairman and the CEO and for monitoring the compensation KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Directors Executive Human resources Talent management and remuneration remuneration and policy succession planning Evaluated Chairman, Director Evaluated the CEO's Oversaw a review of the Reviewed the Groups and Committee fees.
performance and determined Group's values in line with talent management strategy the variable compensation an initiative to strengthen and succession plans for Reviewed the 2016 Directors' payable under the 2016 the Groups organisational members of the Executive Remuneration Report prior Annual Bonus Plan.
Committee excluding the to its approval by the Board CEO.
and subsequent approval Oversaw a fundamental Oversaw the conclusion of by shareholders at the review of the Groups Annual the functional simplification Approved the implementation 2017 AGM.
Bonus Plan and LTIP and programme, which involved of succession plans and recommended changes to the the centralisation of support revisions to the composition Reviewed the 2017 Directors' Board for approval.
of the Executive Committee Remuneration Policy prior including the appointment of to its approval by the Board Reviewed LTIP eligibility, Oversaw the design and the Vice President Corporate and subsequent approval participants and criteria and implementation of the Group's Affairs and Sustainability, by shareholders at the approved the grant of 2017 new operating model, which Vice President of Projects 2017 AGM.
is now standardised across and new General Managers the Group's operations.
Reviewed performance for at Los Pelambres, Antucoya LTIP awards granted in 2014 Reviewed compensation and Zaldvar.
across the Group to ensure that it remains competitive, Reviewed Group performance motivating and appropriately against the 2016 Annual aligned with the Groups Bonus Plan performance performance and strategy.
metrics and reviewed the metrics to apply to the Monitored collective 2017 Annual Bonus Plan.
bargaining negotiations at Los Pelambres.
Centinela Reviewed and approved the and Zaldvar.
individual performance of the members of the Executive Committee under the 2016 Annual Bonus Plan.
102 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT The Committee is currently overseeing a number of significant strategic initiatives including those focused on culture and diversity and inclusion.
Dear Shareholder, The Committee has also overseen significant initiatives aimed at improving the reliability and performance of the Groups mining As set out in the Chairmans and CEOs introductory letters and the operations: the conclusion of the functional simplification programme, Groups performance highlights on the opening pages of this Annual which centralised certain functions that support our mining operations Report, 2017 was a strong year for the Group.
including finance, human resources, legal and external affairs and Our most pleasing achievement during the year was ensuring that sustainability, and the implementation of the Groups new operating there were no fatalities.
On top of that, our operating performance was model.
The purpose of the new operating model is to improve safety, in line with guidance, two key project milestones were achieved with reliability and profitability by implementing a standard model at each first production achieved for the Encuentro Oxides project and the of the Groups mining operations, balancing the focus on operations, commencement of commissioning for the Centinela Molybdenum Plant maintenance, planning and operating excellence, and we fully expect project, and we made significant progress on a number of cultural to begin to realise the benefits of this model in 2018. and qualitative initiatives which are described in more detail below.
As noted by the Chairman on page 71, the Committee also The Committee has a broad oversight role in relation to the Groups commissioned a fundamental review of the Groups remuneration remuneration and talent management arrangements and all Group structures during 2017.
The aim was to restructure the Annual Bonus employees, including the CEO, participate in the Annual Bonus Plan and Long Term Incentive Plans to make them simpler and better which, alongside individual performance, takes into account Group understood by employees, to enhance the alignment for all employees performance against criteria set at the beginning of each year.
Since between remuneration and shareholder returns and to incorporate 2016, the Groups performance score under the Annual Bonus Plan flexibility to allow the Committee to react to any significant change is subject to an automatic adjustment of 15% downwards if there either within the Group or externally.
is a fatality during the year and 15% upwards if there are no fatalities The Committee considered a wide range of proposals and during the year.
assessed the impact of each proposal versus the expected cost of The Committee was very pleased to endorse the automatic 15% implementation.
The Committee determined that the fundamental upwards adjustment for the 2017 Annual Bonus Plan in recognition structure of both plans continued to be appropriate but that from 2018 of the efforts of all employees to ensure that there were no fatalities the number of KPIs in the Annual Bonus Plan would be reduced from during the year.
The Committee continues to support the Sustainability 15 to ten and the number of KPIs in the LTIP would be reduced from and Stakeholder Management Committee and the Board in their seven to four.
Further detail on these changes is set out within the oversight of the performance of the Groups safety and health risk 2017 Executive Remuneration Report on page 117. management processes through incentives in the Groups Annual EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION Bonus Plan that relate specifically to safety and health performance and through oversight of the Groups cultural reinforcement Awards under both the LTIP and the Annual Bonus Plan are subject programme, which includes safety as a core value.
to performance against financial and non-financial metrics and take into account the interests of the Groups stakeholders.
The Committee AREAS OF FOCUS FOR THE COMMITTEE IN 2017 reviews these metrics at the beginning of the year and, if necessary, 2017 was another busy year for the Committee.
I was very recommends amendments before recommending the metrics to the pleased that Vivianne Blanlot and Francisca Castro agreed to join Board for approval.
the Committee on 1 January 2017 and would like to thank William The Groups performance score for 2017 under the Annual Bonus Hayes and Ollie Oliveira for their significant contributions to the Plan, which forms the basis for calculating 70% of the CEOs and Committee over a number of years.
Between us, at least one Executive Committees annual bonus, was 104.0, within a range of 90 Committee member serves on each of the other Board Committees Threshold to 110 Maximum.
This score includes the 15% upwards which allows us to take into account strategic priorities and the views adjustment for zero fatalities described above.
A full breakdown of all stakeholders in our deliberations.
of performance against each metric is set out on page 113.
As noted by the Chairman on page 71, the Committee is currently At the beginning of this year, the Board and the Committee each overseeing two of the Groups most significant strategic initiatives: carefully considered the pay arrangements for Ivn Arriagada taking the cultural reinforcement programme and the diversity and inclusion into account individual and Group performance, the Groups current programme.
These programmes depend on each other to succeed strategy and packages available to market peers both internationally and strong leadership from the Board and the Committee is required and in Chile.
The findings showed that all elements of the CEOs to ensure that our inclusive culture and values are entrenched in the package were significantly below the FTSE 100 and international actions of all of our employees and the wider workforce.
We all mining markets, both of which are considered to be talent markets for benefit from the increased levels of productivity, innovation and our CEO.
The decision was taken to increase his base salary by 10% employee engagement that come with more diverse and inclusive and his target and maximum annual bonus to 67% from 50% and workplaces.
As noted in the Nomination and Governance Committee 133% from 100% of base salary, respectively.
The total potential report on page 87, metrics for the design and implementation of the remuneration awarded for 2018 and the total remuneration for diversity and inclusion programme were included in the Groups 2017 the lead executive in the Group for the past nine years is shown Annual Bonus Plan and I am pleased to report that metrics for this on page 110. programme will again be included in the 2018 Annual Bonus Plan.
co. uk 103 REMUNERATION: REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Committee carefully considered a number of factors when setting REVIEW OF NON-EXECUTIVE Ivns remuneration below the level of his predecessor at the time of DIRECTOR AND COMMITTEE FEES his appointment in 2016, including broader market conditions and the Fee levels for Non-Executive Directors have remained unchanged opportunity to increase his remuneration at a later time if his since 2012.
The basic Non-Executive Director fee will continue at the performance warranted it.
The Board and the Committee are pleased same level in 2018, however, from 1 April 2018, there will be a $5,000 to recognise Ivns performance through this increase, which brings per annum increase in Committee Chairmans fees and a $2,000 per his total remuneration package into closer alignment with international annum increase in Committee members fees in recognition of the peers, albeit still towards the lower end of market practice.
considerable additional time commitments and responsibilities attached to these roles, which have grown in recent years.
TALENT MANAGEMENT AND SUCCESSION PLANNING The Committee and the Board also reviewed the fee payable and time The Committee dedicated a significant amount of time and effort commitments provided for under Ramn Jaras service contract, towards reviewing the Groups talent management and succession which resulted in an exceptional 8% increase to the hourly rate for plans during the year.
Mining is cyclical and all of our employees work services under this contract with effect from 1 January 2018.
This in a strong and competitive mining jurisdiction.
The work that the contract was last reviewed in 2011 and the adjustments made bring Committee has put into talent management and succession planning the hourly rate into line with the market and reflect the time that in recent years has allowed us to develop common standards across Ramn Jara commits to the Group under this contract.
all the Groups operations, promote internally, develop career paths within the organisation, and identify and retain key talent.
More work Each of these adjustments are in accordance with the 2017 Directors remains to be done, but significant progress has been made.
Remuneration Policy that was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and further details of which are set out within the 2017 The Committee is responsible for reviewing, monitoring and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 106 and 108. recommending the talent management strategy for the Groups senior management.
This includes succession plans assessing any changes KEY OBJECTIVES FOR THE COMMITTEE IN 2018 in compensation policies across the Group that may have a significant The Committees objectives for 2018 are to ensure that the long-term impact on labour costs, and overseeing the Groups remuneration policies and structures that are in place contribute compensation and talent management strategies.
towards the generation of value for stakeholders in a safe and In 2017 the Committee reviewed and updated succession plans for the sustainable way.
Executive Committee excluding the CEO and the General Managers As set out on page 71, the Committee will continue to oversee of each of the Groups operating companies.
This exercise involved the implementation of the cultural reinforcement and diversity identifying the individuals within the Groups talent pool that form part and inclusion programmes and the implementation of the new of these succession plans and identifying their individual stages of operating model.
This ensures that talented individuals are available at each stage of the pipeline in the future, Shareholders are invited to vote on the 2017 Directors Remuneration or if there are unexpected departures.
When a key management Report and we trust that there will continue to be strong support for position becomes vacant, a replacement will first be sought from the Groups pay arrangements.
within the Group, taking into account the succession plan agreed for that position.
Tim Baker Chairman of the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee Q.
WHAT ARRANGEMENT DOES THE COMMITTEE HAVE IN PLACE WITH ADVISERS?
During the year, the Committee reappointed remuneration had no other connection with the Company.
Willis Towers consultants Willis Towers Watson to provide advice to the Watsons fees for this work were charged in accordance with Committee on compensation benchmarking, regulatory and normal billing practices and amounted to 99,671. corporate governance developments and market practice, and to The Committee also received assistance from the Chairman, the advise the Committee in relation to the fundamental review of the CEO, the Vice President of Human Resources and the Company Groups executive remuneration structures carried out during the Secretary during 2017, none of whom participated in discussions year.
This reappointment was based on the Committees relating to their own remuneration.
satisfaction with advice received in previous years.
The Committee Chairman and the Committee as a whole regularly Willis Towers Watson is an independent global professional speak with advisers, without management present, to provide a services firm that is a signatory to, and adheres to, the Code forum for open discussion and the sharing of views and opinions of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants.
This can be found on compensation issues.
Additionally, part of each Committee at www.
meeting is held without management present to ensure that The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Willis individual views or areas of concern can be debated between Towers Watson in 2017 was objective and independent, that no the Committee members.
conflict of interest arose as a result of these services and that it 104 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017
