BOARD OF DIRECTORS Appointment to the Board ICIPharmaceuticals France.
He was a non-executive director of Bruno Angelici Bruno Angelici was appointed to the Vectura Board on 1 December 2013 NovoNordisk A S, a global healthcare company and world leader in Non-Executive Chairman and became Non-Executive Chairman in February 2014.
Prior to this, he was at Baxter, a US-based global supplier N R merger with Skyepharma in June 2016, Bruno became Chairman of the of medical devices.
He has extensive international business leadership enlarged Vectura Group plc.
experience, including in the US, and brings a deep understanding to the Company of the medical device and pharmaceutical industries.
Experience and expertise Bruno has an MBA Kellogg School of Management and business and Current external appointments law degrees from Reims.
Bruno is a non-executive director of Smiths Group plc, a technology group.
He was a member of the global advisory board of Takeda Brunos career includes senior management roles in pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical Company Ltd, Japan, the largest pharmaceutical company and medical device companies.
Bruno retired from AstraZeneca in in Asia until the end of 2017, and a member of the supervisory 2010 as executive vice president international after a 20-year career.
boardof Wolters Kluwer NV, a global information services and He was responsible for Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific, Latin America, publishing company.
theMiddle East and Africa, having originally joined as president of Appointment to the Board Prior to this, James led the AstraZeneca investor relations team from James Ward-Lilley James Ward-Lilley was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Vectura in 2011 to 2012.
His extensive international management career at Chief Executive Officer September 2015 and became CEO of the enlarged Group following the AstraZeneca spanned 28 years across a variety of commercially focused merger with Skyepharma in June 2016. roles.
James progressed from sales and marketing roles inthe UK through to country head of Belgium and Luxembourg.
Hethen led Experience and expertise AstraZenecas business in China to become the number one James holds an Institute of Marketing Diploma, a BA Hons degree and pharmaceutical company in that market.
James went on to become an MBA.
regional vice president for Central Eastern Europe and the Middle East, Prior to joining Vectura, James was a senior executive at AstraZeneca, where the business enjoyed strong growth.
being vice president respiratory, inflammation & autoimmunity, global Current external appointments product and portfolio strategy GPPS.
In this role James had James does not currently hold any other directorships.
responsibility for the development of AstraZenecas respiratory, inflammation and autoimmunity RIA strategy which included the acquisitions of Almiralls respiratory business and Pearl Therapeutics.
Appointment to the Board in business transformation director Europe.
He held senior finance Andrew Derodra Andrew Derodra was appointed Chief Financial Officer CFO on roles in several industries and sectors with Diageo, British Airways Chief Financial Officer 10June 2016 having previously been appointed CFO of Skyepharma andReed Elsevier.
Current external appointments Experience and expertise Andrew does not currently hold any other directorships.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and holds a BA Hons in mathematics from Oxford University.
Andrew brings to the role over 25 years experience in senior finance and commercial roles in multinational FTSE 100 companies.
Prior to Skyepharma he was with Tate & Lyle, where he was group vicepresident finance & control from 2011.
Previously, at SABMiller, heheld a succession of commercial and strategic roles culminating Appointment to the Board of European operations atIVAX, chief executive officer of Faulding Frank Condella Frank Condella was appointed as non-executive chairman of Skyepharma Pharmaceuticals, vice president of the specialty care products business Non-Executive Vice Chairman on 1 January 2010, having originally joined that companys board at Roche and vice president and general manager of the Lederle unit as chief executive officer in March 2006.
Following the merger ofAmerican Home Products Pfizer.
N with Vectura, he was appointed to the Board on 10 June 2016 Current external appointments asNon-Executive Vice Chairman.
Frank is a non-executive director of Palladio Biosciences Inc.
Experience and expertise andaformer director of Juniper Pharmaceuticals Inc.
He holds a BS in pharmacy and an MBA from Northeastern University, US.
Frank brings over 30 years experience in the pharmaceutical industry to the Board.
He is a non-executive director of Palladio Biosciences Inc.
Previously, he was president and CEO of Juniper Pharmaceuticals, hasserved as a non-executive director of Fulcrum Pharma Ltd, Prosonix Ltd and Juniper Pharmaceuticals Inc. and was president 72 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Appointment to the Board Current external appointments Susan Foden Dr Susan Foden joined the Vectura Board in January 2007.
Susan holds a number of non-executive directorships with both Non-Executive Director public and private companies in the biotech and healthcare field, Experience and expertise including BTGplc, BerGenBio ASA, the Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult, N R She holds an MA and a DPhil in biochemistry from Oxford University.
EvgenPharma plc and Oxford Ancestors Limited.
Susan brings significant experience in venture capital, UK biotech and healthcare companies to the Board.
Prior to undertaking a plural career, from 2000 to 2003 she was an investor director with the London-based venture capital firm Merlin Biosciences Limited, and was chief executive officer of the technology transfer company CancerResearch Campaign Technology Ltd from 1987 to 2000.
Appointment to the Board Current external appointments Per-Olof Andersson Dr Per-Olof Andersson joined the Vectura Board in April 2015.
Per-Olof does not currently hold any other directorships.
Non-Executive Director Experience and expertise A N He holds a degree in medicine from Lund University, Sweden.
Per-Olof is an expert in international research and development within the pharmaceuticals, biopharmaceuticals and speciality pharmaceutical industry and has considerable experience in respiratory therapeutic development.
In 2011, Per-Olof retired from Almirall, where he was executive director for R&D and a member of the board of directors.
Prior to joining Almirall in 2006, Per-Olof had a distinguished international career at Pharmacia and Pfizer over a period of nearly 20 years.
Since 2011, Per-Olof has been an independent consultant advising biotech and pharma companies.
Appointment to the Board director and chair of the audit committee.
Neil was formerly the Neil Warner Neil Warner was appointed to the Board of Vectura as a non-executive chairman of Enteq Upstream plc, a specialist reach Non-Executive Director  in February 2011. andrecovery products and technologies provider to the upstream R A oiland gas services market.
Experience and expertise Neil holds an economics degree from the University of Leeds Current external appointments and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Neil is senior independent director and audit committee chair of Trifast plc, a global leader in design, technology and manufacturing Neil brings significant financial and leadership experience in multinational of industrial fasteners for the automotive and technology sectors.
He was finance director at Chloride Group plc, He is also a non-executive director, chair of the audit committee aposition he held for 14 years until the companys acquisition by and member of the remuneration committee of Directa Plus plc, Emerson Electric.
Prior to this, Neil spent six years at Exel plc which floated on AIM in May 2016.
Directa Plus is one of the worlds formerlyOcean Group plc and acquired by DHL Deutsche Post largest producers of graphene-based materials marketed under inDecember 2005, where he held a number of senior posts in itsGraphene Plus G brand, which can be used by third parties financial planning, treasury and control.
He has also held senior inawide variety of industrial and commercial applications.
positions in Balfour Beatty plc formerly BICC Group plc, Alcoa  and was a non-executive director  plc, where he was the senior independent Committee membership: R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee Committee Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 73
