GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES The Directors report comprises pages 105 to 107 of this report, Human rights together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated While Vectura does not have a Human Rights policy, a copy of byreference.
theAnti-Slavery policy is available onthe Companys website, www.
com and sets out the steps we have taken to ensure The Directors present their report and the audited financial that slavery and human trafficking isnot present in our supply statements of the Group for the period ended 31 December 2017. chains or business and the Board hasadopted.
The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Capital structure and the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014.
In November 2017, the Group announced a share buyback programme to return up to a maximum of 15m of capital to Description of operations, principal shareholders and entered into an agreement with Numis Securities  Limited to enable Numis to purchase shares on the Groups behalf.
The strategic report of the business of the Company and its This authority expires on 11 May 2018 and all shares purchased by subsidiaries is given on pages 2 to 55.
Certain information required the Company have been cancelled.
for disclosure in this report in accordance with the Listing Rules isprovided in other appropriate sections of this Annual Report.
Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements These include the: in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 28 Ordinary share capital.
Corporate governance report on pages 70 to 78: The Company has two classes of shares.
Ordinary shares of 0.025p Directors remuneration report on pages 84 to 107, including each are referred to as Ordinary Shares.
These carry no right to Directors interests in shares: fixed income.
Each Ordinary Share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Ordinary Shares are listed on Operating reviews on pages 26 to 45 in respect of the Groups theLondon Stock Exchange.
activitiesin the fields of research and development where the outlook section covers likely future developments in the business The Company also has redeemable preference shares of 1.00 each.
of the Company and its subsidiaries : These shares are not listed on any exchange and carry no rights todividend or other distribution.
Holders have the right to receive Financial review on pages 56 to 63: notice of meetings and to attend, but not to vote at the same.
disclosures on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions, Director Pursuant to the general provisions of the Articles of Association and employee gender and human rights which are included in andprevailing legislation, there are no specific restrictions on the the Corporate responsibility report on pages 64 to 69: and size ofa holding.
The Directors are not aware of any restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the Company other than certain disclosures on financial instruments and capitalised interest in restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law and note 26 Financial instruments.
regulations, e. g. insider trading laws, and pursuant to the Listing These disclosures are, accordingly, incorporated into this report Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority whereby certain employees byreference.
of the Company require the prior approval from the Company to deal in the Companys securities.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The statements of compliance with the principles of the Code as The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 that may result in restrictions on voting rights and the transfer areset out on page 71. ofsecurities.
Results and dividends Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 29 Share-based payments.
Shares were issued and allotted during The Group made a loss after tax for the twelve-months to 31December 2017 of 85.7m nine-months to 31 December 2016: the period only in relation to the administration of the Employee Share Plans.
Shares held by the employee benefit trusts are not loss32.1m.
The Directors do not recommend payment of a dividend.
voted by the Trustees of each Trust.
Political donations No person has any special rights of control over the Companys The Company made no political donations during the period.
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
TheGroup has a policy of not making donations to any EU political party and will continue to adhere to this policy.
Employees Further information on our employees including the learning, health and safety, communication and equal opportunities, and theemployment of disabled persons is contained in our Corporate responsibility report on pages 66 to 67.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 105 DIRECTORS REPORT ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Directors concerning reappointment are contained in the report of the The Directors who served during the period were as follows Nomination Committee on page 79.
Biographical details of the Directors inalphabetical order : are available on pages 72 to 75 and in the Notice of Meeting.
Per-Olof Andersson Independent Non-Executive Director The powers of the Directors are determined by applicable legislation and the Companys Articles of Association.
As provided in those Bruno Angelici Chairman Articles, the Directors may exercise all the Companys powers Frank Condella Non-Executive Vice Chairman provided that the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised by the Companys members.
Andrew Derodra Chief Financial Officer The Directors have been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Susan Foden Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Shares, pursuant to the Articles.
These powers are referred to shareholders at each Annual General Meeting for renewal.
Trevor Phillips Retired with effect from 31 May 2017 Directors interests Juliet Thompson Independent Non-Executive Director Details of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company, James Ward-Lilley Chief Executive Officer together with details of the share incentives granted to them, aredisclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 84 to 104.
Neil Warner Independent Non-Executive Director As at the date of this report, the Directors of the Company had Thomas Werner Independent Non-Executive Director abeneficial interest in an aggregate of 1,382,169 Ordinary Shares, With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, representing 0.21% of the Companys total voting rights.
theCompany is governed by its Articles, the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
Directors indemnities and Directors and Officers liability insurance The Company did not make any qualifying third-party indemnity The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of provisions for the benefit of its Directors during the period and the shareholders.
The matters reserved for the Board are available none are in force at the date of this report.
The Company and the on the Companys website, www.
Group maintain insurance policies for its Directors and Officers in The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary respect of liabilities which could arise in the discharge of their duties.
resolution of the Companys members or by a resolution of the Contracts of significance in which a Director is interested Directors.
All the Directors will retire at the 2018 Annual General No Director was interested in a contract with the Company during Meeting and stand for re-election.
The Boards recommendations the period except in relation to the terms of their appointment.
Shareholders Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2017 and 19 March 2018, being the latest practicable date, the Company had received notifications, in accordance withthe Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR5 over shares and financial instruments, as detailed in the table below: As at 31 December 2017 As at latest practicable date Percentage of Percentage of voting rights voting rights Number of and issued Number of and issued Ordinary Shares share capital Ordinary Shares share capital HBM Healthcare Investments Cayman Ltd 67,136,351 9.89 59,499,290 8.96 Invesco Ltd 66,324,278 9.78 66,079,222 9.95 Legal & General plc and subsidiaries 27,306,971 4.02 24,837,311 3.74 Acquisition of the Companys own shares and the overall position of Vectura.
In particular, this authority will The Company purchased 1,422,503 of its own shares at an be exercised only if the Directors believe that it is in the best interests aggregate cost of 1,344,945.00 in the period under review.
of shareholders generally and will increase earnings per share.
Thenominal value of the shares was 355.63 and represented Acquisitions and disposals 0.21% of the issued share capital at that time.
The purpose of the There were no other significant acquisitions or disposals during Buyback is to reduce the share capital of Vectura and all shares theperiod.
purchased will be immediately cancelled.
The employee benefit trusts purchased 1,775,922 shares during the year to meet the Change of control awards requirements of the Employee Share Incentive Plan and The Company, and various subsidiaries, are party to a number thedelivery of shares arising from exercises of options granted ofagreements which have change of control clauses.
If triggered, under the Long Term Incentive Plan or Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2. these could lead to delays in product development programmes A resolution will be proposed at the 2018 AGM to give the Company and or product commercialisation.
In the event of a takeover bid, authority to acquire Ordinary Shares following expiry of the current there are no specific agreements between the Company and its authority.
The Directors will use this authority only after careful Directors providing for compensation for loss of office or employment consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise.
the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels 106 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Annual General Meeting Disclosure of audit information The 2018 Annual General Meeting of the Company will take place at The Directors confirm that, as at the date of this Annual Report being the offices of Clifford Chance, 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ, approved, so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant at 10.30 a. m. on Thursday 17 May 2018.
Please refer to the audit information of which the Companys independent auditor is Noticeof Annual General Meeting for details of the business unaware and that he she has taken all the steps that he she ought tobetransacted at the meeting.
to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Post balance sheet events Companys independent auditor is aware of that information.
There were no disclosable post balance sheet events, other than the continuation of the Share buyback programme, as per note 33 Independent auditor of the consolidated financial statements.
A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details will be provided Going concern inthe Notice of AGM.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company andthe Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Directors remuneration existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt The Remuneration report on pages 84 to 104 sets out the remuneration the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
policies operated by the Company and disclosures on Directors remuneration and other disclosable information relating to Internal control Directors and Officers and their interests.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the assessment By order of the Board of risks and the internal control framework that Vectura operates and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the period covered by this John Murphy report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
General Counsel and Company Secretary The UK Corporate Governance Code 20 March 2018 The Board considers that the Company applies the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code of the Financial Reporting Council, Vectura Group plc as described in the Corporate governance report on pages 70to108 One Prospect West and has complied with all relevant principles and provisions of the Chippenham Code.
As required by the Listing Rules of the FCA, the auditor has Wiltshire SN14 6FH considered the Directors statement of compliance in relation to United Kingdom those points of the Code which are specified for their review.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and financial statements, Registered No: 3418970 taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Directors responsibility statement In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the current Directors listed on page 108 confirm, to the best of their knowledge, that: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by theGroup.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 107
