OUR STRATEGY Clear strategic priorities The outputs of this review reaffirmed our conviction in the We are resolutely pursuing our strength of our core capabilities.
The review determined that these capabilities are best deployed across relatively lower-risk, vision to be the industry-leading higher-value development opportunities, particularly in well-known inhaled drug-device on-market medicines.
We are therefore refocusing our pipeline and adjusting the mix of R&D investment during 2018.
these adjustments, we are reducing the level of overall R&D investment, optimising the risk profile of the business and creating headroom At our Capital Markets Day in June 2017, the management team tointroduce newdevelopment programmes leveraging our proven presented a comprehensive overview of Vecturas differentiated capabilities.
We believe that byfocusing our resources in this formulation and device development capabilities.
The team manner we will increase the probability of valuable returns from identified the growing market segments where Vectura is best our investments and we look forward to the future with confidence.
placed to succeed and also outlined the investment required todrive development programmes and launch and commercialise our pipeline assets.
Read more about our pipeline on page 29 As part of our annual strategy review process, during the second half of 2017, we reviewed our investment priorities to ensure that we remain focused on delivering against our vision for the Group Read more about our differentiated formulation and device development capabilities on pages 18 to 22 alongside building shareholder value.
24 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy is to fully leverage our differentiated technology and skills, maximising value by enhancing the delivery and performance of inhaled products for specialty diseases andthrough thedevelopment of high-quality genericalternatives to branded therapies.
Our priorities against which we willmeasure our progress areclearly defined: Maximising pipeline value Operational Excellence High performance culture Maximising partnering Strong value financial discipline Achieving our strategic priorities involves risks and uncertainties, which are detailed onpages 50 to 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 25 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Strategy at a glance Strategic priority Progress in 2017 VR475 EU Phase III trial progressing well and patient recruitment Maximising pipeline value now completed VR647 US Phase I successfully completed and Phase II now underway Breelib launched in the EU providing commercial validation of our proprietary FOX nebuliser technology Utibron and Seebri Neohaler launched in the US Synergy delivery above plan and delivered ahead of communicated timeline Operational Excellence Completed an Operational Excellence review of activities within the R&D function which highlighted opportunities to significantly improve productivity Delivered improved flutiform gross margins of 37.6% 2016 proforma underlying: 31.4%, Underlying nine-months 2016: 31.3% Generics pipeline extended: new development deal signed with Sandoz VR2081 Maximising partnering value and Pulmatrix licensing deal, which has accelerated development of our tiotropium DPI programme VR410 for COPD by up to two years Signed Dynavax partnership, extending use of our smart nebuliser technology into lung cancer VR347 Ongoing business development discussions and interest Strong closing cash position 103.7m Strong financial discipline 7.3m reduction in total operating costs as a result of early synergy delivery and R&Doperational productivity initiatives 15m share buyback and cancellation commenced: completed post period inFebruary 2018 Delivered roll-out of new culture and values at Company-wide AsOne event High performance culture Launched a Recognition Scheme and Performance Management system that is fully aligned to, and supportive of, our newly articulated culture and values Launched career development path across the organisation Developed and delivered a new Leadership Development Programme 26 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Progress in 2017 Key challenges in 2017 Key priorities in 2018 KPIs Receipt of major CRL for our generic Advair Completion of VR647 US Project milestones programmepartnered with Hikma VR315 US PhaseIIactivities completed Delayed launch of Utibron Neohaler in the US Completion of VR475 EU PhaseIIIactivities Progression of extended genericportfolio Development of new enhanced therapy portfolio Merger interpretation and transformation Delivery of procurement No 2017 KPIs to report savingsusing category against.
Operational Implementing effective supply chain including management principles Excellence KPIs have partner destocking been established for2018 Implementing continuous Increasing industrialisation and manufacturing of improvement programmes nebulised devices withsuppliers and contract Initialising R&D transformation initiative manufacturing organisations Effective conclusion of new BD deals: Sandoz, Extension of generics pipeline Number of valuable new Dynavax, Pulmatrix BD deals signed Initiation of partnering discussions Management of effective alliance management for VR475 EU and VR647 US Partnering of Mundipharma's announcement of intention to cease genericprogrammes Seeking partners for VR942 development of pMDI triple programme VR2076 Global and VR588 Global Partner destocking within the flutiform supply Deliver financial results in Underlying revenues chainresulting in one-off revenue impact for 2017  Underlying adjusted Highly competitive ICS LABA class in EU limiting Deliver Operational EBITDA progression flutiform growth Excellencesavings Net cash Destocking within Ultibro supply chain impacting headlinegrowth rates for 2017 Major CRL for generic Advair programme delayed launch with milestone and royalty impact for 2017 Ongoing effective integration Continued focus on effective Continued progress talent development against employee Development and roll-out of new culture and values andretention and engagement metrics Maintained focus with pipeline portfolio initiatives successionplanning Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 27 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Strategy in action Maximising pipeline value Vecturas pipeline has historically focused on three key areas generic partnering device and formulation,  of programmes for enhanced delivery of known medicines device and formulation and novel molecule partnering device or formulation.
Each of these types of programme carries a different level of risk for Vectura: they have different probability of success rates and have different development requirements, meaning that certain programmes will cost more and or take longer to get to market than others.
Theobjective of our 2017 investment review was to ensure that our pipeline contained an optimal mix of these programmes, thus givingVectura the best chance of achieving valuable returns for itsstakeholders over the short, medium and long term.
Refocused approach to R&D investment, increasing returns and lowering risk GENERIC PARTNERING VECTURA ENHANCED THERAPIES NOVEL MOLECULE PARTNERING Device AND formulation Device AND formulation Device OR formulation 1 1 1 Future spend from 2019 Future spend from 2019 Future spend from 2019 Previous typical % of R&D Previous typical % of R&D Previous typical % of R&D 10%20% 45%50% 35%40% Pipeline asset examples Pipeline asset examples Pipeline asset examples 2 VR315 Hikma VR632 Sandoz VR475 Vectura VR465 Ablynx VR730 Hikma VR2081 Sandoz VR647 Vectura VR347 Dynavax VR506 Hikma VR410 Potential to partner Strategic evolution Strategic evolution Strategic evolution Increased leverage of rare formulation, Increased future leverage of proven Decreased focus given high risk device and development capability proprietary technology and low upfront revenues Typical risk and economics Typical risk and economics Typical risk and economics US development risk related Development risk associated High development risk with novel tosubstitutability of device withproof of enhanced delivery molecule and low probability andformulation speed efficiency tolerability ofsuccess Development service revenue Attractive upfront milestones Low upfront technology access and mid-teen royalties reflecting access to technology and and development milestones Vectura clinical development Upfront technology access and Development service revenue development milestones Development milestones and plus low single-digit royalties attractive royalty stream 1 Assuming VR647 US is licensed prior to commencement of Phase lll activities.
"28 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT We believe that our refined pipeline achieves our investment objectives and is well placed to accelerate shareholder value The objective of our 2017 investment review was to ensure that our pipeline maximises theopportunity to leverage our capabilities and the value of our ""sweet spot""."
Unique capabilities validated through extensive collaboration, licensing arrangements and future pipeline In-market Generic Vectura enhanced Novel molecule core inhaled partnering partnering therapies flutiform flutiform VR475 EU VR736 Ventaleon Ultibro Breezhaler breath-triggered Severe adult Asthma Severe Influenza Global Mundipharma Seebri Breezhaler 2 Asthma EU VR647 US VR465 Ablynx Utibron Neohaler Paediatric Asthma Respiratory Syncytial Seebri Neohaler flutiform Virus Infection Ellipta portfolio Mundipharma VR475 US AirFluSal Forspiro Asthma China QVM149 Novartis Severe adult Asthma Breelib Asthma EU, RoW VR315 Hikma Asthma COPD US VR506 Hikma Asthma US VR730 Hikma Asthma COPD US VR632 Sandoz Asthma COPD EU VR2081 Sandoz Asthma COPD US Ellipta development Asthma COPD For details of our in-market core Available to partner inhaled products and revenues VR410 Potential to partner please refer to In development Phase I COPD US pages 34 to 36 Regulatory Phase II Approved Phase III Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 29 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Maximising pipeline value continued Our 2018 refocused investment priorities explained: EXTENDING GENERICS Extending our partnered development of high-potential generic medicines for the US market 1 As we are seeking to balance the mix of our overall investment, were in excess of $4.9bn.
VR315 US is partnered with Hikma, we will therefore increase our focus on expanding our generics VR2081 US is partnered with Sandoz and VR410 US is, as yet, pipeline.
We believe that we are uniquely positioned to be one unpartnered.
We, and our partner Hikma, remain confident that of few winners with inhaled mono and combination generic ourgeneric Advair programme VR315 US will be approved products.
The global generics market is large and is growing andlaunched in due course.
invalue and volume terms and the inhaled respiratory generics Beyond our existing pipeline, we believe that there are a number segment is largely untapped.
ofadditional valuable opportunities within the generics space Development of inhaled generics requires specialised capabilities andwelook forward to confirming development and licensing which are scarce in the industry but are core competencies of Vectura.
offurther programmes in due course.
Our current pipeline includes development programmes covering the three leading generic molecule opportunities in the US and Read more about our generics pages 38 to 41 combined US net sales of the branded reference products in 2017 EXTENDING DEVELOPMENT OF VECTURA ENHANCED THERAPIES Enhancing delivery of existing inhaled treatments or repurposing non-inhaled treatments for inhaled delivery Following the commercial validation of our FOX technology with the A pipeline progress update will be provided in Q3 2018. approval of Bayers Breelib product, we are now progressing initial Read more about our enhanced therapies on pages 42 to 45 development for further enhanced delivery programmes.
SELECTIVE NOVEL PARTNERING Increasingly selective approach to novel molecule partnering We will take an increasingly selective approach to further novel the near-term financial returns of such projects aretypically low and partnering.
Development of novel molecules is a higher risk activity therefore we believe that such programmes do not represent the which typically has a long and expensive development cycle and optimal type of investment for the Group.
carries a lower probability of success.
Whilst we do receive Future novel partnering arrangements will need to meet strict, significant interest from a number of biotech companies who want pre-defined investment hurdles.
to use our technology to pursue novel development programmes, STOPPING EARLY-STAGE NOVEL INVESTMENT Stopping Vectura investment in early-stage novel molecule clinical development During 2018 we will seek to partner and out-license VR588, a In January 2018, we confirmed that our partner Mundipharma had wholly owned kinase inhibitor, and, along with our co-collaborator informed us of its decision to stop the development of the pMDI UCB, we will also seek to partner VR942, a dry powder inhaled triple therapy for Asthma and COPD VR2076, which wasin an early biologic that successfully completed Phase I during 2017. formulation phase.
Given the early stage of this asset, we do not expect this change to have a material impact onthe Groups revenues in 2018.
30 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational Excellence During 2017, we completed an Operational Excellence review of activities within the R&D function.
This review validated thatVectura has a highly skilled and stable workforce and it highlighted a number of areas where we have opportunities tosignificantly enhance productivity.
By delivering against these activities during 2018, we will free up capacity to support future newdevelopment programmes and achieve cost savings through a lower internal programme expenditure.
Upskilling and management coaching Simplifying Process Planning and processes simplification capacity and increasing including reduction management in non-value productive added tasks capacity Space and capital utilisation Maximising partnering value Vectura currently has two leading Vectura enhanced delivery assets which target niche VR647 US nebulised budesonide forpaediatric Asthma Phase II patient populations: we believe these assets represent a transformational opportunity for nebulised therapy.
The VR647 US Phase II trial has now initiated with the first US nebulised budesonide market patientdosed in December 2017 and activities are expected to complete in Q3 2018. iscurrentlyworth We remain on track to complete the current VR475 EU Phase III trial in Q4 2018.
1 As part of the investment review, we have considered the commercialisation options c. $770m for these two assets.
We have decided that, in the absence of additional specialist marketed products being acquired through M&A or in-licensing, the Group will initiate partnering discussions for these assets.
This approach reflects the high cost, low VR475 EU nebulised budesonide financial leverage and opportunity cost associated with the commercialisation of single forsevereadult Asthma Phase III assets in a given territory.
2 Analyst indicative peak sales range In 2018 we will focus on continued and successful execution of current clinical activities and the initiation of partnering discussions.
We would expect the conclusion of these $150m$300m partnering discussions to be in 2019, following read-out from the ongoing clinical trials.
2 Peak sales based upon consensus of these analysts who have published product level forecasts.
Provided for inductive purposes only and not necessarily representing the views of management.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 31 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Strong financial discipline We remain committed to exercising strong financial discipline over our business and As a result of stopping development of VR942 and VR588 and savings identified demonstrating excellence in stewardship of our capital.
through our Operational Excellence Our refocused pipeline and commitment to Operational Excellence have allowed us to initiatives, 2018 R&D guidance has been optimise our R&D investment in 2018 and beyond.
reduced to As a result of stopping development of VR942 and VR588 and savings identified through our Operational Excellence initiatives, 2018 R&D guidance has been reduced to 55m65m.
55m65m We have the potential to further reduce this investment level to between 45m and 55m from 2019 assuming that VR647 US is partnered in 2019 prior to the start of Phase III activities.
These are substantial reductions in investment which can be achieved whilst simultaneously reducing the risk profile of the business and accelerating the pipeline valueproposition.
Our 15m share buy-back and cancellation programme, which commenced on 14November 2017, was completed post period on 28 February 2018.
As at the end ofDecember 2017, approximately 1.4m had been spent in respect of this scheme and the balance of cash outflows was incurred in 2018.
The Group maintains a disciplined approach to capital allocation and capital expenditure is expected to be in a normal annual range of 10m to 15m during 2018 as the majority of capacity expansion initiatives having been completed in previous years.
High performance culture Our core values Our high performance culture enables us to achieve significant and lasting performance that strengthens our competitiveadvantage.
We facilitate a high performance culture by ensuring our people have the autonomy, PATIENT FOCUS skills and confidence they need to excel in their roles and that they feel connected with our purpose and values.
INNOVATION Throughout 2017 we, collectively as an organisation, have undertaken an exercise to clearly articulate our culture and values.
Our culture and values are now embedded across our business and within our business processes.
COLLABORATION During 2018, we will continue our focus on effective talent retention and development for succession planning, aswe seek to increase the depth, breadth and diversity of ACHIEVEMENT our employees.
32 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 TRANSFORMING THE LIVES OF AIRWAYS DISEASE PATIENTS V tur r up p c ec a G o l Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FAVORITE inhalation Our proprietary FAVORITE breath controlled nebulised technology, developed to improve effectiveness of inhaled drugs anddeliver better clinical outcomes and shorter treatment times Guidance and outlook The Board maintains its expectations for strong growth in Expected news flow 2018 total2018 revenues, driven by the established performance fromin-market inhaled products, particularly flutiform and FY2017 results Ultibro Seebri Breezhaler.
AGM 17 May2018 As previously guided, until the expiry of certain patents, the earliest of which will expire in September 2018, Vectura will continue toreceive a 3% share of Pacira's cash receipts from net sales of EXPAREL.
The Group remains entitled to a non-patent-dependent milestone of $32m, receipt of which is subject to cumulative twelve-month sales of the product reaching $500m which may occur in the medium term.
Revenues in 2018 may also be supplemented by further business development activity, including potential milestone and development services revenues from further partnering deals signed during Enhanced delivery theyear.
portfolio update Q3 The Board also reaffirms its 2018 R&D guidance at the reduced level of 55m to 65m.
This guidance reflects merger synergy delivery VR647 US of 11m to 12m per annum from 2018, ahead of the original Phase II completion Q3 10mannual target together with focused pipeline investment and ongoing R&D Operational Excellence initiatives.
Asannounced on 4January 2018, the costs to deliver the Operational Excellence initiative are estimated at approximately 0.5m within exceptional items in 2018, in addition to the 0.9m reported in exceptional items in 2017.
Vectura anticipates important data from its lead enhanced therapy programmes, with the VR647 US Phase II study in children with asthma, and the VR475 EU Phase III trial in severe adult asthma, both expected to complete in the second half of the year.
The Group 1 intends to partner both programmes after these important data VR465 Global points.
Were VR647 to be partnered before the commencement Phase IIb top lineresults Q4 1 ALX-0171.
ofPhase III activities, total R&D spend in 2019 is expected to reduceto between 45m and 55m.
VR475 EU Phase III completion Q4 GSK UK patent litigation outcome expected Q4 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 33 TRANSFORMING THE LIVES OF AIRWAYS DISEASE PATIENTS Vectu a G oup p c r r l Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FAVORITE inhalation Our proprietary FAVORITE breath controlled nebulised technology, developed to improve effectiveness of inhaled drugs anddeliver better clinical outcomes and shorter treatment times
