REFOCUSED R&D INVESTMENT AND PIPELINE Generic programmes A large and untapped US market with few new entrants into this complex space What is a generic?
The market for inhaled generics A generic drug is a medication that has exactly the same active One of the most significant changes the airways diseases market ingredient as its equivalent brand-name drug and yields the is facing is the increase in the number of generic equivalents, same therapeutic effect.
It has the same dose, safety, efficacy both substitutable and therapeutic equivalents, of major and quality.
Of the major inhaled products facing genericisation in the US, Advair Seretide, Symbicort and Developing products for the generic respiratory market has Spiriva are the largest in terms of volumes and value, additional complexities as it involves interactions between the 1 collectively generating US net sales in excess of $4.9bn in 2017. drug, the formulation and the delivery device.
Globally, the use of generic medicines is growing.
In the US, Pricing pressures in global healthcare systems 2 the inhalants market was estimated to be worth some $23bn Expanding patient populations and growing unmet medical in 2017, with less than 1% generic conversion in key inhaled need are contributing to higher demand for healthcare services 3 maintenance classes meaning that the inhaled generics and are leading to increased cost pressure within global market for major airways diseases products in the US remains healthcare systems.
Steadily rising healthcare costs have also largely untapped.
This is in contrast to the oral solids market, led to increased scrutiny on drug pricing by governments, where generic products account for 18.3% of the market value themedia and consumers.
In this context, it is understandable 4 and 90.8% of all prescriptions.
that extending the use of generics is considered an important Whilst pricing is a key challenge for the wider generics market, element in most prescribing strategies to achieve substantial the relatively low level of competition within the inhaled savings without impacting patient care.
Switching from generics space underpins our belief that this area continues to branded inhaled drugs to lower-cost generic inhaled drugs be a valuable opportunity that Vectura is well placed to exploit.
represents an opportunity to reduce the cost of drug As we refocus our investment and pipeline, we will seek to treatments in asthma and COPD.
bring more partnered generic programmes into our strong existing generics pipeline.
Data suggests US inhalants market estimated to be worth 1% c. $23bn generic conversion in key inhaled maintenance classes in 2017 1 Evaluate Pharma 2017.
3 Q2 2017 IMS data defined as ICS, ICS LABA.
LAMAs and LAMA LABAs and LABAs and newly launched triples.
4 Global Generic and Biosimilars Trends and Insights, IQVIA, February2018.
STRATEGIC REPORT A complex development process with multiple variables and challenges Given the inherent complexity associated with developing inhaled generics, we believe that there are only a handful of companies which have the necessary capabilities to successfully develop these programmes.
Technical challenges Copying an oral small molecule drug or an injectable is simple development rapidly increases due to the need for the and many hundreds of generics companies are able to do it.
product to be formulated, combined with a specific delivery Copying an inhaled therapy is more challenging.
Sourcing the device and manufactured at a commercial scale, all requiring drug is similar to simpler dosage forms.
However, from this specialist capabilities, IP and know-how.
point in development the complexity of inhaled product Legal IP challenges The approval of a generic is litigious, particularly for inhaled modern tablet product facing generic competition in the US, therapies where multiple overlapping patents are typical.
rosuvastatin calcium CRESTOR tablets havefour patents Even after all the patents expire, a generic cannot infringe listed in the Orange Book, whereas GSKs inhaled product 5 design copyright or trademarks relating to the device.
Breo Ellipta ICS LABA has 14patents listed.
Development of non-inhaled or injectable generics typically does not pose the same IPchallenge: as an example ofa Formulation challenges The formulation of inhaled generics has many variables, all throughout shelf life or as a result of shipping or seasonal of which need to be understood and managed.
This variability of the originator product must be which these variables interact can change over the lifecycle successfully matched to demonstrate bioequivalence.
of the product meaning that product performance changes Regulatory challenges Once the technical legal and formulation challenges are butis significantly more challenging for inhaled therapies.
"overcome, regulators must then be convinced that the For example the US FDA requires clinical evidence of generic is an accurate copy by proving ""bioequivalence""."
equivalence for inhaled products, not just reliance on This is relatively straightforward for simple oral generics, single-dose pharmacokinetic studies.
"Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 39 REFOCUSED R&D INVESTMENT AND PIPELINE CONTINUED Generic programmes continued Developing generics in Europe and the US EU Hybrid MAA route: unlike the US, the EU only has one Europe and the US have different guidelines on developing development route known as a ""Hybrid MAA"": this allows respiratory generics."
Broadly, there are two routes to follow: differences in device design and drug delivery compared with areference product, resulting in more market entrants compared US direct substitution route ANDA or 505j : this requires the with the US.
"The ""generic"" products are usually non-substitutable generic to prove bioequivalence to the branded drug, and is the atthe pharmacy and require some level of promotion to support preferred route to market as it gives the generic an AB rating the sales of the product: this leads to lower rates of conversion that allows pharmacists to directly substitute a cheaper generic tothe generic product relative to a substitutable product."
instead of a branded version, increasing sales and decreasing distribution costs.
Our current generics pipeline Our partnering model allows us to access high-volume generic It is more difficult to copy a respiratory drug unless the same opportunities whilst managing the significant costs associated oravery similar device is used as the reference product.
Typically our involvement will include isoften not possible because of layers of patent protection both device and formulation development and, as a result, arounddevices.
Vectura earns development services revenues as well as US branded generic route 505b2 : this is used where it is milestones and mid-teen royalties on net sales of the final difficult to prove bioequivalence or where devices are different.
This type of programme sits squarely Under this route, the generic is not directly substitutable and withinour sweet spot of capabilities and potential returns.
needs to be actively marketed.
This type of development often requires significant investment in the development of the product.
"505 j ANDA Device requires same Allows substitutability US AB rated operating steps at the pharmacy 505 b Different device design with Allows improvements in drug delivery US 2 NDA previously approved drugs and novel combinations not substitutable Focused on equivalent PK PD Provides flexibility of device design ""Hybrid"" MAA EU product performance not substitutable Generic partnering pipeline flutiform VR506 Hikma VR315 Hikma VR730 Hikma flutiform Mundipharma breath-triggered Asthma COPD US Asthma US Asthma COPD US Asthma China Mundipharma Asthma EU 40 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT We currently have nine generic products in development, including Throughout the process, we have gained significant insight into VR315 US, a generic version of Advair Diskus, partnered with the FDA approval process for complex inhaled generic programmes, Hikma, for the treatment of asthma and COPD inadolescents and which we believe has strengthened our likelihood of success for adults, and programmes targeting the Symbicort and Spiriva VR315."
Whilst the regulatory bar remains high, the ongoing opportunities in the US market.
dialogue with the FDA leaves us well placed to react to any new requirements or challenges that lie ahead.
These learnings support Only three companies have publicly stated that they have our confidence that we have the capabilities to achieve US regulatory submitted an ANDA filing for an AB-rated substitutable generic approval for our extensive inhaled generic pipeline, which includes Advair in the US and all three companies have had their initial generic versions of the three current largest US inhaled brands.
Ofthe companies which have made an ANDA filing, only Vectura has developed the device and formulation Significant patient need for accessible lower priced medicines 1 capabilities in house rather than via acquisition or in-licensing.
remains and, in 2017, US sales of Advair were $2.1bn.
Thisremains a significant market opportunity and we do not In May 2017, we announced that the US FDA had issued a Complete believe that there will be a large number of new entrants into Response Letter CRL in relation to our partner Hikmas ANDA this space: therefore, those who can successfully cross the fora generic version of GlaxoSmithKline's Advair Diskus.
regulatory line stand to win significant and valuable future Throughout 2017, Vectura supported Hikma in a constructive market share.
dialogue with the FDA and a number of the questions raised were clarified and resolved.
However, one issue remained outstanding Future opportunities regarding the Clinical Endpoint CEP study and Hikma, supported Following FDA interactions, Vectura is progressing further by Vectura, progressed a dispute resolution process.
development of its Open-Inhale-Close device which has the potential to be an AB-rated substitutable generic drug-device Post period, on 12 March 2018, Hikma confirmed that the dispute combination for the GSK Ellipta portfolio.
This programme resolution process had concluded with the FDA upholding its original offers a very significant opportunity for Vectura, with analyst decision with a requirement that Hikma completes an additional projections for the branded revenue opportunity of these products Clinical Endpoint study.
In anticipation of this as one of the 2 at approximately $6bn by 2023.
Pharmaceutical development potential outcomes, Hikma had already finalised the planning of has commenced, inparallel with partnering discussions.
a new clinical study and expects to start patient enrolment in the coming weeks.
Hikma has confirmed that it anticipates being 1 Evaluate Pharma 2017. able to submit a response to the FDA with new clinical data as 2 Global Data, extracted Q4 2017. early aspossible in 2019.
This decision will have no impact on Vectura's revenue or R&D expectations for 2018.
Both Vectura and Hikma remain confident in the approvability ofthe product and are committed to bringing this cost-effective alternative to Advair Diskus to the market as quickly as possible.
Assuming the successful execution of the new study and a standard regulatory review, we now expect a potential approval and launch during 2020.
VR632 Sandoz VR2081 Sandoz VR410 Ellipta Potential to partner programmes Asthma COPD EU Asthma COPD US Potential to partner COPD US In development Regulatory Approved Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 41 REFOCUSED R&D INVESTMENT AND PIPELINE CONTINUED Vectura enhanced delivery programmes More than just a conventional nebuliser A core pillar of our R&D strategy is focusedon developing known molecules and optimising their safety and efficacy profiles by delivering them right to the siteof action using our advanced device technology and inhaled formulation capabilities.
Our next wave of development programmes focuses on specialist disease areas affecting the lungs and on very specific patient groups with high unmet medical need which require targeted treatments into the airways.
The strategic case for investment in Vectura Our AKITA JET nebuliser incorporates our proprietary enhancedtherapies flow and volume regulated inhalation technology TM Ability to target niche patient population and speciality FAVORITE inhalation technology.
disease areas with high unmet medical needs The AKITA JET is CE marked and has FDA 510 k clearance.
Low development risk associated with proof of enhanced delivery for molecules with a known safety profile Strong rationale of an improved efficacy profile with enhanced and targeted pulmonary delivery Simpler development programmes with lower development costs than those involving novel chemical 1 entities or mass market inhaled generics Tidal breathing short and shallow Opportunity to partner and achieve attractive upfront milestones and royalties and or to build out portfolio of Showing drug deposition specialist assets for potential future  in the upper airways and stomach Focus on areas that are less competitive yet have thepotential for premium prices 1 Meyer et al.
2001: Deposition von therapeutischen Aer osolen in der Lungenperipherie.
Aerosole in der inhalationstherapie, ed.
2001, Dusti-verlag Dr Karl Feistle: Mnchen 99100.
42 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT A patients breathing pattern can alter the efficiency of drug delivery The device emits lower sound when it is activated during to different parts of the lung.
Control of the inspiratory flow rate, the inhalation, and stops when the patient exhales.
Thisindicates inspiratory volume and the stage at which drug aerosol is delivered to patients and carers when the treatment is effectively during the inspiration can materially affect how much drug gets to administered to improve compliance.
central or peripheral parts of the lungs, influencing the efficacy of the The device has a smart card which serves a dual purpose: it drug administered.
"When using aconventional nebuliser, the normal instructs the device on how to deliver the drug according to the ""tidal"" breathing pattern short and shallow leads to a lot of the patients specific profile and it provides a locking mechanism delivered drug either being stuck at the back of the throat and toprevent a generic drug being used off-label in the device."
swallowed, ormainly being delivered to the central part of the lungs, where many molecules cannot fully exert their action.
To overcome Other opportunities to use our innovative technology oral absorption and therefore increase lung deposition, patients to enhance delivery of known molecules would need to inhale high amounts of drug to achieve the desired We see further significant nebulised product opportunities clinical effect, with theconsequent safety risks that the orally whereefficacy safety ratios could be improved by utilising absorbed dose maycause.
ourunique technology across multiple potential indications.
TM We are currently evaluating potential application of this Our FAVORITE technology optimises the amount of drug delivered technologyand we look forward to providing a pipeline to the lung byguiding the patient to inhale slowly anddeeply progress update in Q3 2018. during inhalation.
This technology isbreath activated, delivering the drug only once the patient startsinhaling so that no drug is wasted during exhalation, asisthecase with conventional jet nebulisers.
Differentiated technology Finally, theduration of each breath can be adjusted to promote an ideal breathing pattern which remains comfortable for an individual patient.
Thisefficient drug administration allows for either faster FAVORITE improves the effectiveness of drug delivery, reducing treatment times, or ahigher drug inhaled drug delivery with the potential for deposition inthe lungs, with the potential for greaterefficacy.
improved outcomes and shorter treatment times: Faster delivery Improved lung deposition Less drug, better economics Potential to improve patient outcomes TM 1 FAVORITE inhalation slow and deep inhalation Showing targeted drug deposition in the small airways Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 43 REFOCUSED R&D INVESTMENT AND PIPELINE CONTINUED Vectura enhanced delivery programmes continued VR475 EU targets patients who are uncontrolled at treatment Current pipeline assets.
Our two most step4 and are about to move up to treatment step 5, with advanced enhanced delivery programmes TM theproposition that using the FAVORITE technology a higher lung deposition of budesonide into the small airways will be areVR475 EU for severe, uncontrolled achieved, thus optimising and shifting upbudesonide's dose asthma in adults, and VR647 US for responsiveness, providing aclinically relevant additional efficacy.
Consequently, alarge proportion of this patient population could paediatric asthma.
Both these programmes be controlled using inhaled steroids without having to resort to use our AKITA smart nebuliser, improving unpleasant and unwanted oral corticosteroids or expensive biologic treatments.
This has a clear patient benefit but also a the delivery ofbudesonide to achieve significantbenefit for healthcare systems and payors.
differentiated outcomes for asthma patients.
"Key dates Estimated Phase III study completion date Q4 2018 VR475 EU ""A significant opportunity based on delivery Initial planned submission in 2019 ofchallenging reduction in exacerbation primary endpoint"" Anticipated conclusion of partnering discussions 2019 Phase III nebulised budesonide for severe, uncontrolled adultasthma Targeting approval in 2020 The GINA guidelines provide the evidence-based management 1 Side effects of oral corticosteroids : strategies for asthma and advocate a stepwise approach tocontrol asthma symptoms and reduce risk learn more at Depression www."
At each treatment step in asthma Sleep disruption management, different medication options are presented.
Treatment steps are graded 15, with severe asthmatics Weight gain definedas those asthmatics that are inadequately controlled Skin conditions attreatment step 4.
Osteoporosis and vertebral and hip fractures Inhaled corticosteroids are the mainstay of current asthma treatment.
Patients whose asthma is uncontrolled while on Asthma control is suboptimal: short-term reliever therapies commence a low dose of inhaled corticosteroids treatment step 2, with the dose of inhaled corticosteroids increasing in a stepwise fashion until their 45% asthma symptoms are controlled.
Patients at treatment step 4 3 of all asthmatic patients inEU are uncontrolled aretreated withmedium-high doses of inhaled steroids but experience shows thatfor severe uncontrolled patients, the inflammation in the lungs becomes unresponsive to inhaled Severe uncontrolled asthmatics account for steroids or, in other words, inhaled steroids reach a flat doseresponse level beyond which higher doses of standard inhaled 50% steroids will not improve asthma control any further.
Therefore in 4 step 5 asthmatics, asthma guidelines recommend adding either of the asthma-related healthcare costs oral corticosteroids, which provide more efficacy but have very undesirable side effects, orbiologic treatments, which are currently very expensive.
By 2020 the number of severepersistent asthmatics, uncontrolled on high dose The cost of biologic treatments in the EU5 countries UK, Germany, 5 ICS LABA5 - LAMA in EU5, isestimated to be France, Spain and Italy range from 10,00020,000 per annum and only target asubset of the severe asthma population that have certain characteristics that make themsuitable for biologic therapy.
"1.2m Cost of biologic treatments ranges from Analyst indicative sales range 10,00020,000 6 2 per annum in EU5 countries $150m$300m 44 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT VR647 US ""A significant opportunity for reduced nebulisation US market for nebulised budesonide time in a well-established paediatric budesonide market"" is valued at approximately Phase II nebulised budesonide for paediatric asthma In North America, the use of home nebulisation in young children is $770m standard of care and the market for nebulised budesonide is valued 7 at approximately $770m."
Nebulised budesonide ICS is approved by the FDA for the maintenance treatment of asthma and as a VR647 reduced the treatment times prophylactic treatment in children of twelve months to eight years from 1215minutes down to ofage.
The treatment of paediatric asthma requires specific solutions 14 minutes toachieve optimum treatment outcomes.
The VR647 US product uses a smart nebuliser device, which is specifically optimised for use with children.
This produces much shorter treatment times andmuch better control of the delivery of inhaled corticosteroids Our FAVORITE technology is also used than conventional treatments, an important advantage for in our FOX handheld nebuliser device, childrenand their caregivers.
which is now clinically and commercially validated and used inBayers on-market Recent Phase I data in adults has demonstrated the potential of TM Breelib product.
Compared with standard doses ofbudesonide administered using a convention nebuliser, delivery Read case study on page 23 ofthe same amount of budesonide to thelungs with VR647 reduced the treatment times from twelve to fifteenminutes in a non-clinical setting down to one to four minutes in a clinical setting.
It also has the potential to reduce exposure to corticosteroids within the body, Proprietary flow ratemanagement withvalve and colour changes reinforcing potentially reducing the riskof steroid-related adverse effects in optimum inhalation technique children.
These promising patientbenefits offer the opportunity tocapture a sizable market shareat brand-level prices.
Key dates 1 Hyland ME, Whalley B, Jones RC, et al.
A qualitative study of the impact of sever e asthma and its treatment showing that treatment burden is neglected in existing Estimated Phase II study completion date Q3 2018 asthma assessment scales.
Anticipated conclusion of partnering discussions 2019 2 HRW Physician Research 2015 Adelphi Payer Research 2016.
5 Decision Resources Group Asthma Epidemiology Mature Markets.
AllPopulations Full Details DR Mar 2017: Adelphi Priority DSP analysis forVectura4.6.
6 Peak sales bases upon consensus of those analysts who have published product-level forecasts.
Provided for indicative purposes and not necessarily representing the view of management.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 45
