GOVERNANCE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS ENGAGING WITH OUR SHAREHOLDERS The shares of Antofagasta plc are listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
As explained in the Directors Report on page 124, the controlling shareholders of the Company hold approximately 65% of the Companys ordinary shares.
The majority of the Companys remaining ordinary shares are held by institutional investors, mainly based in the UK and North America.
The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional WHAT OUR INVESTORS FOCUSED ON MOST IN 2017 shareholders and sell-side analysts, as well as potential shareholders.
cost reduction programmes to control operating and capital costs This communication is managed by the investor relations team in and the generation of free cash flow London, and includes a formal programme of presentations and capital allocation roadshows to update institutional shareholders and analysts on impact of events in Chile, including changes to labour laws and developments in the Group.
availability of energy and water The Company held regular meetings with institutional investors and mining labour negotiations in Chile sell-side analysts throughout the year, which included international investor roadshows, and presentations at industry conferences and the Groups capital expenditure programme and the potential from to banks equity sales forces.
These were attended by the CEO and longer-term growth projects various members of the management team, including the CFO, the supply and demand factors in the world copper market.
Vice President of Investor Relations, the Vice President of Sales and The Board receives regular summaries and feedback in respect of the Vice President of Development.
the meetings held as part of the investor relations programme.
The The Company publishes quarterly production figures as well as the Companys Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to half-year and full-year financial results.
Copies of these production communicate with both institutional and private shareholders.
All of reports, financial results, presentations and other press releases the Directors met shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
issued by the Company are available on the Companys website.
The Group also publishes a separate Sustainability Report to CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ENGAGEMENT provide further information on its social and environmental Senior Independent Director Ollie Oliveira met with a number of performance, which is available on the Companys website proxy advisers and major shareholders in London in October 2016 to in both Spanish and English.
discuss corporate governance and associated matters relating to the Company, its strategy and management performance.
These meetings were also attended by Non-Executive Director and former Senior Independent Director William Hayes, the Company Secretary and the Director of the London office.
At the request of shareholders, the Company sent a letter to proxy advisers and the Companys 20 largest shareholders in Q4 2017, providing an update on corporate governance developments during the year and offering face-to-face meetings with the Company and, if required to discuss a particular topic, the Senior Independent Director.
A number of invitations were accepted and these meetings took place in Q1 2018. antofagasta.
co. uk 121 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED 2017 SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR Q1 Q2 CEO presented at industry conference for institutional CEO presented at industry conference for institutional investors in the US investors in Europe 3 days of 1-on-1 meetings with over 55 investors 2 days of 1-on-1 meetings with over 40 investors Presentation of full-year 2016 results by the CEO and Annual General Meeting in London CFO US West Coast roadshow 2 days US East Coast roadshow 2 days Buy-side analysts visited Los Pelambres London roadshow 3 days Scandinavia roadshow 1 day Europe roadshow 1 day Investor relations team attended two industry Investor relations team attended three conferences, two conferences in the UK and one in the US in the UK and one in Chile Q3 Q4 CEO presented to the Melbourne Mining Club in Australia Europe roadshow 1 day with roadshow 2 days Sustainable and responsible investment roadshow Presentation of half-year 2017 results France and the UK 2 days Europe roadshow 1 day CEO lunch with key investors London roadshow 3 days Investor relations team attended three industry conferences in the UK US East Coast roadshow 3 days Investor relations team attended four industry conferences, three in the UK and one in Chile 122 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017
