STRATEGIC REPORT VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the provisions in the UK Corporate Governance Code The principal plausible stress tests in accordance with the Groups C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision, the Directors have assessed the viability principal risks and uncertainties are: of theGroup over a three-year period.
The Directors assessment a significant reduction in product supply inflows for flutiform has been made with reference to the Groups current strategy, the from either a reduction in demand or an inability to supply: strong balance sheet including the availability of the 50m revolving credit facility andthe Groups principal risks as described in this lower in-market sales prices of flutiform due to competition, Strategic report.
technological change or regulatory body action: Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be slower than expected sales growth in Seebri Breezhaler viable over a longer period, a three-year period is considered appropriate Ultibro Breezhaler in EU RoW and lower than expected as it is possible that one or more of the principal risks could reasonably royalties fromthe Groups other on-market products: be realised in the period which could materially impact the viability of significant delays in contracting with new or existing partners: the Group.
In addition, this period is more than double that used for the going concern assessment and is within the term of the Groups unsuccessful outcome from the VR475 EU Phase III clinical trial revolving credit facility.
This period therefore provides the Board with no return on R&D investment: with anappropriate degree of confidence while still providing a unsuccessful outcome from the VR647 US Phase II clinical study suitable longer-term outlook.
with no return on R&D investment: The process adopted to assess viability this year followed that VR315 US is not launched in the viability period: and undertaken in 2016 and involved collaborative input from a range ofbusiness functions to model a series of theoretical stress test lower flutiform margins from tariffs on raw materials imported scenarios linked to the Groups principal risks.
These scenarios included from the EU and a reduction in supply prices due to tariffs on both significant adverse financial outcomes and operational failures.
export of finished product from the UK to the EU.
Consideration was given to the impact of mitigations as well as their As a worst case scenario, the combined impact of these downside interdependencies.
The Audit Committee reviewed the process scenarios was assessed in combination against the Groups liquidity.
before the viability evaluation was provided to the Board to assistinits assessment.
Based on the assessment and stress testing, the Directors have areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue In making their assessment, the Directors have undertaken a sensitivity inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a analysis of its forecast cash flows and liquidity.
underpinning the assessment during the period are as follows: Going concern changes to flutiform net in-market sales prices, growth At the time of approving the financial statements the Directors ofproduct supply volumes and the related supply margin: havea reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group manufacturing and assembly of flutiform by Sanofi continues have adequate resources to continue in operational existence inline with contractual obligations: forthe foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt thegoing concern basis of accounting in preparing the the rate of growth of net sales of Seebri Breezhaler Ultibro 2017Annual Reportand Accounts.
Breezhaler inEU RoW: and the timing and forecast cash flows from partnering the product pipeline, particularly VR475 EU and VR647 US.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 55
