13 14 15 80 Charlotte Street 1 & 2 Stephen Street Soho Place The context London: evolving and resilient Central London offices CLO by Londons serviced offices Central London o ce stock Other Derwent London properties across Fitzrovia business sector Percentage of oor area Percentage of London o ce take-up Floor area million sq Londons economy and population have grown 100 12 City 32 significantly over the past 30 years, benefitting 10 West End 40 80 Midtown 11 from deregulation and the subsequent expansion 8 60 Southbank 8 of the financial sector and, more recently, growth 6 Docklands 9 40 4 from the creative industries.
20 2 0 Take-up in past Derwent London 0 2007 2012 2017 Solid foundations A cyclical market five years CBRE CLO occupiers Source: CBRE With a population of 8.9 million and 5.8 The London office market has proven Banking & finance Creative industries Source: Cushman & Wakefield 1 million jobs, London is a major global city cyclical over time responding to a mixture Business services Manufacturing Consumer services & leisure Public sector and one of the largest cities in Europe.
of factors: principally economic demand, Its economy has grown steadily since supply, interest rates and bank lending London office locations Sources of London office take-up Changing patterns of working 2009 benefitting from the expansion of the exposure.
The EU referendum was Derwent Londons primary focus is as a Professional and business services have Significant changes in working practices creative industries following the slowdown expected to be a tipping-point by many provider of central London office space long represented the highest proportion such as the fact that 18% of Londons in the global financial sector.
It is estimated commentators, but so far its impact can 2 along with ancillary retail and residential.
of central London office take-up.
More workforce is self-employed up 33% since that London has 2.0 million office jobs.
be seen in slower market activity rather 2 There is currently 225m sq ft of office recently the growth in demand from the 2008, or that working densities have This economic strength has been founded than a decline as the other factors have 3 space in central London, 72% of which creative industries has matched the level increased by over a third since 1997 on an ethnically diverse population with been more benign.
is concentrated in the West End or the from financial services.
have meant that the provision of office the bedrock of a strong legal system, and Index City.
Approximately 75% of West End space has had to evolve too.
London is a strong educational and cultural base.
office stock lies in a conservation area Derwent Londons product and the largest market for flexible office London is also an internationally renowned 2 1980 100 compared to only around 33% in the locations benefit from these recent space globally, and this segment has retail and leisure destination.
The City and Docklands also hold demand dynamics.
We have a much been the fastest-growing recent source economic growth has slowed recently 300 the highest concentration of office higher proportion of lettings to the of demand in response to global trends along with the UK economy and the 250 towers and financial occupiers.
creative industries, and the consumer initially driven by technology and the uncertainty surrounding Brexit.
Despite the 200 services and leisure sectors than the growth of SMEs and self-employment.
threat of some jobs leaving to the EU, the 150 Derwent Londons office portfolio market as a whole, whereas our lettings Although flexible office providers have London economy is still predicted to grow 100 totals 5.5m sq ft and represents c. 2% to banking and finance have been much been a significant source of recent and the population is expected to rise to 50 of the total market.
JLL has recently reclassified take-up, this segment still represents 10.8 million by 2041, with an annual 1 0 1982 1987 1992 1997 2002 2007 2012 2017 weighting to the West End market Aldgate, Clerkenwell and Shoreditch only c. 4% of most global office markets average jobs increase of 49,000.
4 Capital growth and no exposure to either the City where 21% of our portfolio is located including London.
However, this Rental value growth or Docklands.
from just emerged to almost proportion is expected to grow with Changing work and social patterns 1 2 Source: MSCI IPD mainstream.
a number of major pre-lets already The recent London Office Policy Review secured and the main operators in concluded that headcount growth will expansion mode.
outpace savings achieved through greater As a result rental levels remain high office use efficiency.
However, three and yields very low compared to previous Derwent Londons focus on good additional factors were identified: 1 the cycles, which means office capital values design and providing flexible workspace adoption of agile working could change per sq ft are relatively high.
One reason We see a lot of opportunity with significant amenities means that locational preferences, building types and for this has been the strong demand for in London given the we have anticipated these trends.
specifications: 2 office automation could income producing assets globally which In addition we have employed The impact c. 30% of London jobs over the next was, in part, a response to the quantitative continued growth of 3 Office Group at White Collar Factory, two decades : and 3 Brexit.
The review easing strategies adopted by many of the ecommerce and technology 1 & 2 Stephen Street W1 and Angel concluded that the first two factors could major central banks.
In addition, political Square EC1 as part of a multi-let potentially dwarf any Brexit impact and risk remains high.
industries and the strong strategy.
We currently have c. 5% that London needs more, but different 1 Londons Economic Outlook: Autumn 2017, of our rental income deriving from office space.
pool of talent in the city.
GLA Economics flexible office providers.
2 London Office Policy Review 2017 for Greater Johan Svanstrom These conclusions need to be assessed London Authority, CAG consultants and President of Hotels.
com brand, within the broader London policy mix Ramidus Consulting Limited 3 part of the Expedia group put forward in the Draft New London Plan.
Agiletown: the relentless march of technology and Londons response, Deloitte 2015 The London Mayor states that the objective 4 The Draft New London Plan December, 2017 should not be about growth at any cost but there needs to be a rebalancing to 1 Digital London Revisited, JLL 2017 ensure that the benefits are more broadly 2 The Flexible Revolution, CBRE 2017 spread with a focus on good growth 3 BCO British Council for Offices zooming in on the key issues of affordability, 4 4 Flexible Workspace, Colliers International 2017 accommodation, infrastructure and pollution.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
