Garry Watts Non-Executive Chairman Garry Watts joined the Group as Executive Chairman in 2011 before becoming 1 2 3 Non-Executive Chairman between Admission and March 2016.
He again served as Executive Chairman between March 2016 and June 2017 before resuming his Non-Executive Chairman role in July 2017.
The Company does not consider Garry to be independent due to his previous executive role.
Current external appointments chairman of BTG plc chairman of Foxtons Group plc non-executive director of Coca-Cola European Partners Ltd Skills and previous experience 4 5 6 A chartered accountant by profession and former partner at KPMG, Garrys extensive business knowledge and leadership on other listed company boards, including SSL International plc and Celltech Group plc, has ensured a seamless transition from private to public for the Company.
He has a deep understanding of the healthcare sector, having served as a member of the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Supervisory Board for 17 years.
Garry was also previously an executive director of Medeva plc, deputy chairman of Stagecoach Group plc and a non-executive director of Protherics plc.
Justin Ash Chief Executive Officer Justin Ash was appointed Chief Executive Officer and an Executive Director at the end of October 2017.
Current external appointments non-executive board member of Al Nadhi Medical Company non-executive chairman of The New World Trading Company Co. vice chair of NHS Partners Network Skills and previous experience Justin was previously chief executive of Board committee membership: Oasis Dental Care between 2008 and 2017 A Audit and Risk Committee before leading its sale to Bupa.
Prior to this, C he was managing director of Lloyds Pharmacy Clinical Governance and and has held several other senior retail Safety Committee positions including general manager of KFC D Disclosure Committee in the UK Ireland, and commercial director N Nomination Committee of Allied Domecq Spirits and Wines Europe.
R Remuneration Committee Justin was previously a senior consultant Committee Chair with Bain and Company in London and Paris.
Management committee membership: D E E Executive Committee 3.
Simon Gordon Committee Chair Chief Financial Officer Simon Gordon joined Spire Healthcare as Chief Financial Officer in July 2011 and became an Executive Director of the 56 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Company in June 2014.
Simon served as career in healthcare allows her to bring 8.
Simon Rowlands interim Chief Executive Officer between invaluable insight and knowledge of the Non-Executive Director June 2017 and the end of October 2017.
She has previously served Simon Rowlands was appointed a resigned from the Board on 1 March 2018. as a specially appointed commissioner to the Non-Executive Director in June 2014, Royal Hospital Chelsea, was president of the Skills and previous experience although he served in a similar capacity prior Royal College of Radiologists, chaired the Simon has a broad range of financial to Admission having been an appointment National Cancer Research Institute in the UK experience and brings invaluable knowledge of Cinven, the Companys former principal and was a nonexecutive director of Nuada of both audit and transaction advisory shareholder.
The Company does not consider Medical Group.
Dame Janet was appointed projects for both listed and private Simon to be independent due to the senior as Professor of Diagnostic Radiology at the companies to the role.
He qualified as a position he held with Cinven Partners.
University of London, Institute of Cancer chartered accountant with KPMG before Research, in addition to more than 30 years Current external appointments spending eight years as group finance as a practising consultant radiologist at the non-executive director of Avio S. P. A. Italy director of Virgin Active.
During his time Royal Marsden Hospital.
non-executive director of MD Medical at Virgin Active, the business grew from Group Investment plc break-even to 150 million EBITDA, operating founding partner of Africa Platform Capital A C R 6.
Tony Bourne in five countries.
This growth was achieved Independent Non-Executive Director by a successful combination of organic Skills and previous experience Tony Bourne was appointed an independent development and acquisition.
Simons extensive knowledge of the Non-Executive Director in June 2014.
Company and its markets, combined with his wise counsel over a number of years, N R 4.
Peter Bamford Current external appointments were among the reasons he was asked to Deputy Chairman and non-executive director of Barchester continue to serve as a member of the Board Healthcare Limited Senior Independent Director following Cinvens sale of their shareholding non-executive director of Totally plc Peter Bamford was appointed as Deputy in 2015.
He was a founding partner of the Chairman and Senior Independent Director Skills and previous experience private equity firm Cinven until 2013, in May 2017.
Tony brings considerable knowledge of establishing and leading its healthcare team, the healthcare industry to his role, having Current external appointments and then served as a senior adviser until been chief executive of the British Medical chairman of Superdry Plc 2017.
Simon founded a new private equity Association for nine years until 2013. chairman of B&M European Value Retail S. A. firm in 2016 focused on healthcare and Prior to this, he was in investment banking consumer sectors of Sub Sahara Africa.
Skills and previous experience for over 25 years, including as a partner Prior to joining Cinven, he worked with Peter was chairman of Six Degrees Holdings at Hawkpoint and as global head of the an international consulting firm on Limited from 2011 to 2015 and a nonequities division and a member of the multidisciplinary engineering projects executive director of Rentokil Initial plc managing board of Paribas.
Tony has in the UK and southern Africa.
He was also a director also previously served as a non-executive of Vodafone Group plc from 1998 to 2006 director of Bioquell Plc, Southern Housing 9.
Danie Meintjes where he held senior executive roles, Group, and the charity, Scope.
Non-Executive Director including chief marketing officer, chief Danie Meintjes was appointed as a executive of Northern Europe, Middle A C R 7.
Adle Anderson Non-Executive Director in August 2015.
East and Africa and chief executive of Independent Non-Executive Director The Company does not consider Danie to Vodafone UK.
Adle Anderson was appointed an be independent as he has been appointed Prior to this, Peter held senior positions with independent Non-Executive Director to the Board by the Companys principal WH Smith plc being a director between in July 2016. shareholder, Mediclinic International PLC, 1995 and 1997, Tesco plc and Kingfisher plc.
under the terms of the relationship Current external appointments He has served on the boards of public agreement with them.
non-executive director and chair of companies for the last 21 years and the audit committee of easyJet plc Current external appointments has extensive experience in developing senior independent director and chair of chief executive officer of Mediclinic and growing businesses and brands the audit committee of intu properties plc International PLC internationally.
Peter was also a director member of the audit committee of PRS for Music Limited between 2008 Skills and previous experience of the Wellcome Trust and 2014, being their chairman from 2010.
Danie joined the Mediclinic International Skills and previous experience group in 1985, where he has held a number A C N 5.
Dame Janet Husband Adle has gained extensive financial of senior positions.
He was appointed as a experience throughout her career and has Independent Non-Executive Director director of Mediclinic International Limited significant knowledge of audit committees.
Dame Janet Husband was appointed South Africa in 1996 and then became its Until July 2011, she was a partner in KPMG an independent Non-Executive Director chief executive officer in April 2010.
Danie LLP and held a number of senior roles across in June 2014. holds a Bachelor of Personnel Leadership their business including chief financial from the University of the Free State South Current external appointments officer of KPMG UK, chief executive officer Africa and has also attended the Advanced Emeritus Professor of Radiology at of KPMGs captive insurer and chief financial Management Program at Harvard the Institute of Cancer Research officer of KPMG Europe.
non-executive director of Royal Marsden Adle was a member of the board of NHS Foundation Trust Danie will not seek re-election at the annual trustees of Save the Children UK until general meeting in May 2018.
Mediclinic Skills and previous experience December, 2017. International PLC has nominated Dr Ronnie Having trained in medicine at Guys Hospital van der Merwe as its appointment to the Medical School, Dame Janets extensive Board from 24 May 2018.
57 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
