Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report Annual general meeting Board of Directors together with the audited financial The annual general meeting of Spire The following changes were made to statements of Spire Healthcare Group plc Healthcare Group plc will be held at the the Board of Directors during the year: the Company together with its offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer John Gildersleeve stepped down subsidiaries the Group for the year LLP, Northcliffe House, 28 Tudor Street, as Deputy Chairman and Senior ended 31 December 2017.
London EC4Y 0AY on Thursday, 24 May Independent Director on 26 May 2017: 2018 at 11.00am.
Certain disclosure requirements for Peter Bamford was appointed Deputy inclusion in this Directors Report have At the meeting, resolutions will be Chairman and Senior Independent been incorporated by way of cross proposed to declare a final dividend, Director on 26 May 2017: reference to the Strategic Report on pages to receive the Annual Report and Andrew White sadly passed away 1 to 55 and the Directors Remuneration Financial Statements, approve the on 22 July 2017 and ceased to be Report on pages 78 to 95, and should be Directors Remuneration Report, approve an Executive Director: and read in conjunction with this report.
The the Companys Remuneration Policy, Justin Ash was appointed Chief following, included in the Strategic Report, elect or re-elect all of the Directors and Executive Officer and an Executive also form part of this report: to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor.
Shareholders will also be asked to authorise greenhouse gas emissions, which The UK Corporate Governance Code the Directors to hold general meetings at can be found under Corporate social provides for all directors of FTSE 14 clear days notice where this flexibility responsibility on pages 48 and 49: companies to stand for election or is merited by the business of the meeting employees, which can be found in the re-election by shareholders every year.
and is thought to be in the interests of Human Resources review Our people Accordingly, all members of the Board, shareholders as a whole.
Further items on pages 44 to 47: except for Simon Gordon who leaves of business to be proposed at the annual the Corporate governance statement, the Company on 31 March 2018 and general meeting are described throughout set out on pages 62 to 67: and Danie Meintjes who will not stand for this Directors Report.
Our strategy set out on pages 14 and 15. re-election, will retire and seek election or re-election at this years annual general A description of the Groups exposure Dividends meeting.
Full biographical details of all and management of risks is provided in The Directors recommend the payment of of the Directors can be found on pages the Strategic Report on pages 50 to 55. a final dividend in respect of the year ended 56 and 57.
31 December 2017 of 2.5 pence 2016: Information regarding the Companys Further information on the contractual 2.5 pence per ordinary share making a Gender Pay Gap Reporting and charitable arrangements of the Executive Directors proposed total dividend for the year of donations can be found in the Human is given on page 84.
The Non-Executive 3.8 pence per share 2016: 3.8 pence.
Resources review Our people on pages Directors do not have service agreement.
Subject to shareholders approving the 44 to 47. recommendation at the annual general Subsequent to the year end, Simon meeting, the final dividend will be paid Registered office Gordon resigned from the Board on on 26 June 2018 to shareholders on the The Companys registered office and 1 March 2018.
A search is underway register as at 1 June 2018. principal place of business is 3 Dorset Rise, for his replacement.
The Company paid an interim dividend Powers of the Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December The business of the Company is managed 2017 of 1.3 pence per share on by the Directors who may exercise all the 12 December 2017. powers of the Company, subject to any relevant legislation, any directions given 96 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information by the Company by passing a special become disabled during their employment or on voting rights.
In accordance with the resolution and to the Companys Articles with Spire Healthcare, every effort is Disclosure and Transparency Rules, certain of Association.
The Articles, for example, made to enable them to continue their employees are required to seek approval contain specific provisions concerning the service with the Group.
prior to dealing in the Companys shares.
Companys power to borrow money and The Companys entire issued ordinary Further information on our employees issue shares.
share capital is listed on the premium can be found under Our people on segment of the Official List of the Financial pages 44 to 47.
Appointment and removal of Directors Conduct Authority and to unconditional Rules relating to the appointment and trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs Political donations and expenditure removal of the Directors are contained main market for listed securities.
The Group made no political donations within the Companys Articles of during the year.
Although the Company Further information relating to the Association.
does not make, and does not intend to Companys issued share capital can be make, donations to political parties, within found in note 19 to the Companys Directors indemnities the normal meaning of that expression, financial statements on page 132.
See page 68 in the Corporate the definition of political donations under The Company has made no purchases Governance section.
the Companies Act 2006 is very broad and of its own shares during the year and includes expenses legitimately incurred as no shares were acquired by forfeiture or Amendment of articles of association part of the process of talking to members surrender or made subject to a lien or The Company may only make amendments of Parliament and opinion formers to charge.
Details of the shares purchased to the Articles of Association of the ensure that the issues and concerns of by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust Company by way of special resolution the Group are considered and addressed.
are shown in note 19 on page 132. of the shareholders, in accordance with These activities are not intended to the Companies Act 2006. support any political party and the Allot shares and pre-emption rights Groups policy is not to make any Shareholders will be asked to renew both Employees donations for political purposes in the the general authority of the Directors to The Group is an equal opportunities normally accepted sense.
issue shares and to authorise the Directors employer and is committed to creating A resolution will therefore be proposed to issue shares without applying the an environment which will attract, retain at the annual general meeting seeking statutory pre-emption rights.
In this and motivate its people, by creating a shareholder approval for the Directors to regard, the Company will continue to working environment in which individuals be given authority to make donations and adhere to the provisions in the Preare able to make best use of their skills, incur expenditure which might otherwise emption Groups Statement of Principles.
free from discrimination or harassment, be caught by the terms of the Companies and in which all decisions are based on Further details on these matters can Act 2006.
The authority sought will be merit.
Spire Healthcare employs people be found in the 2018 Notice of annual limited to a maximum amount of 100,000. who consider themselves to have a general meeting.
disability a physical or mental impairment Share capital which has a substantial and long-term Voting rights As at the date of this report, Spire adverse effect on their ability to carry out In a general meeting of the Company, Healthcare Group plc had an issued share normal day-to-day activities.
Employees on a show of hands, every member who is capital of 401,081,391 ordinary shares who consider themselves to have a disability present in person or by proxy and entitled of 1 pence each, being the total number are under no obligation to inform their to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, of shares with voting rights.
employer of this, however, we are fully every member who is present in person aware of, and comply with, our obligations Equiniti Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee or by proxy shall have one vote for every in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust, share of which they are the holder.
of the Equality Act 2010. holds 281,631 ordinary shares of 1 pence each 2016: 670,559.
Further details can Restrictions on voting We launched the Spire Healthcare be found in note 19 on page 132.
Unless the Directors otherwise determine, discussion channel, a new communication a shareholder shall not be entitled to channel established to provide colleagues, The rights attaching to the shares are vote either personally or by proxy: on a regular basis, with audio updates set out in the Articles of Association.
from our leadership team covering There are no restrictions on the transfer if any call or other sum presently topics which are pertinent to our business: of ordinary shares in the capital of the payable to the Company in respect from our strategic direction to operational Company other than those which may be of that share remains unpaid: or and people highlights.
When appropriate, imposed by law from time-to-time.
There having been duly served with a consultations with employee and union are no special control rights in relation to notice to provide the Company with representatives take place.
the Companys shares and the Company information under Section 793 of the is not aware of any agreements between Companies Act 2006, and has failed The Group gives full and fair consideration holders of securities that may result in to do so within 14 days, for so long to applications for employment from restrictions on the transfer of securities as the default continues.
Should an employee 97 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors Report Continued Information required Location in Annual Report 2017 Directors interests in shares Amount of interest capitalised Note 7 on page 123 The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the shares of the Long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration Report Company are detailed on page 92. pages 78 to 95 Equity securities allotted for cash Note 19 on page 132 During the year, no Director had any material interest in any contract of Parent and subsidiary undertakings Note 15 on page 130 significance to the Groups business.
Subsisting significant agreements Page 98 Controlling shareholder relationships Pages 69 and 98 Material interests in shares As of 1 March 2018, the Company has been notified by the following investors The relationship agreement entered into to refinance this bank loan facility, of their interests in 3% or more of the with Mediclinic Jersey Limited formerly on terms largely comparable to the Companys issued share capital.
These called Remgro Jersey Limited, a subsidiary current facility, before it matures.
interests were notified to the Company of Mediclinic International PLC, in June On the same basis, the Directors are also pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency 2015 is deemed a material agreement satisfied that the Group will be able to Rule 5: between the Company and its principal operate within the covenants imposed shareholder.
The agreement does not by the current bank loan facility for the Shareholder Current % include a change of control provision foreseeable future.
In relation to available Mediclinic International PLC 29.90 but does terminate upon the earlier of cash resources, the Directors have the Companys ordinary shares ceasing Woodford Investment had regard to both cash at bank and to be listed and traded on the London Management LLP 16.02 a 100.0 million committed undrawn Stock Exchanges main market for listed The Capital Group revolving credit facility.
Accordingly, they securities and the principal shareholders Companies, Inc 4.83 have adopted the going concern basis ceasing to be entitled, in aggregate, Norges Bank 4.32 in preparing these financial statements.
to exercise or to control the exercise GIC Private Limited 3.95 of 15% or more of the votes to be cast Disclosure of information to auditor on all or substantially all matters of Having made enquiries of fellow Directors Significant agreements a general meeting of the Company.
and of the Companys auditor, each of the The following agreements are considered Directors confirms that: to be significant in terms of their potential Compensation for loss of office impact on the business of the Group to the best of their knowledge and There are no agreements between the as a whole and could alter or terminate belief, there is no relevant audit Group and its Directors or employees on a change of control of the Group: information of which the Companys providing for compensation for loss auditor is unaware: and of office or employment that occurs the Groups bank facility agreement they have taken all the steps a as a result of a change of control.
contains provisions entitling the Director might reasonably be expected counterparties to exercise termination to have taken to be aware of relevant Disclosures required under listing or other rights in the event of a change audit information and to establish rule 9.8.
4R of control: that the Companys auditor is aware The above table is included to meet there are a number of contracts which of that information.
the requirements of Listing Rule section allow the counterparties to alter or 9.8.
The information required to terminate those arrangements in the Reappointment of auditor be disclosed by that section, where event of a change of control of the Resolutions for the reappointment of applicable to the Company, can be Company.
These arrangements are Ernst & Young LLP as the auditor of the located in the Annual Report 2017 commercially sensitive and confidential Company and to authorise the Directors at the references set out above.
and their disclosure could be seriously to determine its remuneration will be prejudicial to the Group: and proposed at the annual general meeting.
Events after the reporting period the Companys share incentive plans Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its There have been no material events contain provisions relating to a change willingness to be reappointed.
affecting the Group or Company since of control and full details of these 31 December 2017. plans are provided in the Directors The Directors Report has been approved Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 93. by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: Going concern Outstanding options and awards would The Group is financed by a bank loan normally vest and become exercisable Daniel Toner facility that matures in July 2019.
The on a change of control, subject to the General Counsel and Directors have considered the Groups satisfaction of performance conditions, Group Company Secretary forecasts and projections, and the risks if applicable, at that time.
1 March 2018 associated with their delivery, and are satisfied, based on prevailing market conditions, that the Group will be able 98 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
