72 73 Our performance As in previous years, we have reported on progress against our targets so R Re es sp po on nsi sib bi illit ity y that our stakeholders have a balanced perspective of how we maintain high standards and performance, both day-to-day and over the longer term.
Combined targets External targets Internal targets Employees and human rights We continue to During the year under review, we 60% 50% 79% develop and broaden conducted our second employee survey.
Achieved Achieved Achieved One aim of the survey was to understand our sustainability and whether the changes we enacted after corporate responsibility the first survey in 2015 had a real impact 37% 50% 21% on our employees engagement and agendas.
We were pleased to see that partially achieved our initiatives, which have been primarily This year we have integrated our reporting focused on our employees well-being in these areas into a new Responsibility and our Fit for the Future project, have 2017 performance highlights section which we have extended to include been positively received with overall job additional information on our corporate satisfaction being exceptionally high at Resource efficiency Communities People culture and stakeholder engagement, how 96%.
The employee survey is a useful we conduct our business and our focus on indicator of how our culture is developing health and safety.
over time and in response to business 1 9.6% reduction 108,000 97% 2 changes.
A strong and healthy culture in our carbon intensity has been awarded from response rate Governance remains a core strength of our business tCO e per m of 2 our Community Fund, to our second Operating ethically and responsibly is see page 82 for further information.
turnover to 19 projects employee survey important to us, which is why we have a robust governance framework illustrated We support and respect the protection on page 95 which establishes our core of human rights and are guided by the 15% reduction 3 in our carbon intensity responsibilities and levels of accountability.
principles of the International Labour 2 tCO e per m We view governance as more than an Organisations declaration on Fundamental 2 exercise in compliance it is the underlying Principles and Rights at Work, amongst values and principles that we adopt on others.
We have established procedures a daily basis that underpin our success.
and policies that aim to prevent the risk Recognition As part of this, our Sustainability Committee of human trafficking or modern slavery meets quarterly to review progress against occurring in our business or supply chain our sustainability programme and discuss further information on page 85.
We offer 2018 performance across the business.
our employees fair compensation and 1 2 John Davies Head of Sustainability Paul Williams Executive Director This committee, chaired by executive equal opportunity in a safe and healthy 3 Katy Levine Head of Human Resources Director Paul Williams, reports directly workplace, which reflects our belief that into the Executive Committee and then the success of our Group is strongly linked Corporate Knights GRESB Global Real EPRA Sustainability to the main Board.
with the fair and ethical treatment of our 2018 Global 100 Most Estate Sustainability Reporting Awards employees and wider stakeholders.
Sustainable Companies Benchmark 2017 2017 Our Responsibility priorities Environment in the World Our carbon management programme saw External recognition Green Star status Gold Award for We have set the following long-term priorities to achieve the The only REIT ranked retained for the sixth our 2016 Annual a significant step forward in 2017 with the We are pleased that our work has been two strategic objectives that relate to corporate responsibility: in the top 2% of globallyyear in succession Sustainability Report setting of our first suite of science-based recognised externally.
We have been listed companies with a score of 81 targets, aligned with UK and international ranked for the second time in the Strategic objective: to design, deliver and operate our buildings responsibly climate change legislation.
The next step prestigious Corporate Knights 2018 was to ensure we had appropriate systems Global 100 Most Sustainable Companies p. 74 Designing and delivering buildings responsibly and processes in place to measure our in the World.
The rankings are announced Further information performance accurately against these at the World Economic Forum meeting in As we have fewer than 500 employees, the Non-Financial Reporting targets.
This resulted in enhancements to Davos each year, representing the leading p. 76 Managing our assets responsibly Regulations do not apply to us.
However, due to our commitment to our sustainability framework documents for 2% of global companies in terms of promoting transparency in our reporting and business practices, we our developments and assets to incorporate sustainability performance, and see us as have elected to provide further information in the following areas: p. 78 Creating value in the community and for our wider stakeholders the tougher carbon standards.
We provide the only REIT within the top 100.
We have further information on our targets and retained our Green Star status in the Global performance on pages 73 to 77.
Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark p. 72 Environmental matters p. 85 Respect for human rights Strategic objective: to attract, retain and develop talented employees GRESB for the sixth year in a row, improving our score by 4% to 81.
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery p. 80 p. 78 p. 114 Social matters Setting the highest standards of health and safety matters including business ethics p. 82 p. 82 Employees Engaging and developing our employees p. 85 Protecting human rights Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 74 75 White Collar Factory EC1 Responsibility Formally launched in H1 2017, our White continued Collar Factory represents many years of research and development, incorporating a series of design principles that enhance its flexibility, utility and sustainability.
The outcome of this saw the tower, which Designing is now fully let, achieve ratings of BREEAM Outstanding, LEED Platinum, WiredScore and delivering Platinum and an EPC of A making it one of only a few buildings to achieve such buildings broad recognition.
responsibly Our objective is to ensure sustainability Our achievements in 2017 is considered and implemented at every stage of the design and delivery of Achieved our first LEED Platinum our projects.
rating at White Collar Factory Achieved our first SKA Gold rating at 25 Savile Row W1 To help us deliver this objective, we created our Sustainability Framework for Developments the Development Our focus areas for 2018 Framework, which established the Developing our framework for health required standards and performance and well-being in developments from all our developments.
Ensure our development pipeline continues to incorporate our high The Development Framework requires performance standards Above: White Collar Factory EC1 a Project Sustainability Plan PS Plan Right: 25 Savile Row W1 25 Savile Row W1 to be produced and maintained throughout the lifetime of each project.
During 2017, we moved into our newly It sets out an action plan for how the key refurbished offices at 25 Savile Row.
risk areas shown in the table below will be As part of the design we wanted to addressed and how the project team will ensure, as we do with all our projects, achieve the standards and performance that sustainability was embedded in our fit-out.
To measure this we used required under the Development Framework.
the Royal Institution of Chartered The PS Plan is reported to, and subject to Surveyors RICS SKA environmental scrutiny from, the Sustainability Committee.
assessment method, which focuses solely on fit-out works and assesses projects across a range of sustainability criteria, e. g. energy carbon, materials, water and occupier well-being.
The project achieved the highest rating of Gold, meaning it is in the top quartile of SKA-assessed projects and the first project of its type to reach this level of performance.
25 Savile Row Summary of the Project Sustainability Plan also received an EPC rating of B in PS Plan sections: Aspect Targets line with our targets.
For more details Energy Performance Climate change Minimum of an EPC A rating for new build projects of this project, refer to our latest Certificate EPC Minimum of an EPC B for all major refurbishments Annual Sustainability Report at: Environmental assessment Building Achieve a minimum of BREEAM Excellent for all new build projects www.
com sustainability methods BREEAM LEED assessment Achieve a minimum of BREEAM Very Good for all major refurbishment projects Energy and carbon methods Achieve a minimum of LEED Silver for all major new build projects Water Achieve a minimum of Home Quality Mark 4 Stars on all new residential developments Waste Energy and All new build and major refurbishment projects to undertake a design in-use energy Materials carbon assessment based on CIBSE TM54 Biodiversity Suppliers Require evidence from our suppliers that they are meeting our Supply Chain Community Sustainability Standard see page 85 Transport Construction impact Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 76 77 Our objective is to ensure all our management and sustainability teams We present below our annual emissions associated with electricity use Our carbon Responsibility assets are managed and maintained monitor the performance of each buildings greenhouse gas emissions GHG footprint reduced by 19% compared to 2016, our in a responsible manner in order to BSP and the outcome of their reviews is for 2017 compared to our 2016 baseline.
Scope 1 emissions increased leading to footprint continued maximise their efficiency.
reported to the Sustainability Committee.
Moreover, there are a set of intensity ratios overall increase in all scopes of 0.2%.
appropriate for our business, both of which Our Sustainability Framework for Following the release of the Task Force on fulfil the requirements of the Companies For further analysis and detail on our Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD Assets sets out how we manage our Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report GHG emissions please see our Annual properties from a sustainability perspective.
Recommendations Report in June 2017, Regulations 2013.
Sustainability Report, which can be found Managing This framework requires each managed we have prepared our first disclosures at www.
com sustainability property to establish a Building based on the four recommended areas As with previous years, we have our assets Sustainability Plan BSP.
of governance, strategy, risk management seen a reduction in our carbon intensity 2 and metrics and targets.
Our disclosures tCO2e m. Although our Scope 2 responsibly Each BSP is split into eight sections and for 2017 can be found within this years addresses a range of risk areas which require Annual Sustainability Report which is the collection and recording of key data published on our website.
Going forward Total managed portfolio GHG emissions including corporate-based emissions see table below.
The BSP is maintained from 2018, we will publish this information Whole year Q1 Q4 and implemented by our building within our annual report and accounts.
Our senior property 2017 2016 to 2017 2016 Scope 1 Energy-use Gas total building 3,412 A 29.4% 2,637 Travel Fuel use in Derwent London company cars for 28 A 23.0% 23 business travel Our achievements in 2017 COP21 Fugitive Refrigerant emissions 881 A 5.3% 837 emissions 9.6% reduction in our carbon Climate change represents a principal Scope 2 location-based Energy-use Electricity use generation landlord-controlled 3,538 A -18.5% 4,342 intensity tCO e per m of turnover long-term risk for our business see our 2 areas and Derwent London occupied floor area 15% reduction in our carbon principal risk register on page 40 and the 2 Scope 2 market-based Energy-use Market-based residual mix 5,475 A -4.5% 5,733 intensity tCO e per m setting of our science-based targets sees 2 us take an important step to support the Scope 3 Energy-use Electricity use WTT Generated Scope 3 indirect 564 A -13.5% 652 longevity of our portfolio and ensure our GHG landlord-controlled areas and Derwent Our focus areas for 2018 London occupied floor area assets are fit for the future, both from a Further roll out of our COP21 carbon financial and carbon perspective.
In order Electricity use T&D direct & WTT T&D indirect 384 A -15.1% 452 reduction programme across our five landlord-controlled areas and Derwent London to implement the targets and as part of year portfolio plan occupied floor area the target-setting process, we undertook Review supplier questionnaire returns Gas total building 516 A 44.1% 358 a review of our managed portfolio to to monitor compliance against our understand the types of intervention Travel Fuel use in Derwent London company cars for 7 A 58.6% 5 Supply Chain Sustainability Standard business travel WTT required in each building over the next 10-20 years so that we could maintain Business air travel WTT 6 A 49.7% 4 alignment with the reduction trajectory Business air travel 56 A 45.4% 38 set by our targets.
These interventions Water Water use total building 67 A 29.4% 52 were then included in the BSP for each Total excl.
market-based All All 9,461 A 0.2% 9,443 property and into a new scenario analysis Total incl.
market-based All All 11,398 A 5.2% 10,834 tool, which has been developed to allow Out of scope Energy-use Biomass use total building 21 -25.6% 28 us to review the impact of various actions, Tenant emissions Scope 1 2 3 13,203 -1.0% 13,330 including the disposal and acquisition of Total portfolio emissions Scope 1 2 3 22,663 -0.5% 22,774 properties and their effect on our targets.
landlord and tenant In order that the Board can monitor the A This data has been independently assured by Deloitte LLP effect our business is having on the environment, carbon emissions will be Intensity ratios included as a Group KPI from 2018.
Annual report intensity metrics Above: White Collar Factory EC1: Traffic light building management % change system to denote windows are openable to allow for natural ventilation 2017 2016 to 2017 2016 tCO2e m turnover Scopes 1 and 2 only, including Scope 1 fugitive emissions 45.65 -9.6% 50.49 2 tCO2e m Scopes 1 and 2 only, including Scope 1 fugitive emissions 0.020 -15.0% 0.024 Summary of the Building Sustainability Plan BSP sections Aspect Targets Performance dashboard Climate change Achieve a reduction in carbon intensity of 36% by 2022 and 55% by 2027 compared Data notes Resource efficiency to our 2013 baseline Reporting period: 1 January to 31 December 2017. energy, carbon Achieve a reduction in energy intensity of 10% by 2022 and 16% by 2027 compared Baseline year: 2016.
Water efficiency to our 2013 baseline Boundary consolidation approach : Operational control.
Waste Waste Increase recycling rate to 75% for managed waste in all properties for which Derwent Alignment with financial reporting: The only variation is that the GHG emission data presented does not account for single-let properties or properties for which Biodiversity London has management control of waste by the end of 2018 we do not have management control.
This is because we have no control or influence over the utility consumption in these buildings.
However, the rental income of these properties is included in our consolidated financial statements.
The percentage movements are calculated using the figures before rounding.
Transport Water Achieve a 5% reduction in water consumption intensity across our like-for-like Green Forum Reporting method: The Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
managed portfolio by 2019 compared to our 2015 baseline Special events Emissions factor source: DEFRA, 2017 https: www.
uk government collections  for all emissions Suppliers Ensure the staff within our contracted operational supply chain receive the London factors apart from the Scope 2 market based residual mix factor which is from Reliable disclosure systems for Europe, 2014 European residual mixes Living Wage across our managed portfolio http: www.
org documents Require evidence from our suppliers that they are meeting our Supply Chain Independent assurance: Public reasonable assurance using ISAE 3000 provided by Deloitte LLP over all Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions data.
Sustainability Standard see page 85 Data changes and restatements: None.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 78 79 Responsibility continued Our objective is to develop and maintain Our main stakeholders are: The events encouraged residents to get to know their Creating value in strong relationships with our local neighbours and to improve their sense of belonging, communities and wider stakeholders.
Local communities the community We are committed to supporting the reduce isolation and therefore improve well-being.
An important aspect of our management communities in which we operate which and for our wider St Lukes Parochial Trust, EC1 Community events project approach is positive engagement with our includes local businesses, residents and local communities.
To help us focus our the wider public.
We engage with the local stakeholders efforts, our Community Strategy sets out community through our Community Fund Our Community Fund a structured approach and requires us to and projects, volunteering, charity work develop action plans for our major villages, and providing apprenticeships and work Our Community Fund continues to recognising their individuality.
We also have develop and support numerous projects Our achievements in 2017 detailed initiatives and targets for reducing and initiatives across our Fitzrovia and As part of these action plans, we use our our impact on the physical environment, Tech Belt portfolios.
During the year, Invested 108,000 in 19 projects Community Fund to support grass roots including our carbon, water and energy use.
there were three funding rounds, one in Fitzrovia and the Tech Belt projects and initiatives across London.
in Fitzrovia and two in the Tech Belt.
From these, 19 organisations seven Initially starting in Fitzrovia in 2013, the The Government Our focus areas for 2018 in Fitzrovia and 12 in the Tech Belt fund then grew to include the Tech Belt As a responsible employer and business, received funding with over 108,000 Launch the sixth year of the and has, so far, supported 56 projects and we ensure that we pay the right amount Community Fund, with a new invested across a range of projects, such invested over 450,000.
In addition, we of tax when it falls due.
A statement of our as inter-generational music programmes, streamlined application process have supported a variety of organisations tax principles is published on our website.
art clubs and lunch clubs for the elderly.
through pro bono work, volunteering, We maintain a positive and proactive employment opportunities and mentoring.
relationship with HMRC and are considered More information can be found on our by HMRC to have a low risk status.
com ensure we are compliant with all legislation, sustainability priorities community including best practice guidelines to ensure we conduct our business in a legal, ethical We also support a wide range of and responsible way.
charitable organisations through various sponsorships and donations, Our occupiers which during 2017 totalled 237,000.
We communicate regularly with both our existing tenant base and the wider business community.
We try to anticipate trends and incorporate them early into our designs.
Our occupiers benefit from our active management and high quality sustainable Below: Derwent London staff volunteering for the Soup Kitchen Fitzrovia W1 space that meets their needs and helps them to attract talent.
Many of our occupiers have moved within our portfolio as their businesses have grown.
Our suppliers We outsource many of our activities to third-party suppliers and providers and, as a result, it is crucial that we develop strong Above: The Spitz Charitable Trust Well-being and music-making project working relationships with our supply chain.
Through effective collaboration and engagement, we can add value and Our fund providers Our employees Our shareholders develop great spaces to a high standard, We arrange debt facilities from a diverse The continued strong performance of Our shareholders play an important thereby delivering on our occupiers group of providers ranging from banks to our business would not be possible role in monitoring and safeguarding expectations.
We are signatories to the institutional pension funds.
We maintain without our motivated and highly skilled the governance of our Group.
Through Prompt Payment Code, are clear about our close and supportive relationships with this employees.
Therefore, it is important that effective and proactive engagement, payment practices and expect our suppliers important group of long-term stakeholders, we continue to create the right environment regular broker updates and our Annual to adopt similar practices throughout their characterised by openness, transparency to encourage and create opportunities for General Meeting, we ensure that their supply chain to ensure fair and prompt and mutual understanding.
We meet with individuals and teams to realise their full views are brought into our Boardroom and treatment of all creditors.
them frequently, keep them well informed potential.
We have an open and flat are at the forefront of Board discussions.
in all relevant areas and also plan to ensure management structure and engage We have provided an overview of how our credit credentials and rating are regularly with our employees through we engage with our shareholders in our retained or enhanced.
surveys, appraisals, training programmes Corporate governance statement.
and health and well-being seminars.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 80 81 Responsibility continued Our objective is to enhance and develop Our employees In our commitment to continually improve Setting the highest Derwent Londons response our existing systems and procedures to Our employees are involved through the our health and safety, we will be raising its create an industry-leading capability.
health and safety working group, which profile as a core function both internally to changing industry regulation standards of health meets on a regular basis and has input from and externally so that everyone affected by We fully support the independent review In addition to this, we are members of Build We operate a robust system of risk all departments, where they can suggest our activities feels secure in the knowledge being undertaken by Dame Judith Hackitt.
UK the industry association that is one of and safety assessments for health, safety and fire improvements and learn more about our that Derwent London is devoting the We anticipate that an outcome of this the key contributors to the Hackitt review, management at all our managed buildings.
Derwent resources and management focus review will be changes to the systems, we use a specialist fire engineer on all our The risk assessments are reviewed at least London provides training to all Building required to be a leader in the industry.
procedures and accountabilities for building major developments and we always look to annually or when there is an alteration to Managers, Fire Wardens and First Aiders regulations, with greater clarity on the role improve the safety of our buildings above the building.
All compliance documents and we have a Chartered CMIOSH The Health and Safety Committee has of mandatory requirements and guidance what is prescribed by the regulations.
are held on our QUOODA management qualified health and safety professional.
responsibility for our response to the notes as well as a higher emphasis on system, which identifies when Our Group intranet, employee handbook events resulting from the Grenfell Tower In our existing portfolio we have carried competence and quality control.
and induction programmes for new staff fire.
Immediately following the incident, out a desktop and visual review of all Our team of qualified health and safety contain information on our health, safety we instigated a comprehensive review of The Derwent London development team, locations and found no buildings which professionals carry out regular audits and risk management procedures.
On our our whole portfolio to assess any fire safety together with our consultants, carried out present a significant risk to fire or life and inspections on our portfolio.
construction sites, under the CDM 2015 risks we had in relation to cladding systems a comprehensive review of the use of safety.
We will however, during 2018, be regulations, all our principal contractors and fire precautions in our buildings and combustible materials in all our current carrying out a more detailed investigation We also have the support of a specialist have a duty of care to ensure all operatives new developments.
We were supported and future developments including Brunel of six buildings due to their size and company, ORSA, on our construction and visitors are provided with a thorough in this review by Arup.
The outcome of Building W2, 80 Charlotte Street W1 and residential use to establish the robustness sites and, when required, we engage third health and safety induction, defining the this comprehensive review is discussed Soho Place W1.
Where necessary, of their existing fire precautions further we modified the specification in these and broaden intrusive checks of building parties to complete fire risk assessments on current risks that are present on the in greater detail in the adjacent case developments.
For our Monmouth House materials if required.
Our managed our properties to give an independent view.
This process is managed study.
We will not be waiting for the EC1 development, which is currently portfolio benefits from annual reviews of by an experienced and competent third outcome of the Independent Review of at the detailed design stage, we have fire risk assessments and health and safety Peter Withers party who reports directly into the Head Building Regulations and Fire Safety the thoroughly reviewed the design and inspections.
Weekly checks are carried Head of Property & Facilities Management of Health and Safety.
Dame Judith Hackitt review we have we are making changes to the materials out by our team of IOSH-trained Building been taking immediate steps to ensure specified and the fire precautions to Managers.
We have also commissioned Although we are proud of our health and our buildings and new developments are achieve a higher standard of fire safety.
an independent review of a number of our safety record, we continually strive to designed, constructed and maintained fire risk assessments to identify any areas Our health and safety structure improve what we do.
During the second to the highest standards.
To date, we where improvements can be made.
half of 2017 we initiated a comprehensive have found no issues that represent review of our health and safety processes, any significant risk to fire or life safety.
Main Board systems and resources to establish the actions necessary to develop a sectorleading capability in all aspects of our Health and safety statistics Executive Committee construction, property management and People employees Assets managed properties Developments construction projects company activities.
The scope of this John Burns Chief Executive 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 review is also encompassing our response Person hours worked n a n a n a n a 1,606,311 2,602,482 to the anticipated changes in the Minor accidents 2 1 35 30 23 55 regulatory environment following the Health and Safety Committee 1 RIDDOR incidents 0 0 2 4 2 5 tragic events of the Grenfell Tower fire.
Dangerous occurrences 0 0 0 0 0 0 Our aim is to develop our established Chaired by Paul Williams Executive Director processes and procedures into a robust Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 management system that fully integrates Improvement notices 0 0 0 0 0 0 all our activities.
Head of Health Head of Property & Prohibition notices 0 0 0 0 0 0 & Safety Facilities Management RIDDOR frequency rate n a n a n a n a 0.12 0.19 Our implementation programme resulting 1 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013, Health and Safety Executive from this review will see activity continue throughout the next 18 months to take the best and most appropriate practices in the ORSA Developments H&S Team industry and apply them at Derwent Our achievements in 2017 Our focus areas for 2018 London.
A new Health and Safety Policy Risk Committee provided with regular updates on the Implement roadmap to create an enhanced health and Statement available on our website has Groups review of insulation cladding and fire precautions safety management system been formulated setting out our aims and Property Management Development HR New Health and Safety Committee established Increase visibility of health and safety across the Group objectives together with a new Health and Heart defibrillators installed in all managed buildings and externally Safety Committee established to drive see page 99 Enhance reporting capabilities from our existing through the changes recommended from Issued revised Building Incident Management Procedures compliance system the review.
This committee is led by the H He ea al lt th a h an nd s d sa af fe et ty w y wo or rk ki in ng g g gr ro ou up p to reflect changed risks from terrorism Continue proactive response to industry Review of Building Board sponsor, Paul Williams.
The diagram Regulations and Fire Safety to the left explains how this committee is Develop Company-wide targets and KPI tracking system positioned in the overall Group structure.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 82 83 Responsibility 118 continued Employees Our objective is to attract, retain and significant increase to the scores Engaging and 75,500 develop talented employees.
in areas where we had instigated recent improvements, notably with regards to IT Training spend developing our Culture and engagement equipment and the office environment.
We aim to have a transparent and collegiate employees culture coupled with a consultative The adjectives chosen by our staff in leadership style one that stresses the the survey to describe our culture were 88% importance of teamwork and acting with passionate, creative and professional.
of employees would like integrity to build long-term relationships This demonstrates a highly motivated and their long-term career with our colleagues and other stakeholders.
engaged workforce: 97% of those who took to be at Derwent London part said they enjoy their day-to-day role An effective way for us to gather feedback and 90% feel their efforts are noticed and from our employees and assess their levels appreciated.
Overall job satisfaction has of engagement is via our employee survey, remained exceptionally high at 96%.
These views are also reinforced through In order to maintain high engagement levels, which is designed and developed in 57:43 our induction programme, performance we recognise that ongoing communication conjunction with an independent provider The success of our business and the management process and development tools.
We distribute information via Overall male:female ratio % and sponsored by the executive Directors.
reputation established with our external the Group intranet, regular seminars and With a 97% response rate and no area stakeholders stem from the behaviours Our structure enables complex transactions presentations.
In addition, a working scoring less than 60% strongly agree or and values promoted by our Board.
99% to be managed effectively and decisions group has been established to assess the agree, our 2015 survey was a hard act to of the respondents agree they were made quickly, with the overall aim of feedback from the 2017 employee survey 99% follow.
However, we were pleased that our proud to work for Derwent London and creating value and driving income growth and make recommendations to the said they were proud to 2017 survey not only received the same 87% said they would recommend the across our portfolio.
Although we are Executive Committee.
work for Derwent London high response rate, but there was a Group as a great place to work.
structured by departments see diagram on page 82, cross-departmental teams work Diversity and inclusivity on specific projects, drawing on expertise The Group is committed to being a truly from across the business.
We believe this inclusive and respectful employer that Derwent London teams Our achievements in 2017 approach increases creativity and welcomes diversity and promotes equality.
Collaboration is also facilitated We were pleased to see that in our 2017 Fit for the Future project initiated Staff satisfaction Acquisitions, through a number of supporting committees employee survey 89% of respondents in early 2017 supported by the Investment for example the Cost, Credit and Health & said that they feel they can be themselves Executive Committee recycling Leasing, Conducted our second Safety Committees which, together with at work.
Property employee survey the project teams, report into our Executive 7 marketing 92% The Savile Row refurbishment has Committee see page 95.
The supporting We believe that a diverse workforce helps Finance and enhanced collaboration between Information committees ensure accountability across to stimulate and support creativity and in Retention rate 8 departments and provided a better Technology the business and enable changes in the turn, drives innovation.
In line with our working environment focusing on Groups strategic focus to be communicated Equal Opportunities Policy, we give full productivity and well-being 27 and implemented.
and fair consideration to all employment Development Received positive feedback on our applicants.
Recruitment, training, reward well-being initiatives which will and career progression are based purely Board of 14 continue into 2018 on merit.
We also accommodate, wherever Directors possible, part-time, agile and flexible Asset working requests.
13 management Our focus areas for 2018 Our employee base is relatively well Continue to manage the talent 6 Business balanced with 57% male and 43% female pipeline via the Fit for the Future support programme while, within our senior management Set up a working group to propose team, about one third are female.
21 Property ideas to the Executive Committee, Around three quarters of our employees management on how we can continue to make 12 Building classify themselves as white and a quarter Derwent London an even better services as non-white.
Diversity is important at all 22 place to work, following the second levels of the business and we recently employee survey in late 2017 appointed Helen Gordon as a nonContinue to support the Group in executive Director, which gives a female 4 Investor relations creating a working environment that representation of 43% on our nonand Corporate promotes individual well-being and executive team.
We have provided further communications a respectful, inclusive, collaborative 2 Human resources details of our diversity on page 105. and safe culture 3 Sustainability Revisit the security of personal data in line with the new GDPR requirements see page 115 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 84 85 Responsibility continued Developing and retaining our people We appreciate that all our line managers new office environment a 27% increase Like most property businesses, we If we spend more than 20,000 per annum Protecting We recognise that our employees are have a vital role to play in leading by from 2015 and 94% agreed that the new outsource many of our activities to thirdwith a supplier, we require them to formally the most important ambassadors of the example and we regularly design and facilities support their well-being.
We party suppliers and providers.
As a result, acknowledge receipt of their copy of our humanrights Derwent London brand and therefore we deliver interactive workshops to encourage introduced a caf area where breakfast is we develop strong working relationships.
Standard, and that they have read and invest considerable time and resources career conversations and ownership.
provided, which also provides opportunities We are fully committed to supporting, fully understood its contents.
in recruiting the best talent in the market.
During 2018 our top talent leadership for colleagues to connect and socialise.
developing and promoting diversity and We have always been clear with our Once with us, we strive to ensure our pipeline will be strengthened through our equality across our business and our supply chain regarding what is important We have now commenced our due employees are happy at work, thrive in Fit for the Future project which includes a We offer all employees membership of a supply chain and aim to maintain an to us as a business, including the levels diligence procedures, and have requested their roles and feel valued and supported.
management and leadership development healthcare cash plan which has access to inclusive culture, free from discrimination, of performance and transparency that evidence from all those suppliers as to how This is done through regular dialogue with programme.
This will sit alongside a core a number of extra services, including a 24 7 based on the values of fairness, dignity we expect from the goods and services they are supporting the implementation line managers to discuss performance, skills programme for all employees.
counselling and support helpline, fitness and respect.
In 2016, we launched our Supply of our Standard in their work with us, and identify training requirements, clarify and exercise discounts and a variety of Chain Sustainability Standard the how they manage ESG risks in their own future objectives and understand individual Our staff retention in 2017 was once again health and well-being resources.
Standard which sets out our principles and businesses.
We envisage that the initial due In April 2017, we published our first career aspirations.
This is an important measure statement under the Modern Slavery Act expectations in terms of the environmental, diligence process will be completed during monthly reviews and provide 360-degree for the Group, as we believe staff with a In addition, we have worked closely with our 2015 on our website, reporting on the steps social and governance ESG issues that 2018.
Further details on our anti-bribery feedback as a development tool.
deep knowledge of our business, culture occupational health provider, continue to we have taken to ensure that slavery and we expect our suppliers to conform to.
and corruption policies and processes are and processes are essential to delivering offer flu vaccinations, provided a workshop human trafficking is not taking place in any A summary of the Standard is below the on page 114.
In 2017, we provided a series of internal our objectives.
on cholesterol and offered cholesterol part of our business or our supply chain.
full Standard is available on our website.
workshops and external courses, sponsored tests.
Our levels of absenteeism are very Although we consider the risk of slavery professional qualifications and one-to-one Health and well-being low, but should an employee develop a and human trafficking taking place in our coaching.
We recognise the importance The health and well-being of our staff long-term health concern or disability, business to be negligible, and in our supply of career development and progression continued to be a priority during 2017, with our company doctor can offer confidential chain to be low, we have established policies for our employees and how these can several new initiatives introduced.
Following support and, wherever possible, the and procedures to ensure that any potential support our succession plans which are the Savile Row office refurbishment, which Company will make adjustments to issues can be identified and prevented.
was completed in May 2017, 97% of survey fundamental to the future growth and ensure a smooth return to work.
respondents said they were happy with the Summary of the Supply Chain Sustainability Standard Derwent London awayday Aspect Standards expected from our suppliers In September 2017, we held our first Anti-bribery and corruption Operate an ethical business policy which sets out how they govern their business and supply chains off-site Group awayday.
This followed We will not tolerate any form of corruption, bribery or anti-competitive behaviour in our supply chain feedback and recommendations from our Employment and labour practices Fair pay and working time practices which ensure compliance with National Minimum Wage and 2015 employee survey and subsequent the London Living Wage together with working time legislation working group.
The purpose was to No use of exclusive zero hours contracts ensure transparency, understanding and No illegal, forced or child labour engagement in our strategy, ambitions Suppliers to have appropriate equality and diversity polices to ensure the active promotion of and development pipeline.
The day employment diversity included presentations from various Health and safety Adequate health and safety policies and management systems appropriate to the nature and scale employees from across the business, a team-building event and a motivational of their business and service provision To comply with Derwent Londons health and safety standards and procedures speaker, followed by a social event at our new White Collar Factory building.
Community Support us in the successful delivery of our Community Strategy The feedback was excellent and this Development contractors on our larger schemes have to achieve a minimum target score is something we aim to repeat.
currently 38 in the Considerate Constructors Scheme, and to undertake at least one community day every year during the life of a project Offer full and fair opportunity for local suppliers to actively participate in our supply chains Offer local employment and apprenticeship opportunities Environmental Suppliers are to have robust environmental management policies and procedures in place.
It was a really worthwhile To comply with the Derwent London Sustainability Framework for Developments and or Assets We expect our main contractors to have a certified environmental management system EMS in day.
The presentations place, accredited to ISO14001 or EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme wereinformative, the Payment practices Unless otherwise stated, we aim to pay our suppliers within 30 days or otherwise will do so in accordance with specified contract conditions and are signatories of the Prompt Payment Code motivational speaker Suppliers are required to adopt similar payment practices throughout their supply chains to ensure fair and prompt payment inspiring and the game at the end was an excellent team-building experience.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
