Business model Spire Healthcare is a well-diversified business and an important and growing part of the UKs healthcare system.
Our business is built on providing outstanding care, clinical outcomes and value to our patients.
The patient pathway Our resources and relationships We receive patients through multiple routes.
The sustainability of our business model relies on The patients journey typically begins with a several interconnected resources and relationships.
visit to their GP, who will either treat the patient directly or provide a referral to a consultant.
Our resources Our relationships The procedure or treatment provided by the consultant can be funded by the NHS, a PMI Financial strength Referrers We benefit from financial We work with GPs to facilitate provider or by the patient self-paying.
strength and stability, speedy, convenient and fully supported by a cash-generative informed referrals.
We are operating model and investing in our own hospitalproperties in commercially based primary care to offer Patient attractive locations across patients convenience and the UK.
GP referral Well invested hospitals Consultants Our portfolio of hospitals Consultants are integral Self-pay Private Medical NHS e-Referral is equipped with up-to-date to providing high levels of Insurance Service technology and comfortable medical care to our patients treatment facilities.
and we offer them the facilities and support they need to Open, direct or named referrals deliver outstanding healthcare.
Highly skilled employees All our consultants are on the Our 8,380 employees are highly General Medical Councils skilled and our nursing and Specialist Register.
Consultant medical support staff have the expertise to provide an excellent standard Patients NHS hospital Spire Healthcare of patient care.
We offer treatments for including patients who have private hospital Local foundation health insurance or wish to contracting trust Clinical Governance pay for their own treatment.
During the year under review We offer them choice of the Care Quality Commission NHS when and where to be treated, CQC completed their first in hospitals that combine Funding sources round of comprehensive excellent clinical outcomes and Private inspections across all of our levels of infection control with hospitals and results have been hotel style levels of service.
We are pleased to report that our overall performance is in line Payors with the rest of the private Treatment is funded by a PMI, sector and continues to far the NHS or patients who exceed the NHS average.
6 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our operating model How we create value By investing in excellent medical facilities Through our operations, we create and and patient care, and operating efficiently to deliver measurable value for our stakeholders.
drive margins and generate strong cashflows, we are able to create a virtuous circle, which allows Consultants us to reinvest in future growth whilst providing A well-run hospital with 92% supportive management shareholder returns.
and clinical teams helps of consultants believe our us attract and retain hospitals go out of their way the best clinicians to make a difference to their working relationship Investment Revenue We invest consistently Our sources of revenue in further capacity, are well diversified, and Employees equipment and services.
we are focused on driving We provide a wide range With the ability to deploy growth from all of our three 86% of training, and a flexible further capital from strong payor groups.
and supportive working Employees who believe cash flow, we are able to environment what they do at work makes invest in future expansion a positive difference and to benefit from market consolidation opportunities as they arise.
Shareholders We aim to continue to pay 2.5p a dividend in line with our policy and to return excess Proposed final dividend cash to shareholders per share 0.0% when available Operating efficiencies Cash flow We drive margin through Strong cash conversion a close focus on improving enables us to reinvest operational efficiency, in future growth.
balancing central protocols and procurement with empowerment of local teams to drive local growth and performance.
7 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
