90 91 Board of Directors 7 1 The Hon.
Robert A. Rayne, 69 transactions, supervision of refurbishment Other current appointment: Managing 9 Non-executive Chairman and development projects and sustainability.
Director of Capital Advisors Limited Appointed to the Board: 2007 Other current appointments: Director of Committees: Risk chair, Audit, Nominations.
Skills and expertise: Robert Rayne was The Paddington Partnership, Director of 3 10 Chief Executive Officer of London Merchant Sadlers Wells Foundation and member Claudia I. Arney, 47 Securities plc and has been on the Boards of of the Westminster Property Association.
Non-executive Director a number of public companies, including First Appointed to the Board: 2015 6 Leisure Corporation plc and Crown Sports plc.
Nigel Q. George, 54 Skills and expertise: Claudia was Group 13 Other current appointments: Non-executive Executive Director Managing Director of Emap until 2010.
Prior 5 Director of LMS Capital plc and Richoux Group Appointed to the Board: 1998 to that she held senior roles at HM Treasury, 11 plc and Chairman of Voreda Capital.
Skills and expertise: Nigel is a chartered Goldman Sachs and the Financial Times.
surveyor who joined the Group in 1988.
Other current appointments: Chair of the 2 John D. Burns, 73 His responsibilities include acquisitions Governance Committee of Aviva PLC, Chair Chief Executive and disposals and investment analysis.
of the Remuneration Committee of Halfords Appointed to the Board: 1984 Other current appointment: Director of PLC, and a non-executive Director of the Skills and expertise: A chartered surveyor the Chancery Lane Association Limited.
and founder of Derwent Valley Holdings in Committees: Remuneration chair, Audit.
7 1984, John has overall responsibility for Group David G. Silverman, 48 11 strategy, business development and day-toExecutive Director Dame Cilla D. Snowball, 59 day operations.
John is a past Chairman of Appointed to the Board: 2008 Non-executive Director the Westminster Property Association.
Skills and expertise: David is a chartered Appointed to the Board: 2015 Other current appointment: Member of surveyor who joined the Group in 2002.
Skills and expertise: Cilla is Group Chairman the Strategic Board of the New West End His responsibilities include overseeing and Group CEO at AMV BBDO and a past Company Limited.
the Groups investment acquisitions and Chairman of the Advertising Association disposals.
David is a past Chairman of and past President of the Thirty Club.
3 Damian M. A. Wisniewski, 56 the Westminster Property Association.
Other current appointments: Director Finance Director Other current appointment: Chairman of BBDO Worldwide and Chairman of Appointed to the Board: 2010 of Chicken Shed Property Co. the Womens Business Council.
Skills and expertise: Damian is a chartered Committees: Nominations, Risk.
8 accountant and, prior to joining Derwent Helen C. Gordon, 58 12 12 London, he held senior finance roles at Non-executive Director Simon W. D. Fraser, 54 Treveria Asset Management, Wood Appointed to the Board: 2018 Senior Independent Director Wharf Limited Partnership and Chelsfield Skills and expertise: Helen is a chartered Appointed to the Board: 2012 plc.
He has overall responsibility for surveyor and is Chief Executive Officer of Skills and expertise: Simon started his financial strategy, treasury, taxation Grainger plc.
Previously, she was Global career in the City in 1986 and, from 1997 and financial reporting.
Head of Real Estate Asset Management to his retirement in 2011, worked at Bank Other current appointments: Trustee and of Royal Bank of Scotland plc and has held of America Merrill Lynch where from 2004 member of the governing body at the senior property positions at Legal & General he was Managing Director and co-head of Royal Academy of Music and non-executive Investment Management, Railtrack and corporate broking.
Here he led a variety of Director at the Associated Board of the John Laing Developments.
transactions including equity raisings and Royal Schools of Music.
Other current commitments: Chief advised company boards on a range of issues.
Executive Officer of Grainger plc, Junior Vice Other current appointments: Non-executive 4 Simon P. Silver, 67 President of the British Property Federation, Director of Lancashire Holdings Limited, Executive Director Board Member of EPRA European Public Cathedral Underwriting Limited and of Appointed to the Board: 1986 Real Estate Association.
Legal and General Investment Management Skills and expertise: Co-founder of Committee: Remuneration.
Holdings and Trustee of Glyndebourne Estate.
Derwent Valley Holdings, Simon has overall Committees: Nominations chair, 9 responsibility for the Groups development Richard D. C. Dakin, 54 Audit, Remuneration.
and regeneration programme together Non-executive Director 13 with the commissioning of architects.
Appointed to the Board: 2013 Stephen G. Young, 62 He is also at the forefront of the Companys Skills and expertise: Richard has been Non-executive Director 10 6 brand identity.
He is an honorary fellow Managing Director of Capital Advisors Appointed to the Board: 2010 4 8 2 of the Royal Institute of British Architects.
Limited, part of CBRE, since 2014.
Previously, Skills and expertise: Stephen is a chartered he had been employed at Lloyds Bank since management accountant.
Previously he has 5 Paul M. Williams, 57 1982 where he undertook a variety of roles held a number of senior positions including Executive Director including commercial and corporate banking Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC and Group 1 Appointed to the Board: 1998 and leveraged finance, gaining extensive Finance Director at Meggitt PLC, Thistle Skills and expertise: Paul is a chartered knowledge of property finance and the real Hotels plc and the Automobile Association.
surveyor who joined the Group in 1987. estate sector.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Other current appointment: Non-executive His responsibilities include portfolio Institution of Chartered Surveyors and an Director of The Weir Group PLC.
asset management, major leasing Associate Member of Corporate Treasurers.
Committees: Audit chair, Risk, Remuneration.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
