20 21 Our five strategic objectives Our purpose Our strategy has been broadly consistent Our purpose is to help improve and upgrade the Our now for many years and is set out below stock of office space in central London.
strategy under five strategic objectives: Through our brand of better designed, more flexible Our strategy and efficient buildings, we help the office occupiers To optimise returns of today and tomorrow and their employees to Strategic p. 24 and create value from enjoy an environment both within and around their objectives a balanced portfolio office spaces which supports their own needs.
1 These are times of rapid change and so setting the right corporate culture, thinking ahead for the long To grow recurring term and engagement with our stakeholders are all p. 26 earnings and essential to achieve the right results.
cash flow 2 Together with our tenants, the upgrading of Londons office stock contributes towards workforce well-being 2017 priorities Priorities To attract, retain and will help to maintain Londons place as a global The detailed priorities that we set p. 28 business hub.
By attracting and retaining talent, this and develop talented for 2017 are described under the p. 22 will help to continue moving this great city forward, five strategic objectives on page 22. employees 3 with all the social and economic benefits that this In summary, our main aims in 2017 should bring to our local communities and to society were to deliver on our schemes, fide-risk as a whole.
To design, deliver our pipeline via pre-letting and fixing p. 28 and operate our our construction costs, and to monitor the portfolio for asset management buildings responsibly 4 Our values Our culture and disposal opportunities.
Reputation, integrity Hard-working To maintain and good governance and adaptable p. 29 strong and flexible financing Building long-term Driven by a passion 5 relationships to improve Londons and trust office spaces p. 34 Risks Risks Risk management and the The pursuit of outperformance requires property cycle Focus on creative design Progressive us to balance risk against likely returns: We manage risks via a risk register and embracing change and pragmatic our principal risks are listed under each which is updated and reviewed strategic objective on page 22 and are regularly.
The types of risks are split Openness and Open door explained in more detail on page 34. into categories see page 34 and are transparency and inclusive John Burns judged against the likely impact upon Chief Executive KPIs p. 30 our strategy, operations and financial KPIs Sustainability Collaborative We use a number of Key Performance position as well as their impact on our and responsibility and supportive Indicators KPIs and Key Metrics KMs to external stakeholders.
We aim to help us measure our performance and to balance the level of risk we take against Our overall objective is to provide above average assess the effectiveness of our strategy.
external factors such as the political and p. 72 For further reading on our values and culture long-term returns to our shareholders, while These are listed on page 22 for each economic background as well as our objective but the principal measures that reading of the London office cycle.
delivering benefits for all our other stakeholders.
we apply to ascertain overall business We can therefore adjust our approach, performance are Total Return TR, adding projects which are inherently What makes Derwent Our business model is designed to help Total Property Return TPR and Total risky but offer higher returns where we Shareholder Return TSR.
believe this is appropriate, or focusing London different?
us achieve this by applying our asset more on retaining income or reducing We specifically look to invest in emerging locations, management and regeneration skills to our TR combines our dividends with the leverage if we feel that we have enough such as those around Crossrail stations which offer growth in Net Asset Value NAV per risk already.
Some of the decisions made 5.5m sq ft property portfolio using our people, inherent value and long-term growth prospects.
share to provide an overall return for the will lead to major works which can take These acquisitions are our raw materials and are relationships and financial resources to add year and is measured against a peer group.
Therefore, valued off existing use so their valuations typically long-term planning, risk mitigation and value and grow income while benefitting the do not take account of the upside potential we TPR looks at the income and growth in financial discipline are all essential.
communities in which we operate and the value from our properties and is measured against an index of other properties.
Our buildings are almost all income producing, wider environment beyond.
though some are off low rents with future refurbishment potential, while the regenerated TSR compares our dividends and share p. 18 Our business model price performance with the relevant index.
properties, most of which are let at affordable mid-market rental levels up to about 85 per sq ft, have already benefitted from our actions.
Remuneration p. 116 Remuneration TR, TPR and TSR are the main performance In building a pipeline of opportunity for the next few measures we use to determine the variable years, we have a strong focus on innovation and elements of executive remuneration to design and on anticipating the needs of occupiers ensure there is a strong alignment between both today and into the future.
This has helped us the interests of shareholders and our to establish a recognised brand.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 22 23 Key Achieved Total return and total shareholder Still in progress Our strategy p. 30 Measuring our performance return measure our performance across all our strategic objectives continued Not achieved p. 34 Our principal risks 2017 priorities 2017 progress Priorities for 2018 KPIs and key metrics Risks p. 24 To optimise returns and create value from a balanced portfolio 1 Seek acquisitions that meet our criteria Total property return Inconsistent strategy Seek acquisitions that meet our criteria Limited opportunities were identified in 2017 Maintain balance between income Void management Adverse Brexit settlement generation and development activity Development potential Reputational damage Maintain balance between income generation and development activity Balance maintained with 44% of the portfolio having development potential Progress 80 Charlotte Street, Brunel Reversionary percentage Increase in property yields Building and Soho Place Capital return Reduced development returns Complete White Collar Factory and The Copyright Building Both achieved fide-risk the pipeline through further pre-lets Cyber attack Advance regeneration opportunities within Non-compliance with health and safety legislation Progress 80 Charlotte Street and Brunel Building Both progressing well the portfolio Non-compliance with environmental and sustainability legislation On-site risk Property disposals generated net proceeds of 482.8m, at a 11.8% premium Monitor portfolio for further opportunities to recycle capital Contractor subcontractor default to book values Shortage of key staff Terrorism or other business interruption p. 26 To grow recurring earnings and cash flow 2 Considerable progress in void management and re-letting vacant space Continuously monitor portfolio for Total property return Inconsistent strategy Continuously monitor our portfolio for further asset New lettings achieved 41.5m of income, 1.3% above Dec 2016 ERV further asset management initiatives Void management Adverse Brexit settlement management initiatives Rent reviews increased income by 42% to 9.1m on 209,500 sq ft Extend income through renewals and Tenant receipts Reputational damage re-gears for properties not earmarked Reversionary percentage Reduced development returns Extend income through renewals and re-gears for properties Our retention and re-let rate was 92% in 2017 for regeneration Tenant retention Cyber attack not earmarked for regeneration Renewals and re-gears increased income by 31% to 29.5m on 562,400 sq ft Manage voids and maximise income Capital return Non-compliance with health and safety legislation fide-risk 80 Charlotte Street and Brunel Building through pre-lets Substantially pre-let the office space at 80 Charlotte Street W1 from good asset management On-site risk Secure further pre-lets Contractor subcontractor default Shortage of key staff Terrorism or other business interruption p. 28 To attract, retain and develop talented employees 3 Project launched in early 2017 to review organisational structure and Continue the Fit for the Future programme Staff satisfaction, which will be Reputational damage Review how we can ensure our people and culture are Fit for the Future governance, and to maximise individual performance Identify additional well-being initiatives introduced as a KPI in 2018 Cyber attack Establish working group to recommend Non-compliance with health and safety legislation Conduct employee survey Completed with excellent results improvements to lower scoring areas Non-compliance with environmental and sustainability legislation identified by the staff survey Other regulatory non-compliance Complete office refurbishment Achieved in May 2017 Shortage of key staff Terrorism or other business interruption Focus on staff productivity and well-being Further improvements made, supported by staff survey Introduce other well-being initiatives New ideas such as cholesterol testing and self-defence classes p. 28 To design, deliver and operate our buildings responsibly 4 Achieve BREEAM Outstanding and LEED Platinum ratings for Develop our framework for health Energy performance certificates Reputational damage Achieved White Collar Factory and well-being in developments BREEAM ratings Cyber attack Implement a new carbon analysis Non-compliance with health and safety legislation Achieve a SKA Gold rating for the refurbishment and fit out of our Achieved tool to monitor progress against Non-compliance with environmental and sustainability legislation 25 Savile Row offices our science-based targets Other regulatory non-compliance Set science-based carbon targets to align with the Paris Climate Achieved Deliver the next rounds of our On-site risk Change Agreement Community Fund Contractor subcontractor default Ensure our properties meet the requirements of the forthcoming Exercise undertaken and work ongoing Shortage of key staff Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards for buildings Terrorism or other business interruption Continue to work with local community projects Distributed 108,000 of funding across 19 projects Obtain stronger validation of our methods Achieved p. 29 To maintain strong and flexible financing 5 Review refinancing options for the Interest cover ratio Inconsistent strategy Refinance 28m secured facility maturing in 2018 Facility renewed until July 2022 2019 convertible bonds Gearing and available resources Adverse Brexit settlement The 75m revolving bank facility was extended to July 2022 and a 15m Maintain or strengthen available facilities Reversionary percentage Reputational damage Maintain or strengthen available facilities development loan, expiring in May 2019, was provided in relation to our Maintain good interest cover Increase in property yields Primister joint venture Reduced development returns Cyber attack Maintain good interest cover Interest cover increased to 454% in 2017 Other regulatory non-compliance Shortage of key staff Terrorism or other business interruption Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 24 25 25 A Adding opportunities C Tenants and landlords Our strategy We start our property life cycle by to benefit from infrastructure upgrades.
While working up the best approach 44% of our portfolio continued acquiring buildings with low capital Most importantly, we like to buy where for the building, we start dialogues with values.
These are usually income we see potential to add area to the existing tenants to align leases thereby iseither on site or has producing but would typically benefit building and or to improve the quality extending income but with the flexibility from further improvement and have of the space.
If these features are not to exercise landlord breaks at future regeneration potential low current rents.
They may also be apparent or we do not see good value, dates.
In some cases, this may mean in locations we assess as having we are disciplined and will not buy for accepting income which is below normal underperformed or which are due the sake of buying alone.
market levels but the aim is to retain cash flow almost until the day we are ready to commence a scheme.
During this period, we will negotiate with B Focus on cash flow landlords if we do not hold the property Because the raw properties that we buy freehold, and will work with our many 1 are almost always occupied and provide design team relationships, including an income cash flow, we have time to experts in minimising the social and work up our plans while enjoying yield: environmental impact, to progress to To optimise returns this gives us the necessary flexibility to a firm design.
This normally involves assess what to do and when to do it.
liaising with the local planning Our plans for a building often go authorities to seek planning consent and create value from through several iterations before and consulting with local communities we settle on an optimal solution.
a balanced portfolio 44% Future This section sets out the typical appraisal lifecycle A to G of properties 1 within our 5.5m sq ft portfolio.
20% Under appraisal D Balancing risk Marketing and branding We think ahead to plan the appropriate Getting our marketing and branding 4% balance of risk for the business and, right is another area where we devote Income producing when we are ready, we will normally significant resource.
We have a start a scheme speculatively, i. e. dedicated internal team who engage 86% without any pre-letting in place.
specialist consultants to ensure that we present our product in a fresh and Consented We try to ensure the end product positive way and at the right time.
Core income will appeal to as broad a spectrum 6% For further reading on Brunel of occupiers as possible and we often p. 58 56% Building development find that we receive early interest G Recycling assets from potential tenants once we are On-site on site.
Building out the scheme When we believe that we have extracted developments requires considerable skill, experience most of the upside in value we will Collaboration and teamwork so we work with a normally look to recycle a property 11% As a relatively small team, we work with chosen group of consultants, by way of a sale, thereby freeing up many experts in their respective fields in contractors and subcontractors human and financial capital for the next Core income on-site areas such as planning, architecture and to minimise the risks of delivery.
generation of acquisitions and projects.
refurbishments design, engineering and other technical Those risks principally relate to time areas, lawyers, accountants and 3% delays and or cost overruns, but there contractors.
We value and enjoy their input E Pre-letting during 56% are many technical and physical and recognise the important contribution constraints too, in relation to these large that they make.
We believe that they construction and complex projects.
Preparation of a also enjoy working with us, many having During the construction phase, we will five-year plan every summer ensures been with us for a number of years, and typically start to fide-risk the project by that we keep a balance between they share our satisfaction in creating new agreeing pre-letting terms with one income dividend growth and value spaces and improving the environment or more tenants.
Our reputation is adding through our riskier projects, around our buildings.
Together, we strive something that we focus much time We focus on the spaces both now and into the future.
to improve with each job that we do.
F Core income and effort on building and protecting: around buildings as this can help us considerably in The whole process can take many generating interest in our schemes years but, once a building is completed wellas the buildings even before our marketing campaigns and let, it moves to the core income We aim to avoid start.
The momentum that this provides sector of the doughnut chart where themselves encourages us to consider the next we focus our asset management skills over-specification phase of our project pipeline too, adding on keeping our tenants happy, growing further value where we see opportunities.
our income streams and adding further in our buildings value where we see opportunities.
For further reading on the p. 52 80 Charlotte Street development 1 Includes 0.6m sq ft of on-site developments Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 26 27 Our strategy continued B Contracted rental upliftsC Pre-let developments D Vacant space Either from the burning off of rent free When let, this will lead to increases and refurbishments or half rent periods, or through fixed or in contracted income.
Where the contracted income will step up minimum future rental increases.
on delivery of the scheme and will increase further as rental incentives burn off.
2 Our reversion To grow recurring A The actions m thatwetake earnings and cash flow 300 These generally fall into the following categories: 14.3 270.1 The value of property is essentially Asset management 24.5 working with tenants and 250 determined by contracted and expected The job of our asset management team 2.8 consultants to arrive at appropriate future cash flows.
is to capture the increased rents through 24.2 rent review uplifts: rent reviews, lease re-gears or other extending lease lengths or removing Creating and then capturing reversion lease restructuring.
All these activities 44.2 break clauses: 200 The benefits of setting the conditions in are underpinned by maintaining arranging block dates to enable access place for a propertys value to grow are, strong relationships with occupiers and to buildings at an appropriate time: in the long term, both value creation and always with a focus on the needs reviewing levels of grey space, i. e. 18.4 160.1 increasing cash flow but they can occur of our local communities.
8.6 floor area that is let but which is not 150.3 150 at different times of the property cycle.
currently occupied or is being The value creation often comes first as Reversion marketed by a tenant: expectations of rental growth emerge We measure and monitor the amount of reducing irrecoverable costs and it is this which gives rise to what we reversion in the portfolio using the chart where it is reasonable and justified 100 call reversion, i. e. the extent to which shown opposite.
The main parts of this EPRA cost ratio : we can expect to grow income from its build-up of estimated rental value are thinking ahead to work with and current passing level.
as follows: understand our tenants needs, thereby optimising income.
Potential 50 examples are fixed or minimum rental uplifts and a flexible approach to dilapidations and alienation clauses in leases: and 0 Dec 16 Disposals Reversion Dec 17 Contractual Pre-let Vacant Developments Reviews Dec 17 Like-for-like rental income net rent captured net rent upli s developments available and refurbishments and expiries ERV taking a flexible approach at certain and refurbishments We use like-for-like rent analysis buildings, like the Tea Building for see EPRA definitions on page 207 example, to keep lease lengths to determine how well we are growing shorter, while at other buildings the net and gross rental income within aiming for longer leases, particularly the non-development part of the on larger lettings.
portfolio and we monitor irrecoverable We also grow our earnings in the costs through the EPRA cost ratio longer run by adding area and and void percentages.
E D evelopments F Marking to current G Estimated rental place considerable focus on growing EPRA earnings and our dividends to and refurbishments market values value ERV shareholders as can be seen by the p. 24 See strategic objective 1 progress made in recent years.
Once completed and let, the value of This is the pure reversion inherent Our valuers estimate of the total the future income streams will become in the existing leases but is only one rental value of our portfolio, including more certain and will gradually convert component of the full potential uplift developments and refurbishments to cash flow.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 28 29 Our strategy continued 3 5 4 To attract, retain To design, deliver To maintain anddevelop and operate our strongand talented employees buildings responsibly flexiblefinancing Our people are the most important Sustainability and wider responsibility Over many years, Derwent Londons single factor in ensuring that we can continue to be integral parts of our financing model has been based on the following main principles: deliver our strategic objectives.
97 % response rate to We place great importance on setting We are focused on embedding the right i conservative financial leverage our staff survey the right culture which means recruiting goals, thought processes and systems to balance the businesss relatively outstanding individuals, treating them across all aspects of the business and high operational leverage: well and leading them effectively.
We are on communicating our progress more ii a growing focus on interest a collegiate organisation which listens to effectively.
Our approach is set out in more cover to support the credit rating: and engages with its entire workforce and detail in our Responsibility and Governance iii borrowing from a diverse group 96% we respect the views and input of every sections on pages 72 and 87, but essentially of relationship lenders, both banks All our unsecured debt facilities have the staff satisfaction Our REIT status member of our team, as demonstrated involves working with our suppliers, and institutions, who understand same simple financial covenant package by our high staff retention rates and consultants and other stakeholders to and support our business model: so our lending relationships are on a level Derwent London plc has been a Real satisfaction scores.
ensure that the design, construction iv managing the cost of debt but also playing field.
In recent years, we have also Estate Investment Trust REIT since looking to have significant protection taken on more non-bank debt which has and operation of our buildings aim for July 2007.
92% Our recent staff survey highlighted the resilience, flexible usage and longevity.
against possible interest rate rises extended the Groups unexpired duration most improved areas since 2015 were the This will mean that the buildings are fit for while extending debt maturities: and of debt.
It has also meant that a large The REIT regime see page 208 was staff retention working environment and the IT equipment.
purpose over a longer term, minimising v keeping structures and covenants proportion of our debt is at fixed interest launched to provide a structure which their carbon impact and providing social simple and understandable.
rates giving greater certainty and helping closely mirrors the tax position of an investor holding property directly and and other environmental advantages.
us with forward-looking financial modelling.
p. 72 For further reading on people seeks to provide potential holdings in This approach has provided stability, liquid publicly quoted vehicles to a wide It also means that we must build and which has helped us with decision making Our relationships with our funders key range of investors.
REITs are principally sustain a culture and approach that and taking speculative development risk stakeholders in our business are of great asset managers with tax exempt values our whole stakeholder group from time to time, and the confidence importance to us and we meet with all of property rental businesses, but remain and seeks to work with them across all that financial resources would be available them frequently.
subject to corporation tax on nonaspects of our business model.
Acting to the business when they are needed.
In addition, responsibly means getting involved and With a balance sheet backed by low p. 64 For further reading see the Finance review we are required to deduct withholding understanding local neighbourhood leverage and facilities that are mainly tax from certain shareholders on needs over a sustained period.
We have unsecured, acquisitions can be funded property income distributions and also continued to improve the methods without delay and there is visibility that in 2017 this amounted to 5.7m.
we use to measure our performance and the development pipeline is capable how we get reliable external validation.
of being delivered without unduly stressing the balance sheet.
It has also helped us when considering issues such as going 13.2% Who are our stakeholders?
concern and viability statements, all of LTV ratio 2016: 17.7% Our stakeholders are all the people which enables our key stakeholders to who are affected by what we do and have a high level of confidence in our how we do it.
They include: ability to deliver our plans.
i suppliers and consultants: ii contractors and subcontractors 454% running to several thousand people : Interest cover 2016: 370% iii employees and their dependants: iv local people living and working in our villages: v investors and debt providers: and 523m vi tenants and their employees.
Cash and undrawn As a substantial payer of local and national facilities 2016: 383m forms of taxation, we take the role we play in wider society very seriously too.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
