Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Five reasons to invest in Spire Healthcare 02 01 Spire Healthcare benefits from scale Spire Healthcare bridges the gap in a market that demands excellence between rising healthcare demand The hospital environment is rightly and projected NHS budgets subject to regulation and oversight, With NHS funding tightening and and rising patient expectation on healthcare demand growing, Spire service and quality.
Spire Healthcares Healthcare is well positioned to help national network allows it to bridge the gap.
Spire healthcare is simultaneously enforce consistent able to benefit from its inherent standards, assess performance payor hedge as more people elect and raise quality of delivery by to be PMI or self-paying patients.
leveraging its central resource and Strong growth in Self-pay in particular information systems.
This delivers is set to continue as Spire Healthcare a strong patient proposition and rolls out its enhanced consumer payor confidence.
brings economic benefit in buying, distribution and increasingly marketing and sales effectiveness.
03 04 Spire Healthcare is able to invest Spire Healthcare is well structured in its future and target returns to lead on private growth Robust operating cash flows enable Whilst continuing to focus on Spire Healthcare to sustain a healthy relationships with each of its three capital expenditure programme and major payor groups, it is increasingly maintain an attractive dividend prioritising investment designed to payout ratio.
Developing our Self-pay opportunity whilst Going forward, Spire Healthcare will driving participation in existing robust focus on maintaining and developing its healthcare insurer arrangements.
The payback The majority of its hospitals are periods for such incremental investments able to accommodate the flexibility tend to be much shorter: therefore better required by the Self-pay patient, returns on the capital investment should while continuing to support the be achievable.
05 Spire Healthcare has a track record on innovation and learning As well as opening new sites, Spire Healthcare is often first to develop new services, such as the da Vinci robot at Spire Southampton Hospital.
Spire is actively developing bariatric, paediatric, cardiology and cancer services.
Like all innovation, not all developments succeed at first, but as with the best innovative organisations, it learns and then re-invests in adapted services.
This drive to innovate and grow existing and new service lines remains a key feature of its investment proposition.
15 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Case study Strategic priorities Best place to work Famous for quality and clinical care Image: Kate Hoffmann Matron: Spire Bristol Hospital 16 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Good to Outstanding Looking after you We want all our hospitals to be rated Outstanding by the CQC or the required equivalent : regulatory recognition of the excellent care that we deliver to patients across the country every day of the year.
Our 20 hospitals and two clinics currently rated as Good are on a journey to Outstanding.
Spire Bristol Hospital received its CQC Rated Outstanding report in April 2017, rating it Good or Central support for Outstanding across all domains, and all our hospitals Good overall.
Led by Hospital Matron and 3 hospitals Head of Clinical Services, Kate Hoffmann, In the last year we have doubled the team in Bristol is now working on the size of the central team Five additional hospitals have one an action plan to be Outstanding across dedicated to supporting our Outstanding domain with all other the board.
hospitals in their drive to be domains rated Good Outstanding across the board.
Kate credits the support that is available Team members offer mentoring, to all our hospitals: The central team hands-on assistance, CQC mirror We, in turn, share our expertise with has really helped us in understanding the inspections, reports and action other hospitals matrons, heads of CQCs approval and the evidence they look plans, and specialist clinical support department we all help.
Ive worked for simplifying the audits, spreadsheets where necessary.
in centrally controlled organisations and and data we need to supply.
it doesnt necessarily work in complex Alison Dickinson, Chief Nursing And their support can directly improve hospital environments.
At Spire Healthcare Officer, comments: To date we our patient service the legal team were a team the centre supports us have concentrated on ensuring that recently provided us with specialist legal to deliver outstanding care in each of all our hospitals have the leadership consent forms we needed for the family our hospitals.
and specialist resources they need of a patient with learning disabilities.
that clinical leads are in place in This means were able to develop our Meaning that the patient, the family specialist areas like resuscitation, own initiatives to improve patient care.
and our clinical team were all assured pre-op assessment, medicine We were one of the first private hospitals and happy, and a full and proper consent management, cancer that in the country to have a critical care process was undertaken.
incidents are fully reported, outreach team and our concierge investigated and learnt from.
service, where every patient is greeted In other words, making sure that and guided through their stay individually, Spire Healthcares Clinical Standards has won one of Spire Healthcares are in place, understood and met.
David will even Were able to develop carry your bags and help you to your car Each hospital that was rated thats outstanding!
Requires Improvement will undergo our own initiatives to a clinical review as a priority in the improve patient care.
Over the next two years we will be focused on helping our hospitals to become Outstanding across all aspects of our care.
17 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
