Clinical review Spire Healthcare aims to be famous for quality and clinical care.
Continuous improvement drives the delivery of outstanding clinical quality and performance for our patients.
Clinical review Opportunities to improve, identified by As Group Medical Director, I am the CQC, are acted upon immediately.
responsible for ensuring we deliver safe As a result, Spire Healthcares ratings rose and high-quality clinical care, defining our from 67% Good or Outstanding in 2017 clinical governance strategy, deploying to 69% at the time of writing, which is in plans to deliver on quality goals and line with the independent sector average ensuring adequate resources are available and ahead of NHS partners 45%.
The national Clinical Of special mention are Spire Sussex, Services team sets the clinical standards, Cheshire and The Montefiore hospitals, audits compliance and reports on the which were rated Outstanding, and Spire clinical performance of our 52 facilities.
St Anthonys Hospital which was re-rated We also provide hands-on support to our to Good.
hospitals, working side-by-side with senior Nevertheless, 11 of our hospitals are management teams, to drive continuous currently rated Requires Improvement.
improvement by identifying and sharing Whilst the majority of these are rated best practice across England, Scotland Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter, Good in the Caring, Effective and and Wales.
Group Medical Director Responsive domains, we are focusing on During 2017, I am proud to report that improving our systems and processes at every Spire Healthcare hospital that these sites to ensure they achieve a rating underwent a rated inspection by the of at least Good overall.
This will require Care Quality Commission CQC in improvements to be made in relation England achieving a rating of at least In terms of clinical to the compliant management of drugs, Good, with three hospitals achieved refurbishing carpeted areas where performance and safety, the highest rating of Outstanding.
patients are cared for, and remedying In addition, our two hospitals in Scotland post-operative mortality gaps in the perceived strength of both received a rating of Very Good local leadership.
within 31 days remained from Health Improvement Scotland and We are committed to resolving these Spire Cardiff Hospital received a very low whilst at the same issues with the utmost urgency.
Actions favourable inspection report Healthcare time, rates of returns include the recruitment of a medicines Inspectorate Wales do not issue ratings.
management specialist to drive to theatre, unplanned Whilst we have, to date, prepared for improvements in drugs management: these inspections by strengthening our transfers and readmissions a programme of replacement of performance management and assurance carpets in patient areas and concerted all remained low, following systems, we are now investing in growing improvements in leadership capability.
our specialist support teams to enable our on from last years strong You can read more about this in the hospitals to deliver our quality goals Our people section on pages 44 to 47. performance.
for every hospital and clinic inspected in 2018 to be rated at least Good: for every hospitals and clinic to be rated at least Good in 2019: and for the majority of hospitals and clinics to be rated Outstanding in 2020.
20 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Case study Highlights Learning from others Nurses value professional 0.06 We reported a single case of MRSA across development and training, all 39 hospitals in 2017 so we not only help our nurses to extend their professional competencies 69% Spire Healthcare hospitals rated Good through formal training or Outstanding but also encourage them to apply for sponsorships, scholarships and awards.
3 Spire Healthcare hospitals rated Outstanding Vincenzo Calascibetta, a nurse at Spire My ultimate goal is to work as part All Spire Healthcare sites rated Requires London East Hospital, has been awarded of a pain management team and this Improvement have published an action a prestigious Florence Nightingale experience will really put me on the plan response to the CQC findings on Foundation Travel Scholarship.
He will right road to achieving that.
their websites for scrutiny by patients.
be travelling to Australia to study acute Spire London East Hospital Matron, We are prioritising our central clinical post-operative pain management.
Patricia Turner, said: The Florence resources to support these hospitals, Vincenzo became a nurse in 2011, Nightingale Institute is close to all with all of them undergoing a clinical moving to England in 2015 and joining nurses hearts.
We were ecstatic when review in the first quarter of 2018.
Spire London East Hospital the Vincenzo won the scholarship.
He will We performed well in patient reported following year.
bring his learning back from Australia outcome measures PROMs, of the top to share with us and the Company In Sydney, he will observe pain 10 hospitals NHS and Independent and we will support him in writing management services at the Royal in England for health gain following hip his paper for publication.
It will benefit North Shore Hospital and at the Pain replacement April 2016March 2017, so many people.
He will three were Spire Healthcare hospitals also attend a two-week multidisciplinary Spire Cambridge Lea, Leeds and Sussex pain management workshop.
In relation to knee replacement, Vincenzo said: This will give me an two Spire Healthcare hospitals featured amazing chance to travel and to observe in the top 10 Spire Washington which closely nursing practices in another ranked top and Portsmouth hospitals.
country which I think will really help me.
I strongly believe that these kind of experiences promote professional and personal growth.
21 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Clinical review Continued Famous for clinical quality and care Unplanned returns % C. difficile infection rate per 10,000 bed days 2015 0.60 2015 0.60 2016 0.55 2016 0.55 0.12% 0.13 2017 0.12 2017 0.13 MRSA infection rate per 10,000 bed days MSSA infection rate per 10,000 bed days 2015 0.00 2015 0.00 2016 0.06 2016 0.12 0.06 0.13 2017 0.06 2017 0.13 Inpatient surgical mortality per 10,000 anaesthetic episodes 2015 0.33 2016 0.37 0.13 2017 0.13 Source: Company information.
Summary of inspection results The following table shows the percentage of published CQC reports receiving a positive rating Good or Outstanding by domain for the independent sector.
Figures correct as of 1 February 2018.
Published Hospital Reports Overall rating Safe Effective Caring Responsive Well led Spire Healthcare 36 69% 56% 82% 100% 94% 69% Sector excl.
Spire Healthcare 137 69% 55% 78% 100% 93% 67% NHS 294 45% 34% 66% 98% 48% 48% 22 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Infection control continues to feature We have also introduced a programme of the CQC.
In the absence of every hospital as one of Spire Healthcares strengths.
human factors training for our colleagues being re-inspected by the CQC this year, With only a single case of MRSA and made this available to consultants we also plan to apply for and achieve bacteraemia in 2017 and very low rates who practise with us.
a number of additional external of other healthcare acquired infections, independent accreditations over and Our peer-review system for clinical we continually outperform NHS providers above those we have already achieved assurance the Clinical Review is now according to data published by NHS such as the Macmillan environmental well established and has proven to be England.
Indeed, surgical site infection accreditation and the Joint Advisory an effective assessment of regulatory following hip and knee replacement Group JAG accreditation for endoscopy.
We have reduced once again to the lowest level invested further to strengthen and grow More and more information on quality on Spire Healthcares record.
the capacity of this team under the is being published and we are entirely In other clinical performance and safety leadership of the Chief Nursing Officer supportive of the Private Healthcare indicators, post-operative mortality in order to undertake more frequent Information Network PHIN initiative within 31 days rose slightly 1.27 per assessments of our clinical compliance.
which seeks to collect, analyse and publish 10,000 theatre episodes, whilst rates information on both quality and costs We continue to innovate to make care for returns to theatre 0.12%, unplanned in line with the requirements of the safer and to provide us with assurance transfers 0.05% and readmissions within Competition and Markets Authority in this regard.
By the end of 2017, 31 days 0.18% all remained exceptionally CMA.
We have been submitting data we completed the roll out of two new low following on from last years for many months and have extended platforms to support cancer care the strong performance.
our collection of PROMs beyond hip and Ardeo pathway system to collect and track knee replacement and cataract surgery Safety and effectiveness of care is a patient through their breast cancer and to include cosmetic procedures using a reflection of the dedication and chemotherapy treatments, and iQemo our digital platform, My Clinical engagement of clinical teams.
Combined a system to electronically prescribe Outcomes.
with our ambition to improve further and validated and approved chemotherapy to challenge practice that does not meet protocols in line with published best We also plan to support patients to make our high standard, our goal is to lead the practice.
In parallel, we also undertook more informed decisions by helping them sector on quality.
In 2017, we reported analysis of thousands of surgeons and to better understand their treatment 16 Never Events across our 39 hospitals interventional physicians to assess their options as well as their risks and benefits, which whilst a slight reduction on the intervention rates, looking to benchmark by updating our approach to procedure number reported in 2016, is not in keeping every individual with their specialty specific consent.
We believe that engaged with our drive to be the best.
We will peers an exercise we will repeat patients who are aware of the treatment build on our programme of human factors on an annual basis with a view to options available to them, cared for by training which we launched last year understanding and acting upon outliers.
talented and dedicated professionals, and redouble our efforts to reduce We believe we are the only provider ultimately experience the best possible these further.
in the sector to be doing so.
We remain passionate and determined to deliver the highest quality Over the last year, following a commissioned At the start of 2018 we launched care for all those who choose us to look review into Spire Healthcares systems Project Outstanding, our initiative after them.
and processes for risk management, we to systematically articulate what have updated our approach to reporting, Outstanding looks like both clinical Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter investigating and acting upon lessons from and non-clinical and to deliver this Group Medical Director clinical and non-clinical incidents, in order consistently across our network with 1 March 2018 to make care safer and more responsive.
the aim of leading on quality as rated by 23 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Case study Strategic priorities Best place to practice Image: Monika Kaushik Consultant Breast Surgeon: Spire Leicester Hospital 24 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Spire Healthcare aims to be the best place to practice We work closely with consultants at every stage of their career from their earliest years to retirement helping them build and maintain their private practices with tailored clinical, operational, business and marketing support.
Monika Kaushik is a Consultant Breast Together, we have used advertising, Looking after you Surgeon at Spire Leicester Hospital.
GP evening talks and word of mouth to Her experience of working with one promote our services.
And looking ahead, of our hospitals is typical of the support after this years work review, were Investing in the future we give to consultants as they grow planning to introduce 10-minute free Mark Rochester, a Consultant their private practices.
consultations for women with any Urological Surgeon at Spire cosmetic breast concerns, together with In 2014, after my appointment as a Norwich Hospital, has seen his more editorial in Spire Leicester Hospitals Consultant at University Hospitals of relatively new private practice newsletter and a series of GP talks on Leicester NHS Trust, I wanted to develop transformed over the last year by aftercare for breast patients.
One call to Spire our investment in a Holmium laser, Healthcare resulted in a meeting the David Macdonalds based at Spire Leeds enabling HoLEP laser prostatectomy next day with the Hospital Director, Hospital career started in 1992 making for benign prostate enlargement.
the hospital team, a full hospital tour him one of our longest established Mark commented: I was having and a really useful conversation.
In Davids view, to fit some of my private patients maintaining a successful private practice They already had a successful Tuesday in around the edges of my work is based on two factors your chosen one-stop breast clinic, but my idea at our NHS hospital, but now that hospital partner having an excellent local was to open a Saturday morning clinic Spire Norwich Hospital has the reputation and word of mouth reflecting which would be easier for busy working equipment, we can offer patients the quality of your work.
Spire Healthcare all the clinical benefits of a shorter was immediately supportive and, after I always tell younger consultants, hospital stay and post-operative a few teething issues around business dont spread yourself too thinly.
Choose catheterisation time, with excellent administration and bookings, the clinic a hospital partner that can provide all outcomes at a time and place has gone from strength to strength.
the capacity and back-up you need and thats best for them.
Spire Leeds Hospital has We had to make the investment everything imaging, high dependency case, but since then theres been unit, cardiologists to reassure patients a significant increase in the number and consultants that they will receive of patients Ive been able to treat.
Its the gold standard, and still Spire Healthcare At a local level, Spire Healthcare invests relatively rare in the private sector.
was immediately constantly to keep equipment up-to-date and at a national level, if the need is there, supportive and the clinic they will invest in cutting-edge technology has gone from strength to improve patient services like the computer assisted surgery I provide for to strength.
36.9m the most complex joint reconstructions.
Purchase of medical equipment in 2017 25 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
