136 137 Results and dividends Appointment and replacement of Directors The financial statements set out the results of the Group for the Directors may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Directors report financial year ended 31 December 2017 and are shown on page shareholders, or by the Board.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 42.40 pence outside the Group is on the recommendation of the Nominations per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2017, in Committee, whilst internal promotion is a matter decided by the Board unless it is considered appropriate for a recommendation addition to a special dividend of 75.0 pence per ordinary share.
Taken together with the interim dividend of 17.33 pence per to be requested from the Nominations Committee.
ordinary share paid in October 2017, makes a total dividend for the year of 134.73 pence 2016: 104.36 pence per ordinary At every AGM of the Company, any of the Directors who have The Directors present their annual report share.
Subject to approval by shareholders of the recommended been appointed by the Board since the last AGM shall seek and audited financial statements for the final and special dividends, the dividend to shareholders for 2017 election by the members.
Notwithstanding provisions in the year ended 31 December 2017. will total 150m.
If approved, the Company will pay the final and Companys Articles of Association, the Board has agreed, special dividends on 8 June 2018 to shareholders on the register in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code This annual report contains certain of members at 4 May 2018.
7.1 and in line with previous years, that all of the forward-looking statements.
By their Directors wishing to continue will retire and, being eligible, offer nature, any statements about the future PID and non-PID dividends themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
outlook involve risk and uncertainty As a REIT, Derwent London must distribute at least 90% of the Directors indemnity because they relate to events and Groups income profits from its tax-exempt property rental business by way of a dividend, which is known as a Property Directors and officers liability insurance is maintained by the depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
Actual results, Income Distribution PID.
These distributions can be subject Company.
performance or outcomes may differ to withholding tax at 20%.
Dividends from profits of the Groups materially from any results, performance taxable residual business are non-PID and will be taxed as an Powers of the Directors or outcomes expressed or implied by such ordinary dividend.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies forward-looking statements.
Each forwardAct and any directions given by special resolution, the business of looking statement speaks only as of the Substantial shareholders the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all date of that particular statement.
Table 1 shows the holdings in the Companys issued share capital the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management which had been notified to the Company pursuant to the Financial of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board No representation or warranty is given in Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, relation to any forward-looking statements The information below was correct at the date of notification.
to guarantee, to indemnify, to mortgage or charge any of its made by Derwent London, including as to It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed undertakings, property, assets present and future and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give their completeness or accuracy.
Nothing since the Company was notified.
However, notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed.
security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of in this report and accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors Both the Strategic report and the Directors The Directors of the Company who were in office during the Share capital report have been drawn up and presented year, and up to the date of the signing of the financial statements, As at 27 February 2018, the Companys issued share capital in accordance with and in reliance upon are set out on page 90.
Each Director served throughout the comprised a single class of 5p ordinary shares and equalled an David Lawler applicable English Company law, and the financial year ended 31 December 2017, save for Stuart Corbyn amount of 5,573,741 divided into 111,474,821 ordinary shares.
Company Secretary liabilities of the Directors in connection with who stepped down from the Board on 19 May 2017 and Helen Details of the ordinary share capital and shares issued during the that report shall be subject to the limitations Gordon who was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 year can be found in note 27 to the financial statements.
and restrictions provided by such law.
The Directors report for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 is Rights and restrictions attaching to shares set out on pages 136 to 139 inclusive.
Additional information which is Subject to the Articles of Association, the Companies Act and Company status and branches The Board shall consist of no fewer than two Directors and not incorporated into this Directors report by reference, including information more than 15.
Shareholders may vary the minimum and or other shareholders rights, shares in the Company may be issued Derwent London plc is a Real Estate required in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Listing Rule Investment Trust REIT and the holding maximum number of Directors by passing an ordinary resolution.
with such rights and restrictions as the shareholders may by 9.8.
4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, can be located company of the Derwent London group ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution, as the on the following pages: of companies which includes no branches.
Copies of the executive Directors service contracts are available Board may decide provided it does not conflict with any resolution Future business developments It is listed on the London Stock Exchange to shareholders for inspection at the Companys registered office passed by the shareholders.
p. 01 p. 139 Going concern statement throughout the strategic report main market with a premium listing.
and at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Details of the Directors remuneration and service contracts and their interests in the p. 35 p. 158 Viability statement Interest capitalised shares of the Company are set out on pages 116 to 135. p. 77 p. 172 Greenhouse gas emissions Financial instruments Table 1 p. 82 p. 179 Employee engagement Financial risk management 1 31 December 2017 27 February 2018 Number Number Direct of shares Direct of shares p. 87 p. 180 Governance Credit, market and liquidity risks indirect m % indirect m % Invesco Limited Indirect 15.7 14.07 Indirect 15.7 14.07 p. 128 p. 190 Long-term incentive schemes Related party transactions BlackRock Investment Management UK Ltd Indirect 6.9 6.21 Indirect 6.9 6.21 Norges Bank Direct 5.6 5.01 Direct 5.6 5.01 p. 139 Contracts of significance Lady Jane Rayne Direct 3.6 3.56 Direct 3.6 3.56 1 Being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the annual report.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 138 139 Directorsreport continued These rights and restrictions will apply to the relevant shares as In respect to the non-pre-emptive allotment of securities, a special Significant agreements The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this if they were set out in the Articles of Association.
Subject to the resolution will be proposed to shareholders at the 2018 AGM to There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there Articles of Association, the Companies Act and other shareholders renew authority to non-pre-emptively allot securities up to a or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
nominal amount of 278,687 representing 5% of the issued employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that they share capital in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue that, under the rules of the Groups share-based remuneration ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of Variation of rights in accordance with s551 of the Companies Act.
The Company schemes some awards may vest following a change of control.
any relevant audit information and ensure that the Auditor is The rights attached to any class of shares can be amended if will also seek authority to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash aware of such information.
approved, either by 75% of shareholders holding the issued in connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal Some of the Groups banking arrangements are terminable upon shares in that class by amount, or by special resolution passed at amount of 278,687 representing a further 5% of the issued a change of control of the Company.
Greenhouse gas emissions a separate meeting of the holders of the relevant class of shares.
Our annual GHG greenhouse gas emissions footprint for 2017 As a REIT, a tax charge may be levied on the Company if it makes compared to our 2016 footprint together with a set of intensity A further special resolution will be proposed to renew the Every member and every duly appointed proxy present at a a distribution to another Company which is beneficially entitled to ratios appropriate for our business, both of which fulfil the general meeting or class meeting has, upon a show of hands, Directors authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary 10% or more of the shares or dividends in the Company or controls requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and one vote and every member present in person or by proxy has, shares in the market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum 10% or more of the voting rights in the Company, a substantial Directors Report Regulations 2013 is contained on page 77. upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him or her.
of 11,147,482 ordinary shares and the resolution sets the minimum shareholder, unless the Company has taken reasonable steps to and maximum prices which may be paid.
The Directors will only avoid such a distribution being made.
The Companys Articles of For further analysis and detail on our GHG emissions please No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights purchase the Companys shares in the market if they believe it is Association give the Directors power to take such steps, including see our Annual Sustainability Report, which can be found at: with regard to control of the Company.
in the best interests of shareholders generally.
com sustainability Derwent London shares held by the Group Voting Identify a substantial shareholder: Going concern At 31 December 2017 the Group held 4,952 Derwent London Shareholders will be entitled to vote at a general meeting whether Withhold the payment of dividends to a substantial Under Provision C. 1.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, shares in order to deliver the deferred bonus shares to the on a show of hands or a poll, as provided in the Companies Act.
shareholder: and the Board is required to report whether the business is a going Directors and other senior executives when the deferral periods Where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show Require the disposal of shares forming part of a concern.
In considering this requirement, the Directors have expire.
Movements on the holding of these shares are detailed of hands this will be treated as an instruction by the relevant substantial shareholding.
taken into account the following: shareholder to vote in the way in which the proxy decides to in table 2. exercise that discretion.
This is subject to any special rights or There is no person with whom the Group has a contractual The Groups latest rolling forecast for the next two years, in Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company restrictions as to voting which are given to any shares or upon or other arrangement which is essential to the business of particular the cash flows, borrowings and undrawn facilities.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities which any shares may be held at the relevant time and to the the Company.
Sensitivity analysis is included within these forecasts: in the Company, which is governed by its Articles of Association Articles of Association.
The headroom under the Groups financial covenants: and and prevailing legislation.
The Company is not aware of any Amendment of Articles of Association The risks included on the Groups risk register that could impact agreements between shareholders that may result in If more than one joint holder votes including voting by proxy, Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles on the Groups liquidity and solvency over the next 12 months.
restrictions on the transfer of securities.
the only vote which will count is the vote of the person whose of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of name is listed first on the register for the share.
Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Having due regard to these matters and after making appropriate Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back its Companys shareholders.
enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the own shares Restrictions on voting Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in At the 2017 AGM, shareholders authorised the Company to Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder cannot Fixed assets operational existence until at least February 2019.
Therefore, attend or vote shares at any general meeting of the Company or allot relevant securities, The Groups portfolio was professionally revalued at 31 the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in upon a poll or exercise any other right conferred by membership in December 2017, resulting in a surplus of 177.1m, before preparing the financial statements.
i up to a nominal amount of 1,856,497: and relation to general meetings or polls if he has not paid all amounts accounting adjustments of 26.4m.
The portfolio is included ii up to a nominal amount of 3,712,994, after deducting relating to those shares which are due at the time of the meeting, in the Group balance sheet at a carrying value of 4,743m.
Annual General Meeting AGM from such limit any relevant securities allotted under i, or if he has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Further details are given in note 16 of the financial statements.
The 34th AGM of Derwent London plc will be held at in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
Articles of Association after failure to provide the Company with The Westbury hotel, Bond Street, London W1S 2YF on 18 May information concerning interests in those shares required to be Post-balance sheet events 2018 at 10.30 am.
The Notice of Meeting together with This authority is renewable annually.
A special resolution will be provided under the Companies Act.
Details of post-balance sheet events are given in note 35 of explanatory notes is contained in the circular to shareholders that proposed at the 2018 AGM to grant a similar authority i up to the financial statements.
accompanies the report and accounts.
a nominal amount of 1,857,728 being one-third of the issued The Company is not aware of any agreements between share capital of the Company or 3,716,013 in connection with shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Political donations The Strategic report and Directors report have been approved an offer by way of a rights issue being two-thirds of the issued There were no political donations during 2017 2016: nil.
by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: share capital.
David Lawler Auditors  LLP, which was appointed in 2014 Company Secretary Table 2 following a competitive tender process, has expressed its 27 February 2018 willingness to continue in office as the Groups Auditor and Year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended 31 December 2016 accordingly, resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise the As at As at As at As at Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at 1 January 31 December 1 January 31 December 2017 Acquired Disposal 2017 2016 Acquired Disposal 2016 the AGM.
Percentage of issued share capital % 0 0 0 0 0 0 Price 26.73 31.21 31.21 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
