Executive Committee C D E Justin Ash Chief Executive Officer See biography on page 56.
1 2 3 D E Simon Gordon Chief Financial Officer See biography on page 56.
Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter Group Medical Director Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter joined Bupa Hospitals as director of clinical services in 2005 before being appointed Spire Healthcares Group Medical Director in 2007.
He is responsible for driving the Groups clinical governance, compliance and quality strategy.
Board committee Prior to joining Bupa he served as a 4 5 membership: medical director for NHS Direct.
JeanJacques has also been a non-executive D Disclosure Committee director at the Milton Keynes University Management committee Foundation Trust, chairing its Quality membership: Committee.
He graduated from Charing E Executive Committee Cross and Westminster Medical School, practised in the UK, Australia and New Committee Chair Zealand and subsequently completed his MBA at Cranfield School of Management.
Peter Corfield Chief Commercial Officer Peter Corfield joined Spire Healthcare in October 2015 as Group Commercial Director and has responsibility for delivering revenue growth through our payor groups and identifying new business opportunities.
He was appointed Chief Commercial Officer in January 2018 with additional responsibility for business development across the hospital portfolio.
Prior to joining Spire Healthcare, he held a number of senior executive and board roles within the financial services industry in the UK, most recently as managing director of Ageas Retail Direct.
Prior to this, Peter worked for both Zurich Financial Services Group and Royal Bank of Scotland in various roles that covered Europe, Middle East and Japan.
58 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information E D E 3.
Antony Mannion Group Development Director Director, Strategy and Neil McCullough joined Spire Healthcare Investor Relations on its formation in 2007 as Hospital Antony Mannion joined Spire Healthcare Director at Spire Cambridge Lea Hospital as Investor and Public Relations Director before joining the executive team in 2011. in March 2012, having spent seven years In his role, Neil oversees Spire Healthcares at SSL International plc, until its acquisition business development strategy both at by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc in 2010, as the local hospital level and corporately.
group legal director and head of acquisitions.
Following an early career in accounting Prior to SSL International plc, Antony and finance, Neil moved into healthcare in worked as a corporate lawyer at Freshfields 1993 working with Bupa UK Membership, in London and Paris, then as an investment where he held a number of senior sales and banker at Citicorp in London and New York, relationship management roles.
He joined and at Standard Chartered in Singapore.
the Bupa Hospitals business in 1998, holding Antony has a wide range of experience hospital general manager roles in both in all areas of corporate finance, and has Birmingham and East Anglia.
Neil then worked on significant acquisition and IPO moved into preventative healthcare with transactions in both the UK and overseas.
Bupa Wellness in 2002, where, as sales director, he led the rapid expansion of the business for five years.
Daniel Toner General Counsel and Group Company Secretary Daniel Toner joined Bupa Hospitals as head of legal in 2006 before being appointed General Counsel and Group Company Secretary upon Spire Healthcares formation in 2007 and is a solicitor by profession.
He oversees all legal activity at Spire Healthcare, ensures compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements, and that decisions of the Board of Directors are realised.
Daniel is also the Companys Whistleblowing Officer.
Daniel is a director of NHS Partners Network, an organisation that represents independent sector organisations that provide NHS services.
Previously, he worked for international law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, in industry and within the commercial directorate of the Department of Health.
59 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
