STATUTORY INFORMATION Board members and Directors and officers insurance The names and biographical details of the Directors who served on the Board as at the year end can be found on pages 40 to 42.
During the year under review, the Company purchased and maintained Directors' and officers' liability insurance for its Directors and officers as permitted by Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
Additionally, the Company has specific Public Offering of Securities Insurance, which commenced on 24 February 2015 with a five-year run-off period.
The Board considers that, following recent performance evaluations, all of the current Directors contribute effectively and have the skills and experience relevant to the future leadership and direction of the Company.
The Board therefore believes that it is in the best interests of shareholders that each of the Directors is re-elected.
Status of the Company The Company was incorporated in England & Wales on 26 January 2015 and started trading on 21 April 2015, immediately upon the Companys listing.
It is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
HM Revenue & Customs approved the Company as an investment trust upon its listing.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs so that it is able to maintain its status as an investment trust.
The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the provisions of Section 439 of the CTA and has no employees.
Internal controls and risk management The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risk on behalf of the Company.
Further details of the Companys principal risks can be found on pages 35 and 36 and internal controls can be found on page 58.
Share capital voting and dividend As at 31 December 2017, the Company had 827 million ordinary shares in issue.
There are no other classes of shares in issue and no shares are held in treasury.
At the last AGM, the Board was granted authority to allot ordinary shares in the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 827,000, representing approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
No shares have been issued under this authority.
The Directors are seeking to renew this authority, which will expire at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 12 June 2018.
The ordinary shares carry the right to receive dividends and have one voting right per ordinary share.
There are no shares that carry specific rights with regard to the control of the Company.
The shares are freely transferable.
There are no restrictions or agreements between shareholders on the voting rights of any of the ordinary shares or the transfer of shares.
The Company does not have a fixed life nor is the Company subject to a continuation vote as can sometimes be required of investment companies in accordance with their Articles of Association.
On wind up, the ordinary shareholders are entitled to the capital of the Company.
The Directors do not propose the payment of a dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: nil.
Substantial share interest During the year to 31 December 2017, the Company received notification in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R of the following interests in three per cent or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital.
Holder Ordinary Securities Percentage Date shares lending of total notified voting rights BlackRock, Inc 96,164,338 4,470,466 12.16% 28 September, 2017 Following the year end, the Company received the following notification: Holder Ordinary Securities Percentage Date shares lending of total notified voting rights BlackRock, Inc 92,430,921 8,493,800 12.20% 11 April, 2018 Securities lending is the act of loaning a stock, derivative or other security to an investor or firm.
50 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Independent auditor Viability statement The Companys independent auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP In accordance with Principle 21 of the AIC Code of Corporate Grant Thornton, has expressed willingness to continue to act as Governance, published in July 2016, and provision C. 2.2 of the UK the Companys auditor for the forthcoming financial year.
The Audit Corporate Governance Code, published by the FRC in April 2016, Committee has carefully considered the auditors re-appointment, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over as required in accordance with its Terms of Reference, and, having the five-year period to 31 December 2022.
The Directors consider regard to its effectiveness and the services it has provided to the that a period of at least five years is required to assess the viability of Company during the period under review, has recommended to an investment company that holds predominantly young unquoted the Board that the independent auditor be re-appointed at the or  companies, as they believe this to be a forthcoming AGM.
Resolutions are therefore to be proposed for its reasonable period of time for such young companies to make re-appointment and to authorise the Directors to agree its meaningful progress on the journey towards fulfilling their remuneration for the forthcoming financial year.
In reaching its long-term potential.
In its assessment of the viability of the decision, the Audit Committee considered the points detailed on Company, the Directors have considered each of the Companys page 59 of the Audit Committees report.
principal risks and uncertainties detailed on pages 35 and 36 and in particular the impact of the total collapse of one or more of the Audit information Companys significant holdings.
The Board has considered the As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys likely income and expenditure.
The Board is mindful Directors who held office at the date of this report each confirm that a proportion of the Companys portfolio comprises cash and that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information equity assets traded on public markets that are realisable and that of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken can be sold to meet funding requirements, if required.
all the steps required of a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys The Board has given careful consideration to the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
estimated annual expenditure on operating costs, the Companys risks and internal controls, the Companys asset allocation and diversification, portfolio risk, financial controls, and the restrictions Articles of Association set to the Companys level of gearing.
Following the Boards detailed Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must be analysis, it has concluded that there is a reasonable expectation made by special resolution.
that the Company will be able to continue to operate and to meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period to 31 December Global greenhouse gas emissions for the period from 1 January 2022.
2017 to 31 December 2017 The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions Management and administration producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Company secretary Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Link Company Matters Limited the Company Secretary is the corporate company secretary of the Company on the basis of a Going concern fee of 57,526 per annum exclusive of VAT and out-of-pocket The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern expenses plus any additional ad hoc expenses that may fall basis.
Having had regard to the Companys projected income and outside the scope of their agreement that are normally charged expenses, the Directors consider that going concern is the on a time-spent basis unless otherwise agreed with the Board.
appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the The company secretarial agreement can be terminated by either Company has adequate resources to continue in operational party by providing six months written notice.
existence for at least the next 12-month period.
The Directors shall continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in Administrator preparing the financial statements.
Northern Trust Global Services Limited the administrator, a company authorised and regulated by the FCA, has been appointed as the administrator of the Company.
The administrator is responsible for the Companys general administrative functions, such as the calculation of the NAV and maintenance of the Companys accounting records.
The fee payable to the administrator is based on the Companys net assets.
The fees for the period under review equated to 0.02 per cent of the Companys net assets exclusive of VAT and out-of-pocket expenses.
The administration agreement can be terminated by either party by providing six months written notice.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 51 AIFM Post year-end events Link Fund Solutions Limited, a UK-based company authorised and Save as otherwise disclosed, there have been no important regulated by the FCA, has been appointed the Companys AIFM for events to disclose since the period end under review.
the purposes of the AIFMD.
The AIFM monitors the Portfolio Manager of the Company and ensures that the Companys assets Regulatory disclosures information to be disclosed in are valued appropriately in accordance with the relevant accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
The fees payable to the AIFM are on a The Company has nothing to disclose in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
4. sliding scale, based on the Companys proportion of Woodford Investment Management Limiteds gross assets.
Throughout the AGM period, the fees payable were based on 0.01 per cent of the The Companys AGM will be held on Tuesday, 12 June 2018 at Companys total assets.
The AIFMs agreement can be terminated 2.30pm at Landing Forty Two, The Leadenhall Building, by either party providing three months written notice.
Portfolio Manager Shareholders are being asked to vote on various items of The Companys Portfolio Manager is Woodford Investment business, being: Management Limited, an investment management firm authorised and regulated by the FCA.
Neil Woodford has primary responsibility the receipt and adoption of the Company's annual financial for management of the Companys portfolio.
Further details of how statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, together the Portfolio Manager is remunerated can be found in note 4 on with the strategic report, Directors' report and the auditor's pages 78 and 79.
The Portfolio Managers agreement may be report on those financial statements: terminated after the Companys third anniversary following its listing the receipt and approval of the Directors' remuneration report: by the AIFM or the Portfolio Manager providing three months written the re-election of Directors: and notice.
the re-appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditor and the authorisation of the Board to determine the remuneration Depositary of the auditor.
The Companys depositary is Northern Trust Global Services Limited the depositary, a company authorised by the Prudential Resolutions relating to the following items of business will also Regulation Authority PRA and regulated by the FCA and PRA.
The be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Northern Trust Company as a delegate of the depositary provides custody services to the Company.
In addition to safekeeping of Resolution 11: authority to allot shares custodial assets, the Depositary is responsible for verifying asset Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of AGM is an ordinary resolution ownership of all other assets, together with the collection of income and will, if passed, authorise the Directors to allot up to 82,700,000 and to oversee that the Company is run in accordance with the ordinary shares of 1p each or 10 per cent of the Companys shares FCAs Investment Funds Sourcebook.
The fee payable to the in issue, with a nominal value of 827,000, which will replace the depositary is based on the Companys net assets.
The fees current authority granted to the Directors at the last AGM.
throughout the period under review equated to 0.01 per cent of the first 10 billion of the Companys net assets exclusive of VAT and The shares will only be issued at par or at a premium to NAV at the out-of-pocket expenses and a fee of 0.0075 per cent on all assets time of issue and at a time when the Directors believe it to be in over 10 billion.
The depositary agreement can be terminated by the best interest of the Companys shareholders.
either party by providing six months written notice.
Resolution 12: authority to disapply pre-emption rights Continuing appointment of the AIFM and Portfolio Manager Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of AGM is a special resolution The Board keeps the performance of the AIFM under continual and will, if passed, authorise the Directors to allot up to review.
As the AIFM has delegated the investment management 82,700,000 ordinary shares of 1p each, or 10 per cent of the function to Woodford Investment Management Limited, the Companys shares in issue with a total nominal value of 827,000 performance of the Portfolio Manager is also regularly for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis, which will replace the reviewed.
The Board, through delegation to the Management current authority granted to the Directors at the last AGM.
This Engagement Committee, has considered the performance of authority will expire at the AGM to be held in 2019 when a the AIFM and the terms of its engagement.
It is the opinion of resolution to renew the authority will be proposed.
the Directors that the continuing appointment of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of The Directors intend to use this authority at a time when they shareholders as a whole.
The remuneration of the AIFM is fair believe it to be in the best interest of the shareholders as a both in absolute terms and compared to that of managers of whole and to satisfy demand for the Companys shares.
The Directors believe that shares will only be issued at par or at a premium to NAV at the by paying the portfolio management fee as a percentage of time of issue.
excess returns over a cumulative 10 per cent per annum hurdle rate, subject to a high watermark, the interests of the Portfolio Manager are more closely aligned with those of shareholders.
Change of control There are no agreements which the Company is party to that might be affected by a change of control of the Company.
52 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Resolution 13: authority to buy back shares Resolution 13 set out in the Notice of AGM is a special resolution and will, if passed, authorise the Directors to buy back up to 123,967,300 ordinary shares of 1p each, or 14.99 per cent of the Companys shares in issue, with a nominal value of 1,239,673, which will replace the current authority granted to the Directors at the last AGM.
No shares have been bought back under this authority.
The maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid by the Company in relation to any such purchase is the higher of: i five per cent above the average of the market value of shares for the five business days before the day of purchase: or ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The minimum price that may be paid is 1p per share, being the nominal price per share.
The decision as to whether to buy back any ordinary shares will be at the discretion of the Board.
Ordinary shares bought back in accordance with the authority granted to the Board will either be held in treasury or cancelled.
If the shares are held in treasury, they may be reissued from treasury but will only be reissued at a price that is in excess of the Companys then prevailing NAV.
The Company will fund any buyback by using the Companys cash resources or utilising the Companys loan facility.
This authority will expire at the AGM to be held in 2019 when a resolution to renew the authority will be proposed.
Resolution 14: notice period for general meetings Resolution 14 set out in the Notice of AGM is a special resolution and will, if passed, allow the Company to hold General Meetings other than Annual General Meetings on a minimum notice period of 14 clear days, rather than 21 clear days as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM to be held in 2019.
The Directors will only call General Meetings on 14 clear days notice when they consider it to be in the best interests of the Companys shareholders and will only do so if the Company offers facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic means.
The full text of the resolutions being proposed at the AGM can be found on pages 102 and 103.
The Board considers that all of the resolutions described above and disclosed on pages 102 and 103 are in the best interests of the Companys shareholders and are likely to promote the success of the Company.
The Board and Portfolio Manager recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By order of the Board Link Company Matters Limited Company Secretary 23 April 2018 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 53
