com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT POLYPIPES VALUE CREATION MODEL Unique and differentiated The evolution of Polypipes commercial proposition over the years reflects the Companys new product development strategy, to deliver value-engineered solutions for customers, while generating incremental profitability and maintaining commercial competitiveness and market leadership.
In the 1980s Polypipes offer was Later, this evolution continued with helps to generate pull-through demand largely a basic product offer of discrete large diameter pipe solutions for water for Polypipes solutions through the lengths of pipe and fittings sold through attenuation, leading to the development distribution channel.
distribution, which over the years of the Polystorm geocellular range, Today, this evolution is continuing has become commoditised and more designed to provide retention, attenuation through the development of smart difficult to differentiate.
Adoption of or infiltration at a variety of depths.
technologies, to bring together the kite-marks and continued investment in Polystorm is suited to deeper burial depths optimised performance of underfloor manufacturing efficiency over this time and can accommodate a wide range of heating systems with ventilation systems, has retained a competitive position for traffic loadings, from pedestrianised areas for the convenience and comfort of the these products.
Further investment in to large HGV parks.
As a proposition, it building occupants.
new products and differentiated features is taken to market as bespoke one-off continues today, which helps support designs, engineered according to the Throughout this evolution, Polypipe the Polypipe brand as the leading UK particular design characteristics for each has encountered new competitors, manufacturer of these discrete products.
project, such as soil conditions, flood but through its progressive market intensity requirements and flow versus reach, and managing these activities In the mid-90s, this proposition evolved retention requirements, amongst many and manufacturing in-house, Polypipe to combine these discrete products other parameters.
generates incremental profitability while into performance systems, such as maintaining commercial competitiveness pushfit plumbing, for example.
Through Understanding the detailed characteristics and market leadership.
developing an intimate understanding and complexity of the individual projects of the requirements of end customers, requires Polypipe to work closely with This collective learning and track record plumbers in this case, in 1998 Polypipe the customers design engineers to forms the basis of a set of competencies launched the very successful range understand these problems, in order across the Group, which position Polypipe of non-demountable grey fittings, to be in a position to propose an well for future development in the UK Polyplumb, which has since become an appropriate engineered solution.
industry standard system offer in the UK.
closely with end customers in this way PRODUCTION OF PIPE AND FITTINGS SERVES AS A FOUNDATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GROUPS SOLUTIONS VALUE DATA DRIVEN MONITORING & CONTROL SMART SOLUTIONS FOR OPTIMISED SYSTEM PERFORMANCE BESPOKE ONE-OFF DESIGNS, ENGINEERED SOLUTIONS PRE-FAB, UFH, VENTILATION SYSTEMS PIPING SYSTEMS PUSHFIT PLUMBING, VENTILATION & DUCT DISCRETE PRODUCTS PIPE & FITTINGS PROXIMITY TO CUSTOMERS 07 07
