INVESTMENT TEAM Neil Woodford Paul Lamacraft Head of Investment Fund Manager Neil Woodford is one of the most respected fund managers in An experienced finance industry professional, Paul began his the UK.
His disciplined, valuation-orientated approach has career at Ernst & Young now EY and his most recent role, prior consistently delivered outstanding long-term performance to to joining Woodford, was as a fund manager on the UK Equities his clients.
He was a pivotal part of the UK equities team at team at Invesco Perpetual.
His private equity and corporate Invesco Perpetual for more than 26 years, fine-tuning his finance background provides our team with invaluable distinctive approach and making his mark on the investment expertise.
Paul is focused on comprehensive and diligent industry.
He was appointed a Commander of the Order of the analysis of fundamentals to deliver positive long-term British Empire CBE in 2013 for services to the economy.
Neil outcomes and has a particular specialism in the early-stage announced he was leaving Invesco Perpetual in October 2013 and early-growth components of the portfolios.
to set up his own fund management business.
He joined the company on 1 May 2014.
Woodford's first fund was launched on 2 June 2014.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 43 INVESTMENT TEAM Saku Saha Stephen Lamacraft Fund Manager Fund Manager Sakus previous role was as Analyst and Investment Director For the six years prior to joining Woodford, Stephen made his for the Invesco Perpetual UK Equities team.
In this role, he mark at Invesco Perpetual as a UK Fund Manager.
Responsible was responsible for analysing investment opportunities and for 120m of assets, his strategy focused on fundamental assisting Neil Woodford, with a specific focus on early-stage analysis, an approach inspired by his mentor and colleague and early-growth companies.
His many years at a senior Neil Woodford.
An intensely competitive addition to the level in the British Army, stationed at home and abroad, Woodford team, Stephen is highly focused on performance have equipped him with exceptional discipline and rigour in and has a naturally challenging mind that endeavours to his analysis and interpretation of market intelligence.
enhance the businesss collective understanding of investment opportunities.
He has a particular focus on the mature, blue-chip elements of the portfolio.
44 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc INVESTMENT TEAM Lucinda Crabtree Harry Raikes Senior Investment Analyst Investment Analyst Lucinda brings invaluable expertise and knowledge to the Harry joined Woodford as an early-stage investment analyst Woodford investment team.
Over the past decade, she has in 2015 from Envestors, an FCA-regulated corporate finance worked in various analyst roles covering the pharmaceutical adviser, where he evaluated business proposals and and biotechnology sectors at a number of investment banks, conducted due diligence research for high-growth unquoted including Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan.
Lucinda also has companies seeking up to 10m in equity funding.
While significant experience working within the industry itself, studying for a BSc in Economics and Finance at Bristol having worked at AstraZeneca and Grnenthal Group.
University, Harry completed internships at Kite Lake Capital Lucinda graduated from University College, London in 2004, and Fidelity Biosciences Venture Capital.
with a BSc first class in Physiology and Pharmacology and a PhD in Pharmacology.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 45 INVESTMENT TEAM Richard Lockington Grant Wentzel Investment Analyst Head of Trading Richard joined Woodford in 2015 from Duff & Phelps, the Grant has held a number of significant roles including Senior global valuations adviser, where he was Senior Associate Vice President at JPMorgan London and director at Lehman working on valuations of intangible assets and businesses.
Before joining Woodford in May Richards extensive skills and experience help the team 2014, he had been a director at Barclays London for five evaluate investment opportunities and performance, with years.
Grant is an exceptionally experienced trader, dedicated responsibilities including due diligence, company valuation to making sure the fund management team can execute its modelling, performance monitoring and internal reporting.
The nature of his role at A qualified Chartered Accountant ACA, Richard gained Woodford demands that he understands and interprets previous audit and due diligence experience during three short-term market influences, enabling him to keep the fund years at Shipleys, the accountancy and advisory firm.
managers informed with intra-day market developments and changes in sentiment, thereby allowing them to focus on long-term fundamentals.
46 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc INVESTMENT TEAM Dominic Eccles Trading & Operations Dominic began his career in financial services in 2008 when he joined the customer service team at Aviva.
Client service and asset control administration roles at Transact followed and in 2010 Dominic secured his first analyst role with MF Global.
In 2012 he joined Legal & General as an Investment Support Analyst and in 2013 he was appointed Lead Operations Analyst at BP Investment Management, where he was a key member of a three-person investment operations team responsible for the 21 billion BP UK Pension Fund.
Dominic holds the Investment Management Certificate and is currently completing the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment Diploma.
He joined the Woodford investment team in 2015.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 47 48 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc THE DIRECTORS HAVE PLEASURE IN PRESENTING THEIR ANNUAL REPORT AND THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 49
