Sustainability continued Meeting patient needs through accessibility and affordability We were founded on the principles of access Improved patient access to oncology and affordability nearly 40 years ago, and products these principles are still central to our approach Cancer is a prevalent disease in the MENA 340,000 today.
We are committed to meeting the region and is growing.
In Egypt, one of our healthcare needs of patients, doctors and largest markets, it is expected that the Units of medicine donated to customers, and work hard to ensure continued prevalence of cancer will increase three-fold people in Jordan, Libya, Sudan, access to quality, safe and reliable medicines.
Gaza and the US In 2017, we expanded several strategic In 2016, we launched Hikma Specialized partnerships that will increase patient access and became the only local manufacturer of to vital products in the MENA region.
In oncology products in Egypt.
Hikma Specialized $2.5m addition, we expanded our manufacturing addresses major local and regional cancer capability in the MENA to ensure the reliability needs.
The facilitys comprehensive portfolio Value of medicine donated to people in Jordan, and stability of supply for essential products.
includes products to treat a wide variety of Libya, Sudan, Gaza and the US This year, we developed a comprehensive cancer types including breast, colorectal, lung, global in-kind donations policy through which leukemia, multiple myeloma and thalassemia.
we delivered more than 340,000 units of medications to those in need around the world.
Strategic partnerships Improved access to information The expansion of our partnerships with We consider it our responsibility to provide Celltrion and Takeda has increased access access to information about the risks and for patients across MENA to high-quality, dangers related to major medical issues affordable medicines in key therapeutic areas, and diseases.
such as cancer, cardiovascular and diabetes.
As the second largest manufacturer of Developing a global donations policy anti-infective medications in the MENA region, It is important to us to support the communities we believe that we have a responsibility to raise in which we operate.
Every year, we donate awareness of the risks and dangers of the rising medical supplies to institutions and agencies threat of AMR.
that are responding to natural disasters or addressing other difficulties.
This year, we Over the course of the year, we sought to developed a donations policy through which address this challenge by organising several we streamline the medicine donation process activities targeting multiple stakeholders: across our sites.
In 2017, our donations exceeded 340,000 units valued at more We believe that the correct usage of than $2.5 million which were distributed to antibiotics by patients is critical to people in need across Jordan, Libya, Sudan, controlling AMR.
We have developed simple Gaza and the US.
We are working to expand instructions, which we include inside our In the US, generics make our donations to assist more people across packaging, to ensure patients understand more of our markets.
up 89% of prescriptions In November, we participated in the World dispensed but only 26% of Health Organisations WHO World Antibiotic Awareness Week by promoting total medicine spending.
their campaign on our social media channels The Association for Accessible Medicines 2017 and distributing awareness posters.
We held numerous events for healthcare professionals, where we invited experts to present on AMR and related issues.
We are the Jordanian Association of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers JAPM representative in a committee responsible for developing a local action plan to manage AMR in Jordan.
48 Strategic report | Sustainability | Accessibility Partnering for good: Direct Relief Our contribution Where we are helping US Supporting Direct Reliefs community pharmacies with volunteers and medicine MENA Working with refugees across the region, with a particular focus on refugee camps in Jordan How we are helping In 2017, we agreed a global partnership Our partnership with Direct Relief with Direct Relief one that is based on our emphasises the importance of creating shared values and purpose of delivering tangible health benefits on the ground, Volunteers assisting quality medicines to those around the which we will do by providing our employees world who need them.
Direct Relief is a with volunteering opportunities as well as on the ground global NGO dedicated to providing tailored leveraging our logistics expertise to deliver medical solutions for vulnerable and at-risk regular and timely in-kind donations to populations by improving maternal and those that need it most.
child health, preventing and treating Donation of diseases and assisting emergency In future years, we will look to expand the preparedness and response.
scope of our collaboration beyond Jordan medicine and the US.
Our collaboration begins in 2018 and will address unmet healthcare needs of people in the Middle East and the US.
In Jordan, we will work with refugees across the region to Financial contributions improve their access to medicines.
In the US, we will support Direct Reliefs community pharmacies, set up to aid those without adequate medical insurance.
