A strong investment case Our broad product portfolio, extensive manufacturing capabilities and clear strategy for growth offer a strong investment case.
Creating long-term sustainable value Broad global portfolio High-quality and efficient Established commercial across diverse markets global manufacturing capabilities operations Our portfolio of more than 650 compounds, We operate a network of high-quality and Our experienced teams in the US, the MENA available in thousands of strengths and dosage efficient manufacturing facilities, the majority region and Europe mean we can confidently forms, makes us a leader in key markets.
of which are EU or FDA-approved.
As a result of navigate local challenges and capitalise on our continued investment in our manufacturing opportunities.
network, we have the capability and capacity to capture new market opportunities.
In the US, customer consolidation and increased competition has made it more At Hikma, quality defines everything we do important than ever to maintain strong and we ensure it is consistently delivered in all customer relationships.
We have strengthened the communities we serve.
Our excellent track our Generic and Injectable commercial teams record of regulatory compliance has made us a to ensure that our business is able to respond trusted partner to our customers and patients.
In the MENA region, we have a sales and marketing team of more than 2,000 people that support our position as the fifth largest pharmaceutical manufacturer.
As a local player, we have extensive networks on the ground that enable us to perform well, even in times of political or economic instability.
I n 2016, we overstated the total number of marketed compounds by 70.
2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 6 y t i l a u q n i a t n i a m d n a e r u t c a f u n a M M a r k e t a c r o s Strategic report | Investment case Specialised R&D teams Experienced leadership Our diversified and a large, differentiated and a strong financial business model pipeline position Through investment and strategic Our experienced management teams have We have a business model that is diversified acquisitions, we have developed and a history of growing the business.
They have across business segments, regions and strengthened our R&D capabilities to support delivered this growth over time whilst ensuring, products.
This provides both opportunities sustainable long-term growth.
We have through a balance of organic growth and and resilience during challenging times.
dedicated and experienced R&D teams, acquisitions, that we maintain a strong with the ability to execute and replenish balance sheet.
In an increasingly challenging our large and growing product pipeline.
environment, this has provided our business with stability and financial flexibility.
We have 224 compounds pending approval from global regulatory authorities and We continue to set ourselves ambitious targets 147 compounds under active development.
for future growth, which will continue to be We have the expertise and resources to focus delivered through organic growth and further on more complex and differentiated products strategic acquisitions.
across a range of therapeutic categories, dosage forms and delivery systems.
For a full explanation of our business model, see page 22.
R&D and product-related investment Revenue Our promise 139 1,950 1,936 Better health.
