For us, quality knows no boundaries Weve built our global reputation on bringing high-quality medicines to customers.
When we talk about quality, were not simply talking about our products.
Were talking about our people, our relationships, and our thinking.
Hikma in action As well as adhering to the highest standards we forged an agreement that gives us the right in everything we do, our customers and to register, manufacture, market, distribute partners know they can rely on us to deliver and sell four of their leading primary care it consistently, in all our markets.
products in 17 markets in the MENA region.
Our experienced sales and marketing teams, By working with strategic partners around and expertise in promoting cardiovascular the world, we not only strengthen our product and diabetes treatments, make us perfectly portfolio, but also reinforce our commitment positioned to help ensure that the right to providing access to important medicines medicines are reaching the right people, for those who need them.
Building on our in the right places.
long-standing partnership with Takeda, in 2017 For more information see page 46 10 Strategic report | Our brand story Wherever you are in the world, and whatever your contact with Hikma, you can rely on us at every step.
11 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Where worldwide expertise meets local solutions We use our global expertise to develop solutions for the specific challenges of our markets to ensure reliable access to our medicines.
Hikma in action Whatever the market needs, we apply our From our FDA-approved facilities in Jordan and expertise to put better health within reach Saudi Arabia, we are exporting products to the every day.
Across all our facilities, our colleagues are sharing knowledge and training, enabling us We believe that people everywhere should to achieve the same high-quality operations have access to the latest medicines.
From our around the world.
world-class manufacturing facility in Germany, we are exporting oncology products to more From global expertise, to local solutions.
than a dozen countries in MENA, where they meet a significant patient need.
For more information see page 48 12 Strategic report | Our brand story In our connected world, we believe everyone should be able to benefit from breakthrough advances in medicine.
13 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC We think creatively and act practically Our dedication to practicality, creativity and innovation comes through in the way we think and the way we work.
We are always questioning and improving, because as the world changes and develops, theres always a better and more efficient way to make better health more accessible and affordable.
Hikma in action From developing new dosing solutions to By thinking creatively and exploring new devising delivery mechanisms that simply technology, they demonstrated the capabilities work better, we use practical creativity to of customisation and on-demand production, solve the many and varied challenges and substantially reduced the costs of the facing us and our customers and patients.
spare parts and machine down-time.
When our facility in Amman needed replacement parts for one of the blistering machines, a group of young Hikma employees used their initiative.
Rather than ordering them from Italy, they decided to manufacture the parts using 3D printing technology.
For more information see page 50 14 Strategic report | Our brand story For us, innovation is a way of thinking and working, looking at new solutions to old problems.
15 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC A genuine commitment to people Since its inception, our company has been dedicated to transforming peoples lives by providing the medicine and support they need every day.
We feel a real duty of care towards everyone with whom we come into contact the people who use our medicines, our customers, suppliers, employees and the wider community.
Hikma in action We are working to improve medical awareness, for Injection.
In 2014, when we acquired health standards and access to medical care, these products, they were in short supply.
everywhere we operate around the world.
We transferred them to our FDA-compliant Our customers and suppliers know this and manufacturing facilities and expedited the collaborate with us to put better health within submission of post-approval supplements everyones reach.
to the FDA, before re-launching the products in 2015.
And while we were pleased to be Our commitment to people was recently honoured with the award, were even more recognised by the US FDA, who awarded us delighted to know that these critical care with a Drug Shortage Assistance Award for products were able to reach the patients our role in alleviating shortages of Thiotepa who needed them.
for Injection and Phentolamine Mesylate For more information see page 52 16 Strategic report | Our brand story Were here to serve people from those who use our medicines, to our customers, suppliers, employees and the wider community.
