y t i l a u q n i a t n i a m d n a e r u t c a f u n a M M a r k e t a c r o s Our business model We operate in a competitive, highly regulated industry, across many markets.
Our diversified business model enables us to respond to the many opportunities and challenges we face, whilst delivering value for our customers, patients, employees, shareholders and our wider communities.
Our inputs Our activities Financial While our activities are diversified across our business Investment in R&D, manufacturing facilities and M&A segments and our markets, they are aligned with our enables us to expand our product portfolio, technical purpose to make quality medicines accessible to capabilities, geographic reach and manufacturing capacity.
People We have a highly skilled, diverse and effective workforce.
Through continuous training of our people and by hiring new talent, we secure our future development.
Values We are committed to conducting business ethically and strive to achieve the highest quality standards.
This approach helps ensure our business is sustainable.
Strong relationships with regulators and health authorities across all our markets, and successful collaborations with industry partners, enable us to achieve our growth objectives.
Capabilities We have extensive manufacturing capabilities across our global markets focused on operational excellence and efficiency.
Our business segments: Injectables Generics Branded 22 s g e o g r a p h i e s e t a v o n n i d n a p o l e v e D Strategic report | Our business model Find out more about our strategy and key performance indicators Strategy page 24 KPIs page 26 Find out more about how we are managing risk Risk page 58 The value we create Develop and innovate Patient benefits 658 We are developing broad and differentiated portfolios of We provide our patients with Number of generic, branded generic and in-licensed products through access to our high-quality, compounds internal R&D, co-development partnerships, licensing affordable medicines.
6% Revenue invested in R&D 2016: 7% Employee benefits $1m By focusing on the empowerment Investment in and development of our people, Manufacture and maintain quality employees we provide long and rewarding We are committed to maintaining the highest quality education careers for our talented and standards in all of our manufacturing facilities.
We have since 2010 diverse workforce.
29 plants across the Group that supply our global markets with a broad range of injectable and non-injectable products, including 12 US FDA-approved facilities and nine EU-approved facilities.
Shareholder returns 29 12 9 361% Economic and financial returns manufacturing plants US FDAEU-approved Total shareholder are reinvested for future growth.
approved facilities facilities return since IPO listing Market across geographies We actively promote, sell and distribute our products in our markets through experienced sales and marketing teams.
In the MENA region, nearly 2,000 representatives market Sustainable business our brands to doctors and pharmacists, while our sales 340,000 By conducting our business well teams in the US and Europe are selling to a broad range Units of medicine and acting responsibly, we are of customers including the leading wholesalers, pharmacy donated in 2017 benefiting the communities in chains, governments and hospital purchasing organisations.
2,000 sales professionals market our products across our markets 23 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
