Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 VISION To be the leading provider of sustainable and resilient water and climate management solutions for the built environment We will do this by building a world-class sustainable business and by leveraging our core UK competencies across key markets around the world.
OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES STRATEGY 1 2 A combination of emerging factors such as climate SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE change, increasing urbanisation, skills shortages WATER CLIMATE on-site, and changes in legislation is leading the MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT construction sector to seek innovations and modern SOLUTIONS SOLUTIONS methods to tackle these challenges, while ensuring safe on-site working methods, reduced time to install The demand for comprehensive Although currently no Government and reduced total cost of ownership.
Polypipes water management solutions legislation is in place, there is position as a market leader with strong heritage, continues to rise.
Extreme rainfall growing public awareness of the broad product and service portfolio, advanced events, driven by climate change, need for better indoor air quality.
research and development capability and growing are becoming more frequent.
In Particularly in urban areas, the international presence, makes it ideally placed to response, the Government has levels of toxins, nitrogen dioxide help its customers tackle many of these challenges.
The and particulates from heavy traffic Floods and Water Management in particular can cause health While Polypipe is well known and respected as a Act 2010 sets out new ways to problems for occupants who manufacturer of plastic pipe products particularly manage surface water through may be particularly susceptible.
for plumbing, drainage and water management sustainable drainage systems Through its Nuaire business, solutions, the Companys acquisition of Nuaire SuDS.
Polypipe has responded Polypipe can propose solutions greatly increases its ability to offer broader to this challenging market that address indoor air quality engineered solutions to customers who also face by developing engineered through active filtration systems to the challenge of climate management associated Water Management solutions, remove particulates, and humidity with heating, ventilation, cooling and air quality.
The including geocellular and and temperature management innate product benefits of plastic offer the Company large diameter pipe systems systems.
Many ventilation systems the opportunity to make gains against manufacturers for retention, attenuation and specified today include heat of legacy material solutions in many of the markets infiltration applications, surface recovery systems, Mechanical it already leads offering further growth where water treatment products and Ventilation with Heat Recovery the brand is already well established.
As awareness rainwater reuse solutions, all MVHR that, as well as improving continues to heighten around environmental factors, supported by in-house design, air quality, also recover heat from and increased legislation is applied in a variety of technical, fabrication and the air being expelled so it can sectors, Polypipe is well placed to continue to grow product support teams.
be used to heat the incoming air, in the UK, and abroad.
offering significant savings on the costs of heating the properties or operating the premises.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT 3 4 5 6 LEGACY PROPOSITION GEOGRAPHIC COMPLEMENTARY MATERIAL AHEAD OF REACH ACQUISITIONS SUBSTITUTION LEGISLATIVE TAILWINDS Using engineered plastics As legislation continues With Polypipes UK Acquisition of market-leading rather than traditional to tighten to meet the standard-based products, companies such as Nuaire has materials such as concrete or international performance and the esteem that UK seen Polypipe do more than clay can lead to innovative targets on water manufacturing is held in broaden its manufacturing project solutions that offer management, air quality, within a number of growing base, with the Company transportation, installation carbon reduction, and city markets around the world, also diversifying its offer and cost-saving benefits.
resilience, Polypipe continues the Company seeks to and giving the brand further As thermoplastic pipes are its long-term investment expand in selected further scope to sell an increasingly inherently lighter in weight into Water Management markets.
Many factors broad range of systems to than legacy materials, they and Climate Management supporting Polypipes growth its customers resulting from are quicker and easier to solutions.
are not unique to the the growing convergence install.
Polypipe produces UK, such as urbanisation, of requirements of separate For example, Government pipes and fittings utilising managing water as a scarce systems.
Supplementing the planning policy has defined recycled materials where resource, combined sewer Groups existing product the need for sustainable appropriate and all products systems already at capacity, portfolio, these acquisitions drainage systems SuDS are recyclable at the end urban island heat effect, and help to accelerate the Groups to ensure that flood risk is of their useful life.
strategic priorities, capability taken into account during benefits combined with and product ranges offerings all stages of the planning The track record of growth Polypipes strong brand and particularly in the areas process.
This planning policy in the UK, and the collective technical expertise, offer of material substitution is further interpreted into learning that the Group potential for Polypipes and Water Management national frameworks, local has developed over time, propositions to penetrate and Climate Management legislation and regulations, form the basis of a set of further against legacy solutions.
which provide a dynamic unique competencies across materials such as concrete, legislative environment.
the Group, which position clay, or copper pipes.
Polypipes solutions are Polypipe well for future engineered to address these development outside the UK.
challenges, providing an effective controlled retention, attenuation or infiltration system to suit site-specific requirements.
7 CONTINUOUS INVESTMENT IN PROCESSES AND EFFICIENCY INITIATIVES A key component of Polypipes success has been its efficiency initiatives, with the Company committed to reducing its environmental impact in producing its systems.
This, in turn, has led to reductions in waste both material and financial.
Continuous improvement initiatives across the Group, through New continuous corrugation investment at Horncastle factory automation, as well as investments in fleet and logistics, have led to significant improvements in overall operational efficiency.
Polypipe has been able to streamline its processes by increasingly selling complete engineered solutions to customers.
Rather than simply selling pipe, Polypipe has made best use of its manufacturing facilities and expertise to manufacture in-house a complete range of complementary fittings and ancillaries, enabling design of bespoke systems, and improved services for customers.
13 13 Investment in robotic automation at Broomhouse Lane
