Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 DIRECTORS & OFFICERS N R Ron Marsh Independent Non-Executive Chairman Committees: Nomination, Remuneration Ron Marsh was appointed to our Board of Directors on 28 March 2014 as the Senior Independent Director and as Independent Non-Executive Chairman on 27 May 2015 and is Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Marsh is currently a Non-Executive Director of R. Faerch Plast A S, the Senior Independent Director of Walstead Group Limited and was, from 1989 until 2013, Chief Executive of RPC Group.
Mr Marsh is also Chairman of the UK-based Packaging Federation and the Alliance for European Polymers which was established under the auspices of EuPC European Plastic Converters in 2015.
Mr Marsh has a Bachelor of Arts in History from Oxford University.
N Martin Payne Chief Executive Officer Committees: Nomination Martin Payne is a member of our Board of Directors and our Chief Executive Officer, a position he has held since 2 October 2017.
Mr Payne was formerly Chief Financial Officer, having joined Polypipe in this role in May 2016.
Before joining Polypipe, Mr Payne served as Group Finance Director at Norcros plc, a leading supplier of branded showers, taps, bathroom accessories, tiles and adhesives.
His previous experience includes holding senior financial positions at JCB, the construction equipment manufacturer, and at IMI plc, the British-based engineering company.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and has a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Durham University.
Paul James Chief Financial Officer Paul James is a member of our Board of Directors and our Chief Financial Officer, having been appointed to the Board on 5 March 2018.
Before joining Polypipe, Mr James served as Group Financial Controller of Dixons Carphone plc, and prior to this role held the position of Group Financial Controller and Treasury Director of Inchcape plc and senior financial positions at British American Tobacco plc.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and has a Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering from Edinburgh University.
Glen Sabin Chief Operating Officer Glen Sabin is our Chief Operating Officer and was appointed to our Board of Directors on 2 October 2017, having been Managing Director of the Plumbing and Drainage Division since 2016.
Mr Sabin joined the Group in November 2004 as Managing Director of our UK Civils business before moving to become Managing Director of our Building Products business in 2013, with additional overall responsibility for Civils and Terrain.
Mr Sabin has over 40 years experience in the construction industry, having started as an engineer with George Wimpey before moving into a commercial career, initially with Redland plc, followed by 22 years with Marshalls plc.
COMMITTEES In addition to the Polypipe Group plc Board, there are three Committees: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman of Committee KEY: A N Nomination Committee R 40 40 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE A N R Paul Dean Senior Independent Director Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Paul Dean was appointed to our Board of Directors on 28 March 2014 as an Independent Non-Executive Director and is Chair of the Audit Committee.
Mr Dean was appointed Senior Independent Director on 27 May 2015.
Mr Dean is also a Non-Executive Director and Audit Chair of Porvair plc, Focusrite plc and Wincanton plc.
He is the Senior Independent Director at Porvair plc.
Mr Dean was Group Finance Director of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc from 2009 to 2013.
Previously he had the same role at Foseco Group from 2001 to 2008, including when it floated in 2005.
Mr Dean has a Master of Arts in History from Oxford University.
A N R Moni Mannings Non-Executive Director Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Moni Mannings was appointed to our Board of Directors on 28 March 2014 as a NonExecutive Director and is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Mrs Mannings was a senior partner of Olswang LLP until 31 March 2016 and had been a partner there since 2000.
Previously she was also a Board Member of the Solicitors Regulation Authority and Chair of its Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee.
Mrs Mannings is a Non-Executive member of the Boards of Investec Bank plc, Dairy Crest Group plc and Cranfield University.
She is also a Board Trustee of the charity Barnardos.
Mrs Mannings has a Bachelor of Law from the University of Southampton.
A N R Mark Hammond Non-Executive Director Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Following listing, Mark Hammond was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of our Board of Directors.
Mr Hammond has recently retired as Deputy Managing Partner of Caird Capital LLP, which is the adviser to Cavendish Square Partners LP.
Mr Hammond joined HBOS plc in June 2003 and served as Head of Integrated Finance from 2006 until 2010.
Prior to joining HBOS plc, Mr Hammond held roles with Gresham Trust plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and  LLP where he qualified with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland in 1991.
Mr Hammond graduated with a Master of Arts in Economics and Accountancy from the University of Aberdeen in 1988.
Mr Hammond has previously been a Director of The Big Green Parcel Holding Company Limited and David Lloyd Leisure Group Limited.
Mr Hammond currently sits on the Board of Governors of Beechwood Park School, Markyate, Hertfordshire.
Emma Versluys Company Secretary Emma Versluys is our Company Secretary and is Secretary to the Board and its three Committees, a position she has held since June 2017.
Before joining Polypipe, Ms Versluys was Deputy Company Secretary at Provident Financial plc, and has also held company secretarial roles at Serco plc and Alliance UniChem plc.
She is an Associate of the ICSA: The Governance Institute and is also a solicitor.
