Our markets Strong demand for high-quality, affordable generics is expected to increase as governments look for cost effective ways to manage their healthcare budgets.
Global generics market Our markets Key trends shaping our markets Our response The global generic prescription market is 1 expected to reach $112 billion by 2022.
US Despite recent pricing pressures, the US generics market remains the largest In this challenging environment, we are focused on in the world optimising the potential of our product portfolio and The global pharmaceutical market has been impacted by key trends The US generics market is the largest in the world.
Eighty-nine per cent of driving cost savings across our US business.
In 2017, in recent years, including buying consolidation, macroeconomic 62% prescription medicines dispensed in the US are generic, accounting for we put in place a new management team to support instability in key markets and reduced government healthcare budgets.
6 of Group revenue 2016: 62% 26 per cent of total drug costs.
These changing dynamics are creating opportunities for generic The pricing environment for generics in the US has become increasingly To offset price erosion on our base portfolio, it is pharmaceutical companies, as the need for more affordable healthcare challenging with double-digit price erosion across the oral generics market critical that we have a steady stream of new launches.
solutions is driving an increase in generic penetration.
in 2017 due to both cyclical and structural changes.
In 2017, we undertook a detailed review of the pipeline A higher rate of ANDA approvals for generic products is leading to increased to ensure we are focusing on products with the Key drivers 7 competition.
In 2017, 767 ANDAs were approved, 18% more than in 2016. highest opportunity, whilst balancing the risk profile Scientific advances and improved access to healthcare are At the same time, increased customer consolidation across the industry is of the pipeline.
contributing to a rise in life expectancy and an expanding older putting pressure on manufacturers.
In 2017, the three largest purchasing groups population.
According to United Nations projections, the worlds 8 represent 90% of all generic purchases in the US.
population is expected to grow by more than two billion people in the next 30 years, with the number of individuals aged 60 and above 2 expected to double to more than two billion people.
MENA Economic uncertainty has impacted growth in MENA markets but the Thanks to our experienced local management, Changes in lifestyle are contributing to a rise in chronic diseases, fundamental growth drivers remain intact operating teams and sales and marketing teams, particularly cancer, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases.
By 2020, In recent years, many markets in the MENA region have been impacted by we are successfully navigating the challenging it is expected that 50% of global healthcare expenditure will be 33% economic and political instability.
market conditions in the MENA region.
3 directed at these therapeutic areas.
of Group revenue 2016: 33% Despite these challenges, the long-term growth outlook remains positive In response to our patients changing needs, Most governments are now focused on tightly managing their and there are signs of improvement.
Currency fluctuations in our key markets, we have developed a portfolio of products in healthcare budgets.
As a result, generic market share continues to such as Egypt, are beginning to stabilise and oil prices are recovering.
grow as generic substitution is increasingly encouraged.
This trend is In line with global trends, the ageing population in MENA is growing and lifestyles expected to continue.
By 2022, generic prescription drug sales are are changing.
Diabetes is expected to be the fastest growing disease in the 4 expected to reach $112 billion.
9 region, with cancer and cardiovascular diseases also forecast to grow rapidly.
Governments are committed to improving access to healthcare.
In our largest MENA market, the GCC, pharmaceutical expenditure is forecast to grow by Worldwide generic prescription drug sales 20172022 10 around 66% between 2016 and 2021.
6.5% CAGR 20172022 112 106 Europe and ROW Demand for generics in European markets continues to grow steadily We are well positioned to capture growth 101 95 90 In recent years, increased healthcare demand, driven primarily by new opportunities in Europe, with injectable 84 innovative drug launches, an ageing population and an increase in chronic manufacturing facilities located in Germany, 5% illnesses, coupled with relatively weak economic growth, led to increased Italy and Portugal.
11 of Group revenue 2016: 5% pressures on European healthcare budgets.
To strengthen our position as a pan-European player, Governments have adopted austerity measures and put in place cost we are increasing our product portfolio, focusing containment policies to maintain sustainable healthcare budgets.
These on the EU5 markets Germany, France, Italy, Spain policies have impacted the generics industry by driving down prices.
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 At the same time, governments are encouraging an uptake of generic products, EvaluatePharma June 2017 driving volumes higher.
Generic products now make-up around 56% of dispensed medicines in the region.
This is expected to grow to 7080% 12 by 2020.
BMI Research July 2017 by 2022 CAGR 2.
Quintiles IMS December 2016 expected size of the global expected market growth 3.
EvaluatePharma June 2017 20 Strategic report | Our markets Our markets Key trends shaping our markets Our response US Despite recent pricing pressures, the US generics market remains the largest In this challenging environment, we are focused on in the world optimising the potential of our product portfolio and The US generics market is the largest in the world.
In 2017, 62% prescription medicines dispensed in the US are generic, accounting for we put in place a new management team to support 6 of Group revenue 2016: 62% 26 per cent of total drug costs.
The pricing environment for generics in the US has become increasingly To offset price erosion on our base portfolio, it is challenging with double-digit price erosion across the oral generics market critical that we have a steady stream of new launches.
In 2017, we undertook a detailed review of the pipeline A higher rate of ANDA approvals for generic products is leading to increased to ensure we are focusing on products with the 7 competition.
In 2017, 767 ANDAs were approved, 18% more than in 2016. highest opportunity, whilst balancing the risk profile At the same time, increased customer consolidation across the industry is of the pipeline.
In 2017, the three largest purchasing groups 8 represent 90% of all generic purchases in the US.
MENA Economic uncertainty has impacted growth in MENA markets but the Thanks to our experienced local management, fundamental growth drivers remain intact operating teams and sales and marketing teams, In recent years, many markets in the MENA region have been impacted by we are successfully navigating the challenging 33% economic and political instability.
of Group revenue 2016: 33% Despite these challenges, the long-term growth outlook remains positive In response to our patients changing needs, and there are signs of improvement.
Currency fluctuations in our key markets, we have developed a portfolio of products in such as Egypt, are beginning to stabilise and oil prices are recovering.
In line with global trends, the ageing population in MENA is growing and lifestyles are changing.
Diabetes is expected to be the fastest growing disease in the 9 region, with cancer and cardiovascular diseases also forecast to grow rapidly.
In our largest MENA market, the GCC, pharmaceutical expenditure is forecast to grow by 10 around 66% between 2016 and 2021.
Europe and ROW Demand for generics in European markets continues to grow steadily We are well positioned to capture growth In recent years, increased healthcare demand, driven primarily by new opportunities in Europe, with injectable innovative drug launches, an ageing population and an increase in chronic manufacturing facilities located in Germany, 5% illnesses, coupled with relatively weak economic growth, led to increased Italy and Portugal.
At the same time, governments are encouraging an uptake of generic products, driving volumes higher.
EvaluatePharma June 2017 21 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
