Board of Directors Said Darwazah, 60 Sigurdur Siggi Olafsson, 49 Mazen Darwazah, 59 Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice Chairman, Chief Executive of MENA Appointed: 1 July 2007 | Joined Hikma: 1981 Appointed: 20 February 2018 | Joined Hikma: 2018 and Emerging Markets Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Icelandic Appointed: 8 September 2005 | Joined Hikma: 1985 Board experience: Board experience: Nationality: Jordanian Board experience: Committee membership: None Committee membership: None Experience: Siggi has a wealth of international Experience: Said has served as Chief Executive Committee membership: experience in the pharmaceutical industry, having since July 2007 and Chairman since May 2014. held senior roles with Actavis Pharma Inc. Pfizer Inc. Said has over 36 years of experience in numerous Experience: Mazen has led and expanded the MENA and Omega Farma.
Siggi served as President and leadership roles at Hikma.
Under Saids leadership, region at Hikma.
Since listing, he has Group level CEO of Global Generic Medicines at Teva Hikma has expanded into the US and become responsibility in his role as Executive Vice Chairman.
a leading player in injectables and the MENA region.
Since 2014, he became responsible for the Groups Qualifications: M. S. in Pharmacy Cand Pharm Qualifications: Industrial Engineering degree from expansion into emerging markets.
from the University of Iceland, Reykjavik.
Purdue University, MBA from INSEAD.
Qualifications: BA in Business Administration from Other appointments: Independent Director Other appointments: Unchanged since prior year.
the Lebanese American University, AMP from INSEAD.
of Pfenex Inc. a biologics company listed on Includes Chairman of the Queen Rania Foundation Other appointments: Vice Chairman of the Capital the New York Stock Exchange and a Director and Royal Jordanian Airlines.
Director of the Central Bank of Jordan.
Trustee of the St. Louis College of at Elucida Oncology.
Bank of Jordan and Dash Ventures Limited.
Pharmacy, Birzeit University and Kings Academy.
Member of the King Abdullah Policy Board.
Dr Pamela Kirby, 64 Dr Ronald Goode, 74 Patrick Butler, 57 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 1 December 2014 | Joined Hikma: 2014 Appointed: 12 December 2006 | Joined Hikma: 2006 Appointed: 1 April 2014 | Joined Hikma: 2014 Nationality: British Nationality: American Nationality: Irish Board experience: Board experience: Board experience: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: C C Experience: Rons executive career focused on the Experience: Dr Kirby was Chief Executive of Quintiles Experience: Pat was Senior Director at McKinsey international pharmaceutical industry, including Transnational Corp and held senior executive & Co. During 25 years at McKinsey, he focused on roles as Chief Executive, President of International positions at F Hoffmann-La Roche and AstraZeneca.
strategic, financial and structuring advice to large Operations at Searle, Vice President of Clinical and Previously, Dr Kirby chaired Scynexis, was Senior corporations.
Pat qualified in the audit and tax Scientific Affairs at Pfizer, and adviser to companies Independent Director of Informa and held nonpractice of Arthur Andersen.
executive positions with Smith & Nephew, Novo Qualifications: Chartered accountant.
First-class Qualifications: PhD from the University of Georgia, Nordisk, Curalogic, and Oscient Pharmaceuticals Corp. honours degree in Commerce, postgraduate diploma MS and BS from the University of Memphis.
Qualifications: First-class BSc degree in in Accounting and Corporate Finance from Other appointments: President of The Goode Pharmacology, Clinical Pharmacology PhD from University College Dublin.
Director of Mercy Ships International.
Senior the University of London.
Other appointments: Director of Aldermore PLC, Business Advisor to The Kinsella Group.
Advisory Other appointments: Director of DCC PLC, Reckitt The Ardonagh Group and Res Media Limited.
Board Member of Private Access, Inc. Benckiser Group PLC and Victrex PLC.
Supervisory Governor of the British Film Institute.
Trustee Board Member of Akzo Nobel NV.
70 Corporate governance | Board of Directors Ali Al-Husry, 60 Dr Jochen Gann, 53 Robert Pickering, 58 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed: 14 October 2005 | Joined Hikma: 1981 Appointed: 29 February 2016 | Joined Hikma: 2016 Appointed: 1 September 2011 | Joined Hikma: 2011 Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: German Nationality: British Board experience: Board experience: Board experience: Committee membership: None Committee membership: None Committee membership: Experience: Ali held various management and Experience: Jochen is Global Head of Corporate C leadership roles within Hikma before stepping into an Finance M&A and Corporate Vice President at Experience: Robert became Senior Independent advisory role in 1995, when he founded Capital Bank Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH.
In his M&A role he Director in May 2014.
Robert was Chief Executive of of Jordan, focusing on commercial and investment leads Boehringer Ingelheims mergers and Cazenove Group PLC and subsequently JP Morgan banking.
Ali served as Chief Executive of the Bank acquisitions activities across all businesses.
During 23 years at Cazenove until 2007.
Qualifications: Doctorate Degree in International and Co. he acquired extensive experience of the Qualifications: Mechanical Engineering degree from Finance from the University of Hoheinheim.
Masters corporate and investment environment.
the University of Southern California, MBA from Degree in Business Administration and Science from Qualifications: Qualified solicitor with a law degree INSEAD.
Other appointments: Director of Endeavour Jordan, Other appointments: Chairman of the Finance Other appointments: Chairman of the Trustees at Microfund for Women, Capital Bank of Jordan, and Committee at Verband Der Chemischen Industrie e. V. Lincoln College Oxford 2027 Trust.
Director at Itau DASH Ventures Limited.
Advisory Board Member at KfW IPEX-Bank BBA International PLC, the investment bank of GmbH, Germany.
Peter Speirs Company Secretary Appointed: 2 April 2012 | Joined Hikma: 2010 Nationality: British Role: Peter is responsible for advising on governance, executive remuneration, and listing related matters.
Peter joined Hikma as Deputy Secretary and previously held roles with Barclays and Pool Re.
Qualifications: Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Law degree from the University of East Anglia.
John Castellani, 67 Nina Henderson, 67 Board experience: Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Pharmaceutical Governance Appointed: 1 March 2016 | Joined Hikma: 2016 Appointed: 1 October 2016 | Joined Hikma: 2016 Nationality: American Nationality: American Business ethics Commercial Board experience: Board experience: and integrity Human resources Listed environment Regulatory Committee membership: Committee membership: Manufacturing and political C Sales Strategy and risk Experience: Nina was Corporate VP of Bestfoods Experience: John was President and Chief Executive Finance and President of Bestfoods Grocery prior to its Officer of Pharmaceutical Research and acquisition by Unilever.
During a 30-year career Manufacturers of America PhRMA and Business with Bestfoods, and its predecessor company CPC Roundtable.
During his career John has also held Committees: International, she held a wide variety of Global and senior positions with Burson-Marsteller, Tenneco, North American executive general management and and General Electric.
Nina has served as a director Qualifications: BSc in Biology from Union College Nomination and Governance Committee of Royal Dutch Shell, AXA Financial, The Equitable Schenectady, New York.
C ompliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Companies, DelMonte, Pactiv and Walter Energy.
Other appointments: Director of 5th Port.
Trustee of Remuneration Committee Qualifications: Honours graduate and BSc from The John Hopkins Medical System Sibley Memorial Drexel University.
Chair Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of CNO Financial Group Inc and IWG PLC, Trustee of Drexel University, Director of the Foreign Policy Association and Visiting Nurse Service of New York, Inc. For detailed Directors biographies go online: www.
com about leadership 71 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
