Sustainability continued Innovation as part of our sustainability strategy Innovation is integrated into both our Encouraged innovation The competition committee prioritised employee and community outreach agendas.
We recognise the importance of expanding proposals that presented innovative yet By empowering and enabling the creative communication channels and platforms for practical and feasible solutions to company potential of our employees, we are able to our employees to share and develop their challenges.
The winning proposal for develop tailored solutions that address ideas.
Our Innovation and Leadership Advisory Real-time Statistical in-Process Control company challenges, while encouraging Board ILAB was established in 2014 with the on Tablet Compression is expected to result employees to think creatively and develop new purpose of empowering young employees in $7.5 million in savings from an investment skills.
We also incorporate innovation in our and tapping into their creative potential.
The project will leverage community engagement by supporting young Since its inception, ILAB has achieved success, statistical in-process control during people within the community to develop their developing and nurturing ideas.
One notable manufacturing and warn operators of creative skills.
We believe that this can achievement of ILAB was the introduction impending in-process product rejects in contribute to socio-economic development.
of the Hikma Innovation Competition HIC, real-time.
The warning will enable operators a company-wide competition that included to make immediate adjustments to reduce contestants from all our markets designed the number of rejected products.
to find innovative ideas on how to improve businesses processes.
Contestants in our newly-established Hikma Innovation Competition HIC stand alongside our Executive Chairman, Said Darwazah, during the competition awards ceremony.
HIC provides a platform through which our people can share their ideas with executive management in a competition format, with the winning team given the opportunity to implement their idea.
50 Strategic report | Sustainability | Innovation Encouraged the use of innovative smart syringes Needle reuse is often responsible for the spread of blood-borne diseases such as hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV.
In order to address this challenge in Jordan, we undertook a multi-faceted campaign of awareness and distribution of smart syringes around the country in collaboration with the Ministry of Health.
The innovative design of smart syringes includes a retractable safety feature that makes it impossible for healthcare professionals to inadvertently use the same syringe more than once, protecting patients from needle-stick injuries, possible infections and the spread of blood-borne diseases.
To promote greater use of smart syringes, we distributed 500,000 of them to public and private hospitals around the country, and trained 400 doctors and nurses on their use.
We trained 400 doctors and nurses on the use of smart syringes as part of our campaign We hope that by encouraging the use of smart to address syringe reuse and reduce the spread of blood-borne diseases.
syringes we can more effectively protect the health and safety of patients in our markets.
Our collaboration with the Injaz Innovation Camp As part of our commitment to drive socioeconomic growth in our communities, our 500,000 employees in Algeria participated in the Injaz Innovation Camp an initiative aimed at Smart syringes distributed to public and challenging university students to develop private hospitals in Jordan innovative business solutions through leadership, critical thinking and teamwork.
Our employees volunteered to mentor and work with more than 50 students from universities across the country.
We hope 400 that by participating in activities such as this, we can encourage greater entrepreneurship Doctors and nurses trained on their use and socio-economic development in our communities.
