Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 POLYPIPES MARKETPLACE The UK construction market accounts for 89% of Polypipes revenue, where the brand is well known and respected for its value, quality of service, innovation and expertise.
Uncertainty on rates OUTPUT TRENDS RESIDENTIAL of return on high-end properties from Over the next two years, overall Output in the private housing sector international investors due to shortconstruction output is forecast to remain continued to grow in 2017 and is term economic and longer-term Brexit broadly flat in 2018, rising by only expected to rise further in 2018 uncertainty has also affected demand for 0.2%, before growth of 1.7% in 2019, and 2019. prime residential real estate in the capital.
driven primarily by growth in private Property transactions in 2017 were housing and infrastructure.
Outside of The private housing repair, maintenance slightly lower than transactions in the last the private housing and infrastructure and improvement RM&I sector was two years and indicate a broadly flat to sectors, slower UK economic growth worth an estimated 19.9 billion in 2017. slightly negative general housing market.
and investment uncertainty are expected The trend of slightly negative property These transactions have been distorted to weigh on construction output in the transactions over the past year would due to changes in stamp duty in recent private sectors.
This, combined with the suggest falling output in the private RM&I years that adversely affected sales at the persistent uncertainty associated with sector, particularly given that a higher top end of the market in particular.
the conditions of Brexit, has acted as a proportion of transactions than normal considerable hindrance to major new UK house price inflation in 2017 was involve new housebuild, encouraged by investment in private sector construction, 3.0% compared to 2016 according to Help-To-Buy.
At the same time there is especially for new high-end residential Nationwide, indicating that the supply a slight demographic impact on RM&I and commercial offices projects within of properties onto the market slowed particularly among older homeowners in London that are particularly reliant on in line with demand.
As long as house certain areas who prefer to release equity foreign investment.
price inflation continues, housebuilders from pensions and stay and improve will be keen to increase supply, especially rather than move.
As a result, output From an economic point of view, other given that the Governments Help-To-Buy from private RM&I is expected to remain uncertainties, such as the implications schemes have skewed demand towards flat in 2018 before falling 2.0% in 2019. of continued inflation and the fall in real new housebuild and they remain positive wages on consumer confidence and As falls in housebuilding in London are with respect to increasing supply.
A key general UK economic growth, and the offset by growth in housebuilding outside part of the housebuilding market that availability of skilled construction labour the capital, the private housing sector is appears to have been adversely affected may also affect the rate of construction forecast to continue its growth from 2017, over the past year is prime London growth in 2018 and 2019. with 3.0% in 2018 and 2.0% in 2019. properties.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT Greater certainty over grant funding An important recent factor affecting the ONSs revised output data for the year.
and flexibility under the Shared infrastructure construction sector has However, commercial offices new orders Ownership and Affordable Homes been the collapse of Carillion.
According have fallen since the EU Referendum Programme 201621 SOAHP had been to data from Barbour ABI, around 60% in June 2016 and, following the 1218 expected to drive an increase in public of Carillions active schemes or projects month lag between orders and output housing activity in 2017: however, starts with contracts awarded in which in commercial projects, output has fallen in England were 0.1% lower in the first Carillion is the sole major contractor since summer last year.
Since the EU three quarters of the year following two are infrastructure projects.
Within their Referendum vote, international investors previous years of declines.
infrastructure work, 53% of the projects and developers adopted more risk-averse are road schemes and 42% of the behaviour towards new projects and new CIVILS AND INFRASTRUCTURE projects are rail schemes.
The full impact orders have fallen sharply.
Hence, output Overall output in the infrastructure sector of Carillions liquidation is yet to play out in the offices sub-sector is expected to is expected to rise by 6.3% in 2018 through the long supply chain of subfall by 5.0% in 2017, 15.0% in 2018 and and 11.1% in 2019 driven by work on contractors, but will almost certainly a further 10.0% in 2019. large-scale infrastructure projects in the add to the downside risk of project As a result, commercial sector output rail, water and sewerage and electricity delivery timing.
overall is expected to fall by 5.0% in sub-sectors, in particular.
2018 and 1.4% in 2019 as the fall in COMMERCIAL Within this, output in the rail sector is orders feeds through the project pipeline.
Commercial activity peaked during the expected to increase by 5.0% in 2018 first half of 2017 based on new orders and is projected to accelerate to 20.0% signed prior to the EU Referendum.
in 2019 as main civil engineering work is projected to start on phase 1 of HS2.
Activity remains at historically high Recent data indicated that 5.8 billion levels as commercial sector output worth of annual orders have been rose by 3.0% in 2017, based on the awarded at the end of 2017 reflecting seven key contracts.
BALANCED SALES SPLIT Output in roads construction, where Polypipe has significant exposure, is expected to remain flat in 2018, with Polypipe has a balanced mix of business that covers the Residential, Commercial delays in some projects pushing demand and Infrastructure construction sectors: and within each of these, the activities of into future years.
Going forward, output New Build and Repair, Maintenance and Improvement RM&I sub-sectors.
This in roads is projected to return to growth broad exposure across the construction sectors provides a counter-cyclical balance and increase 3.0% in 2019 driven by a to the more volatile peaks and troughs of the new-build cycle, and provides pick-up in activity under the 15.2 billion even further opportunity for Polypipe to provide effective solutions to new and Road Investment Strategy.
emerging legislation, substitute legacy building materials, and therefore to deliver above-market growth.
