Corporate Governance | Directors report Directors report Report of the Directors to shareholders Donations and stakeholders During the year the Group made charitable donations of approximately The Directors submit their report together with the audited financial $3.2 million 2016: $2.3 million : statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
This report forms Amount Amount the management report for the purposes of the Disclosure and donated in donated in Transparency Rules.
Readers are asked to cross refer to the other Type of donation 2016 $ 2017 $ sections of the Annual Report to the extent necessary to meet Hikmas Local charities serving communities in reporting obligations as follows statements that are not applicable which the Group operates 1,611,657 1,441,861 have been excluded : Medical donations in kind 665,851 1,780,625 Likely future developments of the Group: Strategic report, pages Political donations and expenditure Nil Nil 2 to 58 Total 2,277,508 3,222,486 Long-term incentive schemes: Directors remuneration report, pages 98 to 104 Group policy prohibits the payment of political donations and Related party transactions: Note 40 of the financial statements, expenditure within the meaning of the Act.
page 167 Going concern statement: Risk Management Report, page 65 Research and development Names and biographical details of the Directors: corporate The Groups investment in research and development R&D during governance report, pages 70 and 71 2017 represented 6.3% of Group revenue 2016: 7.7%.
Further details Independence of Non-Executive Directors: corporate governance on the Groups R&D activities can be found on page 41. report, page 74 Directors share interests: Directors remuneration report, pages Interest 105 and 106 The interest capitalised during the year under review was $0.3m Greenhouse gas emissions: Sustainability report, page 56 2016: $0.3m.
The tax impact related to the capitalised interest Financial instruments and risk: Notes 30 and 31 of the financial was $Nil 2016: $0.1m.
statements, pages 160 and 161 Significant contracts Principal activity Due to the nature of the Groups business, members of the Group are The principal activities of the Group are the development, manufacture party to agreements that could alter or be terminated upon a change and marketing of a broad range of generic, branded and in-licensed of control of the Group following a takeover.
However, none of these pharmaceutical products in solid, semi-solid, liquid and injectable final agreements is individually deemed to be significant in terms of its dosage forms.
The Groups pharmaceutical operations are conducted potential impact on the business of the Group taken as a whole.
through three business segments: Branded, Injectables and Generics.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between Hikma and its The majority of the Groups operations are in the MENA region, the US Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office and Europe.
The Company does not have overseas branches within the or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, other than as meaning of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The Company had an agreement with one senior executive, below Board level, which allows for compensation for loss of office The Groups net sales, gross profit and operating profit are shown by with an estimated value of $10.3m, based on share and foreign business segment in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements exchange values on 31 December 2017.
During early 2018, this on pages 137 and 138. agreement became obsolete.
Results There are no persons, with whom Hikma has contractual or other The Groups reported loss for the year in 2017 was $ 839 million arrangements, who are deemed to be essential to the business of Hikma.
Directors Dividend It is the Boards policy that all Directors should retire and, should The Board is recommending a final dividend of 23 cents per share theDirector wish to continue in office seek election or re-election approximately 16 pence 2016: 22 cents.
The proposed dividend will onanannual basis.
Accordingly, Said Darwazah, Siggi Olafsson, Mazen be paid on 24 May 2018 to shareholders on the register on 6 April 2018, Darwazah, Robert Pickering, Ali Al-Husry, Patrick Butler, Dr Pamela subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 18 May Kirby, Dr Jochen Gann, John Castellani and Nina Henderson will seek 2018.
An interim dividend of 11 cents per share was paid on 22 September election or re-election as appropriate atthe AGM.
The total dividend for the year 2017 is 34.0 cents will retire from the Board at the close ofthe AGM.
Creditor payment policy Hikmas policy, which is also applied by the Group and will continue in respect of the 2018 financial year, is to settle terms of payment with all suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction and to ensure that suppliers are made aware of and abide by the terms of payment.
Trade creditors of Hikma at 31 December 2017 were equivalent to 82 days purchases 2016: 65 days, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
109 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report continued Indemnities and insurance Hikma maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance.
The Directors benefit from qualifying third-party indemnities Share buy-back made by Hikma that were in force during the year and as at the date At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 18 May 2017, shareholders of this report.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount in relation gave the Directors authority to purchase Shares from the market up to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties in to an amount equal to 10% of Hikmas issued share capital at that time.
the course of the performance of their duties.
This authority expires at the earlier of 30 June 2018 or the 2018 AGM, which is scheduled for 18 May 2018.
The Directors have not used this Auditors authority during the year, but are proposing to renew this authority at Each person who was a Director of Hikma at the date when this report the 2018 AGM.
Additionally, at the Extraordinary General Meeting held was approved confirms that: on 19 February 2016, shareholders gave the Directors authority to re-purchase Shares from BI that were issued in respect of the Westso far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Ward Columbus acquisition.
This authority expires on 22 January 2021. of which Hikmas auditors are unaware the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken Share issuance as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit At the AGM on 19 May 2017, the Directors were authorised to issue information and to establish that Hikmas auditors are aware of that relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,999,293 information and to be empowered to allot equity securities for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,199,894 at This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance any time up to the earlier of the date of the 2018 AGM or 30 June 2018. with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors propose to renew these authorities at the 2018 AGM for afurther year.
In the year ahead, other than in respect of Hikmas Employment obligations to satisfy rights granted to employees under its various During this year, the Company continued to operate its existing share-based incentive arrangements, the Directors have no present employee engagement mechanisms which include intra-group intention of issuing any additional share capital of Hikma.
communications, social networking, an open door policy for legitimate union representatives and the operation of share incentive Details of the employee share schemes are set out in Note 38 arrangements.
The Company does not discriminate against a to the financial statements.
Shares are also held by the Hikma potential employee on grounds of disability and will make reasonable Pharmaceuticals Employee Benefit Trust EBT and are detailed adjustments to employ and develop such persons.
in Note 35 to the financial statements.
The EBT has waived its right to vote on the Shares it holds and also to its entitlement to a dividend.
Equity Noother shareholder has waived the right to a dividend.
Capital structure Details of the issued share capital, together with movements in Annual General Meeting the issued share capital during the year, can be found in Note 33 to The AGM of Hikma will be held at Sofitel St James, 6 Waterloo Place, thefinancial statements.
Hikma has one class of ordinary shares of London SW1Y 4AN on Friday, 18 May 2018, starting at 10.00 a. m. 10pence each Shares which carries no right to fixed income.
Each The Notice convening the meeting is given in a separate document share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of Hikma.
accompanying this document, and includes a commentary on the As at 31December 2017: business of the AGM, and notes to help shareholders exercise their rights at the meeting.
Issued during Type Nominal value In issue the year The Company provides for the vote on each resolution to be by poll Ordinary 10 pence 240,678,894 724,362 rather than by show of hands.
This provides for greater transparency and allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including During 2017, Hikma issued ordinary shares solely pursuant to the those cast by proxy.
The level of proxies lodged for each resolution exercise of options under the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan, 2009 is projected onto a screen as each resolution is put to the meeting.
Management Incentive Plan and 2014 Executive Incentive Plan.
A vote withheld explanation is included on the proxy cards.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the The powers of the Directors are determined by the Articles, the UK transfer of Shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of Code and other relevant UK legislation.
The Articles give the Directors Hikmas Articles of Association the Articles and prevailing legislation.
the power to appoint and remove Directors.
The power to issue and allot Shares contained in the Articles is subject to shareholder approval Other than the shareholder agreement between Boehringer Ingelheim at each AGM.
The Articles, which are available on the website, may only BI and Hikma the Agreement, the Directors are not aware of any be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
agreements between holders of Hikmas Shares that may have resulted in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Agreement restricts BIs voting rights to 28,500,000 Shares as long as it holds shares in excess of this level and the onward transfer of Shares, as disclosed in the combined Prospectus and Circular posted to shareholders on 21 January 2016.
No person has any special rights with regard to the control of Hikmas share capital and all issued Shares are fully paid.
Hikma has not placed any Shares into treasury during the period under review.
110 Corporate Governance | Directors report Substantial shareholdings The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records As at the date of this document, Hikma had been notified pursuant to that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and sections 89A to 89L of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UKLA of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements the following interests in the voting rights attaching to the share capital comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for of Hikma: protecting shareholder investments and safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Name of shareholder Number of shares Percentage held and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
1 Darhold Limited 60,000,000 24.9% The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 2 Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH 40,000,000 16.6% the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Capital Group International 25,950,451 10.8% website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Fidelity International 9,791,950 4.1% in other jurisdictions.
Vanguard Healthcare Fund 7,284,981 3.0% We confirm to the best of our knowledge: 1.
Said Darwazah, Mazen Darwazah and Ali Al-Husry, each being a Director and shareholder The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International of Hikma, are shareholders and non-executive directors of Darhold Limited.
See page 105 for details of their holdings in Darhold Limited.
Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 2.
Dr Jochen Gann is a Director of Hikma and a senior executive of Boehringer Ingelheim liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and GmbH.
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole The Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and There have been no changes in substantial shareholdings since the performance of the business and the position of the Company year-end.
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Pre-emptive issue of shares that they face During the year under review, and in the period since the date of The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are Hikmas Initial Public Offering on 1 November 2005, Hikma did not issue fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information any ordinary shares pursuant to an authority given by shareholders at necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, an AGM to issue ordinary shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis, business model and strategy other than in respect of the placing undertaken on 17 January 2008.
On behalf of the Board Post balance sheet events There have been no significant post balance sheet events.
Directors responsibility statement Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and Said Darwazah regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Executive Chairman statements for each financial year.
13 March 2018 Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements under FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial Mazen Darwazah statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: Executive Vice Chairman 13 March 2018 Properly select and apply accounting policies Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern 111 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Financial statements We continue to deliver accurate, high-quality and timely information to all stakeholders with the utmost integrity and efficiency.
113 Independent auditors report 122 Consolidated financial statements 172 Company financial statements 174 Notes to the Company financial statements 112
