KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Performance and indicators The Company calculates the ongoing charges ratio as a percentage Performance is measured against the Company's objective of in of average shareholders' funds and expenses, excluding finance excess of 10 per cent growth per year.
During the period to 31 costs, performance fees and taxation, in accordance with AIC December 2017, the Company's NAV declined by two per cent.
This gives an indication as to the Company's expenses to more detailed explanation of the Company's performance can be its shareholders and potential investors.
The Board monitors the found in the Portfolio Manager's review on pages 8 to 9 and the Company's estimated ongoing charges against its peers at each Chairman's statement on page 7.
Board meeting to ensure that the Company remains competitive against its peers.
It is not expected that the ongoing charges will The key performance indicators KPIs monitored by the Board are exceed 0.2 per cent, which compares favourably with the the progress that the top 10 holdings in the portfolio make against Company's peers who operate with an average ongoing charges commercial, operational and technical milestones.
Progress on the level of 0.9 per cent.
As at 31 December 2017, the Company's next 10 holdings is also reviewed with less frequency.
New entrants ongoing charges ratio was 0.2 per cent.
and emerging portfolio company progress is also discussed.
The Portfolio Manager is committed to greater transparency on the Performance against other trusts total cost of investing.
All transaction costs, in addition to the The Company is positioned within the AIC's UK All Companies ongoing charge figure, have been disclosed monthly on its website sector by most investment company broker analysts.
The Board to help investors better understand the total, true cost of investing.
does not have a specific comparative benchmark against which performance is measured.
It believes that operational progress is Gearing the KPI in this unique portfolio of quoted and unquoted assets.
As at 31 December 2017, the Company had gearing of 149,411,000 19.78 per cent of NAV, in respect of an overdraft, while the average Share price premium discount to NAV per share level of gearing among its peers was 5.2 per cent.
During the Companys first financial period to 31 December 2015, it issued a total of 827,000,000 ordinary shares in order to meet Portfolio diversification natural market demand.
No further shares have been issued.
The The Board reviews the portfolio at every Board meeting and Company's shares traded at an average discount of 5.6 per cent to expects it to become more concentrated around a number of its NAV cum income throughout the year to 31 December 2017. larger assets.
Ongoing charges By order of the Board The Portfolio Manager does not receive a fee for managing this Link Company Matters Limited investment trust, unless it delivers cumulative annual returns in Secretary excess of 10 per cent.
The ongoing charges cover the general 23 April 2018 administrative and management costs associated with running the trust.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 37 38 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc DIRECTORS REPORT Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 39
