Sustainability continued Committed to people, community and the environment We remain committed to meeting the needs People We monitor targets for health and safety of our people, our communities and our to review our performance and identify environment.
We consider the prosperity of The health and safety as well as engagement areas where we can improve our approach.
our surroundings, human and environmental, of our people is a key focus of our Our OHSEE policy dictates that all our units to be linked to our organisational growth.
comply with stringent industry standards of We have therefore directed substantial OHSEE management to ensure the well-being resources towards addressing social Prioritised occupational health of our employees and business partners challenges in our communities and take and safety and to minimise environmental impacts of active measures to reduce emissions Protecting the health, safety and welfare our operations.
and minimise the environmental impacts of our people is paramount, and as a result, of our operations.
we have a focus on Occupational Health, We are continuously refining our production Safety, Environmental and Energy OHSEE processes, equipment and training to minimise management.
We provide information, training potentially harmful situations and to prevent and support to all our employees to increase and manage environmental accidents and their level of awareness of the hazards and emergencies.
This is reflected in the overall risks that are associated with our operations.
reduction in Lost Time Injury Rates LTIR Our OHSEE group-wide corporate policy is across our US locations see chart below.
endorsed by the Vice President of Corporate Going forward, we will expand monitoring Communication and communicated to all and reporting of LTIRs to include our facilities our employees.
Lost Time Injury Rate US Facilities 3 2 1 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 All US Facilities Case study: Bringing our people together through the You are Hikma campaign The You are Hikma campaign is held every year across all our locations, bringing employees LTIR defined as injuries resulting in one or more days away from work per 100 employees together to promote health and safety both internally and across our wider communities.
Data for Bedford and Columbus collected as of 2015 This year, more than 80 employees in our Jordan locations and 250 employees from across Data for Creekside collected as of 2016 our US locations volunteered and took part in the campaigns activities which included In 2017, we sustained no LTIRs in Bedford, Creekside, awareness lectures on waste recycling and occupational health and safety.
The event also Eatontown or Memphis included a blood drive, firefighting training and medical testing.
52 Strategic report | Sustainability | Commitment 250 You are Hikma volunteers from across our US locations Our first global employee survey In 2017, we undertook our first global Employee Effectiveness Survey EES to measure and address employee engagement and better understand their positions on a range of issues.
Our intention is to conduct this survey on a regular basis.
This will help us to gauge our performance internally and benchmark ourselves against industry best practices.
This year, we achieved a response rate of 70%, and we will aim to improve this in future years.
Encouraged inclusivity and diversity We believe in equality for all employees, and Monthly lectures organised through our Dare to Dream Big programme promote capacitypride ourselves on being an equal opportunity building and leadership skills for our female employees in the MENA region.
employer and do not discriminate on the basis of race, age, religion, sexual orientation or any other characteristic.
We consider the diversity Womens empowerment In Saudi Arabia, our efforts to reduce gender of our people to be a source of strength that We have developed various programmes and disparity, while at the same time accommodate contributes to our creativity and effectiveness policies to encourage gender diversity and cultural sensitivities, enabled us to increase as an organisation.
Through our Dare the number of women in the Company from to Dream Big Programme, we hold monthly two in 2012 to 54 in 2017.
This was achieved Ethnic and gender diversity lectures that promote capacity-building by establishing women-only packaging and Our merit-based and inclusive corporate and leadership development for our female packing lines and including more women culture helps foster a diverse workplace.
employees in the MENA region.
We also in our training and development agenda.
Whilst we do not set quotas, we actively established a formal committee tasked with monitor ethnic diversity at all our US locations.
addressing women-specific issues within the Gender diversity remains a challenge in certain Company.
The Womens Committee comprises locations, and to address this we will continue Approximately 33 per cent of our global females from across the organisation, offering to introduce programmes that enable women workforce is female.
an inclusive platform where issues can to attain leadership roles, and address barriers be addressed openly.
The Committee to achieving a more inclusive workforce.
contributed to the development of several Ethnicity breakdown our US locations important company policies such as the provision of a nursery allowance for parents Asian 15% and an extended maternity leave option Black or for mothers in Jordan.
African American 15% 33% Hispanic or Latino 6% Two or more races 1% Percentage of female employees at Hikma White 63% 53 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Sustainability continued Employee development: Our Communities In Saudi Arabia, volunteers participated in continuing education programme the Dawaona Amanah Our Medicine, Our We offer employees multiple ways to develop Across our communities we support Responsibility Campaign, which aims to their skills and capabilities, and we believe that programmes focused on social challenges spread awareness about the importance supporting employees training enables us to and health and wellbeing.
The campaign took develop future leaders internally.
This was the place across several locations, including rationale behind the establishment of our Drug disposal campaigns hospitals, universities, malls and stadiums.
This year, we undertook several drug disposal Every year, we accept up to eight employees initiatives to address the challenge of into the Programme, which provides financial prescription drug abuse.
In Columbus, our scholarships for education.
More than 50 employee volunteers worked alongside local employees have received full scholarships grocery store and pharmacy chain, Kroger, 6.4m since the programmes establishment.
to collect and remove unwanted and expired medications from customers and dispose of Safely disposed of more than 4,300 pounds them safely.
Over the course of the campaign, 1,950kg of unwanted or expired medications, we successfully disposed of more than 4,300 equating to more than 6.4 million tablets pounds 1,950kg of medications, equating to more than 6.4 million tablets.
Case study: Ibrahim Shihadeh Ibrahim Shihadeh began his career with us in 1978 as a maintenance engineer after completing a two-year Diploma in mechanical engineering.
After ten years of employment, our founder, Dr Samih Darwazah, proposed that the Company sponsor Ibrahims continued education and his pursuit of a bachelors degree.
In what became a precursor to our Continuing Education Programme, Ibrahim was able to further his education, enabling him to assume the role of Production Manager and eventually Head of Engineering.
Ibrahim continued to progress within the organisation, earning the position of General Manager of Algeria and Senior Director of Special Projects.
Ibrahim worked at Hikma until his retirement in July 2017.
Ibrahims journey within Hikma embodies our spirit of employee development and his success was the driving force behind the establishment of our Continuing Education Programme.
Volunteers in Columbus came together to dispose of unwanted or expired medications.
54 Strategic report | Sustainability | Commitment In Jordan, we continued our support for the Charity Clothes Bank, which developed a charity distribution centre in the Al Karak Governorate.
Through our contributions, which totalled more than 93,000 items, we were able to help more than 26,000 people.
We conducted several activities to help improve education infrastructure.
In Sudan, volunteers from our Savannah facility participated in a comprehensive effort to refurbish the Al-Mahlaj Higher Secondary School in Khartoum, helping repair critical infrastructure and complete maintenance work to improve the learning setting for students.
The school was subsequently renamed the Pharmaland Higher Secondary School.
In Columbus, we donated a van to assist the mobile outreach programme of the Mount Carmel Foundation.
The Foundation is a non-profit organisation dedicated to funding Our employees are keen to take advantage of opportunities to volunteer and give back to their health and education programmes in Ohio.
Every year, we organise several campaigns that bring people together to assist It provides extensive healthcare and resources those in need and improve our communities.
to those that are not supported by other healthcare providers.
Helped those in need across Assisted those affected by natural our communities disasters Across our locations, our employees organised After the devastating hurricanes Harvey, multiple campaigns to assist people in need.
Irma and Maria, employees from across five Some of the many activities undertaken during US facilities came together to donate supplies the year included collecting and distributing and assist in relief efforts.
Through these food and supplies and helping to improve donations, more than 500 people that were infrastructure for several schools.
affected by the hurricanes were provided with access to essential items.
We organised multiple food drives across the US, bringing volunteers together to collect and distribute food to those in need.
In both Volunteers in Cherry Hill participated in the Memphis and Cherry Hill, our teams collected Give Back campaign, where they collected food for their local food banks, helping and helped to distribute food and beverages thousands gain access to basic supplies.
During the month of Ramadan, our employees in Egypt carried out a healthy meal distribution campaign, delivering food to more than 100 people in the village of Khair Allah.
In collaboration with the Kheir W Baraka Institution, our volunteers were able to visit the village and offer hands-on assistance to those in need.
55 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Sustainability continued Measuring our emissions The table below shows our emissions performance for the last three years.
Data notes: 129,260 Emissions from the consumption of electricity are reported in tCO2 rather than tCO2e since the 105,533 103,191 International Energy Agency emission factors for 92,421 electricity currently account for carbon dioxide 79,061 76,456 emissions only.
Emissions are calculated in alignment with the WRIs Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
36,839 26,472 26,735 Emissions are reported from sites which represent 92% of total employees.
Scope Scope Total Scope Scope Total Scope Scope Total 1 2 1 2 1 2 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities tCO2e Scope 2: Electricity tCO2 Performance Our reported greenhouse gas emissions increased by 25% in 2017, Our emissions per full-time equivalent FTE employee increased compared with 2016.
The increase was primarily due to the inclusion by 3.6%.
This was primarily driven by increased manufacturing in of West-Ward Columbus, our largest manufacturing facility, in our Portugal and Germany.
For example, a production increase of 40% in analysis for the first time.
It accounts for 23% of total emissions Germany led to a 16% increase in emissions from electricity at the site.
Excluding West-Ward Columbus from our US results, our greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 5% in 2017.
We are focused on reducing our emissions and have implemented several initiatives this year, which are discussed in more detail There was a slight increase in Europe due to the expansion of our throughout the section.
In the MENA region, our emissions decreased by 8% due to investments made in energy efficiency.
Year-on-year change by fuel type Emissions FTE employee from reported sites tCO e 2 Europe 2016 17.12 16.88 16.30 2017 MENA 2016 2017 USA 2016 2017 0K 5K 10K 15K 20K 25K 30K 35K 40K 45K 50K 55K 60K 65K 2015 2016 2017 Emissions Electricity Diesel Gasoil F-Gas Other fuels Natural gas Owned Vehicles Petrol Gasoline 56 Strategic report | Sustainability | Commitment Environment Developed wastewater treatment Upgraded sewage treatment in Egypt infrastructure We are committed to doing our part to ensure As part of our efforts to improve environmental At our facility in Tunisia, we successfully that our environment is protected for future stewardship, we completed construction of upgraded and renovated our sewage generations.
Every year we take steps to a wastewater treatment unit in Egypt that will infrastructure to reduce water consumption improve our energy efficiency and minimise enable the manufacturing facility to reduce and mitigate the environmental impact of adverse impacts.
wastewater effluents by up to 90%.
The treatment unit will isolate wastewater treatment unit, operating at a industrial water from rainwater and sanitary 3 Achieved cleaner manufacturing maximum capacity of 200m of treated water water, enabling us to recover industrial In 2017, we finalised agreements that will enable per day, uses the treated water for irrigation wastewater for treatment and reuse.
Our our Jordan-based facilities as well as our purposes, reducing use of domestic water sewage treatment project will improve the manufacturing facility in Tunisia to convert consumption by 15%.
We are seen as a leader environmental footprint of our facility and from using diesel fuel to liquefied petroleum in environmental compliance in Egypt.
This will result in significant improvements to our environmental performance by reducing the carbon emissions of our production processes.
The switch will Our goals 90% also reduce overhead costs since, unlike diesel going forward fuel, natural gas boilers have a longer service Potential reduction of wastewater effluents in life and require less maintenance.
our Egypt facility through wastewater treatment Continue engaging our communities Through the agreement with the energy with activities that address healthcompany Central Gas, our Jordanian facilities Upgraded lighting fixtures related needs and promote accessibility, will be provided with a capacity of up to This year, our Columbus facility undertook awareness and education 30,000 litres of LPG per year, an amount multiple projects to improve energy efficiency Refine data collection for employee that will reduce production costs by 715% and lower carbon emissions.
The most notable training and development and injury rates based on estimated gas prices.
In addition was the installation of LED lighting fixtures.
Expand our in-kind medicine donations to reducing our carbon emissions, using By investing in the replacement of 32W to assist more people natural gas will improve safety.
fluorescent tubes with more efficient Continue to explore new channels of substitutes, we have halved the energy employee engagement that encourage In Tunisia, our substitution to natural gas use consumed in lighting the facility.
innovation was the pretext for the Tunisian government Ensure our supply chain is aligned to develop underground gas pipelines for the The installation of 1,625 fixtures 6,500 tubes with the principles of the Modern entire village of Sidi Thabet.
This investment will result in energy savings of 789,690 kWh Slavery Act by expanding the scope will enable other businesses and households per year, equating to annual savings of around of our supplier audits 1 to access natural gas, substantially extending 360 tCO e. Continue to seek opportunities to 2 the environmental return of our investment.
promote energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy technology The pursuit of cleaner energy in our production and manufacturing is part of our wider effort to consider the environmental impacts of our business, reduce our carbon footprint in cost-effective ways and to maximise the efficiency of our production.
Based on IEA 2015 US electricity grid emission factor of 0.4556 tCO2e kWh.
