Audit Committee Letter from the Chair Assessing and quantifying Dear Shareholders 2017 Highlights Re-assessed our medium-term projections, longer-term prospects This report, summarises the work of the Committee over the last year, and adjusted asset valuations accordingly including the matters that we have found challenging, where careful Supported managements assessment and enhancement proposal judgement has been required.
for information system and operational processes Impairment Reviewed the effectiveness of the Enterprise Risk Management and The most significant financial issue that the Committee considered developed an enhancement programme during the year and up to the date of this report was the impairment Deepened the relationship with both the internal and external auditors of the West-Ward Columbus WWC assets, which amounted to Focused management on delivering the process enhancements $1,084bn.
The Group and divisional management undertook an from the internal audit programme extensive impairment review in advance of the final results for the year ended 31 December 2017.
2018 Priorities The Committee focused on scrutinising the business and financial Continuing to develop the risk controls and reporting capabilities projections that underpin the assessment of the assets value.
The Optimising the financial reporting, processing and forecasting capabilities key judgemental areas for the Committee were the timing of launch for products in development and the projections of revenue and margins associated with those products.
The Committee also considered the Allocation of time longer-term prospects for the business in light of changing industry and market environment in US generics.
Managements expectations Risk 16% from the WWC existing products and pipeline worsened during the year Internal audit 5% chiefly as a result of feedback from regulatory authorities relating to Financial statements 23% key products in development, the changing pricing environment in Forecasts 7% the US market, and the relative positions of generic competitors.
Financial performance 30% Acquisitions 19% As part of the exercise, the Committee requested that management consider particular worst-case scenarios, and extend sensitivity on revenue and margin assumptions.
It also challenged the probability assumptions of other scenarios in order to ensure appropriate stressMembers and attendance testing of the key assumptions.
As a result of the exercise, the Committee determined that the impairment value was appropriate.
Member Meetings Attendance Pat Butler Chair 6 6 100% Significant judgements Dr Ronald Goode 6 6 100% The Audit Committee considered and discussed the following important financial matters: Robert Pickering 6 6 100% 1 Dr Pamela Kirby 5 6 83% Impairment and fair value: Further details are provided above.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the estimate of the fair John Castellani 6 6 100% value of assets and liabilities.
Changes to managements medium- 2 Nina Henderson 5 6 83% term expectations for the Group primarily relating to WWC, including 3 Michael Ashton 3 3 100% sales, products under development, co-development agreements and contract manufacturing agreements, led to an impairment 1.
Dr Pamela Kirby was unable to attend one meeting due to changes to the meeting timing which caused a conflict with another commitment.
Nina Henderson was unable to attend one meeting due to a commitment that had been Revenue recognition: The Committee reviewed policies for revenue scheduled prior to joining the Board.
recognition and the application by management of the policies in 3.
Michael Ashton retired following the 2017 May AGM.
relation to significant products where the potential for returns and Pat Butler, the Independent Chair has extensive experience of financing, accounting, rebates was high.
The Committee was satisfied that the review by risk and internal control matters and is therefore considered to have recent and relevant management validated the approach to revenue recognition and financial experience.
All members are independent and when considered as a whole, have competence relevant to the sector in which the Company is operating.
Dr Ronald Goode, took account of changes in the environment for those products DrPamela Kirby and John Castellani all have extensive pharmaceutical experience.
78 Corporate Governance | Committees | Audit Taxation: The Groups worldwide operations are highly integrated External audit and involve a number of cross-border supply chains.
There is The external audit was undertaken by  LLP complexity and judgement in estimating the potential tax liabilities PwC as it has been since their appointment in May 2016, following a in various jurisdictions.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness competitive tender process.
Following a review of the effectiveness and of the disclosures in the Annual Report and considered the advice the efficiency of the 2016 year-end process, Mr Mark Gill was appointed from professional services firms and management in this regard.
as the senior statutory auditor in May 2017.
As in previous years, the Accounts receivable and inventory: The Committee reviewed Committee maintained regular contact with the auditors throughout the reports on major receivables and inventory provisions.
The Committee regularly reviews the work of the external Committee considered managements valuation of inventory, plans auditors and undertook an assessment of the auditors performance to ensure payment and relevant provisions.
and independence and in doing so examined the following issues Rebates and chargebacks: The Committee assessed the reports on during the year: the processing of chargebacks and rebates in the US.
This is a highly judgemental area and applies to a significant proportion of Group Audit quality and technical capabilities: The Committee evaluation revenue.
The Committee considered the control and modelling and review of the 2016 year-end includes an assessment of the environment and the appropriateness of associated provisions.
The Committee considered that the auditors Going concern: The Committee assessed the going concern position undertook a highly effective and in-depth assessment and when preparing the annual and half-yearly financial statements.
verification exercise and that the level of expertise was very high.
The Committee took into account Hikmas forecasts and budget, The Committee considered that improvements could be made in borrowing facilities, contingent liabilities, medium and long-term communication channels and process timing.
The Committee feeds plans, and financial and operational risk management.
back its comments on the auditors performance as part of the Viability: The Committee received the medium-term business regular meetings it has with them without management present, projections and considered the scenarios that could impact those and believes that there is a strong, appropriate and open relationship projects and the ability of the Company to remain viable.
between the audit team leadership, the Audit Committee and management.
Fair, balanced and understandable Independence: The Committee regularly reviews the independence Hikma is committed to clear and transparent disclosure and seeks to safeguards of the auditors and remains satisfied that auditor continuously improve the clarity of its reporting.
At the request of the independence has not been compromised.
Board, the Audit Committee considers whether Hikmas Annual Report Non-audit fees: The Committees policy is that the external auditors is fair, balanced and understandable and that the narrative section of should not undertake any work outside the scope of their annual the report is consistent with the financial information.
The Committee has discretion to grant exceptions to this assessment is underpinned by a comprehensive review conducted policy where it considers that exceptional circumstances exist and by the Reporting Committee, which consists of the leads for finance, that independence can be maintained.
PwC provided training on investor relations, and governance and is supported by divisional IFRS 15, 9 and 16 and services related to the reduction in the capital and functional heads, as required.
The Reporting Committees of an Irish subsidiary that must be provided by the auditor for a cost activities include: of $33,000.
Initiating the first review of the Annual Report in October, considering Statutory audit services are conducted in compliance with the external developments, issuing guidance to contributors and Competition and Markets Authority Order, and a competitive audit identifying areas for improvement tender process was undertaken in 2015.
Obtaining input from external advisers, including the auditors, brokers and public relations advisers Auditors fee $m Reviewing the disclosures as a whole Overseeing a verification process to ensure the accuracy of disclosures $2.4m Each member of the Audit Committee and the Reporting Committee PwC was satisfied that the 2017 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and recommended the adoption of the report 1 Jan 100% $2.4m and accounts to the Board.
31 Dec 2017 100% $0.0m 1 Jan 100% $2.8m 31 Dec 2016 100% $0.6m Non-audit related fees Audit related fees Tax services Other non-audit services The most significant financial issue that the Committee considered was the impairment of the WWC assets.
79 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Audit Committee continued Internal control The key elements of our internal control framework are as follows: The Board confirms that it is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management and A documented and disseminated reporting structure with clear that those systems remain effective.
The Board is satisfied that the policies, procedures, authorisation limits, segregation of duties Groups systems for internal control have been in place throughout the and delegated authorities year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report Written policies and procedures for material functional areas with and Accounts.
In making this assessment, the Board takes into account: specific responsibility allocated to individual managers A comprehensive system of internal financial reporting that includes Risk: The principal risks and uncertainties and risk management regular comparison of results against budget and forecast and report, detailed on pages 58 to 65 form a fundamental part of the a review of KPIs, each informed by management commentary Companys approach to designing and implementing new and An established process for reviewing the financial performance enhancements to existing controls.
and providing support to our joint ventures and associates together Internal audit: The Committee receives regular reports from the with direct support from the Hikma finance function internal auditors who assess the Companys process, identify areas Annual budgets, updated forecasts and long-term business plans for for improvement, monitor progress, and undertake their own risk the Group that identify risks and opportunities and that are reviewed assessment.
and approved by the Board Financial performance: The Group reporting and forecasting reports A defined process for controlling capital expenditure which is reviewed by the Board highlight deviations from expectations and detailed in the governance framework managements operational commentary.
Ethics: The business integrity and ethics procedures and controls Internal audit that are led by the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee.
EY has continued to perform the Groups global internal audit function Governance: The Board and Group-level controls and processes that and feedback into the enhancement to Group internal controls, as make up our approach to governance that is led by the Nomination detailed above.
EY assess all group facilities and all relevant processes and Governance Committee and includes all appropriate financial over a three year period.
For major sites, assessments are more controls and matters reserved.
Management is required to respond to findings within a short External auditors: The Committee and Chair have a regular period and, where necessary, complete all process improvements and confidential dialogue with the external auditors.
within two years, with 80% of high risk items being completed within one year.
There is a regular programme of interaction between EY The Board monitors the ongoing effectiveness of the system and and the Committee: encourages continuous improvement.
In the previous report, the Committee identified two areas for improvement.
The first, related to ABC activities in the US, has been completed.
The second, related Key internal audit events to enhancing the Companys approach to information technology and associated standardising and streamlining processes is a May August significant project.
During the year, the Board reviewed and approved The Committee Chair meets EY at EY report their initial findings to managements plans for making these enhancements which will take the Hikma head office in order to the full Committee.
The Committee place during 2018 and 2019. undertake a thorough review of the meets with EY without internal audit findings to date and management present.
The Committee received regular reports from the Companys internal the management responses.
auditors, EY, regarding their assessment of the Companys internal November December control environment and has identified the following key areas for management to advance: The Committee Chair has a further EY report their full year findings, meeting with EY to undertake an risk assessment and plan for the Improving the processes and data that support the automated in-depth review of the full year following year to the Committee.
financial accounting platform audit findings, review the results of The Committee meets with EY Developing the business partner capabilities of the finance function the risk assessment that is without management present.
Processing of returns and rebates in a more timely manner undertaken in conjunction with Ensuring that payroll responsibilities are segregated in all sites, management and consider the including those with low numbers of staff plan for the following year.
Assigning research and development costs on a product specific basis 80 Corporate Governance | Committees | Audit Going concern and viability Additional information The Committee oversees the Groups going concern and viability Copies on the work and policies of the Committee are available at the position, which is reported on page 65.
Companys registered office, 1 New Burlington Place, London W1S 2HR or by contacting cosec@hikma.
Taxation Alternatively please visit our website for more information of the below.
The Committee received reports from the Head of Tax regarding the tax implications of changes in the structure of the business.
These Calendar of events structural changes were in response to the Boards desire to ensure Internal and external advisers close operational oversight of certain facilities by the divisional Responsibilities and terms of reference leadership and to move responsibility for core operational functions www.
com investors corporate-governance key-committees to a global level.
The Committee considered the resulting impact on audit-committee the effective tax rate and the deferred tax assets in key markets.
The Committee reviewed managements proposals to deliver sufficient financial resources for certain subsidiaries.
In accordance with the governance principles for the Group, compliance related taxation matters are considered by the CREC.
Financing The Committee received and considered reports from management regarding the financial assets and liabilities of the Group.
The Group has reduced its overall debt using free cash flow, whilst ensuring that sufficient facilities are available to fund future capital projects.
IT capability The Committee received reports from the Chief Information Officer regarding the current status of the Groups information infrastructure and the medium-term plan to enhance the operational processes to enable the Group to maximise the value from the platforms.
The Committee supported efforts to centralise group processes and encouraged the appointment of new personnel for newly centralised functions.
Risk The Committee oversees the work of the Groups risk function, which is reported on pages 58 to 65.
The Committee has ensured that the Board has been fully involved in the annual review of the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 61 to 64 and the Groups risk appetite on page 59.
As ever, if you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Pat Butler Chair of the Audit Committee 13 March 2018 81 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Nomination and Governance Committee Letter from the Chair Enhancing leadership Dear Shareholders 2017 Highlights Undertook an extensive search process resulting in the appointment As in previous years, the Nomination and Governance Committee has of a new Chief Executive Officer in February 2018 considered succession planning for Independent Directors and executive Completed the implementation of the succession plan for Independent management, governance, board structure and board effectiveness.
Directors and Committee Chairs Executive succession Undertook an assessment of the Company and executive management During 2016, the Committee considered potential internal candidates in order to further develop succession planning for the position of Chief Executive Officer CEO.
Following discussions Enhanced the controls related to the delegation of authority and reporting with the Chairman and CEO regarding his desire to reduce his executive to the Board involvement, the Committee concluded that the Group should undertake an external search process in 2017.
The Committee focused 2018 Priorities the search on candidates with the necessary depth of pharmaceutical experience, vision of where to lead the Company and ability to further Developing a new plan for independent succession develop the executive team.
Considering additional board experience requirements Renewing the executive succession plan The Committee spent a significant amount of time developing and implementing its plan to find a new CEO.
The Committee oversaw the executive search process that was undertaken by Spencer Stuart Allocation of time and ensured that the Board and executive team had a thorough understanding of how the final candidate would fit into the organisation.
Skills and experience 12% Role profiles for the CEO and Executive Chairman were carefully Independence 12% developed.
The profiles allow an appropriate sharing of responsibilities Diversity 16% whilst ensuring that the CEO is responsible for delivering the Succession 30% Groups strategy.
Corporate governance 30% Independent succession With the retirement of Dr Ronald Goode in May 2018, the Company will have completed the 2014 succession plan for the orderly replacement of longer-serving independent directors who joined when the Company Members and attendance listed.
The Committee is cognisant that, following the appointment of an additional executive director and Dr Ronald Goodes retirement, Member Meetings Attendance there will be an equal balance of independent and non-independent Robert Pickering Chair 4 4 100% directors.
During 2018, the Committee will develop arrangements for Mazen Darwazah 4 4 100% further succession of independent directors and will consider additional appointments in order to ensure an independent majority 1 Pat Butler 3 4 75% and the right mix of skills and experience.
Nina Henderson 4 4 100% 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors are normally expected to serve for Michael Ashton 2 2 100% up to nine years.
They may be invited to serve for longer, but additional 1.
Pat Butler was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment with another service beyond nine years is subject to particularly rigorous review.
Experience and training The Committee continues to believe that a longer induction period is desirable for new independent directors to allow for building understanding of the business and the transfer of knowledge and relationships associated with chairing committees.
The Committee believes it is important for all directors to have significant international experience at an executive level, a challenging yet consensual style, and the highest level of integrity.
The Committee regularly considers 82 Corporate Governance | Committees | Nomination and Governance whether there may be gaps in fulfilling the specific and in-depth experiences that the Board requires as a whole, which focuses on the following areas: Business environment in both the US and the MENA Pharmaceutical manufacturing and distribution Development of new generic pharmaceutical capabilities The Committee focused on depth of Listing regulation and governance pharmaceutical experience, a vision of The Company supports Directors in their continued development.
where to lead the Company and the ability As the Directors are highly experienced, their training needs tend to to further develop the executive team.
be either ensuring awareness of changes in the business, political and regulatory environment, or bespoke training and mentoring on a particular area for development.
Therefore, the Company financially supports specific training requests and ensures that Directors are briefed by internal and external advisers on a regular basis.
The Board has not set specific, measurable diversity objectives because it needs flexibility to recruit the right candidates.
The Board Commitment and interests considers that it has always demonstrated strong ethnic diversity.
The Committee considers the commitment of all Directors both in terms The Committee was pleased to be able to improve gender diversity of dedication to the role and their time availability.
In order to ensure over the past few years but recognises that the current level of female an appropriate balance of skills and diversity across the boardroom, representation is not sufficient for a leading international organisation.
the Committee has made accommodations to the board calendar As the Committee considers appointing an additional independent to maximise availability and has acknowledged that there are times director over the course of 2018, it will seek to identify candidates when this may mean that full attendance may not be achieved.
The who bring the right skills and experience, as well as the potential to Committee has concluded that all Directors are fully dedicated, commit improve the gender balance.
The Committee continues to require an appropriate amount of time to their roles, and are readily available at the external search consultants to actively seek female candidates short notice.
When seeking new directors with the experience required, and to ensure that a significant proportion of long and shortlisted there are occasions when limited compromises on availability are candidates are female.
required in order to strengthen the Board.
The Committee monitors the external appointments of directors from both an availability and conflict As Senior Independent Director, I am available at any time to discuss of interest perspective, whilst noting that experiences with other with shareholders any matter of concern.
organisations can enhance a Directors ability to perform the role.
For and on behalf of the Nomination and Governance Committee Governance As part of the Committees responsibilities, it regularly reviews the internal governance and control processes and keeps abreast of external governance developments.
This year, the Committee focused on enhancing the matters reserved to the Board in terms of the coverage of activities, clarity of the powers delegated, and management focus on reporting and situations requiring referral.
Additionally, the Robert Pickering Committee reviewed and enhanced the Groups defence arrangements.
Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee 13 March 2018 Re-election Each member of the Board will stand for election or re-election at the 2018 AGM, with the exception of Dr Ronald Goode who will step down at the close of the meeting.
The position of each Board member was closely reviewed during the year as part of the consideration of succession arrangements, consideration of independence issues, the Board and Committee evaluation processes and the ongoing dialogue between the Executive Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Diversity Hikmas inclusive workplace welcomes different cultures, perspectives, Additional information and experiences from across the globe.
Hikma welcomes variety and treats all employees equally regardless of any actual or perceived Copies on the work and policies of the Committee are available at the characteristic.
Hikma is committed to employing and engaging talented Companys registered office, 1 New Burlington Place, London W1S 2HR or by contacting cosec@hikma.
people, irrespective of their race, colour, religious creed, age, sex, marital status, national origin, present or past history of mental or Alternatively please visit our website for more information of the below.
physical disability and any other factors not related to a persons ability Director recruitment process to perform a role.
Since its founding, Hikma has actively promoted Calendar of events gender diversity across its operations and continues to have excellent Internal and external advisers diversity in terms of culture, age, background, skills and experience.
Responsibilities and terms of reference Hikma has successful empowerment and talent development programmes to help all employees make the most of their potential.
com investors corporate-governance key-committees  83 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Letter from the Chair Strengthening integrity and human dignity Dear Shareholders 2017 Highlights Successful transition of Committee Chair This is my first letter to you as Chair of the Compliance, Responsibility Integrated US compliance into the global programme and Ethics Committee.
My first task is to thank Dr Ronald Goode, both for establishing this Committee and our Anti-bribery and Compliance Implemented ABC enhancements from a recent risk assessment ABC programme, as well as providing excellent support and advice Promoted and further developed online training tools for all employees during the transition of the CREC Chair.
Advanced the anti-trust, anti-money laundering and trade sanctions programme This year we have focused the report on the matters that occurred during the year.
Further detail on the structure of our ABC compliance and integrity programme is available on our website.
2018 Priorities Promote continued ABC and CR activities across the Group Commitment to integrity Further develop our human dignity programme The Committee is very proud of Hikmas commitment to the highest standards of business integrity, including the zero tolerance of bribery Test and improve the systems that we have implemented and corruption and being a founding member of the World Economic Forums Partnering Against Corruption Initiative.
Whilst the Company operates in some markets that are considered high risk, it has been Allocation of time pleasing to note that Hikmas performance and leadership on business A nti-trust, AML and anti-trade integrity is admired amongst our regulators, customers and suppliers.
sanctions 13% Corporate governance 18% ABC programme Risk assessment 7% Due to the top-down commitment of our senior management and the CR including human dignity 18% effectiveness of our compliance team, our ABC programme is now well ABC operations 44% embedded into the organisation.
The Committee receives regular reports on issues arising and oversees the continued improvement of the programme.
Further to the report last year, the team has addressed the issues identified in our most recent risk assessment by enhancing the relevant processes in our US businesses.
I am pleased to report that Members and attendance our US ABC efforts are now fully integrated into our global programme.
Member Meetings Attendance John Castellani Chair 5 5 100% Under the guidance of the General Counsel, we have brought the ABC activities into the internal audit programme.
The ongoing monitoring Mazen Darwazah 5 5 100% and review by the internal auditors ensures that the ABC programme Pat Butler 5 5 100% continuously improves.
In the view of the Committee, the implementation of internal audit practices demonstrates that we have successfully Dr Ronald Goode 5 5 100% taken our ABC programme from initiation to the current fully Dr Pamela Kirby 5 5 100% operational phase.
During the year, the Compliance department developed and tested a new process and platform for dealing with the complicated challenges associated with third-party risks.
The system will be implemented during 2018.
84 Corporate Governance | Committees | Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Training Following the development of an online ABC training module last year, the Compliance department have rolled out the application to all Group sites and integrated it with our HR on-boarding activities.
Additionally, the application has been further enhanced with the addition of new modules which enhance understanding of our commitment to integrity.
We have successfully taken our ABC The Board has fully supported the training programme, which all programme from initiation to the current directors, officers and senior executives have completed.
Code of Conduct The Committee continues to oversee the development and promotion of the Groups Code of Conduct, which embodies the important moral and ethical values that the Company seeks to promote.
The Code Ethical issues guides all the Committees activities and is the key reference point The Committee oversaw the Companys response to ethical issues for all our employees.
arising during the year, including the potential misuse of products by Departments of Corrections in the US.
Speak-up The Committee continued to receive regular reports on issues I am available at any time to discuss with shareholders any matter identified through the Groups well-established speak-up ofconcern.
arrangements, which include anonymous reporting lines that report directly to the Compliance department and Chair of the CREC.
The For and on behalf of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee remains satisfied that the procedures, which include a Committee committee of senior Group employees that undertake proportionate investigations and implements corrective action, are appropriate and effective.
The Committee is pleased to report that the regional speak-up facilities were consolidated into one group-wide application during the year.
John Castellani Anti-trust, anti-money laundering and trade sanctions Chair of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee The General Counsel oversees the Groups compliance within the 13 March 2018 anti-trust, anti-money laundering AML and trade sanctions legislation and reports to the Committee in this regard.
The Group has established extensive policies and procedures to ensure compliance, which have been reviewed by the Committee during the year.
Over the course of the year, the General Counsel provided advice to the Committee on the changing sanctions landscape and how this affects the Companys operations and strategy.
Compliance with Criminal Finances Act During the year, the Committee undertook a risk assessment exercise in response to recently introduced tax evasion legislation from the UK government.
The Group has started implementing processes and procedures that are proportionate to its risk of failure to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
The Group is steadfast in applying the principles of the UK tax evasion legislation across all its businesses within the Group and will continue to oversee matters of compliance.
Modern slavery Hikma is committed to ensuring that modern slavery in the form of Additional information forced or compulsory labour and human trafficking does not take place Copies on the work and policies of the Committee are available at the in any of its businesses or supply chains across the globe.
Key measures Companys registered office, 1 New Burlington Place, London W1S 2HR in support of this goal include training Hikma staff on labour standards or by contacting cosec@hikma.
and how to recognise and respond to any incidences of modern slavery, Alternatively please visit our website for more information of the below.
undertaking periodic analysis and management of any modern slavery risk in Hikmas businesses or supply chains, carrying out appropriate Calendar of events due diligence and engaging on the issue with supply chain partners.
Internal and external advisers Responsibilities and terms of reference Corporate responsibility www.
com investors corporate-governance key-committees The Committee has overseen, encouraged and supported the cre-committee Corporate Responsibility programme which is so clearly linked to our Commitment to integrity founders desire to improve lives, particularly through educational and www.
com sustainability global-frameworks development opportunities for the least privileged.
Our Corporate Responsibility report is contained on pages 44 to 57.
com about  code-of-conduct 85 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
