BOARD OF DIRECTORS Susan Searle Scott Brown Chairman of the Board and the Management Member of the Management Engagement and Audit Engagement Committee and a member of the Committees Scott is Chief Executive of Nexeon Limited, an Imperial College Audit Committee spin-out focused on developing silicon anode technology for Susan served as the Chief Executive of Touchstone Innovations next generation Li-ion battery technology.
During his tenure, plc formerly Imperial Innovations plc from January 2002 to July he has led the change in the companys strategy to successfully 2013, where she led funding rounds totalling circa 250m.
move from an IP licensing business model to one of material During her tenure, Touchstone Innovations invested 121m in production and supply.
Previously, Scott was Executive Vice a portfolio of healthcare, engineering and software businesses President at Cambridge Display Technology CDT, responsible linked to major universities.
for commercial and IP activities of the company.
Prior to CDT, Scott was Global R&D Director for the Electronic Materials Previously she worked at Montech in Australia science Business at Dow Corning now a wholly-owned subsidiary of commercialisation, Signet Group plc, Bank of Nova Scotia and Dow Chemical, a US-headquartered multinational corporation Shell Chemicals in a variety of business development and with over US$6bn in annual revenues.
Scott holds a PhD in commercial roles.
Susan currently serves as non-executive Chemistry and is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry.
director of Horizon Discovery Group plc, Benchmark Holdings plc and QinetiQ Group plc.
She is also Chair of Mercia Scott was appointed as a Director of the Company on 13 Technologies plc, an investment business that invests in February 2015. high-growth technology businesses with a focus on the Midlands, North and Scotland.
Susan has an MA in Chemistry from Oxford University.
Susan was appointed as a Director of the Company on 13 February 2015.
40 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc BOARD OF DIRECTORS Carolan Dobson Steven Harris Member of the Management Engagement and Audit Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member Committees of the Management Engagement Committee Carolan Dobson has a background in fund management and Steven is Chief Executive of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc.
He is an experienced non-executive director in public and private is a bioscience entrepreneur with extensive experience of sector organisations, including a diverse portfolio of founding and leading specialty pharmaceutical companies.
She spent her executive career at Prior to co-founding Circassia in 2006, he was a founding Murray Johnstone Ltd, where she managed Murray Income member of the team that grew Zeneus Pharma Ltd into a plc and was a main board director, and later joined Abbey leading specialty pharmaceuticals company.
National Asset Management as head of UK.
Prior to Zeneus, he spent seven years at PowderJect Carolan is currently the Chair of JP Morgan European Smaller Pharmaceuticals plc as Chief Financial Officer, where he was a Companies Trust plc, The Brunner Investment Trust plc, key member of the team that grew the early-stage private Schroders UK Growth plc and Blackrock Latin American biotechnology organisation into an integrated, profitable Investment Trust plc.
public company, which became the worlds fifth largest vaccines business before being acquired by Chiron Carolan was appointed as a Director of the Company on 28 Corporation in 2003.
Steven holds a BSc from Southampton July 2016.
University and is a Chartered Accountant and member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Steven was appointed as a Director of the Company on 13 February 2015.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 41 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Alan Hodson Dame Louise Makin Member of the Management Engagement Member of the Management Engagement and Audit Committees and Audit Committees Louise joined BTG plc, a growing global specialist healthcare Alan Hodson is the Chairman of JPMorgan Elect plc and a company in the FTSE 250, as Chief Executive in October 2004. non-executive director of HarbourVest Global Private Equity During her time with the company, Louise has overseen a Limited.
He joined Rowe and Pitman subsequently SG strategic business review leading to a focus on life sciences, Warburg, SBC and UBS in 1984 and worked in a range of expansion into the US and a series of acquisitions.
Prior to roles, all related to international equity markets.
He became joining BTG, Louise was with Baxter Healthcare initially as Global Head of Equities in April 2001 and was a member of Vice President, Strategy & Business Development Europe and the Executive Committee of UBS Investment Bank and of the then as President, Biopharmaceuticals Europe, where she UBS AG Group Managing Board.
was responsible for Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Alan retired from UBS in June 2005 and has since held Louises previous roles include director of Global Ceramics at positions on a variety of financial and charity boards.
He English China Clay and a variety of positions at ICI between joined BlackRock Commodities Income Investment Trust plc 1985 and 1998.
Louise is a non-executive director of Intertek in 2005, as Chair of the Board, a role he held until 2015, on Group plc, Chair of the 1851 Trust, and a trustee of the completion of his nine-year tenure.
He was a partner at Mill Outward Bound Trust.
Louise holds an MA and PhD in Street Asset Management from 2006 to 2014, and a Materials Science and is an Honorary Fellow of St. John's member of the Advisory Board of Norges Bank Investment College, Cambridge.
Louise was appointed a Director of the Company on 13 In addition to his commercial board roles, Alan has served February 2015. on the boards of a number of charities, including as Chairman of Trustees of the Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity 2007-2015.
Alan was appointed a Director of the Company on 28 July 2016.
42 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
