Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 POLYPIPES BUSINESS MODEL Creating the competitive advantage TRUST Market Leadership Polypipe Brand RANGE Breadth and Depth of Product Systems Substituting Legacy Materials CAPABILITY Manufacturing & Logistics Scale Bespoke Product Solutions COMPETENCE CUSTOMERS & Industry Authority ENVIRONMENT Product Innovation SUPPORT Leading Edge Design Expertise Application Based Technical Support 4 VALUE Intelligent Engineered Solutions Smarter Thinking Better Solutions SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable Products and Practices Enabling Sustainable Building Technology The strength and long-term value of our business model is in placing our customers, their markets and the environment at the heart of everything that we do.
Polypipe understands its customers With storm events and water shortages odours and contaminants in the air.
With businesses and the challenges they occurring more frequently due to average air temperatures projected to face, making us well placed to help environmental change, Polypipes rise significantly over the coming decades deliver solutions that meet key market engineered solutions help its customers due to climate change, and the urban drivers.
As well as ensuring availability ensure their developments are resilient.
heat island effect likely to exacerbate of the broadest product portfolio The Company can act as a key partner in the intensity of heatwaves in cities, the that carry an extensive list of product providing modern building practices in convergence of low energy heating approvals, allowing its systems to be regards to managing water as a scarce and ventilation solutions that maintain widely specified, Polypipe has a team of resource, empowering town planners and comfortable internal temperatures and experienced experts that train, interact regional authorities to create drainage help avoid overheating all year round with and influence the numerous systems that support modern city living.
customer groups in all of our market As the trend of urbanisation continues Furthermore, Polypipes Permavoid system sectors.
From specifiers and engineers, on a global scale, Polypipe maintains used on podium decks or at roof level, to the merchants, to the installers and its position as an authority on water provides a solution for water capture plumbers, Polypipes customers have management in these environments, rainwater harvesting and allows for a come to expect quality, support, trust, helping an expanding population deal planted green roof that not only acts as competence and capability, which are with flood events and enjoy healthy, an insulation barrier, but the combination values that are consistently maintained green space in and around the built of plant processes photosynthesis and throughout the Companys operations.
evapotranspiration and soil processes In combining all of the above, Polypipe Polypipes ventilation solutions boosted evapotransmission reduce the continues to maintain the market by the acquisition of Nuaire, help to amount of solar energy absorbed by leading position for creating plastic pipe provide comfortable environments for the roof membrane, leading to cooler technology and sustainable products that occupants of buildings, by for example temperatures beneath the surface, further are intelligently engineered.
regulating temperature, humidity, reducing the energy required for cooling.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY SEACOAL HOUSE Client: Gustafson Porter Bowman Application: Roof Garden Polypipe helped provide Seacoal House in the heart of London with a state-of-the-art hard landscaped roof and stormwater management system, improving the efficiency of the buildings drainage system, while providing a roof garden design as a recreational space.
At just PRODUCT INNOVATION 85mm deep, and with a very high void ratio, Permavoid was the ideal solution for this roof garden application.
LEADING EDGE DESIGN EXPERTISE DEMONSTRATING: THOUGHT LEADERSHIP ENGINEERING DESIGN SUSTAINABILITY IN THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT UNIQUE DIFFERENTIATION OF POLYPIPE SUBSTITUTING LEGACY MATERIALS APPLICATION BASED TECHNICAL SUPPORT CASE STUDY O HOTEL 2 Client: H. E. Simm & Son Ltd. Products: Terrain FUZE HDPE, Soil & Waste For this prestigious 19-storey hotel, with 453 bedrooms and suites, it was of paramount importance that the drainage system installed could be trusted not to leak, and so M&E Contractor, H. E. Simm & Son Ltd. approached Polypipe to manufacture a suitable solution.
Terrain FUZE HDPE, made of high-density polyethylene, is lighter in weight than the cast iron equivalent and is available in longer lengths, meaning less jointing is required, which in turn provides fewer opportunities for the system to leak.
