Sustainability continued Delivering quality in everything we do At Hikma, we are committed to providing quality in everything we do.
We believe that building trustworthy, transparent relationships are key to sustainable long-term partnerships.
In 2017 we took steps to build on our governance frameworks and broadened the scope of our partnerships with major suppliers to uphold the ethical foundations of our organisation.
Maintained inclusion in the FTSE4Good As recognition of our quality standards in our sustainability practices, we are pleased to have maintained our inclusion in the FTSE4Good sustainability index in 2017.
The FTSE4Good recognises companies listed on the London Stock Exchange that demonstrate strong Environmental, Social and Governance ESG Maintained ethical standards and Our culture at Hikma is one of transparency practices as measured against internationally minimised the risk of corruption and respect, which we support through recognised best practices.
The focus areas We are committed to upholding ethical our open-door policy and Speak Up include: anti-corruption, climate change, standards, including honesty, integrity and whistleblowing platform.
Speak Up is an health and safety, and customer responsibility.
As a publicly-listed company independent service that enables on the London Stock Exchange, we abide by stakeholders inside or outside the company the UK Anti-Bribery Act 2010 and the Share to anonymously raise concerns about Dealing Code and Disclosure Policies.
We are incidents that do not align with our values also a founding member of the Partnering such as corruption or discrimination.
Against Corruption Initiative PACI, an offshoot of the World Economic Forum WEF, Various risks arise for companies that do not and a leading voice on promoting antidevelop effective anti-bribery and corruption corruption and transparency across different ABC policies.
These can include reputational, industries.
In 2015 we joined the Business 20 financial, licensing or regulatory implications, B20 Anti-Corruption Working Group ACWG, as well as difficulty receiving financing, which operates under the umbrella of the G20 attracting and keeping talent or developing international forum and is tasked with helping business partnerships.
As such, we continue companies improve their ethical conduct.
to take measures to strengthen our Case study: A firm stance against modern slavery We are wholly committed to defending the universal principles of human rights and ensuring that modern slavery in the form of forced or compulsory labour and human trafficking does not take place in any of our businesses or supply chains around the world.
We have taken measures to guard against all forms of modern slavery within our sphere of influence.
These include: training our people on local and universal labour standards, as well as how to recognise and respond to incidences of modern slavery: undertaking periodic evaluations to identify and address modern slavery risks in our businesses or supply chains: and carrying out appropriate due diligence when engaging new supply chain partners.
46 Strategic report | Sustainability | Quality Extended our commitment to ethics across our supply chain In order to ensure our suppliers and partners uphold our standards, our supply chain management team conducts regular audits that assess compliance in areas including business ethics, labour standards and environmental protection.
We have ensured that all of our suppliers follow Good Manufacturing Practices GMP and that our major suppliers are ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified or equivalent.
In 2016, we introduced staff training measures and the development of specific standard operating procedures SOPs to ensure that we, and our partners, are not involved in forced or compulsory labour or human trafficking.
In 2017, we strengthened our ability to address this issue, incorporating modern slavery clauses into our Code of Conduct and Supplier Audit Questionnaires the latter being Case study: Our commitment to education governance and manage risks by reinforcing mandatory for all of our new and major-spend Speaking at our first Hikma Cancer Network our ABC protocols.
Currently, we do not screen all Middle East Forum of Hematologic Responsibility and Ethics Committee CREC suppliers.
We are working to increase the Malignancies, our Vice Chairman and CEO a Board Committee which is chaired by an number of those that we engage through of MENA and Emerging Markets, Mazen independent, non-executive director has our questionnaires.
Darwazah explained, This collaboration formalised, developed and implemented an reinforces our commitment to continuous ABC business integrity programme based on Supported continued education medical education, and enables us to thorough risk assessment and understanding of doctors and pharmacists fulfil our obligation to the communities in of our business.
In addition, our Code of We provide education to doctors and which we operate by allowing us to meet Conduct provides all employees with a clear pharmacists to improve the delivery of the needs of our patients and help create understanding of the principles of business healthcare to patients.
In 2017, we collaborated sustainable healthcare.
conduct, standards, and ethical behaviours.
with the Department of Leukemia at the We implement frequent ABC programmes University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer which are monitored through internal Center to host our first annual Hikma Cancer compliance assessments, and carry out Network Middle East Forum of Hematologic third-party due diligence and oversight Malignancies.
Through the forum we when necessary.
succeeded in attracting more than 100 blood cancer specialists from around the MENA 100 This year, we introduced an e-learning training region.
We provided information on new module to more effectively train our technologies and treatments.
Cancer specialists participated in our first employees on how to identify and act on annual Hikma Cancer Network forum instances of bribery and corruption.
The In Tunisia, we launched a series of training module was rolled out globally and will be programmes for pharmacists and their updated on an annual basis.
Our training programmes addressed issues such as improved stock management, finance and accounting basics, human resource management, as well as the soft skills necessary to improve the overall patient experience.
