Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Business overview FROM WOODSMITH TO THE WORLD Sirius Minerals North Yorkshire Polyhalite Project Credit: Ebor images North York Moors National Park 8 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 which has exploration potential in all Situated between the River Tees and directions, is defined from an area of Scarborough in North Yorkshire, UK, only 7% of the Companys total Sirius Project covers an area of mineral rights holdings.
2.66 billion tonne resource To access its world-class mineral Sirius has secured all the required resource, Sirius has designed its mine planning permissions and approvals infrastructure to not only be along with the necessary mineral sympathetic to the sensitive location rights to develop its flagship North of its Woodsmith Mine within the North Yorkshire polyhalite Project which, York Moors National Park but to also when constructed, will have the allow the Company to efficiently mine 280 million capacity to deliver up to 20 Mtpa of and transport up to 20 Mtpa of tonne reserve its multi-nutrient, low chloride fertilizer polyhalite from the Woodsmith Mine product POLY4.
POLY4 is derived from site to the Materials Handling Facility the naturally occurring mineral, MHF on Teesside causing minimal polyhalite K SO MgSO 2CaSO 2H O.
The low impact infrastructure ensures no mineral will Polyhalite is a relatively common come to surface until after it leaves mineral which occurs in marine 37 kilometres the National Park and arrives at the evaporite systems and is usually MHF.
from a deep-water harbour facility found in accumulations several centimetres thick.
In Yorkshire, Sirius The scale and quality of the mineral has intersected high-grade seams of resource combined with the relative polyhalite up to 70 metres thick.
proximity to a deep-water port present significant economic and Sirius has defined a JORC compliant operational advantages and give the reserve of 280 million tonnes of Project all the hallmarks of a worldpolyhalite with a mean grade of class resource asset.
88.4%, from a JORC compliant inferred and indicated resource of 2.66 billion tonnes of 85.7% polyhalite.
The polyhalite formed when an ancient sea, the Zechstein Sea, evaporated some 260 million years ago.
The polyhalite seams that are the focus of the Company are located approximately 1,550 metres below surface level and have a mean reserve thickness of 25 metres.
The current extent of the mineral resource, The current extent of the mineral resource, which has exploration potential in all directions, is defined from an area of only 7% of the Companys total mineral rights holdings.
Polyhalite core sample 9 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
