Governance Board of Directors Chair Executive directors N S Ian Marchant Robin Watson David Kemp Chair Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Key experience: Public company boards, Appointed: 2013 Appointed: 2015 power sector, finance and public capital Group Chief Executive since January 2016.
Group Chief Financial Officer CFO markets, government and regulation Formerly Chief Operating Officer from since May 2015, previously CFO of Wood April 2015, CEO of Wood Group PSN and Group PSN having joined Wood Group Appointed: 2006 Managing Director of Wood Group PSN in in 2013.
Prior to joining Wood Group, Chair since 2014.
Ian is currently Chairman the UK, having joined Wood Group in 2010.
David served in executive roles at Trap of Thames Water: a director of Nova, Prior to joining Wood Group, Robin served Oil Group, Technip, Simmons & Company the tidal energy company: non-executive in a variety of leadership and management International and Hess Corporation, director of Aggreko plc and Maggie's positions with Petrofac and Mobil.
He serves working across Finance, M&A and Cancer Charity and Honorary President of as non-executive director of Oil & Gas UK, Operations.
He is a member of SCDI North the Royal Zoological Society of Scotland.
the Oil & Gas UK Contractors Council and East and of the Institute of Chartered Until December 2015 he was Chair of Infinis the Scottish Business Board.
Robin was Accountants of Scotland and is also a Energy plc.
He was Chief Executive of SSE previously work group co-chair on the Step director and governor of Albyn School.
plc, a leading UK energy utility company, for Change in Safety Leadership Team.
over 10 years until stepping down in 2013.
Non-executive directors A N S N S A N R Linda Adamany Thomas Botts Jann Brown Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Key experience: Public company boards, Key experience: International oil & gas Key experience: International oil & gas, international oil & gas, petrochemicals including North America, Europe, South public company boards, finance and public America, Middle East and downstream capital markets Appointed: 2017 Linda is currently a non-executive director Appointed: 2013 Appointed: 2014 of Coeur Mining Inc, Leucadia National Thomas is a non-executive director of EnPro Jann is currently Managing Director and Corporation and BlackRock Institutional Industries, is co-chair of the Governor's CFO of SOCO International plc.
She spent Trust Company and is a former Task Force at the University of Wyoming, her career in the accounting profession non-executive director of Amec Foster a director of the University of Wyoming before moving into the oil industry, latterly Wheeler.
She previously worked for BP for Foundation and is a long-standing member as Managing Director and CFO of Cairn 27 years in the UK and US.
During that time of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
She is a past-president of the she held various roles in refining & marketing, was formerly with Shell for 35 years, latterly Institute of Chartered Accountants of exploration & production and petrochemicals as Global Head of Shell's manufacturing Scotland ICAS and Audit Committee Chair including Chief Executive of BP Shipping business.
of Troy Income and Growth Trust and of the and Group Vice President and Commercial Scottish Ballet.
She was Senior Independent Director of BP Refining & Marketing.
Director of Wood until October 2017.
38 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Non-executive directors A N S A N S N Jacqui Ferguson Roy Franklin Ian McHoul Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Key experience: Technology sector Key experience: Public company boards, Key experience: Public company boards, specialising in cloud security, international oil & gas, mergers and finance and strategy telecommunications, financial services, acquisitions Appointed: 2017 travel and transportation, energy and Appointed: 2017 Ian is currently a non-executive director of government Roy is currently Chairman of Premier Oil Bellway plc, Young's plc and Britvic plc and Appointed: 2016 plc and Deputy Chairman of Statoil ASA.
was formerly CFO of Amec Foster Jacqui is currently Public Services Chair at He is also a member of the advisory board Wheeler.
He spent 23 years working in the the Confederation of British Industry and of Kerogen Capital LLC and Chairman brewing industry, latterly as Group Finance a board member of the Tech Partnership.
of privately-held companies Cuadrilla Director of Scottish & Newcastle plc.
He She was previously Senior Vice President Resources Holdings Ltd and Energean was previously Finance & Strategy Director and General Manager of Hewlett Packard Israel Ltd. Roy is a former non-executive at Inntrepreneur Pub Company Limited Enterprise Services in the UK and Ireland director of Amec Foster Wheeler.
He spent and before that held various positions at and Middle East, Mediterranean and Africa.
18 years at BP, latterly as Head of M&A, BP Fosters Brewing Group including General She was also the Vice President and Chief Exploration, after which he was Group MD Manager, Strategy.
of Staff to the CEO of Hewlett Packard of Clyde Petroleum and then CEO of Paladin from March 2012 to 2014.
Prior to this she Resources until 2005.
Roy has served on a held a number of senior roles within the number of international energy boards in technology sector in Europe, the Middle non-executive roles and, until recently, was East, Africa, Asia and North America.
Chairman of the Keller Group plc.
N R A N R Key to Committee membership A Audit N Nomination R Remuneration S Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Chair Mary Shafer-Malicki Jeremy Wilson Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Previous directors Key experience: Public company boards, Key experience: Public company boards, international oil & gas including Europe, finance and public capital markets Richard Howson Asia and Africa Appointed: 2011 Appointed: 2016 Appointed: 2012 Jeremy is a non-executive director of Tullow Non-executive director and member Mary is currently a non-executive director Oil plc and Chair of The Lakeland Climbing of the Safety, Assurance & Business of McDermott International Inc, an Centre.
He spent his career at J. P. Morgan, Ethics and Nomination Committees.
independent director of QEP Resources which he joined in 1987, until retiring in Resigned January 2018.
Inc and is a former non-executive director October 2013.
He held a series of senior of Ausenco Limited.
She is a member level positions there including Head of the of industry councils at Oklahoma State European Mergers and Acquisitions Group, University and the University of Wyoming.
global co-head of the Natural Resources Mary worked for Amoco and BP for 26 years, and Diversified Industrials Group and latterly as Senior Vice President and CEO latterly Vice Chair of the Energy Group and for BP Angola, with previous appointments was involved in a number of major oil & gas in Vietnam, Aberdeen, Holland and the US, mergers over the years.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39
