Strategic report Governance Financial statements Letter from the Chair of the Board Three former AFW directors joined the Board on completion of the AFW transaction.
Roy Franklin is now the Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chair and Linda Adamany and Ian McHoul are serving as non-executive directors.
These appointments ensure diversity at Board level in terms of background, experience and thought leadership, as well as maintaining a minimum of one third of our Board being female.
The Board consists of 11 non-executive directors following Richard Howsons resignation in January 2018.
Although ultimately we will reduce the number of non-executive directors, for now, maintaining governance and continuity of leadership in Board committees is a key focus, which will be best delivered by this new blended Board.
"During the year the Audit Committee ""The Board devoted significant time to supporting and was involved in financial aspects of the challenging the executive leadership team throughout the transaction including policy alignment, AFW acquisition."
Three former AFW directors joined the GAAP reconciliations, working capital statements and proforma financial Board on completion and I believe that the expanded Board statements for inclusion in regulatory ensures the appropriate skills for effective decision making in documents.
"As noted last year, good progress has been made on auditor the best long term interests of the combined business. """
rotation and subject to approval at the AGM, KPMG will be appointed for the financial year 2018 following an extensive Dear Shareholder Along with the acquisition, the Board tender process.
continued to support the executive 2017 represented a year of significant leadership teams focus on operating in The Remuneration Committee were strategic development under Robins challenging markets ensuring cost and engaged in reviewing and proposing leadership.
utilisation discipline was maintained as the remuneration arrangements in a year of You showed an overwhelming level of prolonged downturn in oil and gas markets substantial change, actively engaging support for the all share offer for Amec continued in 2017.
The AFW acquisition with the wider stakeholders of the Foster Wheeler which completed on 6 broadens our exposure to wider industrial combined business to communicate October.
This followed an extensive exercise markets and should reduce Woods the remuneration principles we apply.
In to identify potential transformational dependence on core oil and gas markets.
recognition of Robin and Davids increased acquisitions, from which AFW stood out responsibilities in a business of significantly Our focus on safety was maintained as an opportunity to accelerate delivery increased scale and complexity than throughout the transaction.
In 2017 the of the Wood Group strategy.
either individual legacy company, the Safety, Assurance and Business Ethics Remuneration Committee decided to During the process from identification Committee spent time monitoring the increase their remuneration with effect through closing and on to integration, regulatory compliance plan to ensure from 1 January 2018.
The Committee the governance principles of leadership, compliance with the administrative and Board have every confidence in their accountability and relations with agreement entered into in respect of ability to deliver and want to ensure their shareholders were in particular focus events in the Gulf of Mexico in prior years remuneration is commensurate with their as the Board devoted significant time and prevent recurrence.
The Committee new, more complex roles.
to supporting and challenging the also focussed on monitoring the ongoing Your Board recognises the tremendous executive leadership team throughout SFO, DOJ and SEC investigations the transaction.
job Robin, David and the Executive into legacy AFW's historical use of Leadership Team have done in delivering agents and legacy Wood Group's Post completion, the Boards focus the acquisition of AFW and I am confident internal investigation into the historical turned to the detailed integration of the they will continue this momentum to engagement of Unaoil.
two businesses and ensuring appropriate deliver the cost and revenues synergies governance is in place.
The integration The Nomination Committee focussed from the acquisition.
Looking ahead to process is greatly enabled by the on the effectiveness and independence 2018, I believe that the expanded Board strategic reorganisation of Wood Group of the Board.
The Committee approved ensures the appropriate skills for effective during 2016, sponsored at Board level the reappointment of Jann Brown as decision making in the best long term by Thomas Botts.
The Board receives non-executive director having completed interests of the combined business.
regular updates from the integration her initial term of three years.
Having team and has provided appropriate completed his second term of three years, direction based on their extensive the Committee carried out a detailed experience of change management and review for Jeremy Wilson and concluded integration programmes in complex that he continues to be independent.
Ian Marchant, Chair John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35
