Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairs statement Going forward, Wood will have a broader exposure across energy and industrial markets and the oil and gas segment will account for around half of revenue.
Post completion, three former AFW directors joined the Board.
Roy Franklin is now the Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chair and Linda Adamany and Ian McHoul serve as non-executive directors.
In January, Richard Howson stepped down from the Board.
These board changes ensure diversity at Board level in terms of background, experience and thought leadership.
Taking account of cashflows and earnings, the progressive Wood dividend policy is a key element of our investment case and compares favourably against peers in the global engineering and construction sector.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 23.2 cents per share, which makes a total distribution for the year of 34.3 cents, an increase of 3% on the 2016 total 2017 was a year of significant development distribution.
Former AFW shareholders culminating in the completion of the acquisition will also receive the final dividend.
of Amec Foster Wheeler to create Wood.
Looking ahead, the Board is very confident that Wood will build on the The Board is very confident that Wood will build integrated growth platform of Wood Group and Amec Foster Wheeler for the on the integrated growth platform of Wood long term benefit of all stakeholders.
Group and Amec Foster Wheeler for the long term benefit of all stakeholders.
2017 was a year of significant The all share offer announced on 13 development for Wood Group culminating March represented a 15% premium to the previous days closing price and received in the completion of the acquisition of Ian Marchant, Chair the overwhelming support of both sets AFW on 6 October to create Wood, a of shareholders on 15 June with over global leader in the delivery of project, 99% voting in favour.
Since completion engineering and technical services to on 6 October, Robin and his combined energy and industrial markets.
leadership team have been focussed Wood Group has a long and successful on integration, making good use of the track record of acquisition-led growth.
lessons learned from Wood Groups In 2016 AFW was identified as a successful 2016 organisational change larger potential acquisition that could programme and proven track record of accelerate the Wood Group strategy to cost reduction.
improve its service offering in project The transaction did not divert delivery, enhance its capability across the managements attention from value chain in core oil and gas markets, operational delivery, which remained and broaden and deepen end market and very much in focus throughout the year.
The flexibility of our asset light business The first quarter of 2017 presented model has been crucial during the an opportunity to acquire AFW at downturn in the oil and gas market.
The Board Groups focus on cost and managing recognised the compelling rationale utilisation continued throughout 2017. for substantial cost synergies and Capital discipline remained high on the incremental revenue synergies in a less agenda for E&P operators despite some cyclically volatile business with a similar recovery in commodity prices in the business model and strong operational second half of the year.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 07
