Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Directors Report of the Group Both the Directors Report and the Branches outside the UK for the financial year ended Strategic Report have been drawn up The Company has no branches.
31 December 2017 is set out on pages and presented in accordance with, 99 to 101 inclusive.
Additional and in reliance upon, applicable Directors information which is incorporated by English company law and the The Directors of the Company as at reference into this Directors Report, liabilities of the Directors in the date of approval of this Annual including information required in connection with that report shall be Report, including their biographical accordance with the Companies Act subject to the limitations and details, are set out on pages 56 to 57.
4R of the restrictions provided by such law.
Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Thomas Staley was appointed to Rules, can be located as follows: Strategic Report the Board on 2 February 2017.
All The Company is required by the other Directors served throughout Disclosure Location Companies Act to include a Strategic the financial year ended Strategic Report Page 2 Report in this Annual Report, which 31 December 2017. provides an overview of the Business model Page 32 development and performance of Copies of Executive Directors Strategy Page 22 the Companys business in the year service contracts are available to Results Page 34 ended 31 December 2017 and its shareholders for inspection at the Research and Page 26 position at the end of that year, and Companys registered office and at development which covers likely future the Annual General Meeting Principal risks Page 48 developments in the business of the AGM.
Details of the Directors Company and the Group.
The remuneration and service contracts Corporate responsibility Page 38 information that fulfils the and their interests in the shares of Greenhouse gas Page 44 requirements of the Strategic Report the Company are included in the emissions can be found on pages 2 to 53, Directors Remuneration Report Employees Page 46 which are incorporated by reference.
which is set out on pages 73 to 98.
Governance Page 54 For the purposes of compliance with Viability statement Page 53 DTR 4.1.
8 R, the Going concern Note 1, required content of the management statement page 114 report can found in the Strategic Directors interests in Page 91 Report and this Other Statutory shares Information section, including the Financial instruments Page 132 sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference.
Statement of Directors Page 102 responsibilities Statement of Auditors Page 108 responsibilities Post balance sheet Page 129 events Interest capitalised Page 117 Details of long-term Page 90 incentive schemes Contracts of significance Page 101 Shareholder waiver of Page 101 dividends Shareholder waiver of Page 101 future dividends 99 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Appointment and replacement of A shareholders authority for the Directors indemnities and insurance Directors purchase by the Company of a The Company has provided each The appointment and replacement of maximum of 10% of its own shares Director with an indemnity to the Directors is governed by the was in existence during the year.
extent permitted by law in respect of Companys Articles of Association However, the Company did not the liabilities incurred as a result of Articles, the UK Corporate purchase any of its shares during that their holding office as a Director of Governance Code Code, the time.
The authority expires at the the Company.
Companies Act 2006 Act and forthcoming AGM and it is proposed related legislation.
The Board may that a similar authority be approved.
The Company has in place appoint a Director either to fill a appropriate Directors and Officers casual vacancy or as an addition to Conflicts of interest Liability insurance cover in respect of the Board so long as the total number Under the Companies Act 2006 and potential legal action against its of Directors does not exceed the limit the provisions of the Companys Directors.
An Articles of Association, the Board is appointed Director must retire and required to consider potential Directors interests in contracts seek election to office at the next conflicts of interest.
The Company has Except as stated in note 18 on page AGM of the Company.
In addition to established formal procedures for the 128, no contract existed during the any power of removal conferred by disclosure and review of any conflicts, year in relation to the Companys the Act, the Company may by or potential conflicts, of interest which business in which any Director was ordinary resolution remove any the Directors may have and for the materially interested.
Director before the expiry of their authorisation of such matters of period of office and may, subject to conflict by the Board.
To this end the Major shareholdings the Articles, by ordinary resolution Board considers and, if appropriate, The table on the opposite page appoint another person who is willing authorises any conflicts, or potential shows the holdings in the Companys to act as a Director in their place.
In conflicts, of interest as they arise and issued share capital which had been line with the Code and the Boards reviews any such authorisation notified to the Company pursuant to policy, all Directors are required to regularly.
The Board believes that the the Financial Conduct Authoritys stand for re-election at each AGM.
procedures established to deal with Disclosure Guidance and conflicts of interest are operating Transparency Rules as at 5 March In accordance with the UK Corporate effectively.
The information in this table was Governance Code, all the Directors correct at the date of notification.
It will retire at the 2018 AGM and offer should be noted that these holdings themselves for re-election.
The Board are likely to have changed since the is satisfied that each Director is Company was notified.
However, qualified for re-election by virtue of notification of any change is not their skills, experience and required until the next notifiable contribution to the Board.
In addition, threshold is crossed.
the Board considers that all Directors have the necessary skills and experience as set out in their Owner Date notified Shares issued % biographies on pages 56 and 57.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 01.09.2017 446,399,118 10.002 Powers of the Directors Jupiter Asset Management Limited 13.03.2014 111,173,507 5.966 Subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association, the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company.
100 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Political contributions Articles of Association Forward-looking statements During the year, the Company Amendments to the Companys This Annual Report contains sponsored the Northern reception at Articles of Association can only be forward-looking statements.
These the 2017 Conservative Party made by means of special resolution forward-looking statements are Conference and attended the at a general meeting of the made in good faith, based on a Scarborough Whitby constituency shareholders of the Company.
number of assumptions concerning annual dinner which totalled 11,100. future events and information Significant agreements available to the Directors at the time Share capital The Company is not a party to any of their approval of this report.
These As at 31 December 2017, the significant agreements that take forward-looking statements should Companys issued share capital was effect, alter or terminate upon a be treated with caution due to the made up of 4,463,105,303 Ordinary change of control of the Company inherent uncertainties underlying shares of 0.25 pence each, which following a takeover bid.
any such forward-looking each carry one vote at general information.
The user of this meetings of the Company.
No shares There are provisions in the Executive document should not rely unduly on are held in treasury.
Details of shares Directors service agreements in these forward-looking statements, issued during the year are set out in relation to change of control which which are not a guarantee of note 10 on page 122. are described in detail in the performance and which are subject Directors Remuneration Report on to a number of uncertainties and Except as stated in the Articles of pages 73 to 98. other events, many of which are Association or in applicable outside of the Companys control legislation, there are no restrictions on Auditors and could cause actual events to the transfer of the shares in the The Companys auditors, differ materially from those in these Company and there are no  LLP, have statements.
No guarantee can be restrictions on the voting rights in the indicated their willingness to continue given of future results, levels of Companys shares.
in office and a resolution to reappoint activity, performance or them will be proposed at the AGM.
The Company is not aware of any agreements entered into between Disclosure of information to auditors any shareholders in the Company As far as each director is aware, there which restrict the transfer of shares or is no relevant audit information of the exercise of any voting rights which the Companys auditors are attached to the shares.
Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have Share schemes taken as a Director in order to make As at 31 December 2017, Sanne themselves aware of any relevant Fiduciary Services Limited Sanne, as audit information and to establish trustee of the Sirius Minerals Plc that the Companys auditors are Employee benefit Trust Trustee, held aware of that information.
10,950,012 Shares, which are held jointly by Sanne as Trustee and Annual General Meeting employees as JOE Award holders The 2018 AGM will be held at 1pm on under the JOE Awards.
The Trustee Thursday 31 May 2018 at The Events has agreed to waive rights to vote or Centre, The Principal York, Station receive dividends in respect of the Road, York, YO24 1AA.
The JOE Award holders 2018 AGM is available on our website have agreed to waive rights to vote or and sent to shareholders in the format receive dividends until the exercise of selected by them.
More information on the JOE Awards can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 90.
101 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
