Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategy in action BUILD A WORLD-CLASS, LONG-LIFE, LOW-COST 1 PRODUCTION FACILITY We are utilising proven, well We are constructing a mine to realise We have engaged understood construction techniques the potential of our world-class to build what will be the largest mine deposit.
The exceptional nature of the services of worldof its type anywhere in the world.
From ourresource means that all mine the outset it has been our intention to development will be excavated class construction construct a low-impact, large-scale entirely within the polyhalite seam.
partners to develop operation with a long operating life.
This will result in a 1:1 mining ratio ensuring that every tonne of ore our innovative mine mined becomes a tonne of POLY4.
which is being LOW To efficiently move large volumes of polyhalite ore from the Woodsmith constructed to extract Mine to the MHF at Wilton IMPACT International, we are constructing large volumes of a37km long, concrete-lined polyhalite at low-cost.
The MTS construction employs proven, industry-leading tunnelling SCALE techniques to establish a high capacity transport system, capable of transporting up to 20 Mtpa of LONG polyhalite ore.
The MTS has been designed to be in place for the life ofthe mine with little ongoing OPERATING maintenance requirement.
LIFE Our innovative approach to construction effectively moves the The Woodsmith Mine is being minehead from its location within constructed to handle an initial theNorth York Moors National Park to capacity of 10 Mtpa but is scalable theharbour facility on Teesside, thus toup to 20 Mtpa of polyhalite using enabling the efficiencies which come largely existing infrastructure.
An with close proximity to an export increase in production capacity to facility.
20Mtpa would be achieved through expansion following ramp up and will be funded by operating cash flow.
Mining at the Woodsmith Mine will adopt simple and conventional bulk mining methods to enable maximum extraction and low-cost operations.
1:1 From the base of the shafts we can Mining ratio every tonne of ore we mine in all directions, maximising our mine becomes a tonne of POLY4 ability to optimise ramp up from initial production.
Using a combination of room and pillar and drill and blast mining methods we can excavate the thicker areas of the seam up to a Continuous mining machine height of 40 metres.
24 S Siir riiu uss M Miin ne erra al lss P P lc lc An An nn uu aa l R l R ee por por t & t & A A cco cco uu nn tsts 2 2 00 17 17 Our innovative approach to construction effectively moves the minehead from its location within the North York Moors National Park to the harbour facility on Teesside thus enabling the efficiencies which come with close proximity to an export facility.
20 Mtpa capacity Kai Tai Transfer System, HK 2 25 5 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategy in action continued DEVELOP AN INDUSTRYLEADING PRODUCT 2 POLY4 is the trademark name of Sirius Minerals flagship granular polyhalite product.
In addition to nutritional benefits brought about by the chemical composition of POLY4, our product has a range of characteristics which distinguish it from existing products and make it an attractive option for end users.
POLY4 has four key attributes that benefit farmers by increasing their profits in a sustainable way through improved crop yields, reduced costs or both.
Efficiency POLY4 is an efficient multi-nutrient fertilizer: Improves fertilizer use efficiency by delivering greater nutrient uptake: High nutrient density delivers four macro-nutrients in one easy-to-use, cost-effective granular delivery system.
Trial results show that POLY4 delivers better nutrient uptake for both macro and micro-nutrients.
This is a key profit driver as more nutrients are used by the crop for yield andquality improvements.
POLY4s multi-nutrient properties help farmers to control costs by decreasing fertilizer and farm inputs, while reducing nutrient waste by delivering nutrients over a time frame, which more closely aligns with the needs of a plant.
POLY4s nutrient release profile supports the crop fromestablishment through to harvest compared toconventional fertilizers, which tend to be applied anddeliver nutrients ahead of crop demand.
26 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 2.
Sustainability POLY4 is an effective multi-nutrient fertilizer: POLY4 is a sustainable multi-nutrient fertilizer: Improves soil strength, structure and nutrient Improves both yield and quality: legacy: Improves macro and micro nutrient uptake: Reduces agricultures impact on the environment Minimises crop losses through disease resilience: by improving fertilizer use efficiency, reducing Has a desirable nutrient release profile: erosion and nutrient loss: Granular product that handles, stores, blends and Certified for organic use: spreads effectively.
By improving the availability of a broad spectrum of The calcium within POLY4 helps to increase a soils nutrients for plants, POLY4 promotes yield, quality and resilience to compaction, erosion and runoff, which nutritional health, which can minimise crop losses through allows a plant to access the nutrients it needs to thrive disease.
These macro and micro-nutrients also become and reduces nutrient waste into watercourses and available over a longer time frame, which more closely beyond.
meets the nutrient uptake pattern of the plant.
Application of the broad spectrum of nutrients that Available in granulated, powdered or standard form, POLY4 delivers can make soil-bound nutrients more POLY4 is compatible with all major input sources for NPK available to the plant and prevent nutrient mining blending, demonstrating both chemical and physical a common threat to sustainable crop production.
In a small number of cases minor caking was observed after 17 months in storage, which far Polyhalite is a naturally-occurring mineral which results exceeds the practical storage period of a blend.
POLY4 in a low carbon footprint for POLY4, offering farmers an also spreads effectively up to 36 metres, preventing effective, yet responsible, fertilizer solution.
The uneven fertilizer distribution and subsequently reduction  POLY4 has no requirement for incrop yields.
chemical processing, has the lowest CO emissions 2 and is more  compared to most fertilizer products.
POLY4 helps to rebalance and reconstruct the soil structure supporting sustainable 3.
POLY4 is a flexible multi-nutrient fertilizer: Low chloride and pH neutral product that can be used on all plants and soils in all growing climates: Successful as a straight fertilizer or as a component of blend formulations: No negative interactions with other fertilizers: Allows a farmer to choose the timing of application.
As a low chloride, multi-nutrient fertilizer, POLY4 avoids toxicity issues commonly associated with the application of potassium chloride MOP and other high chloride fertilizer sources.
Many crops benefit from a reduction of chlorides in the soil.
POLY4 also has no detrimental effect on a soils electrical conductivity or pH, both of which can be harmful to crops.
POLY4 can be used directly or in an NPK blend to supply potassium, sulphur, magnesium, calcium and a range of valuable micro-nutrients.
Farmers can rely on POLY4 to maintain its granular physical integrity until it reaches the field and, as there are no negative interactions with other fertilizers, POLY4 is a beneficial yet safe addition to a blend.
As a granular product, POLY4s nutrients are readily available to the plant, and its release profile gives farmers the flexibility to choose the timing of application.
POLY4 granules 27 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategy in action continued PENETRATE EXISTING MARKETS AND DRIVE 3 LONG-TERM VALUE Our strategy is to penetrate and disrupt the existing market via a three-phased approach of substitution, market growth and performance.
Market growth There is a well-established market for the component Multiple growth opportunities have been identified which nutrients contained in POLY4.
This market is currently build on POLY4s suitability for crops that are sensitive to supplied by a range of fertilizer products and POLY4 has chloride and also POLY4s potential to address the the potential to be used as a substitute for other existing increasingly recognised problem of vast areas of farmland fertilizers which include one or more of the same primary becoming deficient in sulphur.
These opportunities are nutrients contained in POLY4.
compounded further by the growing demand for the adoption of more sustainable agricultural practices.
Independent market analysis suggests the total market forthese potentially contestable fertilizers is expected to POLY4 is low in chlorides.
Currently 32% of global potassium increase from 376 Mtpa in 2018 to 440 Mtpa in 2025 in is used on chloride-sensitive crops.
Only 9% of this supply is polyhalite equivalent terms representing the amount of chloride-free.
This represents an incremental opportunity of polyhalite which would be necessary to fulfil the current circa 70 Mtpa for chloride-free fertilizers such as POLY4.
The potassium, sulphur and magnesium nutrient demand.
agronomic benefits of chloride-free potassium are widely This opportunity is approximately 20 times the maximum known however, due to limited supply and premium prices, output when the Woodsmith Mine is operating at 20 Mtpa the market is restricted.
4 Estimated potential substitute opportunity in 2025 Sirius capacity Mtpa Mtpa of polyhalite equivalent 440 135 308 1 macro-nutrient 2 macro-nutrients 98 58 3 macro-nutrients 43 20 13 7 4 macro-nutrients 2 Kieserite SOPM SOP SSP AS MOP MOP Total POLY4 NPK Straight 5 Multi-nutrient substitution market opportunity represents more than 10 times Sirius core infrastructure capacity Notes: 1 Global demand forecast of primary substitute fertilizer products in 2025 by CRU expressed in polyhalite equivalent.
2 SOP-M demand calculated on MgO equivalent basis which represents 3.4 Mtpa of low chloride K O on a polyhalite equivalent basis.
2 3 Fertecon estimates that 61% of the total K O market ends up as part of multi-nutrient fertilizer blends.
5 Represents the theoretical POLY4 demand by multiplying the recommended K O rates per crop per hectare by the global amount of hectares 2 harvested for corn, soybean, wheat and sugarcane.
28 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Minnesota corn trials 2015 Trial objective: to compare the use of MOP and MOP POLY4 at a ratio of 75:25 K O as 2 potassium and sulphur sources.
Partner: University of Minnesota Highlights: US$247 increase in return per hectare Up to 15% increase in yield POLY4 on Up to 9% increase in dry kernel weight Grain quality maintained or improved broadacre crops Increase in plant populations 45% decrease in weed presence For complete trial summary: PLEASE VISIT OUR PRODUCT WEBSITE POLY4.
COM POLY4 has a sulphur content of 19%.
Performance estimates that the world plant nutrient sulphur deficit could require annual application of 60 Mtpa of polyhalite Application of low-chloride potassium fertilizers has equivalent sulphur to address the imbalance.
Unless nutrient been shown to improve crop yield, quality and taste deficits are addressed, nutrient mining will increase year and also improve plant resistance to drought, frost, onyear.
This, combined with the multinutrient composition of our product, means POLY4 has Sustainable product characteristics are becoming more universal application.
Our extensive R&D programme attractive to customers.
The worlds population is predicted demonstrates POLY4 can be used on a multitude of to hit 9.8 billion by 2050.
Over the next 35 years more food crops in numerous geographies with varying climatic needs to be produced than has been to date in human conditions.
The way POLY4 interacts in the soil and its history.
The pressure this places on the agricultural industry interplay between chemical elements means crucial will require farmers to use balanced fertilization to increase nutrients are readily available when plants need them yields.
Application of fertilizers is identified as a significant throughout the growing cycle.
These benefits manifest source of greenhouse gases.
Increased fertilizer use requires in increased yields and stronger, healthier crops.
an ever-increasing need to improve fertilizer use efficiency.
The estimated value of global warming potential GWP of Independently validated crop trial results demonstrate POLY4 is 0.051kg CO e per kg of product: considerably lower 2 POLY4 works effectively and outperforms traditional than other potassium and .
products such as MOP on a range of high value and broadacre crops such as tomatoes, corn, soybean and wheat.
To date, over 260 trials have been initiated on 32 different crops in 17 countries.
1 Sulphur deficiencies around the world High-concentration high-value cropping Magnesium deficiencies Magnesium and sulphur deficiencies Sulphur deficiencies High-concentration high-value cropping Magnesium deficiencies Magnesium and sulphur deficiencies Sulphur deficiencies Note: 1 Sulphur deficiency in 2015 estimated to be 11.4Mtpa in sulphur or 60 Mpta in POLY4 equivalent.
Sources: TSI, FAO, CRU, Roland Berger, SiriusMinerals.
29 High-concentration high-value cropping Magnesium deficiencies Magnesium and sulphur deficiencies Sulphur deficiencies ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategy in action continued EXECUTE A FINANCING PLAN THAT DELIVERS 4 RETURNS FOR SHAREHOLDERS Sirius Minerals acquire Equity capital1 Stage 1 financing North Yorkshire polyhalite Project 2010 2016 Note: 1 Five equity capital raises between 2011 and 2015 1 2 DEVELOPMENT CONSTRUCTION Minerals and land acquisition Site preparation Resource definition Procurement Planning and approvals Shafts Definitive feasibility study 30 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 During the development of the Company, Sirius has strategically raised funds to enable progression between key Project milestones.
From the early stages of exploration through to the stage 1 financing to fund construction, each funding package has been designed to fide-risk key elements of the Project and to maximise shareholder value.
Stage 2 financing Operational capital structure 2018 2021 Fund raises 3 CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS MTS Targeting at least US$1 billion EBITDA at10Mtpa MHF High-margin business Harbour facility Potential for expansion Pit-bottom development 31 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
