Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 POLY4 EXPLAINED WHAT IS POLY4?
POLY4 is derived from the naturally occurring mineral, polyhalite.
POLY4 is unique in that it provides a natural combination of four of the six key macro-nutrients plants require to grow effectively: potassium K, magnesium Mg, sulphur S and calcium Ca.
In addition to its multi-nutrient content, POLY4 is certified for organic use and has a number of other positive characteristics which make it suitable for widespread commercial use, including: suitability for chloride sensitive crops: efficient nutrient release profile: ability to reduce agricultural impact on the environment by improving fertilizer use efficiency, reducing erosion and nutrient loss: availability for use as a direct application fertilizer: and compatibility for use with other fertilizer products.
K O 2 B Se 14% MgO 6% Zn Sr Mo CaO Fe 17% Cu S Mn 19% Notes: POLY4 composition based on 90% polyhalite grade.
Macro-nutrients based on w w % and micro-nutrients based on mg kg: micro-nutrients content: B 169, Zn 1.9, Mn 3.1, Mo 0.3, Se 0.5, FE 0.5, Cu 1.1, Sr 1414.
2 POLY4 is the trademark name for polyhalite products from the Sirius Minerals polyhalite Project in North Yorkshire, 48%SO.
B boron, Cu copper, Se selenium, Zn zinc, Fe iron, Sr strontium, Mo molybdenum, Mn manganese 3 16 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 is appropriate for the global ESTABLISHING marketplace.
These partnerships, combined with a targeted regional THE GLOBAL MARKET sales strategy, have enabled Sirius FOR POLY4 4.4 Mtpa to enter into a number of binding Volume of supply agreements large-volume, long-term supply A multi-channel market adoption entered into by the Company agreements under which customers approach has been established to todate.
have agreed to buy a minimum achieve awareness and market amount of POLY4 once production penetration of POLY4 into the More information relating to begins and pay a given price.
supply agreements can be found on the Companywebsite.
To date, the Company has entered Long-term partnerships have into supply agreements totalling been developed with universities, 4.4Mtpa at their respective full PLEASE VISIT OUR WEBSITE customers, governments and food SIRIUSMINERALS.
COM volumes, with the majority of pricing manufacturers to validate the mechanisms linked to the underlying efficacy of POLY4 and to ensure the nutrient value and competing Companys comprehensive research product benchmark pricing.
and development programme Global marketing regions and current supply agreements 17 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
