Governance Directors' report Statement of directors Each of the directors, whose names and The directors submit their functions are listed on pages 38 and responsibilities report together with the 39, confirms that, to the best of their The directors are responsible for preparing audited financial statements knowledge: the annual report, the Directors of the Group for the year Remuneration Report and the financial The Group financial statements, statements of the Group and John Wood ended 31 December 2017. which have been prepared in Group PLC the Company in accordance accordance with IFRS as issued by with applicable law and regulations.
the IASB and as adopted by the EU, The Group consolidated income give a true and fair view of the assets, statement for the year is set out on Company law requires the directors liabilities, financial position and profit page 76.
In respect of the year ended to prepare financial statements for of the Group, and 31 December 2017 an interim dividend each financial year.
The directors have of 11.1 cents per share was paid on 28 prepared the Group financial statements The directors report includes a fair in accordance with International Financial September 2017 and the directors have review of the development and Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by proposed a final dividend of 23.2 cents performance of the business and the the International Accounting Standards per share to be paid on 17 May 2018. position of the Group, together with a Board IASB and as adopted by the The full year dividend will therefore description of the significant risks and European Union.
The Company financial be 34.3 cents per share.
statements are prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure So far as the directors are aware, there Further reading Framework.
The Group and Company is no relevant audit information of which Information relevant to and forming financial statements are required by law the Companys auditors are unaware.
part of the report of the directors is to to give a true and fair view of the state Relevant information is defined as be found in the following sections of the of affairs of the Company and the Group information needed by the Companys annual report: and of the profit or loss of the Group for auditors in connection with preparing that period.
Each director has taken all Pages In preparing those financial statements, the steps that he ought to have taken as the directors are required to: a director in order to make himself aware 36 Statement of Directors of any relevant audit information and to responsibilities Select suitable accounting policies and establish that the Companys auditors then apply them consistently 37 Fair, balanced are aware of that information.
and understandable Make judgements and estimates that 32 Going concern are reasonable and prudent Governance Code compliance 33 Viability statement State that the Group financial The Board remains fully committed to 37 Risk management statements comply with IFRSs as maintaining high standards of corporate and internal control issued by the IASB and as adopted by governance and believes that this is key 38 to 39 Board of Directors the European Union, subject to any to overall performance and integrity, and biographies material departures disclosed and consistent with our shared values.
explained in the financial statements.
02 to 23 Principal activities and The Board also believes that good business review The directors are responsible for keeping corporate governance extends beyond 32 to 34 Principal risks and proper accounting records that disclose regulatory compliance and consistently uncertainties with reasonable accuracy at any time the monitors developments in best practice, financial position of the Company and 119 to 121 Acquisitions and including guidance published by investor the Group and to enable them to ensure divestments groups.
that the financial statements and the 131 to 144 Subsidiaries and Directors Remuneration Report comply This section of the annual report explains joint ventures with the Companies Act 2006 and, as how the Group has applied the main 40 to 49 Corporate governance regards the Group financial statements, principles of Leadership, Effectiveness, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are 29 to 31 Employment policies Accountability, Remuneration also responsible for safeguarding the and Relations with shareholders 25 to 26 Health, safety, security assets of the Company and the Group and ethics outlined in the latest UK Corporate and, hence, for taking reasonable steps Governance Code issued in April 2016 27 to 28 Environment for the prevention and detection of fraud the Governance Code.
A copy of the 41 Substantial shareholders and other irregularities.
Governance Code is available at www.
115 Share capital The directors are responsible for the frc.
The directors consider that 62 Directors interests in maintenance and integrity of the the Group has, throughout 2017, fully options over ordinary shares Companys website.
Legislation in complied with the provisions of the the United Kingdom governing the Governance Code which applies to the 61 Directors interests in preparation and dissemination of year ended 31 December 2017. ordinary shares financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
36 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Any system of internal control is designed The Board and its committees are Fair, balanced and understandable to manage rather than eliminate the risk assisted by the internal audit function, The Board considers that the annual of failure to achieve business objectives HSSEA function and, where appropriate, report and accounts, taken as a whole, and can only provide reasonable and not the external auditors.
Where the is fair, balanced and understandable absolute assurance against material internal or external auditors identify any and provides the information necessary misstatement or loss.
significant deficiencies in the financial for shareholders to assess the Groups or IT internal control systems, a plan of position, performance, business model The key elements of the ongoing action is agreed to remedy these and and strategy.
procedures, which the directors have progress against them is tracked and established to review the effectiveness In reaching this assessment, the Board reported with updates provided to the of the system of internal control on was assisted by the Chair and the Chair Audit Committee as necessary.
an annual basis, are listed below.
As of the Audit Committee who engaged a result of these ongoing procedures The Audit Committee receives regular directly with company management the Boards assessment was that the updates concerning ongoing audits.
during the planning, drafting and overall internal control environment was Details of audit updates received by the review stages of the annual report and operating effectively, with some areas Committee in 2017 are set out on page 48. were provided with draft materials for for improvement noted.
review and comment as the document The Chairs of the Audit and Safety, progressed.
This facilitated a good Assurance and Business Ethics Internal control structure level of understanding of the process Committees report regularly to the of compilation and assurance over The Group has a clear organisational Board on their discussions.
the information contained within the structure for the control and monitoring annual report.
The Board subsequently of its businesses, including defined Information and communication considered the annual report and lines of responsibility through the The Group has a comprehensive system accounts as a whole and discussed the organisation up to board level and for reporting performance to the Board.
reports tone, balance, and language at delegations of authority in place.
The This includes monthly and quarterly the March 2018 board meeting.
Group has issued policies which define reports.
The quarterly reports include the standards of business conduct a detailed financial review against and include Accounting: Contract Risk Risk management and internal budgets and latest forecasts.
The ELT Management and Review: Health, control also receives detailed monthly financial Safety, Security and Environment: and The Board has overall responsibility reports and meets on a monthly basis to Business Ethics.
A Group Business Ethics for the Groups systems of internal discuss financial performance and other helpline, operated by an independent control and risk management which is operational matters.
In addition, each third party, is in place to enable staff fundamental to the achievement of the BU holds Quarterly Review Meetings and third parties to raise concerns Groups strategic objectives.
QRMs involving the Chief Executive and in confidence about possible nonthe CFO.
compliance with the Groups Business Risk management Ethics Policy.
Statutory disclosures The Board has established an ongoing For more information on Business Ethics: process for identifying, evaluating and Disclosures in relation to listing rule LR See page 26 managing the principal risks faced by 9.8.
4R where applicable are included in the Group that has been in place for note 20 to the financial statements in Ongoing monitoring of internal the year under review and up to the relation to Long Term Incentive Plans.
control systems date of approval of this annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the The Board has agreed certain reporting Footnotes Board and is in accordance with the procedures to monitor key risk areas 1.
Subsidiaries include those entities which are April 2016 edition of the Governance on an ongoing basis, including safety, under Group management and control.
The Group, for the purposes of legal and financial matters.
The Audit applying the Code, comprises John Wood Committee has been delegated the 1 Group PLC and its subsidiaries.
The risk responsibility to review the effectiveness management process was updated in of the financial and IT internal control light of the AFW acquisition.
For further systems implemented by management.
details on these changes and on the The Safety, Assurance and Business principal risks and uncertainties faced Ethics Committee has been delegated by the Group along with associated responsibility for the effectiveness of mitigations, monitoring and assurance the Groups safety policies and systems please refer to pages 32 to 34. and has responsibility for ethical and regulatory matters.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
