Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS RUSSELL SCRIMSHAW CHRIS FRASER THOMAS STALEY KEITH CLARKE CBE NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO FINANCE DIRECTOR AND CFO NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Age: 68 Age: 43 Age: 37 Age: 65 Date of appointment: Date of appointment: Date of appointment: Date of appointment: November 2011 January 2011 February 2017 December 2013 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Russell was formerly an executive Chris Fraser has almost 20 Thomas has over 10 years Keith was Chief Executive director and deputy CEO of years experience in the mining experience in the energy, Officer of WS Atkins plc, the UKs Fortescue Metals Group Ltd industry with a particular focus infrastructure and resources largest design and engineering and was a founding member on financing and strategic industries with a focus on consultancy, for eight years to of the board.
He is the financing and financial July 2011 and previously held formerly chairman of Cleveland founder of the Project, has led governance for development chief executive officer roles Mining Co Ltd, and a nonits development since 2010 projects.
Thomas has spent a with Skanska UK and Kvaerner executive board member of and has been Managing significant part of his career Construction Group.
He also Commonwealth Properties Ltd, Director and CEO of the January 2009-June 2012 working acted as director of sustainability EDS Australia, Mobilesoft Ltd, Company since January 2011. for the Mubadala Development and chairman of Atkins Middle Telecom New Zealand Australia Company Mubadala in Abu East business until April 2012.
From Pty Ltd, The Garvan Institute During his finance career he Dhabi where he was involved in September 2011 to December Foundation, Genome.
One Pty worked for KPMG, Rothschild several financings including a 2015, he was Non-Executive Ltd and Athletics Australia.
and Citigroup, the latter US$600 million project finance Director of The Engineering and culminated in him being facility for a power station Technology Board its trading Russell has also held senior appointed head of metals and development project, a A$300 name being Engineering UK, executive positions within mining investment banking for million government agency and from August 2011 to March the Commonwealth Bank of Australia in 2006 and managing financing of a European 2014 he was Non-Executive Australia, Optus Communications director in 2008.
Upon leaving development project, and a Director of The British Standards Pty Ltd, Alcatel, IBM and Amdahl Citigroup in 2009, he founded US$2,200 million leveraged buyInstitution.
He is a fellow of the USA and an Adjunct Professorship Sigiriya Capital, a boutique out financing of a US company.
Institute of Civil Engineering, of Mining Economics at China advisory and investment firm.
Prior to working at Mubadala, Hon Fellow RA Eng & MRIBA.
Central South University in Chris founded York Potash in Thomas was working in Australia Changsha, China.
He is an 2010 and subsequently joined with Babcock & Brown from Current external appointments: associate member of the Sirius Minerals Plc in 2011.
2006 to 2008, where he was Chair of Tidal Lagoon Swansea Australian Society of Certified involved in numerous energy Bay Plc and Tidal Lagoon plc: Practicing Accountants.
He is a member of the Institute and infrastructure transactions.
Chair of the Trustees for Forum for of Chartered Accountants in the Future: Chair of Future Cities Current external appointments: Australia, senior associate of Most recently, Thomas was Catapult: Non-Executive Director the Financial Services Institute the head of commercial Chairman of the Garvan Institute of Constructionarium and of Australia FINSIA and a and risk in the international of Medical Research Foundation: Women in Property: and Director member of the Institute of development team of Origin Non-Executive Director of the of Keith Clarke Consulting Limited.
Energy from September 2012 Garvan Institute for Medical to September 2014.
He was the Research: Non-Executive Director Committees: Current external appointments: interim chief executive officer of Waterford Retirement Village of a geothermal exploration Pty Ltd: Executive Chairman Director of Sigiriya Capital Pty N A project where he was appointed of Torrus Capital Pty Limited: Ltd and C&J Fraser Investments by the main shareholders, Chairman of Scrimshaw Pty Ltd: member of the UK-China Origin Energy and Tata Power, Nominees Pty Ltd: and Chairman CEO Council: Director of the to implement a turnaround of an Australian Philanthropic Northern Powerhouse Partnership plan and put the development Fund, The Scrimshaw Foundation.
and member of the Coventry project back on track.
Committees: Thomas has a Bachelor of Committees: Engineering Electrical and R N Arts and is a charter holder of None the CFA Institute.
Thomas joined the Company in October 2014.
Current external appointments: Alternate Director of the Northern Powerhouse Partnership.
Committees: None 56 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 JANE LODGE JOHN HUTTON, NOEL HARWERTH LOUISE HARDY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR BARON HUTTON OF FURNESS SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Age: 62 Age: 62 Age: 70 Age: 51 Date of appointment: Date of appointment: Date of appointment: Date of appointment: July 2015 January 2012 July 2015 May 2016 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: After an academic background John was a member of the Noel, whose executive Louise has over 25 years in geology, Janes executive Government for 13 years background was in international experience in the engineering career was primarily in including 11 years as a minister banking, was formerly Chief sector.
Previously, she was accountancy, where she and four years serving in the Operating Officer and chief tax European project excellence became a partner at Deloitte.
He also served as a officer of Citibank International.
director at Aecom and Her roles included Deloittes Parliamentary Private Secretary Noel is a highly experienced had a part-time executive Midlands Practice senior in the Department of Trade non-executive director who has role at Skanska UK from partner and lead partner for and Industry before moving sat on a number of boards in a September 2015 to June 2016, the National Manufacturing to the Department of Health variety of different sectors, as well as being a director Industry.
As Manufacturing where he became Minister including mining and finance at Laing ORourke, working Industry Leader, she represented of State for Health in 1999. industry companies.
She brings as infrastructure director the UK on the Deloitte Global He was a chairman of the with her a wealth of background within CLM, which was the Manufacturing Industry Executive Independent Public Service and understanding in mining, consortium delivery partner for and was a member of the CBI Pensions Commission.
Lord finance and governance issues.
the Olympic Delivery Authority Manufacturing Council.
During Hutton was a legal adviser to for the London 2012 Olympics her 35-year career with the the Confederation of Business Current external appointments: and a non-executive director firm, she advised multinational Industry and a senior law lecturer at the Defence Infrastructure Chair of the UK Export Finance businesses in the construction, at Newcastle Polytechnic.
He Organisation, Ministry of Agency: Non-Executive Director of financial services, manufacturing was Member of Parliament for Defence from May 2015 to June Charter Court Financial Services: and property sectors.
Barrow and Furness for 18 years 2017.
Louise is a fellow of the Non-Executive Director of from April 1992 to May 2010.
Institution of Civil Engineers Standard Life Assurance Ltd: NonCurrent external appointments: and a fellow of the Chartered Executive Director of The London In 2005 Lord Hutton was made Management Institute.
Non-Executive Director and Chair Metal Exchange: and NonSecretary of State for Work of the Audit Committee, Devro Executive Director of the British and Pensions.
In 2007 he was Current external PLC: Non-Executive Director and Horseracing Authority Limited.
appointed Secretary of State appointments: Chair of the Audit Committee for Business, Enterprise and of DCC PLC: Non-Executive Committees: Non-Executive Director of Regulatory Reform.
In 2008 he Director and Chair of the Audit Ebbsfleet Development became Secretary of State for Committee of Costain Group Corporation: Non-Executive A N Defence until he stepped down Plc: Non-Executive Director Director of the Department from the Cabinet in 2009.
In of the Bromsgrove School for Communities and Local 2010 he was created a life peer Foundation: Non-Executive Government: Non-Executive as Baron Hutton of Furness and Director of Ives Ventures Limited: Director of North West now sits in the House of Lords.
and Non-Executive Director Cambridge Developments: of Ives Estates Limited.
Non-Executive Director Current external appointments: and member of the Committees: Non-Executive Director of ARIX Nomination, Remuneration Bioscience Limited: Circle and Technical Committees Holdings UK plc: Simple of Crest Nicholson plc.
A R Space Limited: Byhiras Group Limited: Chairman and Director Committees: of Apartments for London Ltd: Chairman of Energy R UK:.
Director of Arthurian Life Sciences Limited: Chairman of the Nuclear Industries Association: and a partner of Cartesius Advisory Network.
Committees: R Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee N R A Audit Committee Chair of Committee 57 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
