Board of Directors Executive Directors IAN HAWKSWORTH Chief Executive Ian has led Capco since inception, shaping strategy and driving performance.
He has over 30 years experience inglobal real estate investment, development, asset and corporate management, having been a senior director of Hongkong Land and a managing executive of Liberty International.
Ian is a Chartered Surveyor and a member of leading international industry bodies.
2 SITUL JOBANPUTRA Chief Financial Officer Situl leads the Capco finance function, which includes reporting, treasury, corporate finance and tax.
Having joined Capco in 2014, he became Finance Director for Earls Court and Lillie Square in 2015 and was appointed as CFO in 2017.
Situl is an experienced corporate financier, having led Deutsche Banks UK real estate investment banking team before joining Capco.
GARY YARDLEY ManagingDirector & Chief Investment Officer Garyleads Capcos real estate investment and development activities.
He is a Chartered Surveyor with over 30 years experience in UK real estate.
He is a former CIO of Liberty International and former partner of King Sturge.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY 1 Audit Committee Nomination Committee 2 Remuneration Committee 3 Committee Chairman 54 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS | Chairman External appointments IAN DURANT Ian is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and Chairman of Greggs plc and DFS Furniture plc setting its agenda.
He is a Chartered Accountant with a background in international financial and commercial management.
Ians career includes leadership roles with the retail division of Hanson, and Jardine Matheson, Hongkong Land, Dairy Farm International, Thistle Hotels, Sea Containers and Liberty International.
2 | Independent Non-executive Director and Senior External appointments HENRY STAUNTON Chairman of Phoenix Group Independent Non-executive Director Holdings and WH Smith PLC Henry was appointed to the Board in 2010.
A Chartered Accountant, he has extensive financial and commercial experience.
He is Chairman of WH Smith PLC and Phoenix Group Holdings, and was previously Finance Director of Granada and ITV, Chairman of Ashtead Group and Vice Chairman of Legal & General.
1 2 3 | Independent Non-executive Director External appointments CHARLOTTE BOYLE Non-executive Director Charlotte is a former partner of The Zygos Partnership, an international search of Coca-Cola HBC AG and a and board advisory firm.
Prior to this, Charlotte worked for Goldman Sachs Board member and chair of International and Egon Zehnder International.
Charlotte is a Non-executive the finance committee of Director of Coca-Cola HBC AG and serves as a Board member and chair of the Alfanar finance committee of Alfanar, the venture philanthropy organisation.
2 3 | Non-executive Director External appointments GRAEME GORDON Director of Creative Graeme was a Non-executive Director of Liberty International for 14 years before Investments Limited and joining the Board of Capco in 2010.
He is the son of Sir Donald Gordon, the Mymarket Limited founder of Liberty International, and represents the Gordon Family Interests on the Board.
| Independent Non-executive Director External appointments GERRY MURPHY Gerry is a former Deloitte LLP partner with direct industry experience in Non-executive Director of Dixons Carphone plc, consumer business, retail and technology, media and telecommunications.
He was a member of the Deloitte Board for a number of years and is aDirector of Non-executive member of the Department of Health Dixons Carphone and a member of the Department of Health & Social Care Board.
& Social Care Board 1 2 3 | Independent Non-executive Director ANTHONY STEAINS External appointments CEO of Comprador Limited Anthony is the CEO of Comprador, a strategic corporate finance advisory firm based in Hong Kong, and has over 20 years ofcorporate finance experience.
A and Chair of the FilmAid Asia Board Chartered Accountant, prior to founding Comprador, Anthony was a Senior Managing Director and Head of Blackstone Advisory Partners in Asia and held senior positions in Asia at Lehman Brothers, Deutsche Bank and ING Barings.
2 | Independent Non-executive Director External appointments ANDREW STRANG Member of the Investment Andrew is a Chartered Surveyor and was Managing Director of Threadneedle and Governance Committees Property Investments Limited for 17 years until January 2008.
He was Executive of AEW UK, Non-executive Chairman of Hermes Real Estate Investment Management until 2011.
Director of Intu Properties plc and member ofthe Norges Bank Real Estate Management Real Estate Advisory Board 1 2 3 Further information on Directors skills and experience can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 65 to 67. www.
