Business Model A Global Leader What we do Discipline expertise We are one of the world's best known and most respected specialist We organise our consultants into 14 specialist discipline teams, grouped into recruitment consultancies.
We deliver recruitment services to clients through a four broad categories.
We then specialise further e. g. digital marketing within network of 139 offices across 36 countries.
marketing to ensure we provide expert recruitment services to our clients.
Geographic reach Perm and temp mix PageGroup has a truly global reach, with a substantial and well-balanced PageGroup is the international market leader for permanent recruitment in business across all regions, including Latin America and Asia.
We source the majority of the countries in which we operate.
We also have a substantial candidates from domestic and international markets and provide a and growing temporary recruitment business in markets where temporary comprehensive service to both local and multinational clients.
placements for professionally qualified candidates are culturally accepted.
Page Executive Michael Page Page Executive is the Groups executive search business and offers a range Michael Page is the original PageGroup brand and is normally established of search, selection and management solutions for organisations needing to as the first business in each new country that we enter.
Michael Page is attract and retain their leadership talent.
The roles on which we focus typically comprised of 14 broad disciplines, each providing a service to a specialist area sit at the sub-Board and Board levels.
Operating at the qualified professional and management level, Michael Page recruits on a permanent, temporary, contract or interim basis.
Page Personnel Page Outsourcing Page Personnel offers specialist recruitment services to organisations Page Outsourcing, the Groups newest brand, was created to meet the requiring permanent employees, temporary or contract staff at technical and growing demands of our clients.
Leveraging the internal capabilities of our elite administrative support, professional clerical and junior management levels.
recruitment specialists in offering customised solutions for high-volume hiring and specific project recruitment needs.
Page Outsourcing recruits across all levels of the market.
5 | Strategic Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION A focus on organic growth PageGroups business model has proved itself both through economic cycles and as the business has expanded into a global enterprise.
At its core is a focus on organic growth.
PageGroup offers its consultants Recruitment is a fast-paced and dynamic business.
a well-defined and varied career in recruitment.
This Our agility gives us the confidence to respond quickly to includes a clear development structure with significant Agile and opportunities and challenges as they appear.
opportunities for the most talented.
Career responsive development structure A focus on team-based performance We regularly move experienced directors Team rather than the individual promotes into markets where they can add the profit-led positive corporate behaviour and most value and guide the business Organic compensation Global consistent quality of service for both through the challenges of a market Growth management clients and candidates.
cycle, while allowing us to retain and mobility motivate key senior talent.
Productivity-led Experienced expansion Our operational metrics focus on Experience through economic cycles management pool productivity, by team, discipline and and across geographies and disciplines geography.
This bottom-up approach aligns reduces our learning curve, maximises expansion criteria throughout the Group, focusing scalability and is crucial for placing resources and optimising investment on key priorities.
where they will add the most value.
Our objectives Talent Diversified Scalable Sustainable and skills organic and flexible development growth growth capacity Diversification helps The ability to respond Our business is to mitigate the cyclical quickly to changing reliant on having The combination of these nature of recruitment market conditions is the experience to objectives has enabled markets, which for us critical to managing manage the challenges PageGroup to deliver strong is combined with high the business efficiently and identify the cash flows and have the operational gearing throughout economic opportunities across financial strength to prosper given our permanent cycles.
We ensure that we Our scalability is It also gives us the resilience Our broad-based always have the ability to dependent on having to cope with market capabilities enable us flex our capacity up and the right people downturns without damaging to capitalise on market down, while maintaining available to grow the the businesss long-term opportunities across a core presence in each business and nurture prospects.
the globe, avoiding market to service clients the next generation.
over-reliance on any one properly and retain geography or discipline.
management experience to enable a quick recovery.
Strategic Report | 6 Business Model Our competitive advantage Culture Brand Scale Our true competitive advantage is the combination of these three factors and the balance we have achieved in the business over the past 40 years.
We generate funds through fees earned for placing candidates in permanent and temporary roles.
Brand Scale Culture Page Executive, Michael Page, Page Personnel Our scale enables PageGroup to commit to PageGroups culture is unique in the sector.
We and Page Outsourcing are brands which inspire markets through cycles giving clients the have ingrained values of how to do business high levels of confidence, trust and assurance of confidence to build long-term relationships with ethically and to make long term decisions.
We have a consistent commitment us.
It also enables a broader client offering, global culture that delivers a consistent approach to the markets in which we operate, which even in our new markets, with participation from both internally and externally, though we always combined with our level of expertise, enables multiple disciplines.
remain accepting of each of our markets' local these brands to operate strongly in their market characteristics.
The ability to offer diverse expertise across a place.
broad range of complementary specialisms and The global nature of our culture is aided by a high The recruitment sectors marketing and delivery geographies enhances our offering to the market degree of management mobility.
It is reinforced channels have been reshaped by the digital and the candidate pools we can access.
Our through our consultant training programmes, the revolution and we are a highly active online scale enables us to build an unrivalled skillset and processes by which we do business, and our participant.
However, high quality candidates level of experience, which is available equally to team based approach which is at the heart of will only continue to place key decisions on their the smallest and largest of clients.
future in the hands of consultants who have Our strong financial standing has also been Our purpose and our values that are the key to substance behind their online marketing profile.
increasingly important for many clients who prefer our success are set out on page 25.
We are trusted by our clients and candidates to not to work with the smaller market players, provide a high quality service, to be committed particularly in times of economic uncertainty.
and to be there for the long term.
Temporary staff also derive comfort from our financial strength that their salaries will be paid.
Our strategy Our strategy aims to fulfil our vision of being Large, High Potential the leading specialist recruiter in each Typically under-developed markets, but where we have a successful track record and confidence in our of the markets in which we operate.
Our ability to scale our operations substantially, for example Latin America and South East Asia.
service offering is spread across a broad set of disciplines and geographies, focusing on opportunities where our industry and Large, Proven market experience can set us apart from These are large markets where we are already proven with a strong track record and a significant the competition.
Operating in 36 countries presence, for example the UK and Australia.
and in highly diverse cultures, we have established three categories into which we have grouped each of our markets based on Small and Medium, High Margin criteria including the size of the opportunity Markets which are, or could be, significant profit contributors with attractive conversion margins, but each and the potential for future growth.
This are unlikely or not yet proven to be able to grow to more than 300 fee earners, for example Belgium and structure has provided a clear investment Switzerland.
See page 8 for more on our Strategic Vision 7 | Strategic Report
