CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strategic Review I would like to welcome you to our Strategic Review, where we have outlined how we see current market dynamics, together with PageGroups business model and strategy.
This review will take you through the source of our competitive advantage and the relationship to our Strategic Plan.
Then following on from this, how we approach our investment plan in our markets.
We continue this year to relate how we measure performance, through our KPIs both financial and non financial with associated risks.
These risks then directly link to the four elements financial, strategic, people and operational of the performance criteria in our current executive remuneration plans.
Steve Ingham CEO PageGroup Strategic Report | 8 K R O W T A L Strategic Review Our value proposition We offer a premium service which is valued by clients and attracts the highest calibre of candidates, due to our focus on opportunities where our market and industry knowledge can set us apart.
Our value proposition is based around expertise and specialism and for this to be delivered in a consistent manner, supported by high quality processes.
When these elements are brought together, the potential for a successful outcome for both client and candidate is maximised.
Such successes enhance our reputation: bring greater repeat business: and turn candidates into clients and vice-versa.
Clients Leads to... Sector expertise Repeat business Appropriate candidate Greater exclusivity Specialist industry and shortlist Future candidates market knowledge Professional high quality service Global reach, with deep local knowledge Consultants Leads to... Team-based structure and Rapid career promotion compensation Career opportunities Expertise in premium Access to jobs across entire Reward and recognition candidate sourcing PageGroup Consistent process Experienced advocate for client and candidate Candidates Leads to... Professional high quality Career-long relationship Consistent, high quality service Peer recommendations Market understanding and Future client processes client profiling Career advice enables us to offer a premium service Organic, high margin Strategic that is valued by clients and attracts the and Diversified growth highest calibre of candidates.
framework Our business model is centred PageGroups historic success in each PageGroup is focused on delivering around organic growth.
The key our markets has helped identify which against three key objectives to achieve its elements are derived from our teamgeographies will likely produce high strategic vision and sustainable financial led approach as set out on page 10, margin growth, with the greatest potential returns.
with great value placed on structured for long-term success.
The challenges career development and the value that to achieving a significant market position These are to: experienced management brings to vary across these markets, as does their 1 look for organic, high margin and the business.
These diversified growth: features, when taken together, helped PageGroups diversification strategy has define our strategic vision.
2 position the business to be efficiently led to a well-balanced business profile scalable and highly flexible to react to and mitigation of exposure to any one Our background is in permanent market conditions: and geographic area, brand or discipline.
recruitment, but 25% of the business is now in the temporary market, with 3 nurture and develop our people, Through global diversification, we have this being dependent on local culture driving our meritocratic growth model.
a clear strategic vision: to be the leading and market conditions.
Our service specialist recruiter in the markets in offering covers a broad set of disciplines which we operate.
Our presence in major and specialisations, solely within the global economies enables the greatest professional and clerical recruitment potential for long-term growth in gross market.
profit at attractive conversion rates.
This 9 | Strategic Report E D O M R U O CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Efficiently scalable and highly flexible Our scale enables us to build an PageGroup's strategic vision was We focus relentlessly on sharing best unrivalled skillset, together with the ability developed by reviewing the markets practice across the Group to enhance to respond quickly to changing market in which we operate, to identify which the quality and consistency of our conditions, which are explained in more had the greatest potential and therefore service offering.
We have continued to detail on page 11. likely future impact on Group revenue.
centralise many of our support functions Set out on page 15 is an explanation of into regional shared service centres Our flexibility enables us to operate these categorisations and our approach enabling the capture and leverage of in very diverse markets, each with a to these different markets.
skills and expertise for the benefit of particular recruitment culture, such the whole Group, whilst maintaining the as the degree to which temporary Our global footprint requires high robustness of the operational platform.
placement opportunities are acceptable levels of operational efficiency in order to professionals.
Other aspects of to achieve this strategic objective.
this culture include the proportion of Our focus is centred around attaining recruitment that is outsourced, as operational efficiencies while controlling opposed to undertaken in-house by the fixed asset base.
Nurture and develop our people, driving our meritocratic growth model We recognise that it is our people who uncertain markets.
They take decisions The experience acquired throughout are at the heart of everything we do, as to where PageGroup can achieve the their career is valued greatly, and, as particularly as an organically grown greatest return on investment from the such, our management team has some business.
of the longest tenure and experience in the industry.
The mobility of our people, the significant PageGroups strong record of internal loyalty of the management team career moves and promotion from We therefore invest significantly in our and constant depth of talent greatly within, means that people who join people, as the recruitment, retention and enhances the flexibility of our business us know that they could be our future development of talent is fundamental model.
The senior executive team Senior Managers and Executive Board in our ability to achieve long-term can flex the business exposure to any Members.
Our consultants quickly come sustainable growth.
of our markets, both up and down, to understand that we can offer a longallowing the business to progress even in term and fulfilling career in recruitment.
Innovation At PageGroup we are clear on the they clients, candidates or our own innovation in measurable pilots before role innovation can play in driving our people, continues to grow at pace.
At implementing successful ideas with business.
We use three principles in PageGroup, we will take a pragmatic industrial and international scale.
approach to our adoption and use of We have established an infrastructure innovative ideas and technologies, as 1 improve the client and candidate from top to bottom of our business we have in successfully building our experience: addressing innovation: Our Executive business to date.
Board reviews and steers our 2 identify tools we can deploy at scale Innovation is not just limited to programme on a quarterly basis.
to make our processes more efficient: technology.
Innovation allows us to look Functional experts in Marketing, HR, and at new business models and recruitment Finance and Business Technology 3 measure the efficiency of markets to evolve what PageGroup identify and pilot new technologies investments.
offers as part of our service.
Additionally we have Innovation will be core for PageGroup established and embedded regional We have structures in place to ensure growth.
The impact of technology on innovation groups via our internal social we secure the best ideas coming from behaviours and expectations of all the media network to surface opportunities the market and our own people.
Our people PageGroup works with, be from our consultants.
approach will remain agile, initiating Strategic Report | 10 Strategic Review Market Dynamics The professional recruitment sector has always been In a number of geographic regions, such as Latin America or highly sensitive to fluctuating economic conditions and Greater China, our potential markets are very large, yet relatively is strongly influenced by client and candidate confidence.
This provides not only significant market share liquidity can change rapidly, whether in terms of availability of jobs opportunities, but also business development challenges.
New and candidates, or candidate confidence in taking the next step in markets can take time to crack, but the advantages of being an their career.
early participant and building scale can be considerable.
It can also be localised, whether by geography or discipline, and As set out in the table below, PageGroup views certain key differ between temporary and permanent placements in the same features as defining a particular recruitment market profile, market.
We intend to maintain our strategy of retaining our market categorised by the proportion of roles filled through a recruitment presence throughout downturns, whilst closely controlling our agency market penetration.
Emerging markets Developing markets Mature markets Market 30-70% Over 70% 0-15% 15-30% penetration Well developed markets Highly Limited international Few well-established with many international Competition competitive operators present regional players operators France, Australasia, Latin America, Germany, Greater China UK, US Examples Holland, Spain, Italy SE Asia 11 | Strategic Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Market drivers of PageGroup performance As well as the influence of the general macrogross profit and consultant productivity.
It is the nature of the economic environment on business activity, there are professional recruitment market that strong market conditions a number of specific market-based drivers that can materially will see drivers in both elements align rapidly, and this has a impact PageGroups financial performance.
These are split into dramatic impact on PageGroups overall performance and elements which affect market liquidity and those which influence conversion margins.
Impact Comment Financial Impact Often highly discipline geography-specific, especially at Market Mainly visible through midpoints in the cycle as client confidence grows.
This is Candidate liquidity improvement in gross a key driver of most other elements, as the quality of a availability profit, but a buoyant recruiter is most clearly demonstrated through their ability to market helps to drive source difficult-to-find candidates.
productivity, principally through reducing the A major influence on market liquidity where macrotime to hire, but also Candidate environment is sufficiently stable, candidates will look to in wage inflation and confidence increased fee rates.
progress their careers, which helps to drive job liquidity.
Impact Comment Financial Impact Group average historically moves within a 10% range over Fees rates Gross the cycle 19.5%-22%.
Notable influence profit and on both gross profit productivity and also conversion Reflects level of candidate shortage and liquidity within a Wage rate.
Productivity, particular discipline or geography, plus macro-economic inflation especially in permanent conditions.
recruitment, is significantly enhanced As candidates become scarcer, companies reduce the as these market drivers Time to hire number of interviews and shorten the decision making positively align.
process in order not to lose preferred candidates.
Capital Allocation Policy The Groups strategy is to operate a policy of Our policy is to grow this ordinary dividend over the course of financing the activities and development of the the economic cycle, in line with our long-term growth rate: we Group from our retained earnings and to maintain a strong believe this enables us to sustain the level of ordinary dividend balance sheet position.
We first use our cash to satisfy our payments during a downturn as well as increasing it during operational and investment requirements and to hedge our more prosperous times.
liabilities under the Groups share plans.
We then review our Cash generated in excess of these first two priorities will be liquidity over and above this requirement to make returns to returned to shareholders through supplementary returns, using shareholders, firstly by way of ordinary dividend.
special dividends or share buybacks.
Strategic Report | 12 t n e B r m a t s n e d v n I Strategic Review Clear on people Clear on investment Consistent performance culture reflecting 3 geographic market categories each with our values clear investment strategies Evolving the way we work to allow flexibility Capitalising on the structural opportunity for towards how, where and when we work Page Personnel and Page Executive Leading the way on Diversity and Inclusion Growing the proportion of our revenues from via initiatives such as Women@Page, Ability@ temp contract interim as this becomes more Page, Parents@Page, Pride@Page culturally accepted Consistent approach to CSR Continued focus on increasing discipline diversity and specialisation Market leading and blended approach to learning Consistent focus on improving One the quality of people we hire, retain and grow Clear Vision To increase the scale and diversification of PageGroup by organically growing existing and new teams, offices, Clear on brand Clear on disciplines and markets.
One clear global Group brand operational support Continue to standardise and simplify as far as possible our operational support functions Huge potential to have increasing representation in every Page market Centralise into Shared Service Centres to drive efficiencies and improved controls Roll-out the Global Finance System GFS Qualified professional recruitment in 36 programme and transition to a new Target countries with significant opportunities to Operating Model in IT expand in new markets, disciplines and cities Build Innovation into all areas of the organisation, whether that be through the use Clerical professional recruitment in 19 of new technologies, evolving the role of the countries with huge potential to launch and consultant, or changing our interaction with expand in new markets, disciplines and in clients and candidates particular to increase the proportion of Group revenues generated from temporary, contract Continue to build effective customer and Interim placements relationships through efficient digital platforms Enhance our approach to succession Pages newest brand offering customised planning and talent management solutions, delivered by one or all of our brands, for high-volume and specific project needs 13 | Strategic Report O p e r a t i o n e l a l p S o u e p P p o r t CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OUR Purpose PAGEGROUP CHANGES LIVES f PEOPLE thr gh eating OPPORTUNITY to reach POTENTIAL OUR Values WE ENJOY WHAT WE DO WE MAKE A DIFFERENCE WE VALUE DETERMINATION WE ARE PASSIONATE WE WORK AS A TEAM Strategic Report | 14 Strategic Review How we categorise the markets In 2013, PageGroup categorised each of its geographic markets around the globe based on criteria such as the potential for future growth.
This growth potential was assessed on a combination of expectations for Large, economic growth, size of the existing PageGroup operations relative to the market, and competitive landscape.
High Potential The outcome was three categories as set out in the table to the right, into which the 36 geographical markets in which we operate were placed.
Five markets Substantial, high potential markets were identified as Large, High Potential markets.
Typically underinclude the large economies of the US, Germany developed, but where PageGroup and Greater China, together with the regions of Latin has a successful track record, and America and South East Asia.
Typically under-developed from a recruitment perspective, each satisfied key confidence in its ability to successfully criteria, including: scale operations.
Positive PageGroup track record: Ability to adapt PageGroup culture to local culture: Ability to hire and retain local consultants: Germany, Greater China, Latin Ability to roll-out disciplines and open offices: America, South East Asia and Attractive conversion rate potential: and the US.
Six historically successful geographies were categorised as Large, Proven, reflecting the fact that PageGroup had, within the last economic cycle, operated Sustained investment through substantial businesses in each.
While currently below cycle adding headcount offices peak levels, they have a proven track record, and, as disciplines.
a group, the potential to return to historic high levels albeit with a different mix of headcount and disciplines.
Finally, the remaining businesses were categorised as Small and Medium, High Margin.
This reflects the fact Create a market leading network of that each individually will not have the scale or potential offices, management and headcount.
to be a significant contributor to gross profit.
However, c. 40% of Group gross profit fee they each offer the prospect of attractive margins and earners: 30% conversion rates.
include countries with some of the highest fee rates and conversion margins in the Group.
Within this category are three markets Japan, India and Africa that all have the long-term potential to achieve Large, High Gross profit growth of 15% for the Potential status.
year and gross profit records in all markets.
Strong growth in US 21% Investment approach and Latin America 14%.
Investment in the business has been focused on developing the long-term sustainability of the business and is supported by significant balance sheet strength Continue investment in new and cash flow generation.
The market categorisation provides an investment framework for the business.
headcount and management team, Investment comes in a range of forms including whilst improving conversion rates.
headcount, new offices and infrastructure, marketing spend and minimum levels of market presence through the economic cycle.
15 | Strategic Report STRATEGIC INVESTMENT 2018 PLAN 2017 RESULTS EXAMPLES CATEGORISATION VISION APPROACH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INVESTMENT STRATEGIC 2017 RESULTS 2018 PLAN CATEGORISATION EXAMPLES APPROACH VISION Small and Medium, Large, High Margin Proven Have been, or could be, significant Large markets in which PageGroup profit contributors for PageGroup, is already proven with a strong track but each not likely to be in excess of record and a significant presence.
UK, France, Australia, Japan, Middle East, Africa, the Netherlands, Italy India, Canada, Turkey and other and Spain.
Investment reflects gross profit Respond to market conditions, focus growth and market conditions.
Collectively return to 2007 peak levels Investment responsive to market of operating profit and conversion conditions.
Expected to represent rates: equivalent to c. 45% of Group c. 15% of Group gross profit fee gross profit fee earners.
Gross profit growth of 7%, tough Gross profit growth of 10% for the trading conditions in the UK.
Strong gross profit growth in Excluding this, growth was 15%.
Continue to drive future growth Continued focus on growth and through existing capacity, as well as improving our conversion rates.
