Business model Evolving great ideas into world-changing businesses.
The Group pioneered the concept of the long-term partnership model with UK universities and has spent many years honing a unique approach to building businesses and providing support along the journey from cradle to maturity.
POTENTIAL OPPORTUNITY START-UP PHASE SCALE-UP PHASE SELECTION INCUBATION SEED IP Groups specialists work closely Typically a company will be set up, Engagement with potential with our university partners to owned by the academic team, the customers is sought and feedback identify promising research and university and any other founders.
As milestones to create and build businesses IP will be transferred in and an initial are met, further investment is around this research.
Working investment made with IP Group released while commercial and with technology transfer teams represented on the Board and technical teams are expanded.
As and academics, we assess initial typically taking a hands-on approach.
the company shows signs of traction, disclosures for their potential Time and capital are then deployed an investment case is made for seed commercial viability alongside to develop the ideas to an early funding to accelerate growth.
commercial prototype and beyond with stringent milestones put in place.
SECTOR EXPERTISE SECTOR EXPERTISE LONGTERM PATIENT CAPITAL OUR SUPPORTING FRAMEWORK Our sector experts take a hands-on role in The team is the primary interface between Our specialist early-stage in-house business-building, working the Group and the universities and focuses executive search team recruits closely with founders to on mining and evaluating very early-stage experienced and high calibre individuals shape strategic direction opportunities and then developing and to lead our businesses alongside and frequently taking shaping them into businesses.
founders and IP Group team members.
an interim commercial management role.
14 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Our business & strategy We systematically help create, build and support outstanding intellectual property-based companies in order to provide attractive returns for all our stakeholders.
COMMERCIALISATION SCALE-UP PHASE DELIVERING POST-SEED & BEYOND Sustainable Value As companies mature, IP Group continues to offer support and can help inform discussions around further funding as well as exit strategies whether Financial returns trade sale or IPO.
We take an active role in company development to help growth the value of New company creation the asset over time.
Solutions to global challenges Purpose-led employment opportunities SECTOR EXPERTISE LONGTERM PATIENT CAPITAL We provide operational, legal and business Our specialist fund management and IP Impact has created two support, including company secretarial, to our corporate advisory business seeks to create innovative programmes to portfolio companies with a view to minimising value for the Groups portfolio companies accelerate company growth, the most common administrative factors that can primarily by supporting their access to working with CEOs and company contribute to early stage company failure.
capital as well as providing advice on boards to improve performance.
