Our Go Our Gov vernanc ernance e Other S Other sta tatut tutory ory Directors report Report of the Directors Significant agreements The Directors present their report together with the The Group has entered into various agreements to audited financial statements for IP Group plc and its form partnerships with 18 UK universities, five US subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2017. universities and nine universities in Australasia.
In addition, the Group has entered into agreements to Corporate governance statement act as general partner and investment manager to three limited partnerships.
Further details can be Information that fulfils the requirements of the found in the strategic report and in the notes to the corporate governance statement can be found in the financial statements.
Corporate Governance Statement on pages 64 to 79 and is incorporated into this Directors report by Share capital and related matters reference.
Details of the structure of the Companys share Results and dividends capital and the rights attaching to the Companys shares are set out in note 20 to the consolidated During the period, the Group made an overall profit financial statements.
There are no specific restrictions after taxation for the year ended 31 December 2017 on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, of 53.4m 2016: 14.8m loss.
The directors do not which are both governed by the general provisions of recommend the payment of a dividend 2016: nil.
the Companys Articles of Association the Articles Directors and prevailing legislation.
The names of directors who currently hold office or At the last Annual General Meeting of the Company did so during 2017 are as follows: held on 10 May 2017 the 2017 AGM, authority was given to the Directors pursuant to the relevant Executive Directors provisions of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares Alan Aubrey and grant rights over securities in the Company up to Mike Townend a maximum amount equivalent to approximately oneGreg Smith third of the issued ordinary share capital on 5 April David Baynes 2017 at any time up to the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting AGM of the Non-executive Directors Company and 1 August 2018.
In addition, at the 2017 Mike Humphrey Chairman AGM, the Directors were also given authority effective Jonathan Brooks for the same period as the aforementioned authority Doug Liversidge resigned on 31 December 2017 to allot shares and grant rights over securities in the Prof Lynn Gladden Company up to a maximum of approximately twoDr Elaine Sullivan thirds of the total ordinary share capital in issue on Prof David Begg appointed with effect from 18 5 April 2017 in connection with an offer by way of a October 2017 fully pre-emptive rights issue.
The Directors propose to renew both of these authorities at the Companys Details of the interests of directors in the share next AGM to be held on 18 June 2018.
The authorities capital of the Company are set out in the Directors being sought are in accordance with guidance issued Remuneration Report on page 93. by the Investment Association.
Principal risks and uncertainties and A further special resolution passed at the 2017 AGM granted authority to the Directors to allot equity financial instruments securities in the Company for cash, without regard The Group through its operations is exposed to to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act a number of risks.
The Groups risk management 2006, both: i up to a maximum of approximately objectives and policies are described on pages 46 to two-thirds of the total ordinary share capital in 47 and in the Corporate Governance report on page issue on 5 April 2017 in connection with a fully pre- 78.
Further information on the Groups financial risk emptive rights issue: and ii up to a maximum of management objectives and policies, including those approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal value in relation to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, of the shares in issue on 5 April 2017, each authority is provided in note 2 to the consolidated financial exercisable at any time up to the earlier of the statements, along with further information on the Groups use of financial instruments.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Directors report CONTINUED conclusion of the next AGM of the Company and Directors indemnity and 1 August 2018.
The Directors will seek to renew these liability insurance authorities for a similar period at the next AGM to be During the year, the Company has maintained liability held on 18 June 2018. insurance in respect of its Directors.
Subject to the Under Part 18, Chapter 5 of the Companies Act 2006, provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Articles the Company has the power to purchase its own provide that to the extent that the proceeds of any shares.
At the 2017 AGM, a special resolution was liability insurance are insufficient to meet any liability passed which granted the Directors authority to make in full, every Director is entitled to be indemnified out market purchases of the Companys shares pursuant of the funds of the Company against any liabilities to these provisions of the Companies Act 2006 up to incurred in the execution or discharge of his or her a maximum of approximately 10% of the Companys powers or duties.
A copy of the indemnity is available issued share capital on 5 April 2017 provided that the for inspection as required by the Companies Act 2006. authority granted set a minimum and maximum price at which purchases can be made and is exercisable at Regulation any time up to the earlier of the conclusion of the next Top Technology Ventures Limited, Touchstone AGM and 1 August 2018.
This authority has not been Innovations Investment Management Limited and used during the year.
The Directors will seek to renew Parkwalk Advisors Ltd, all 100%-owned subsidiaries the authority within similar parameters and for a similar of the Group are authorised and regulated by the period at the next AGM to be held on 18 June 2018.
Financial Conduct Authority under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles may be amended by a special Post balance sheet events resolution of the shareholders.
Material events occurring since the balance sheet date are disclosed in the Strategic Report and in note Substantial shareholders 29 to the Groups financial statements.
As at 29 March 2018, the Company had been advised of the following shareholders with interests of 3% Disclosure of information to auditor or more in its ordinary share capital.
Other than as Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of shown, so far as the Company and its Directors approval of this Annual Report confirms that: are aware, no other person holds or is beneficially interested in a disclosable interest in the Company.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is Shareholder % unaware: and Invesco Asset Management Limited 28.1 the Director has taken all steps that he she ought to Woodford Investment Management have taken as a Director in order to make himself LLP 19.9 herself aware of any relevant audit information and to Lansdowne 11.8 establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that Imperial College of Science Technology information.
& Medicine 5.2 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted Bailie Gifford 4.0 in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of Political donations the Companies Act 2006.
The Group did not make any political donations Appointment of auditor during 2017.
A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP, together with Corporate and social responsibility a resolution to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM to be Details on the Groups policies, activities and aims held on 18 June 2018. with regard to its corporate and social responsibilities, including details of its greenhouse gas emissions, ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD are included in the Sustainability section on pages 54 ANGELA LEACH to 59.
COMPANY SECRETARY 29 March 2018 106 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine
