STRATEGIC REPORT 40 VIABILITY STATEMENT The Board monitors the Groups risk management and internal control systems on an ongoing basis, and confirms that during the year it carried out a thorough assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, their potential impact and the mitigating strategies in place, asdescribed on pages 32 to 39.
The principal risks include those that would TheGroup is primarily exposed to Mitigating actions include a reduction or threaten the Groups business model, changes in global iron ore prices the 62% cancellation of discretionary expenditure future performance, liquidity or solvency.
Fe iron ore fines CFR China price and such as capital investment, dividends or the pellet premium.
A US$1 per tonne other operating costs, adjusting capital Time Horizon fall in the received price for the Groups allocation, reducing working capital The Board has reviewed the longiron ore pellets would, if not mitigated, requirements, altering mining schedules term prospects of the business.
reduce the Groups annual EBITDA by and accessing additional funding.
which remain aligned with Ferrexpos approximately US$10 million.
Other life of mine assumptions.
stress test scenarios included operational The Directors take comfort in the incidents that have a significant impact Groups historic cash generation ability, For the purposes of assessing the on production volumes, a deterioration particularly in 2015 and 2016 at a time Groups viability in the medium term, the in the Groups long-term cost position on when the iron ore price was trading at Directors have chosen a five-year time the industry cost curve or other operating a cyclical low.
Since 1 January 2016, period given the long-life nature of mining constraints due to Ukrainian country risk.
the Group has reduced its net financial assets, including the period required indebtedness by US$465 million and to invest in such assets and taking into The scenario analysis includes severe currently has strong credit metrics.
account the cash flows generated by situations outside the normal course of those assets, as well as the cyclical business, such as a breakdown in the Prospects nature of the commodities industry.
linkage between the movements of the The Directors believe the viability of the As such, a five-year time period was iron ore price with other commodity Group under these scenarios remains considered an appropriate length for prices, notably the oil price which forms a sound, principally due to Ferrexpos low the Boards strategic planning period.
significant component of the Groups cost cost position on the iron ore cost curve, its base or an appreciation of the Ukrainian high quality product that commands a price Stress Testing Hryvnia when the iron ore price is weak.
premium, a first class customer portfolio, In determining the viability of the business, a well invested asset base together the Directors have stress tested the with supportive industry fundamentals individual risks and combination of for iron ore pellet consumption.
risks that could materially impact the future viability of the business.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts
