CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 82 DIRECTORS REPORT Introduction The Company was incorporated under the name Ferrexpo plc as a public company limited by shares on 22 April 2005.
Ferrexpo plc listed on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007 and is a member of the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2017.
There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date, other than the proposed dividend disclosed in Note13 to the financial statements.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Group is included in the Strategic Report.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Group is given in Note27 to the financial statements.
Additional disclosures which are incorporated by reference into this Directors Report, including any information required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4R of the FCAs Listing Rules or the Act, can be located as set out in the following table: Page See financial statements Note14 114 Capitalised interest and tax relief LR 9.8.
4 R 1 Remuneration Report Details of long-term incentive schemes LR 9.8.
Transactions with FC Vorskla are Contracts of significance LR 9.8.
4R 10 142 considered to be contracts of significance under the Listing Rules The employee benefit trust contains 2.9 million Ferrexpo Ordinary Details of waivers of dividends by shareholders Shares for satisfying existing and future awards under management LR 9.8.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of these shares Corporate Governance Report Relationship Agreement with controlling shareholder 56 LR 9.8.
4R 14 Strategic Report Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions 46 Financial instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Group 130 policy on financial instruments is set out in Note27 to the financial statements See financial statements Note35 Events since the balance sheet date 144 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the 86 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance Report Information that fulfils the requirements of DTR 7.2 53 other than DTR 7.2.
6 Dividends Results for the year are set out in the consolidated income statement on page 96.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the dividend will be paid in UK Pounds Sterling on 27 June 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 June 2018.
Shareholders may receive UK Pounds Sterling dividends by direct bank transfer, provided that they have notified the Companys registrars in advance.
Shareholders may also elect to receive dividends in US Dollars the procedure for this is set out in the Notice of the AGM.
In recognition of the progress made by the business in 2017, the Directors have also announced a special dividend of 6.6 US cents per share, amounting to US$38 million, for payment on 16 April 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 April 2018.
The dividend will similarly be paid in UK Pounds Sterling with an election to receive US Dollars.
Directors The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: Oliver Baring retired 23 November 2017 Sir Malcolm Field retired 25 May 2017 Vitalii Lisovenko Simon Lockett appointed 15 June 2017 Steve Lucas Chris Mawe Bert Nacken Mary Reilly Kostyantin Zhevago All of the Directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83 Further details about the Directors and their roles within the Group are given in the Directors biographies on pages 50 and 51.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in shares of the Company and their service contracts are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 81.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors Directors may be elected by the shareholders by ordinary resolution or appointed by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following AGM and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Directors and Officers Insurance The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance in respect of legal action that may be brought against its Directors and Officers.
Directors Indemnity Provision During the period under review, the Group had in force a qualifying third-party indemnity provision in favour of each of the Directors of Ferrexpo plc against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Act.
Disclosures Required by Statute Employees Information on the Groups employment policies can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 44 to 45.
Employee numbers are stated in Note29 to the financial statements.
The Group employs fewer than 250 staff in the United Kingdom and so does not disclose its policies on employee involvement or employing disabled people.
However, it will give fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled people.
Political Donations The Group made no political donations during the year.
Share Capital and Rights Attaching to the Companys Shares The Company has a single class of Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
At each AGM, the Board proposes to put in place annual shareholder authority for the Companys Directors to allot new shares in accordance with relevant institutional investor guidelines.
Details of the issued share capital of the Company are shown in Note31 to the financial statements.
Variation of Rights Subject to the provisions of the Act, the rights attached to a class of shares may be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders of at least three-quarters of the nominal amount of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the issued shares of that class validly held in accordance with the Articles.
Transfer of Shares Any share in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated share if it is not in the approved form.
The Board may also decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% or greater interest if such a person has been served with a notice and has failed within 14 days to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 84 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Repurchase of Shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Act.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase.
The Company was given authority to make market purchases of up to approximately 10% of its existing Ordinary Share capital by a resolution passed on 25 May 2017.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys 2018 AGM.
A special resolution to renew the authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the resolution renewing the authority to purchase Ordinary Shares are set out in the Notice of AGM enclosed with this report.
The Company did not make use of the authority mentioned above during 2017.
Dividends and Distributions Subject to the provisions of the Act, the shareholders may by ordinary resolution, from time to time, declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends and also any fixed rate dividends whenever the financial position of the Group, in the opinion of the Board, justifies their payment.
Under the Companys Articles, the Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% or greater interest as defined in the Articles if such person has been served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed within 14 days to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share held.
Under the Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting as a corporate representative.
Restrictions on Voting No member is entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum outstanding in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, subject to the Articles, no member shall be entitled to vote if he has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
Shares Held in the Employee Benefit Trust EBT The trustees of the Companys EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares held in the EBT as they think fit and in doing so may take into account both financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT or their dependants.
Deadline for Voting Rights The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the meeting.
The Directors will also specify in the notice of any general meeting a time, being not more than 48 hours before the meeting, by which a person must be entered in the register of members in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting The Directors may decide, at their discretion, that no account should be taken of any day that is not a working day when calculating the 48-hour period.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been advised, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable interests in its voting rights.
% of the Companys total voting Name of shareholder Ordinary Shares Number of voting rights rights at date of notification 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. 296,077,944 296,077,944 50.30% 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Minco Trust of which Kostyantin Zhevago is a beneficiary.
As at 4 March 2018, the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Annual Report, no changes in these interests in voting rights had been notified to the Company.
Significant Agreements Change of Control The Company does not have any agreements with Directors or employees that would provide for compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
There are no circumstances connected with any other significant agreements to which the Company is a party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, except those referred to below: LTIP The rules of the Companys LTIP set out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on employee rights under the plan.
Generally, such rights will vest on a change of control to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied and on a time prorated basis, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company, or in some cases, to the payment of a cash sum of equivalent basis.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 85 Bank Loan Facilities Under the US$195 million revolving pre-export finance PXF facility with BNP Paribas and other banks entered into in November 2017, if Kostyantin Zhevago ceases to own directly or indirectly at least 30% of the issued and allotted share capital of the Company, or any person other than Kostyantin Zhevago becomes the beneficial owner of shares in the Company carrying more than 50% of the voting rights normally exercisable at a general meeting, then the lenders are not obliged to fund a drawdown and a lender may upon notice cancel its commitment and declare the amount owing to it immediately due and payable.
As at 31 December 2017 the facility was undrawn.
Under the US$350 million revolving PXF facility with Deutsche Bank and other banks entered into in September 2013, if Kostyantin Zhevago ceases to own directly or indirectly at least 30% of the issued and allotted share capital of the Company, or any person other than Kostyantin Zhevago becomes the beneficial owner of shares in the Company carrying more than 50% of the voting rights normally exercisable at a general meeting, then the lenders are not obliged to fund a drawdown and a lender may upon notice cancel its commitment and declare the amount owing to it immediately due and payable.
As of 31 December 2017, total committed PXF facilities available were US$326.25 million, of which US$112.5 million had been drawn under the 2013 facility.
Of the remaining US$213.75 million, US$18.75 million is available under the 2013 facility and US$195 million under the 2017 facility.
Corporate Bonds Due 2018 and 2019 Under the conditions of the Notes issued in February and July 2015, if Kostyantin Zhevago or certain related persons ceases to own directly or indirectly at least 30% of the issued and allotted share capital of the Company: if any person other than Kostyantin Zhevago or certain related persons becomes the beneficial owner of shares in the Company carrying more than 50% of the voting rights normally exercisable at a general meeting: or if the allotted share capital of the Company ceases to be listed on certain approved markets, then any Noteholder will have the right to require the repurchase of its Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
Relationship Agreement Details of the Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Kostyantin Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company can be found in the Corporate Governance Report page 56.
The Relationship Agreement ceases to apply if Ferrexpos shares cease to be listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange, or if the holding of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust or Mr Zhevago individually or collectively falls below 24.9% of the issued share capital of the Company and they are no longer a controlling shareholder for the purposes of the UK Listing Rules.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the risk factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out on pages 18 to 39.
The Viability Statement is set out in the Strategic Report on page 40.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Performance Review on pages 18 to 27.
In addition, Note27 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 130 to 136 sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives and details of its financial instruments: its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, as well as currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups cash flow projections, liquidity and debt maturity profile for the period from the approval of the accounts to the end of March 2019 and also considered events and conditions beyond the period of managements going concern assessment, in particular the debt repayments totalling US$177,022 thousand in April and May 2019.
The Directors are of the view that the Group is a going concern and the consolidated financial statements have been drawn up on this basis.
Statement on Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Act of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and that each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Amendments to Articles of Association The Articles may be amended by special resolution in accordance with the Act.
AGM The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00am on Friday 25 May 2018 at Deutsche Bank, Winchester House, 75 London Wall, London EC2N 2DB.
A separate letter from the Chairman summarising the business of the meeting and the Notice convening the AGM will be sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 49 and this Directors Report have been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law, and any liability of the Directors in connection with these reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 20 March 2018.
For and on behalf of the Board STEVE LUCAS CHAIRMAN CHRIS MAWE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts
