Our business model Fundamentals The Group buys undervalued portfolios, often with high levels ofvacancy or other tangible We opportunities to add value, appliesan intensive programme buy of improvement using its local management teams, and sells Disciplined investment torealise the value added.
We pick our investments based on a thorough assessment of the opportunities in order to create a high-yielding portfolio with potential to add value.
Our balance sheet is strong and we remain We target two types of investments, one committed to nancing on a prudent basis.
that provides a high yield, and the other that, although lower yielding, oers the potential for capital growth through intense asset management initiatives.
We We seek to produce sustainable growth in our rental income and occupancy, which manage should lead to increased values.
Local expertise We then aim to realise and distribute the We have 7 oces with experienced management profits to our shareholders.
We work hard at creating the right relationships with our stakeholders so that we are in the prime position to react when opportunities arise.
We apply an active asset management strategy to our properties in order to improve occupancy and drive rental income which should lead to increased values.
We sell Realise value Returns come from rental income and selling at increased value.
We supplement our buy, manage, sell business model with other opportunity types where we think good profits can be made, including deals in other sectors, especially land where we believe we can make planning gains.
08 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our resources Established strengths Our properties Industrial property is the Our portfolio is made up of 325 properties and is most fexible and economical focused on urban distribution and light industrial commercial property type warehouses predominantly across the UK.
Generally our assets are located outside of the South East withthe widest occupational and we buy assets in well-connected locations.
audience Our properties appeal to a huge range of occupiers which means we have an extremely diverse tenant base without reliance on any particular tenants or industries.
Occupational demand is currently strong and with 16.8million sq ft of predominantly industrial property, Total valuation Square feet of lettable space wehave a wide range of space to meet the requirements of a diverse mix of tenants.
8 m Our tenants The fundamental value Our occupiers are generally local businesses that serve dynamics are strong the towns and cities around which they are based.
We have a very diverse tenant base, both by sector Our properties are valued at signicantly below and by number, which brings resilience to our income replacement cost, which limits new supply.
stream as well as asset management opportunities.
3% Our team Opportunities exist for We have seven UK regional oces that contain adding value a successful mix of experienced surveyors and Part of our business model is to reshape our portfolio graduate surveyors.
In addition to this established through the trade of assets as and when the business asset management team, Hansteen has a group of plans have been completed to realise the value added.
senior managers and financial executives that have Inaddition, we have a significant bank of UK land at various worked together for many years and have considerable stages of gaining planning permission which will, in time experience in the industrial property sector.
Our asset managers are focused primarily on direct tenant relationships and the marketing of vacant units either for sale or to rent.
They are heavily involved in the management of the properties in their region, although the day-to-day management is undertaken by local property managers who are contracted on a third party basis.
