A year in review 2017 was an extremely busy and successful year for Hansteen with the threekey elements of our business model working well.
We have acquired properties in a competitive market at good prices through the corporate acquisition of IMPT, managed our assets eectively with increases in rent, occupancy and value and nally sold a significant part of the portfolio which realised a material amount of capital that has been returned to shareholders.
J un e Sale of German and Du tc h P o rtf o li o The German and Dutch Portfolio was sold for 1.28 billion cash which represented a premium of approximately 76 million 6% to the 31 December 2016 valuation.
The scale of the transaction required shareholder consent by way of a circular and a Shareholders General Meeting where the sale was overwhelmingly supported.
J ul y Acquisition of IMPT Hansteen completed the acquisition of management team was able to all of the issued share capital of IMPT.
increasethe occupancy, rent roll and With a yield on the passing rent of 9.4% ERV from acquisition and as a result, and a vacancy rate of 8.2%, the theportfolio was valued at 109.7 million acquisition represented a good at 31 December 2017.
On 5 February opportunity to acquire a significant 2018 we announced that we had amount of light industrial property exchanged unconditional contracts atanattractive price.
Our UK asset tosell the portfolio for 116.0 million.
02 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial statements N o five mbe r 578.1m returned to our shareholders The sale of the German and Dutch most appropriate means of distributing price on 20 March 2017 the day before portfolio was in line with our long-term the cash which should be treated as a the announcement of the proposed sale business and portfolio strategy of buying capital event.
In November 2017, we of the German and Dutch portfolio and a at a low point in the cycle, adding value completed the tender oer whereby premium of 11.1p or 8.6% to the EPRA through improved asset management and qualifying shareholders were oered the NAV per share at 31 December 2016. subsequently realising the investment at a opportunity to sell at least 1 in every 2 higher point in the cycle.
The tender oer was successful and 412.9 million After exploring various options for the shares were purchased for a total of method of returning the capital, it was 578.1 million.
The price represented a determined that a tender oer was the premium of 13.8% over the closing share The Groups financial performance during 2017 wasoutstanding and we are pleased to present another setof strong results.
Ian Watson and Morgan Jones Joint Chief Executives 03
