Chairman's Statement It is with personal sadness that I find myself responsible for this section of the Annual Report.
Dame Helen Alexander was an exceptional leader and is deeply missed.
She steered UBM through a time of significant change and we have continued to build on the strong foundations that Helen helped to lay.
2017 strategic progress With our clear and well understood strategy we have continued to make excellent progress during 2017 and the quality of the business has improved further.
We have delivered on our commitment to accelerate underlying growth and generate further improvement in the margin.
The integration of Allworld Exhibitions, We have continued to make excellent acquired in December 2016, is going to plan and we are confident of achieving progress with our Events First the 2019 returns that we set out when the acquisition was announced.
The strategy is During 2017 we also made four new bolt-on acquisitions and disposed or delivering value for our shareholders rationalised 37 small, lower-growth and or lower-margin events and various with another year of improved unaligned OMS activities.
The Boards In line with our strategy, operationally the business has continued to improve.
confidence in the outlook for the We have made good progress on the business is reflected in a new dividend roll-out of our common CRM platform and adoption of a standard sales model, policy and a proposed 6.8% increase in the design and implementation of the Marketing Excellence model in the full year dividend.
and towards the creation of a high performance culture.
Dame Helen Alexander 1957 2017 It was with a profound and deep sadness The review targeted senior women We will long remember and cherish that we learned that our Chairman, below the company board.
This work Helen, a wonderful person who achieved Dame Helen Alexander, had passed away was a fitting legacy.
so much but did so with a gentle on 5th August 2017 following a period humility and a fundamental kindness.
As Chairman of UBM, appointed in of illness.
May 2012, Helen had a strong focus on Helen had an extraordinarily successful good governance and doing business and diverse career.
She was a passionate in the right way, forging strong and champion of diversity, in all its forms, constructive relationships with both of recognising its value to all businesses.
the UBM CEOs with whom she worked.
She was a prominent role-model She successfully re-shaped the Board for women in business.
Her to ensure that it has the appropriate co-authorship of the Hamptonmix of skills and experience to help Alexander Review, alongside Sir Philip the business deliver its Events First Hampton, sought ways to ensure strategic ambitions.
talented women at the top of business are recognised, promoted and rewarded.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 02
