Effectiveness continued Relations with stakeholders The Board understands that effective engagement with the Groups major stakeholders is a key component of UBMs long-term success and sustainable value-creation, and pays particular attention to building relationships and trust with major stakeholders.
Examples of how this is achieved are set out below.
"UBM Investors Employees Environment Customers Community CEO informal chats Industry-leading Customer Group-wide Capital Markets Day sustainability Satisfaction surveys Charity Committee Engagement surveys Results webcasts Sponsorship of the Establishing Event-Community Recognition awards AGM Industry Report on Advisory Boards partnerships Results webcasts Roadshows Best Practices in Using focus groups Volunteering available to all Sustainability Meetings with Charitable disaster Championing the Chairman Introduction of the relief donations diversity ""Sustainable 10"" KPIs Mental health wellbeing Further details on how we engage with stakeholders can be found in the sustainability report on page 24 Institutional shareholders Relations with shareholders Capital Markets Day The Chairman has a programme of Led by the Chairman, the Board is May 2017 ongoing engagement with shareholders committed to proactive and constructive and is available at all times for UBM hosted more than 50 engagement with its shareholders."
During 2017, the investors, lenders and analysts at a It receives regular feedback on investor Chairman had four meetings with Capital Markets Day hosted at our meetings and other investor relations institutional shareholders.
Through a series of activities, in addition to having access to presentations the Company provided sell-side research and analyst notes.
Financial results are communicated to greater insight into the activities in the market twice a year, with trading The Board believes that allowing each of the regions, with examples of updates provided in the interim.
shareholders direct access to Nonhow we are implementing the Events After the preliminary and interim results, Executive Directors is necessary to First strategy, and driving organic a presentation is made to shareholders help the Board develop a balanced growth and margin improvement.
and analysts, which is made available to understanding of any issues or The audience heard from the other stakeholders and the public through concerns that may exist in the investor CEO, CFO and divisional leadership a webcast on the Companys website at community.
The Chairman, Senior on progress and opportunities, www.
com investor  Director and other Nonfollowed by attendees visiting their reports.
Executive Directors are available to meet own mini 'UBM' exhibition with major shareholders.
different booths showcasing key events such as BlackHat, CBME and Food Ingredients.
The webcast of the presentations was shared with employees and the materials made available on the investor section of UBMs website http: www.
com investor results-and-reports UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 58 Strategic report Governance Financial statements There is a scheduled programme of meetings with institutional shareholders which is led by the Head of Investor Relations, and generally undertaken by the CEO and CFO.
This is an opportunity for the CEO and CFO to discuss performance and respond to any questions raised by investors.
The key elements of the Groups investor engagement programme during 2017 are set out below.
2017 calendar of investor engagement Date Event Preliminary Results 2016 February 2017 Investor Roadshows London and Edinburgh March 2017 Citi Group Media Roundtable event Capital Markets Day London hosting more than 50 investors, lenders and analysts May 2017 Trading Update and AGM May 2017 Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Telecom and Media Conference June 2017 Interim Results July 2017 London & Scotland Investor Roadshows August September 2017 Deutsche Bank European Technology Conference Major shareholder visit to Furniture China September 2017 North America & Canadian Investor roadshows New York, Toronto & Boston Trading Update October November 2017 Morgan Stanley European Technology, Media & Telecom Conference Major shareholder visit to Food Ingredients December 2017 Private shareholders Financial and business reporting External auditor Shareholders are kept informed about The Board has procedures in place to Following the Audit Committees the activities and progress of the Group satisfy itself that the Annual Report and recommendation to the Board, Ernst through the Annual Report and the Accounts, when taken as a whole, is a fair, & Young LLP were re-appointed as Companys website.
The preliminary balanced and understandable assessment auditor at the last AGM for the 2017 results, interim results, trading updates of the Companys position and prospects, financial year.
and other information about the Company and that the Company continues to be are published on the website.
The Audit Committee plays a key role in supporting the Board Annual General Meeting AGM in making this assessment, and the way All shareholders are welcome at the AGM in which it satisfies itself that all relevant where they are able to ask questions of requirements have been met is set out on the Directors.
Voting at the AGM takes page 61. place by poll.
The results are notified The Strategic Report sets out a via a regulatory information service and description of the Companys strategy, displayed on the Companys website as business model and explanation of soon as practicable following the meeting.
how it creates value for customers, All resolutions proposed at the 2017 shareholders, employees, and other Annual General Meeting were passed by a stakeholders.
A statement of the significant majority of shareholders.
Directors responsibility for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts is given in the Directors Report.
The Operating and Financial Review contains the Directors going concern statement.
The external auditors audit report, which contains its reporting responsibilities, is set out in the financial statements.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Effectiveness continued received a broad-based market and In conducting its review, the Board Risk management and business risks review of China: ensured that: internal control The Regulatory, Legal & Compliance reviewed individual sector reports the monitoring and review covered all RLC and Internal Audit functions concentrating on the Pharmaceutical material controls, including financial, operate across the organisation and and Fashion industries: operational and compliance controls: have ownership of risk management reviewed cyber-security risks and there is an on-going process for and internal control policies, processes execution risks for technology identifying, evaluating and managing and structures.
Reviews and audits are projects: the principal risks faced by the undertaken based on an assessment Company: and of the risk profile of the Company, received and reviewed updates to the its principal subsidiaries and business Anti-Bribery and Corruption and the the systems have been in place for divisions, and the results are reported Gifts and Hospitality policies: the year under review and up to to the Executive Committee, the Audit the date of approval of the Annual received updates on Health, Safety & Committee and the Board as appropriate.
Report and Accounts, and that these Security: systems align with the FRC Guidance The Audit Committee, on behalf of carried out a risk review of the UBM on risk management, internal control the Board, reviews the system of risk Asia division: and related financial and business management and internal controls on reporting.
assessed the effectiveness of the an ongoing basis, including Internal risk management processes and The Boards ongoing review has resulted Audit and RLC reports, reports from internal controls based on its ongoing in continued expansion in scope of the the Groups external auditor and regular review of strategy, which aims to Groups risk management practices.
Details of the identify potential risks to the Groups Audit Committees work are set out on Details of the enhancements made to the achievement of objectives.
page 61. risk management policies and procedures It has also reviewed: during 2017 are set out on page 30 of the As part of the year-end reporting monthly financial reporting against Strategic Report.
processes, and consistent with the budget: UK Corporate Governance Code, the The Board has concluded that there Board has carried out a review of specific material areas of risk across have been no significant failings or the effectiveness of the Groups risk the Group and mitigation plans for weaknesses in the risk management and management and internal controls example the Advanstar integration : internal controls systems during the year.
for 2017. and Further detail on the assessment process During the year the Board has: is provided in the Audit Committee Report specific acquisitions through a series on page 61. of post-acquisition reviews.
approved the risk management disclosure and Long Term Viability Statement in the Strategic Report on page 35: reviewed the continuing efforts of the business to implement and enhance procedures to support the Modern Slavery Act: carried out a pensions review in May: received an updated report on tax liabilities across the Group in July: UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 60 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Accountability Audit Committee Report Dear shareholder I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report for 2017.
The report aims to provide insight into our essential role in protecting the interests of stakeholders through our oversight of financial reporting.
It also covers our key activities during the year, and our ongoing responsibilities.
The Committee, which consists of three independent Non-Executive Directors, is a key element of UBMs governance framework.
We have worked throughout the year to fulfil our objective to ensure that the Board can be satisfied that corporate reporting requirements are met, that risk management and internal control principles are applied appropriately, and that the Company maintains an appropriate relationship with its external auditor.
The Committee met four times during the year, dedicating significant time to, in particular, the control environment and the effectiveness The Audit Committee is an essential of the risk management framework, with one meeting specifically dedicated to risk.
In addition, part of UBMs governance framework, the Committee has continued to monitor overseeing the integrity of financial broader market conditions, including the risks and challenges relevant to the Group and the reporting, risk management and potential impact of these on financial reporting and controls.
The Committee has concluded that internal control.
During the year the appropriate risk management and internal control processes have been in operation during the year.
Committee dedicated significant Further details on the risk review process are set out in the Strategic Report on page 30. time to, in particular, the control During the year the Committee undertook environment and the effectiveness a tender process for the external audit.
Further details can be found on page 67. of the risk management framework.
Following each meeting I provide an update to the Board on key matters considered and any significant issues and recommendations as appropriate.
Periodically throughout the year I meet separately with the CFO, Group Company Membership Secretary, Group Financial Controller, Head of 1, 2 John McConnell Trynka Shineman Internal Audit and the external audit partner.
Ahead of Committee meetings I also meet with Terry Neill Greg Lock until January 2018 this group, which is a valuable way for me to 1 Chairman of the Committee better understand key issues and to ensure that 2 Has recent and relevant financial experience sufficient time is allocated during the meeting for Number of meetings discussion and debate.
Four The Committee is satisfied that the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are Attendees by invitation fair, balanced and understandable and contain all of the necessary information to allow our Chairman, CEO, CFO, Group Company Secretary, Group Financial shareholders to assess UBMs performance, Controller, Head of Internal Audit and External Auditor.
com investor corporate-governance audit-committee John McConnell Chairman, Audit Committee UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Accountability continued Audit Committee Report Membership and attendance Purpose The Committee is comprised entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The terms of reference set out the The Board is satisfied that, having Committees duties to assist the recently held a FTSE 250 CFO position, John McConnell has recent and relevant Board in undertaking its responsibility financial experience.
The Committee as a whole has competence in the to monitor the integrity of the sectors in which the Company operates.
Biographies of the Committee members financial statements of the Company, are set out on pages 47 to 48, and in the skills matrix on page 49. oversee the adequacy of the Groups The agendas for the meetings follow a financial controls and systems of risk rolling annual calendar.
The CFO, members of the finance team and the Group management and internal control, Company Secretary assist the Chairman in preparing the annual agenda and in and monitor the effectiveness and making sure that the Committee receives independence of both the internal and information and papers on a timely basis.
An annual review of the performance of external auditor.
The Board delegates the Committee is conducted each year as responsibility to the Audit Committee part of the wider effectiveness review of the Board and its Committees.
More detail to help ensure that financial reporting on the process followed during 2017 can be found in the Board Effectiveness processes are robust and overseen Review on page 57. with appropriate independent financial Activities during the year Financial reporting expertise and challenge.
The Committee reviews the Companys financial statements, including the Annual Report and Accounts and half-year results.
Key areas of focus in relation to financial reporting during the year included: Key responsibilities review of the appropriateness of Review of the integrity of the financial statements, the accounting the Groups accounting policies policies applied, whether significant judgements are sound and and practices, including the monitor compliance with statutory and listing requirements.
use of exceptional items and application of the exceptional items Review of the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, accounting policy: internal controls and risk management framework.
consideration of material areas in Advise the Board whether the Committee believes the Annual which significant judgements have Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and been applied or where there has been understandable and provides the information necessary for discussion with the external auditor: shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
review and continuous improvement of the financial control systems Review of the scope, resources, results and effectiveness of the environment to ensure robustness internal audit function and the annual internal audit programme.
in reporting: Oversee the relationship with the external auditor, the scope of review of the quality of narrative external audit work and the auditors effectiveness, ensuring the reporting, clarity and relevance auditors independence, monitoring compliance with the policy on of disclosures and adherence to non-audit fees and considering the findings of the external auditor.
applicable compliance and governance Ensure that the audit services contract is put out to tender at best practice: and appropriate intervals, compare the quality and effectiveness of the compliance with financial reporting services provided by the external auditor with those of other audit standards and relevant financial and firms, and oversee the selection process.
Make recommendations to the Board on external auditor remuneration and appointment or re-appointment.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 62 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other areas of judgement routinely reviewed in depth the structure of the Risk management and considered and discussed at Committee financial control framework and the internal control meetings include: tax control framework: The Committee monitors and reviews evaluated the scope and findings of recognition and utilisation of the Companys internal control and risk internal audit activities as described on provisions, in particular tax and management framework, reporting on its page 66: restructuring: and effectiveness.
This monitoring includes all material controls, including financial, considered the external audit plan the amounts charged as exceptional operational and compliance controls, scope and methodology, particularly items and analysis of the significant assessing any corrective action where considering whether it is aligned to components of each item.
necessary, and determining that systems areas of financial statement risk and The Committee spends time debating are fit for purpose.
During the year, or less mature control environments: these areas of judgement with the the Committee: reviewed reports from the external requisite support from management reviewed divisional risk maps and auditor on the Groups financial and external advisers.
Further details on accompanying deep-dive presentations reporting and internal financial significant matters considered are set out from management in the Americas control environment, including any in the table on page 64. and EMEA on the top ten risks and issues identified in the course of their The Committee is satisfied that the associated mitigation activities in each work and observations on controls judgements made by management of those divisions: and control weaknesses and, where are reasonable and that appropriate appropriate, satisfied itself that there challenged the appropriate disclosures and estimates have been was an appropriate response from classification and completeness of included in the financial statements.
the top ten risks in each division, and In reaching this conclusion, the Committee recommended the principal risks to the The Audit Committee concluded that considered reports and analysis prepared Board for approval, as disclosed in the the Companys internal control and risk by management.
The Committee also Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45: management framework was appropriate considered detailed reporting from, and and that there have been no significant had discussions with, the external auditor.
reviewed and considered the updated control issues or failings during the year.
risk modelling and aggregation work Fair, balanced and carried out to support an enhanced External audit tender understandable assessment Long Term Viability Statement on page The Committee conducted a tender 35.
This work was then recommended The Committee has considered whether process for the 31 December 2018 yearto the Board: the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts end audit see page 67 for full details.
are fair, balanced and capable of reviewed and constructively challenged being understood by shareholders.
management in its presentation of the In order to make this assessment, results of a project to assess potential the Committee has: venue contract risk and plans to reduce and mitigate this: maintained oversight of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts process: reviewed the current risk policy and the structure and plans for the Groups been provided with regular updates, enhanced risk management processes, and received assurance of continuing noting that the internal audit plan for verification to ensure consistency, 2018 is aligned to areas of highlighted impartiality and balance throughout: risk, with each planned audit reviewed and challenged documenting a link back to a specific Managements assessment of items Group Principal Risk: included in the financial statements Reviewed the implementation of and prominence given to those items, Business Continuity Planning across with particular attention paid to the business and approved a new the use of Alternative Performance Business Continuity Planning policy Measures: and and implementation plan to improve considered the matters discussed at business resilience globally: Board and Committee meetings during reviewed the status of the control the year and ensured that these are frameworks relating to UBMs Principal addressed appropriately in the 2017 Risks, including the integrated risk Annual Report and Accounts.
management, governance, control framework and assurance process across the Group: UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Accountability continued Audit Committee Report In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, significant matters that the Committee has considered in relation to the financial statements are set out below: Matter considered How the matter was addressed The Committee reviewed management reports on the final Acquisition accounting acquisition accounting for Allworld, and the preliminary acquisition Certain transactions require management to make judgements as accounting for AEM Bahrain business of Allworld, Marmara, AMA to the identification and valuation of intangible assets, with small Research, Green Thinking Services and The Aesthetic Show.
The changes in assumptions making a significant difference to the Committee also considered the reports from the external auditor as value of assets recorded.
to the appropriateness and consistency of managements valuation approach and judgements.
The Committee reviewed managements report on the annual Goodwill impairment impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill.
In particular, Goodwill is an area of focus for the Committee given the the Committee challenged certain assumptions applied in the materiality of the Groups goodwill balances.
The judgements in impairment review including terminal growth rates and the relevant relation to goodwill largely relate to the assumptions applied in discount rates.
The Committee considered the combination of the calculating the value in use of the Cash Generating Units CGUs.
Print and Online CGUs and the inclusion of Allworld Events CGU.
The Committee also considered reports from the external auditor on their findings.
The Committee reviewed management reports setting out the Taxation policy and approach to measuring and recognising deferred tax There are significant deferred tax assets and liabilities held on assets and liabilities.
The Committee considered the impact of the the UBM balance sheet and also unrecognised deferred tax PRN disposal on the recognition of US tax losses and agreed that assets in respect of losses.
Management must make judgements the judgements regarding the recognition of Luxembourg losses based on forecasts to determine the appropriate basis for remained appropriate.
The Committee also considered reports from recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities which impact the the external auditor as to the appropriateness of managements effective tax rate.
methodology, judgements and consistency of application.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 64 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Activities during the year: Audit Committee calendar Meeting Key items considered 2016 results and financial statements Internal Auditor Report February 2017 Year-end accounting matters and judgements Governance and Control update Going concern review Internal Auditor Report Tax provisions Long Term Viability Statement Draft Annual Report and Accounts Review of severe but plausible scenarios Consideration of fair, balanced and Modelling outcomes of the selected scenarios understandable statement External Audit Accounting for the Allworld acquisition and PRN Audit tender planning update disposal 2016 audit results report Risk Approval of non-audit fees Global Business Services the financial shared services function Risk Review 2017 interim financial statements Risk July 2017 Accounting matters and judgements Half-year risk update Going concern review Americas Risk Review Deep Dive Allworld accounting Allworld financial integration Exceptional items accounting policy Business Continuity Planning update Internal Audit Lessons learned from third party cases of fraud and bribery Governance and Control update External Audit Internal Auditor Report Interim Review Report Approval of non-audit fees Audit tender update Risk External Audit October 2017 EMEA Risk Review Deep Dive 2017 Audit Plan and Audit Fee Risk-Focused Meeting Allworld financial integration External audit transition planning Risk-modelling update Business Continuity Planning LTVS including determination of severe but plausible scenarios for 2017 reporting 2017 Financial Reporting Update Internal Audit December 2017 Annual Report and Accounts process and 2018 Internal Audit Plan planning Internal Audit report Year-end accounting matters and judgements, Governance and internal control framework including: External Audit goodwill impairment Audit Update Report disposal accounting Approval of non-audit fees exceptional items External audit transition planning Risk Risk-modelling update Full-Year Risk Review Draft Annual Report draft disclosures, including updated LTVS UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Accountability continued Audit Committee Report The Committee monitored the conduct Fraud and whistleblowing External audit and effectiveness of the external The anti-malpractice policy, which The Committee has considered the auditor during the year, considering its forms part of the Groups Code of Companys compliance with the UK independence and objectivity, through its Business Conduct, provides employees Competition and Markets Authoritys own observations and interactions with with an independent and confidential Statutory Audit Services Order and The the external auditor, and with regard to whistleblowing service to raise concerns Statutory Auditors and Third Country the following: about any form of malpractice fraud, Auditors Regulations 2016. corruption, dishonesty or other experience and expertise of the It is UK tax resident and has designated irregularities where they do not feel auditor partner and their staff the UK as its Home Member State comfortable raising the matter with local for the purpose of the Disclosure and communication with, and support to, management or are not satisfied with the Transparency Rules.
Although UBM is the Committee: local management response.
This service therefore not a Public Interest Entity, content, quality of insights and added is provided by Safecall, an independent the Company complies with the spirit of value of their reports: third party provider.
A summary of legislation applicable to UK incorporated incidents, whether arising through the fulfilment of the agreed external audit companies, including the Companies Act management line or via the whistleplan: 2006 and related Statutory Instruments blowing service, underlying investigations and as a Public Interest Entity for robustness and perceptiveness of the and actions undertaken is provided to the purposes of the FRCs Revised Ethical external auditor in their handling of Committee for review on a regular basis.
"Standards 2016. key accounting and audit judgements: Internal audit the interaction between management External auditor independence The Head of Internal Audit reports to and the external auditor: Ernst & Young LLP ""EY"" has been UBMs each Committee meeting."
During the year, provision of non-audit services as set external auditor since 2002 and was the Committee has: out in this Report: and reappointed following a tender process reviewed and evaluated Internal in 2009.
The Chairman of the Committee discussions relating to the Audit reports covering the financial, meets with the external auditor on a performance of the external auditor compliance, operational and IT reviews regular basis to ensure open dialogue with UBM management.
undertaken during the year, including and feedback, and facilitate effective The external auditor is required to rotate reports on cybersecurity and reviews and timely communication between the the audit partner responsible for the of the controls operated by major external auditor and the Committee.
Group audit every five years.
The lead external service providers: An annual review is carried out of the audit partner had been in place for five considered the common control external auditors independence and audit years and, as a result, following the themes identified across the Group process effectiveness.
In assessing its conclusion of the audit on the 2016 and plans being put in place to independence, the Committee received Annual Report and Accounts, a new continuously monitor and assess these: written confirmation that, in EYs lead audit partner took over for the professional judgement, the external reviewed the implementation of all 2017 audit.
auditor is independent within the meaning internal audit recommendations The Committee recommended to the of all UK regulatory and professional against the target dates for resolution Board that EY be proposed for rerequirements and that the objectivity of and required explanations for appointment at the AGM in May 2018. the audit engagement partner and audit significant issues in cases where staff is not impaired.
timescales were not met: During the year the Audit quality is assessed throughout the considered any fraudulent activity Committee has year by reference to the quality of the and or identified control issues to approved the terms of engagement reports received by the Committee, the assess whether they demonstrated a and fees to be paid to EY for the audit calibre of senior members of the audit significant failing, or weaknesses in of the 2017 financial statements: and team and the level of challenge provided internal controls: reviewed and agreed the scope of the to management.
continuously monitored the work undertaken by EY.
effectiveness of the internal audit During the year an Audit Quality Review activities and evaluated this as part Team AQRT from the FRC undertook of a review of the scope of the 2018 an inspection of EYs audit of the Groups Internal Audit Plan: 2016 financial statements.
The AQRTs final report was issued at the end of 2017. reviewed the adequacy of UBMs A copy of the report was sent to the Audit internal audit resourcing in the light Committee Chairman and the results of changes to the Groups risk profile, were presented to the February 2018 such as significant acquisitions: and Committee meeting.
The Audit Committee reviewed, considered and concluded was pleased with the overall assessment.
upon an assessment of the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 66 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit tender The Committee decided that an audit tender process for the 31 December 2018 year-end audit would be undertaken during 2017.
Tender participants  LLP, KPMG LLP and Ernst & Young LLP the incumbent were invited to participate in the process.
Tender process A rigorous 12-week structured process was organised, focused on the selection criteria, including: A detailed written proposal document: Meetings with divisional finance teams in Americas, EMEA and Asia: Group Finance: Internal Audit: Global Operations: Tax: Treasury: Group Company Secretarial and IT: Oral presentations to, and a question and answer session with, the Selection Panel, which comprised the Audit Committee Chairman, CFO, Head of Internal Audit and Group Financial Controller, with the Group Company Secretary acting as an observer.
Selection criteria The Selection Panel reviewed the tender submissions and presentations and scored them independently based upon cultural fit, an effective and innovative audit approach, technical issue resolution, use of data analytics, relevant insight including feedback to support the improvement of UBMs control and process environment and fees, as well as the overall strength and relevant experience of the proposed team.
Decision The Selection Panel recommended the appointment of KPMG as external auditor, based on the overall strength and depth of their team, cultural fit, insight, and audit approach.
The Board ratified the decision of the Selection Panel and announced the decision to the London Stock Exchange in July 2017.
In light of the offer by Informa, in February 2018 the Company decided to postpone the appointment of KPMG until the 2019 financial year.
EY will therefore continue as external auditors for the 2018 financial year, and will be proposed for re-appointment at the AGM in May 2018.
Non-audit services Non-audit services policy To help ensure the objectivity and The objective of the non-audit services policy is to ensure that the provision of independence of the external auditor, such services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
a formal policy is in place to manage All services provided by the external auditor other than the audit itself are non-audit services.
This policy is regarded as non-audit services.
reviewed annually by the Committee and all non-audit services are The non-audit services policy prescribes that any non-audit assignment by the reported at each meeting.
Non-audit Companys external auditor is pre-approved by the Audit Committee, unless the services carried out by EY in the proposed service is both expected to cost less than 20,000, up to a cumulative year comprised tax compliance, due limit of 85,000 and falls within a service category already approved by the diligence and advisory work.
All non-audit services are reported to the Committee at its next meeting.
The Committee was satisfied that the objectivity and independence of All fees paid to the external auditor for non-audit services are continuously EY was not in any way impaired by monitored, to ensure that Group non-audit services fees do not exceed 70% the nature of the non-audit services of the average of the Group statutory audit fee over a rolling three year period.
undertaken during the year, by the The first measurable period will be from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019. level of non-audit fees charged, or by Tax services were prohibited in all EU countries from 1 January 2017.
This was any other factors or circumstances.
extended to all other UBM locations on 1 January 2018.
Audit fees payable to EY during the year were 1.8m 2016: 1.7m, and non-audit fees were 0.2m 2016: 0.3m.
An analysis of the fees is provided in Note 3.3 to the financial statements.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Directors Remuneration Report Section 1 Annual statement from the Chairman, Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and on behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year 2017.
Under the guidance of Tim Cobbold as our CEO, we have further progressed on our Events First journey which has continued to deliver accelerated organic revenue growth, an ever improving Group operating margin and a global operating platform to support improved profitable growth.
The integration of Allworld Exhibitions continues as planned and ahead of business case.
Our sales and marketing excellence programmes have extended their reach and impact globally and our support functions continued their drive for operational efficiency.
Overall we saw strong cash generation, growth in earnings per share and an overall strengthening of the 2017 has been another strong year balance sheet.
The delivery of our strategy has an important bearing on the work of the for UBM and its shareholders as Remuneration Committee.
The Committee met six times in 2017 we continue to deliver against our to ensure the Remuneration Policy was Events First strategy.
We have seen implemented appropriately and to consider the measurement of the Annual Bonus an increase in the adjusted underlying Plan for 2017 and Long-term Incentive Plan awards made in 2015 where the Committee organic growth in our Events business applied the same judgement on vesting as previously agreed for the 2014 awards.
from 3.1% to 5.3% during the year as Following the announcement on 30 January well as increasing the Groups adjusted 2018 of my appointment as Non-Executive Chairman, Warren Finegold was appointed as operating margin from 27.2% to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 30 January 2018.
The incentive payments made to our Executive Directors reflect this performance.
I would like to thank the shareholders for their approval and endorsement of the Directors Greg Lock Chairman, Remuneration Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM.
Committee during 2017 Contents Key items considered Section 1 This Annual Statement Page 68 Section 2 Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Policy which was approved at the AGM on Page 70 17 May 2017 Section 3 Annual Remuneration Report How UBMs Remuneration Policy was implemented during the Page 77 year ended 31 December 2017, and how we intend the Policy to apply for the year ending 31 December 2018 Chairman, Remuneration Greg Lock to 30 January 2018 Committee Warren Finegold from 30 January 2018 Other Committee members Mary McDowell, David Wei Terms of Reference www.
com investor corporate-governance UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 68 Strategic report Governance Financial statements assessed on a reported basis, based on 2017 Performance: decisions Implementing the Remuneration EPS, ROACE and TSR performance over the Policy for 2018 and reward outcomes three years to 31 December 2017.
Awards are The Committee intends to operate the For 2017, the Company delivered reported held by the CEO granted March 2015 and Remuneration Policy for Executive revenue growth of 16.2% and the adjusted the CFO granted upon appointment in Directors for 2018 as follows: operating margin increased 2.1% to September 2015.
Continuing diluted adjusted EPS Executive Director base salaries have 2017 represented 14.2% growth per annum grew by 34.5% on a reported basis.
been increased by 3% from 1 February over the average EPS for 2013 and 2014 These Group results have been positively 2018 in line with increases applied which was above the maximum target of 9% impacted by favourable foreign exchange throughout the Group: per annum growth.
ROACE performance for movements in the year.
Against this financial No changes will be made to pension PSP purposes was 13.7% which was ahead performance the Committee considered the provision: of the performance required for maximum following assessments: vesting of 13.1%.
TSR outperformed Annual bonus will continue to be set at the median of the FTSE 250 excluding Annual bonus 150% of salary for the CEO and 120% investment trusts by 11.9% per annum of salary for the CFO and targets will The 2017 annual bonus was assessed on which was ahead of the maximum target measure EPS, Group adjusted operating a constant currency basis against total of 10% per annum of outperformance.
profit margin before strategic operating adjusted EPS, Group adjusted operating Following the Committees assessment of expenditure, Total Group Events profit margin before strategic operating the performance conditions, 100% of the Revenue and personal objectives.
For expenditure, revenue of the Major Events awards will vest on the third anniversary of 2018 the Committee determined it was and personal objectives.
EPS was 53.4p the grant date in March 2018 for the CEO appropriate to change the revenue which was close to maximum performance.
and September 2018 for the CFO.
performance measure for the annual Group adjusted operating profit margin bonus plan from 1m events Revenue before strategic operating expenditure Further details are set out on page 80. to Total Group Events Revenue.
This was 30.0% which was above maximum Remuneration Policy reflects the conclusion of the three year performance.
Revenue of 1m business Following shareholder approval of its rationalisation programme and the focus events was 766.0m which was just below Directors Remuneration Policy at the May in 2018 on growth across the portfolio.
2017 AGM UBM has implemented the Policy The Committee believes this measure is The overall pay-out against the financial as follows: well balanced with other measures in the elements was 59.2% out of a maximum of EPS, ROACE, Relative TSR and Total bonus plan which focus management 75%.
The Committee assessed personal Group Revenue will be the four measures on continued profitability and margin performance against the objectives set and used in the PSP.
Each measure will be efficiency as well as driving our strategic judged that for the CEO 96.5% of maximum weighted equally with the aim of driving goals through personal objectives set.
personal objectives were met, and that for our Events First strategy three of the Bonus deferral, at 25% of any bonus, will the CFO 95% of the maximum personal four measures are Group KPIs as set out continue to operate: objectives were met.
This resulted in bonus on page 23 : Recognising the offer from Informa there payments of 83.3% of maximum bonus for When assessing the level of vesting are no planned 2018 PSP awards.
This the CEO and 82.9% of maximum for the under the PSP, the Committee will decision will be revisited should UBM CFO.
The Committee considers that these consider the underlying financial continue as an independent business: and bonus payouts are an appropriate reflection performance of the Company and of the performance delivered for 2017.
Revenue targets are considered the value generated for shareholders commercially sensitive but will be disclosed Consistent with the Remuneration Policy, and may adjust the level of vesting if in full at the end of the performance 75% of the bonus will be paid in cash and it considers that the outcome based period.
EPS targets remain unchanged 25% will be deferred into UBM shares for on the assessment of performance following last year's decision to increase three years under the Deferred Bonus Plan against targets does not reflect this.
In them to 6% p. a. for threshold vesting DBP.
Full details of the targets set and particular, when assessing performance and to 10% p. a. for maximum vesting.
performance against these targets are for the revenue portion of the award ROACE and TSR targets will also remain shown on page 78. the Committee will consider the quality unchanged.
Long-term incentive plan of revenue growth delivered, adjusted Looking forward For the 2015 PSP the Committee applied for acquisitions and disposals, including the same adjustments in respect of At our AGM in 2017, our Annual margin achieved and the impact on the assessment of performance of the Remuneration Report received the profitability, and ensure any revenue Performance Share Plan PSP related to support of 94.96% of shareholders growth rewarded via the PSP represents the EPS and ROACE measures for the 2014 voting.
We do not take your continued value improvement for shareholders: PSP.
Last year we extensively consulted with support for granted and hope that you will Shareholding guidelines for Executive shareholders regarding these adjustments support our recommendations on bonus Directors will be 200% of salary for the and were pleased with the level of support as well as PSP awards.
I will be available at CEO and 150% of salary for the CFO as received.
Following this the Committee decided the AGM to answer any questions about set out in the Policy on page 73: and that no further adjustments were required in the work of the Committee.
A two year post vesting holding period relation to these measures for the 2015 PSP was introduced to PSP awards granted to in respect of the Allworld acquisition.
Performance Share Plan PSP awards There are no changes proposed to the granted in 2015 and vesting in 2018 were Policy this year.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section 2 The Directors Remuneration Policy report Introduction Sections 1, 2 and 3 of this Remuneration Our reward philosophy: Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 comply with UK governance To provide remuneration that attracts, motivates and retains executives with requirements including The Large and the appropriate skills and talent to deliver UBMs strategy and create long-term Medium-sized Companies and Groups shareholder value.
Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the rules of the UK Our reward principles: Listing Authority, and the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Alignment with UBMs strategy Our short and long-term incentives are aligned to the key financial metrics Policy scope and strategic objectives in our Events First strategy.
This helps ensure that our Remuneration Policy incentivises and rewards Executive Directors and The Policy applies to the Chairman, management to achieve UBMs strategy.
Executive Directors and NonExecutive Directors.
The annual bonus will typically be subject to profit and revenue targets, to encourage profitable growth.
The financial underpin that applies to the Policy duration annual bonus plan, and the malus and clawback provisions under the bonus The Directors Remuneration Policy, and long-term incentives, ensure that reward is only provided for robust and following the 2017 AGM approval, is sustainable performance.
intended to remain in place for three Long-term incentives in the form of the Performance Share Plan awards will be years until May 2020.
The Policy is subject to Total Group Revenue, EPS, ROACE, and relative TSR.
This provides a replicated here for ease of reference.
strong focus on our strategic plan and incentivises value enhancing revenue and No changes have been made from earnings growth, maintains strong returns, as well as incentivising the creation of the version approved by shareholders continuous value for shareholders.
at the 2017 AGM, other than to the scenario charts where salaries have Alignment with shareholders been updated to reflect those in place A significant proportion of executives remuneration is performance-based.
The balance of the remuneration package at maximum performance is weighted towards the long-term and delivered in UBM shares to ensure that the interests of management are aligned with those of shareholders.
Alignment with the wider Group The reward principles that govern Executive Directors remuneration are aligned with the broader reward philosophy and principles of the Group.
When determining remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee gives consideration to pay and conditions in the wider employee population.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 70 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration Policy table Executive Directors The table below sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
Details of how the Committee intends to operate this Policy in 2018 can be found on page 85.
Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures None, although performance Base salary Supports the To align with changes for other While the Committee has of the individual is taken into recruitment and employees the normal effective not set a maximum level account by the Committee retention of Executive date for any increase will be of salary, increases will when setting and reviewing base Directors of the calibre moved to March from 2019. be determined taking into salary levels required to deliver For 2017 and 2018, increases account salary increases UBMs strategy will be effective 1 January 2017 amongst the wider and 1 February 2018 respectively workforce When considering salaries, However, the Committee the Committee takes a range retains the discretion of factors into consideration, to make increases including: above this level in certain circumstances, The skills, experience, for example, but not responsibilities and limited to: performance of the individual An increase in the Pay at companies of a similar individuals scope and size and complexity to UBM responsibilities Corporate performance Alignment to the Pay increases for our internal external market employee comparator group An increase to reflect an individuals performance and development in the role, e. g. where a new appointee is recruited at a lower salary level and is awarded stepped increases Retirement Provides a marketDefined contribution plan or Annual contributions No performance measures benefits competitive retirement cash allowance in lieu of pension by the Company will not benefits package, in contribution exceed 20% of base line with local market salary All of UBMs defined benefit practice schemes are closed to new Level of contribution employees allowance dependent on local market and seniority of the individual There is no maximum.
No performance measures Benefits Provides a competitive Executive Directors receive Benefits are set at a level benefits package in private healthcare insurance for which the Committee line with local market the executive and their family, considers appropriate practice income protection cover and life in the context of the assurance benefits of four times circumstances of the role base salary individual and local market Executive Directors are entitled to practice participate in all-employee plans operated by the Company, such as Sharesave Other benefits may be provided if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee, including, but not limited to, housing allowance and relocation allowance UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section 2 The Directors Remuneration Policy report Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual Rewards the Measures and targets are set Maximum opportunity: Typically, performance over the Bonus achievement of key annually in the context of UBMs relevant financial year is assessed CEO: 150% of base annual Group financial strategy against the following measures: salary targets and the delivery The Committee determines bonus Financial measures CFO: 120% of base of quantifiable personal pay-outs after the financial salary A profit-based measure and strategic business year-end, based on performance The bonus starts A revenue-based measure objectives against annual targets paying out from 95% Non-financial measures Compulsory deferral The annual bonus is normally threshold performance.
of part of the bonus Personal objectives which may delivered 75% in cash after the Pay-outs are normally into shares under the include strategic KPIs, to be audited results for that year are on a straight-line basis Deferred Bonus Plan agreed on an annual basis approved, and 25% in deferred between threshold and DBP, providing a link shares after three years The Committee may alter the maximum to creating sustainable measures, weightings and targets Payment of any bonus is at the long-term value and including introducing different discretion of the Committee and acting as a retention measures annually if it determines subject to the financial underpin tool that it is appropriate to do so whereby no bonus will be paid The financial underpin unless at least 50% of budget The balance of the measures that applies to the operating profit is achieved for any year will be weighted annual bonus plan towards financial, with a minimum Unvested DBP awards are subject and the malus and weighting of 75% to a malus provision which could clawback provisions reduce or cancel the award prior Details of the measures that under the deferred to vesting.
Clawback also applies will apply for the 2018 financial bonus see Operation to the cash payment and the year are set out in the Directors' opposite, seeks to deferred shares for five years Remuneration Report on page 77 ensure that poor from payment cash award corporate performance deferred shares is recognised and not Examples of where malus rewarded clawback would apply are a material misstatement of results, material failure of risk management, or serious reputational damage Awards that vest under the DBP will accrue dividend equivalents up to the point of vesting Performance Incentivises and Awards are made annually with The maximum Awards will be assessed against Share Plan rewards the delivery vesting dependent upon the opportunity range for up to four performance metrics PSP of UBMs strategy achievement of performance PSP awards will usually including: conditions over three years be capped at 200% of there are Delivered in shares Total Group Revenue salary.
Award levels will no planned to align executives Unvested awards will be subject EPS be determined annually 2018 PSP with shareholders to a malus provision prior to ROACE awards as and helps executives vesting.
Clawback also applies The Plan rules allow Relative TSR performance described on to build a significant for five years from award for awards to be against a comparator group page 69 shareholding in UBM made up to 250% of Examples of where malus or index salary in exceptional Assists in the clawback would apply are circumstances such Straight-line vesting normally retention of a material misstatement of as recruitment of a applies between these levels of executives results, material failure of new Director performance risk management, or serious reputational damage Awards vest as follows: Any future awards will measure the Total Group Revenue, EPS, Awards that vest will accrue Threshold ROACE and relative TSR with dividend equivalents up to the performance: up to each measure weighted equally point of vesting 25% of award For future awards the Committee For awards granted in 2017 Maximum may alter the measures, onwards, a two year holding performance: 100% weighting and targets including period will apply following the of the award introducing different measures end of the performance period annually if it determines that it is appropriate to do so Details of the targets that will apply for any future awards are set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 85 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 72 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Shareholding Aligns executives with Executives are generally CEO: 200% of salary N A guidelines shareholders expected to achieve the CFO: 150% of salary guideline five years after appointment Executives are encouraged to grow their shareholding by holding shares which have been delivered through the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Performance Share Plan Remuneration Policy table Non-Executive Directors Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Chairman Provide an appropriate Fees are reviewed annually There is no defined maximum opportunity.
and Nonreward to attract and Fees are set at a level which: The fee structure is as follows: Executive retain high calibre Reflects the commitment and contribution The Chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee Director fees individuals that is expected from the Chairman and The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic Non-Executive Directors fee, plus additional fees for chairmanship Is appropriately positioned against of Board Committees and for the Senior comparable roles in companies of a similar Independent Director size and complexity Fees may be paid in cash and or UBM shares.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in Annual Remuneration Report for the relevant any incentive scheme.
Additional fees may be financial year paid to reflect increased responsibilities on an interim or permanent basis The Company reimburses the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for reasonable expenses in performing their duties and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
The Board may introduce additional benefits for the Chairman Non-Executive Directors if it is considered appropriate to do so For these purposes payments includes and or divestment of a Group business Committee discretion the Committee satisfying awards of which cause the Committee to consider The Committee reserves the right to variable remuneration and, in relation to that an amended or substituted make any remuneration payments and an award over shares, the terms of the performance condition would be more or payments for loss of office including payment are determined at the time the appropriate.
Any amended or substituted exercising any discretions available to award is granted.
target would not be materially less it in connection with such payments difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above notwithstanding that they do not accord Awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan discretions would be explained in the with the Policy set out above if the and the Performance Share Plan may Directors Remuneration Report and may terms of the payment were agreed i be granted as conditional share awards be the subject of consultation with the before 20 May 2014 the date when the or nil cost options or in such other form Companys major shareholders.
Companys first shareholder-approved the Committee determines has the same Directors Remuneration Policy came economic effect.
Awards may be settled into effect : ii before the Policy set out in cash at the Committees discretion.
above came into effect, provided that the Awards may be adjusted in the event of terms of the payment were consistent any variation of the Companys share with the shareholder-approved Directors capital or any demerger, delisting, special Remuneration Policy in force at the time dividends or other event that may affect they were agreed: or iii they relate to the Companys share price.
a time when the relevant individual was The Committee retains the ability to not a Director of the Company, and, in the adjust bonus and or PSP targets and opinion of the Committee, the payment or set different measures if one or more was not consideration for the individual events occur e. g. material acquisition becoming a Director of the Company.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section 2 The Directors Remuneration Policy Report Illustration of Executive Remuneration Policy The charts below illustrate below target, on-target and maximum remuneration levels for the CEO and CFO for 2018.
These charts have been updated from the versions included in the shareholder-approved Policy to reflect salaries in place from 1 February 2018 and benefits for 2017.
The three scenarios are based on the assumptions described below: CEO Tim Cobbold CFO Marina Wyatt Maximum Maximum 28% 34% 38% 3.1m 31% 31% 38% 1.9m performance performance On-target On-target 51% 31% 18% 1.7m 56% 27% 17% 1.0m performance performance Below target Below target 100% 0.9m 100% 0.6m performance performance 0 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m 3.5m 0 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m 3.5m Fixed Annual bonus Long-term Fixed Annual bonus Long-term incl.
deferred bonus incentives PSP incl.
deferred bonus incentives PSP Fixed pay below target performance Base salary with effect from 1 February 2018, benefits based on the 2017 single figure and pension Fixed pay No bonus pay-out No vesting under the PSP On-target performance Fixed pay 50% of maximum bonus opportunity 75% of salary for the CEO, 60% of salary for the CFO 25% of PSP shares vest at threshold performance 42.5% of salary for the CEO, 37.5% of salary for the CFO Maximum performance Fixed pay 100% of bonus pays out 150% of salary for the CEO, 120% of salary for the CFO 100% of PSP shares vest 170% of base salary for the CEO, 150% of salary for the CFO Note: As per the disclosure requirements, share price appreciation and dividends have been excluded from the scenarios.
Communication with shareholders Consideration of pay and conditions Shareholder views and The Committee maintains an open for the wider Group consideration of employment dialogue with UBM shareholders While the Committee does not consult conditions elsewhere in the Group and seeks their views when any with employees regarding Executive The Remuneration Policy for Executive significant changes are being made to Directors remuneration the Committee Directors reflects the reward philosophy remuneration arrangements.
does consider pay and employment and principles that underpin remuneration conditions elsewhere in the Group when for the Group.
The Remuneration determining executive pay, to ensure Policy for employees across UBMs that pay structures are appropriately global workplace will differ from the aligned.
The Committee also considers Policy for Executive Directors to reflect base pay movements of the wider different levels of seniority and local employee population when determining market practice.
base salaries for Executive Directors.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 74 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Recruitment remuneration Buyouts Terms and conditions for arrangements The remuneration package offered to Non-Executive Directors new Executive Directors may include a The Committee will take into consideration Non-Executive Directors are appointed by buyout of remuneration forfeited by the any relevant factors when determining the Board on the recommendation of the Executive Director on leaving their former the remuneration arrangements for a Nominations Committee.
The appointment employment if the Committee considers new Executive Director.
Factors may of Non-Executive Directors is for a fixed that this is necessary.
include the calibre and experience of term of three years, during which period the individual: local market practice the appointment may be terminated When determining any buyout the in the individuals current location: by the Company or the Non-Executive Committee will take account of relevant the individuals existing remuneration Director giving three months notice factors including performance conditions arrangements: the remuneration six months notice for the Chairman.
attached to awards, the form in which arrangements for other executives: and There are no provisions on payment they were granted for example cash or business circumstances.
We seek to for early termination in their letters equity awards and the vesting timeframe ensure that arrangements are in the best of appointment.
Buyout awards will generally interests of both the Company and its be structured on a comparable like for Each Non-Executive Directors shareholders, and seek not to pay more like basis to the awards forfeited.
appointment including that of the than is necessary.
Chairman is reviewed every three years.
The Committee may rely on exemption When recruiting an Executive Director, In accordance with the UK Corporate 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules which allows the Committee will normally seek to Governance Code, all Directors are for the grant of awards to enable, align the remuneration package offered required to stand annually for re-election.
in exceptional circumstances, the with the Remuneration Policy.
Awards made The letters of appointment of Nonthe Committee retains the discretion to using this exception would apply to Executive Directors and service contracts make appropriate remuneration decisions buyouts only and would be structured of Executive Directors are available for outside the structure of the standard to follow similar principles as awards inspection at UBMs registered office Policy to meet individual circumstances under the Performance Share Plan.
during normal business hours and will be subject to the maximum level of variable The Committee would take a holistic available at the AGM.
view of remuneration in making any such Loss of office payments decision to ensure it is not paying more The Committee has the discretion to than is necessary.
change the performance measures and Salary fees and benefits or targets used under the annual bonus Executive Directors service contracts Executive Director service and or long-term incentive plan if it contain provisions for payment in lieu contracts determines that the circumstances of the of notice in respect of base salary.
The current Executive Directors The Committee may, in its discretion, have service contracts which may be make payments in addition to salary, The rationale for any changes from terminated by the Company for breach by in respect of any contractual benefits the Policy in operation will be clearly the executive or by either the Company or including retirement benefits, apportioned explained in the Remuneration Report in executive giving 12 months notice.
for the length of the notice period, respect of that year.
subject to mitigation if alternative Service contracts for new Executive The maximum level of variable pay employment is taken up.
Directors will generally be limited which may be awarded to new Executive to 12 months notice.
However, the Directors in the year of recruitment would Committee may agree a longer period, of normally be in line with the maximum up to 24 months initially, reducing by one level of variable pay that may be awarded month for every month served until it falls under the Annual Bonus Plan and the to 12 months.
Performance Share Plan as described in the Policy, and, in any circumstances, the maximum level of annual variable pay that may be awarded excluding buyout awards will not exceed 400% of base salary, in line with the maxima set out in the Policy table for the Annual Bonus and Performance Share Plan combined.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section 2 The Directors Remuneration Policy Report Performance Share Plan Awards Annual bonus Corporate events made under the Performance Share Executive Directors may be eligible to Change of control Plan will generally lapse if the receive a bonus payment in respect of the Deferred Bonus Plan Awards under Executive Director leaves employment financial year in which they leave: however, the 2014 Deferred Bonus Plan will before the end of the vesting period, there is no contractual entitlement to normally vest in full upon a change of unless they are considered to be an a bonus.
In determining eligibility for control.
To the extent that a bonus, consideration will generally Performance Share Plan The rules awards do not lapse, awards would be given to the circumstances of their of the Performance Share Plan provide normally vest on the normal vesting leaving including future employment and that awards would normally vest at the date unless the Committee determines performance during that year.
Where a time of the event taking into account that awards vest on cessation.
Awards bonus payment is made, it will generally the extent to which any applicable vest taking into account the extent be on a pro-rata basis for the period performance conditions are satisfied to which any applicable performance served during the year based on an and, unless the Committee determines conditions are satisfied and, unless the assessment of performance.
otherwise, the period of time that has Committee determines otherwise, the Long-term incentives elapsed since grant.
period of time that has elapsed since The treatment of leavers under our grant.
All-Employee Share Plans Awards long-term incentive plans is determined held under all-employee plans would Approved Leaver is limited to by the relevant plan rules.
The Committee normally be expected to vest on a individuals leaving by reason of will determine when awards vest and change of control and those which death, injury, disability, ill health, the the period during which awards may have to meet specific requirements to participants employing Company be exercised.
benefit from permitted tax benefits ceasing to be part of the Group or would vest in accordance with those Deferred Bonus Plan Awards in such other circumstance as the requirements.
made under the Deferred Bonus Plan Committee determines except where a will generally lapse if the Executive participant is summarily dismissed.
The Committee may permit participants Director leaves employment before to exchange Performance Share Plan or Other payments the end of the vesting period, unless Deferred Bonus Plan awards for awards in The Committee reserves the right to they are considered to be an approved shares of the acquiring Company.
make any other payments in connection leaver.
In such circumstances awards with a Directors cessation of office or will normally vest on the normal date Other corporate events employment where the payments are unless the Committee determines that If other corporate events occur such as made in good faith in the discharge awards should vest on the date the a winding-up of the Company, demerger, of an existing legal obligation or by Director leaves.
delisting, special dividend or any other way of damages for breach of such an event which, in the opinion of the obligation, or by way of settlement Committee, may affect the current or of any claim arising in connection with future value of the awards the Committee the cessation of a Directors office or may determine whether, and to what employment.
Any such payments may extent, awards will vest.
include paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with their cessation of office or employment.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 76
