Our world is changing at an ever-increasing rate its important that people are able to identify the changes, share ideas, learn and stay relevant.
Game Developers Conference Connects a Tribe Like a great film, a good video game needs a fully-developed world, gorgeous imagery, inspiring music, stirring characters, interesting interactions, multiple points of view and a compelling narrative.
Its a full art form with dedicated, passionate creators who descend on San Francisco in an annual pilgrimage to UBMs Game Developers Conference GDC to connect, celebrate, and learn at an event uniquely shaped to their needs.
For example, in addition to the usual name tag banners, 2017 GDC attendees could decide to self-identify for the week as He Him, She Her, or They Them.
UBM lets game developers be well, game developers.
All that audience empathy means loyalty.
Attendees at GDC 2017: 26,000 GDC remains essential for Conference pass price: $799$2,399 people in the industry to learn Completed meetings scheduled with our matchmaking service: 2,546 and make contacts Tom Olson Director, Graphic Research at ARM 3.4m 70k The number of people delegates paying to who visit UBM events attend UBM events each year SHARE IDEAS AND LEARN We recognise that people and experiences can provide inspiration.
At UBM we seek to inspire people to be the best of themselves professionally and personally.
Its immensely rewarding to work for a company that cares about communities and supports staff who want to seek out creative solutions UBM India Feeds the Hungry Pramod Dhavan works in HR in UBMs Mumbai office.
But to some hungry kids, hes a super hero.
Every year there are more deaths due to hunger than Aids, TB, and malaria together, and 40% of those deaths are in India, he said.
At the same time, UBM runs events where food often gets thrown away.
After being inspired by his UBM-sponsored trip to One Young World, a conference that encourages business leaders under 30 to make a difference, Pramod worked with dozens of colleagues across UBM, to develop a food donation programme.
It took six months of hard work in which he had to overcome logistical and regulatory challenges and, in March 2017, the first hungry children filled their bellies with uneaten food from a UBM event.
I believe that organisations like UBM Thanks to a solid partnership with Feeding India, we now make food donations from events a regular are a great example of a socially part of our business in India, and we are looking to expand the program across the business.
responsible business and help achieve and contribute to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Ankit Kawatra Founder of Feeding India INSPIRE
