Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board of Directors Board members have a diverse range of skills and experience, providing stewardship, leadership and oversight of the Events First strategy.
1 Tim Cobbold Chief Executive Officer Appointed: 2014 Tim has substantial experience of leading complex international businesses, in the manufacturing, power and technology sectors, having previously been the CEO of two FTSE 250 businesses.
2 Greg Lock N R Non-Executive Chairman Appointed: 2010 and appointed Non-Executive Chairman in January 2018 Greg brings significant experience in the technology, software and computer services industry, having spent 30 years at IBM in a wide range of senior roles in the UK, Europe and US.
1 2 3 John McConnell A N Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2014 John has extensive financial experience in the capital markets, automotive and health sectors.
His technical, regulatory and compliance knowledge is critical to his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
4 Marina Wyatt Chief Financial Officer Appointed: 2015 Marina has wide-ranging financial and international experience from the technology, telecoms and resource management sectors.
Marina provides effective oversight of the Groups finance, tax, treasury and internal audit teams.
3 4 Committee membership key Tenure Audit A Remuneration R 1 year: 1 Director Nominations N 13 years: 3 Directors 47 years: 3 Directors Denotes Committee Chair 8 years: 2 Directors UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Board of Directors continued 5 Terry Neill A N Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2009 Terry has extensive global experience in leading and delivering large-scale projects and managing transformational change in a range of sector from his executive roles at Accenture and Andersen Worldwide.
6 Warren Finegold N R Senior Independent Director Appointed: 2017 Warren combines a knowledge of the technology markets with significant experience in investment banking.
Warren was Group Strategy and Business Development Director at Vodafone, Managing Director of UBS Investment Bank and Executive Director 5 6 at Goldman Sachs International.
7 Trynka Shineman A N Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2016 Trynka has extensive experience of marketing for online businesses, driving change and growing businesses, in the marketing, consumer and technology sectors and is currently CEO of Vistaprint.
8 Mary McDowell N R Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2014 Mary is the CEO of Polycom.
She has a strong background as a technology industry executive and has led global businesses in the mobile, consumer and enterprise sectors.
She has a proven track record for sustaining strong financial performance and leading 7 8 9 scalable technology innovation.
9 David Wei N R Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2016 David built his career in the investment, management and growth of complex businesses operations in China in financial services, capital investment, retail and e-commerce.
He was previously CEO of Alibaba.
Gender diversity female representation Nationalities represented 33% 50% 37.5% 5 Group Board Executive Directors Executive Committee UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 48 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional biographical details and skills matrix Name Sector Experience Current External Appointment Computer Services Chairman at Computacenter plc Greg Development Board Member and Fellow Software Lock of Churchill College, Cambridge Technology Manufacturing NED of Drax plc Tim Cobbold Power Technology Resource Management NED of Renewi plc Marina Member of the Supervisory Board Wyatt Technology at Lucas Bols B. V. The Netherlands Telecoms Investment Banking Adviser to the Vodafone Group Warren NED at Inmarsat plc.
Finegold Technology Member of Supervisory Board of Avast Telecommunications Holding BV The Netherlands Automotive CEO and Managing Director of Automotive John Holdings Group Limited Australia McConnell Capital Markets Health Consumer CEO of Polycom US Mary NED and Chair of Compensation McDowell Technology Committee of Autodesk Inc US Telecommunications Accounting Non-Executive Member of the Institute Terry of International & European Affairs Banking Neill Member of Trinity College Dublin Construction Foundation Board Professional Services Chair of Council of Wexford Festival Opera Consumer CEO of Vistaprint US Trynka Shineman Marketing Technology Capital Investment Chairman and Founding Partner David of Vision Knight Capital China Wei Financial Services NED of PCCW Limited Hong Kong e-Commerce Retail See www.
com about-ubm board-of-directors for more detailed biographies UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Analogous sector content Plc NED Digital Technology US Emerging Markets Sitting Executive Finance, Capital Markets Operational experience Consumer marketing People and transformation Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement It is our role as a Board, and mine as Chairman, to ensure that we create a framework and culture that supports good governance, helps to create sustainable long-term value for shareholders and promotes the interests of our key stakeholders.
The Board spends considerable time Warren has taken part in a comprehensive Dear shareholder focusing on how the strategy is being induction process, including attending Notwithstanding the very sad implemented and monitoring progress.
the Board Strategy Day in May and circumstances of my appointment, I am We also focus on the longer-term twice attending the Audit Committee, pleased to present my first Corporate future and the implications that a by invitation, bringing him into contact Governance Statement as Chairman.
changing marketplace might have for with a wide range of people, both in and The second half of 2017 was a significant the business.
We do this in several ways, outside UBM.
one for UBM, following the passing of including actively seeking out internal Following my appointment as NonDame Helen and the approach from and external perspectives on how the Executive Chairman, Warren has Informa.
This highlighted the importance marketplace might develop, the risks and been appointed as the new Senior of the Board's role in providing leadership opportunities which exist and how these Independent Director.
and stewardship of the business.
Until such time as the transaction with I am pleased to report that, other than The Board has continued to devote time to Informa is completed your Board is two exceptions detailed on page 51, strengthening risk management systems committed to fulfilling its governance and UBM has in 2017 complied in full with the across the Group and this has generated stewardship responsibilities.
principles, and applied the provisions, of thoughtful discussion on risk appetite the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At UBM, we have a strong focus on and risk mitigation in both the Audit good governance and doing business in Committee and around the boardroom the right way.
It is our role as a Board, table.
The approach taken by the Group and mine as Chairman, to ensure that to risk management, and how it tracks we create a framework and culture that and mitigates the principal risks it faces, is supports good governance, helps to intended to enable UBM to respond swiftly create sustainable long-term value for to changing market conditions or external shareholders and promotes the interests events as they arise.
Greg Lock of our key stakeholders.
This report sets Non-Executive Chairman I am pleased to have welcomed a new out our approach to governance and the independent Non-Executive Director to work of the Board and its Committees the Board during 2017: Warren Finegold.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 50
