Our Strategy to Maximise Value for Shareholders Our vision: to be the leading global B2B Events business We have chosen to focus on the We believe by executing on this strategy By executing across these five strategic attractive B2B Events market.
As a we can drive industry-leading returns and priorities, we are now delivering on our market it is attractive because the experiences for our customers and deliver three strategic objectives: growth dynamics are good, B2B Events superior returns for our shareholders.
Growth: accelerating our organic provide high-value to marketers and When we established the strategy growth rate: the competition is fragmented.
we identified five strategic priorities Attractive margin: delivering to organise thinking and orchestrate Living Events First improvements in our margin: and activities.
Three years later, we Our strategy of focusing on the B2B now implement the strategy in a Best platform: creating a global Events industry delivers the attractive multi-dimensional way across the operating platform to generate characteristics of the industry: organic strategic priorities.
scale benefits when combined with growth supported by acquisitions, high additional events businesses.
margins and strong cash generation.
T Th he w e wo or rl ld d s l s le ea ad di in ng B g B2 2B E B ev five en nt ts c s co om mp pa an ny y Growth Attractive margin Best platform Agile growth Customer insight Operational Standardised High performance and innovation excellence technology and data culture We actively manage We continuously improve our portfolio through We focus on customer We underpin our business We invest in our people all aspects of the way acquisitions, organic insight that enables us with common technology and organisational we work, pursuing growth and developing to better serve and and standards to create capabilities so that we common approaches events of high potential innovate to meet our a scaleable global can deliver excellence that enable our teams customers needs platform for growth and for our customers to become more efficient performance and effective Attractive m Atta ra rk ce tit a five m nd s art k re ot a ng U nd s BM po trong U sitio Bn M po see p sita io g n es 06-09 The UBM c Th oe U mm B it M C meo nm ts a mi n td s meu ns tt s a ain na d s bilu it s y a taig ne an bd ila ity a seg e p en a d g a es 24-29 See our KPIs on pages 2223 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 12 Strategic report Governance Financial statements CEO Overview of the Year UBMs 2017 financial performance reflects the attractive characteristics of the Events industry, with good organic growth supported by acquisitions, high margins and strong cash generation.
Growth: In 2017 the adjusted underlying benefit by leveraging the common Oracle Events First A strategy growth for the Group increased financials platform with harmonised and which is delivering from 2.1% to 4.1%, driven by strong standardised management information.
Since 2014, under the Events First growth in Events in China, India, South The increasing maturity of our platform strategy, the business has been reshaped East Asia and Continental Europe.
enables efficient integration of bolt-on to focus on the attractive Events sector.
Notwithstanding the challenges in the acquisitions and our newly opened Asia Fashion sector, the adjusted underlying shared service centre will provide further In 2017, the final year of that reshaping, growth of the Annual Events portfolio support in this region.
c. 86% of revenues and c. 94% of adjusted was 5.3% with underlying growth at operating profit pre corporate costs The progress against these strategic 3.6%.
Biennial growth on an adjusted were derived from Events.
The remaining objectives was reflected in the reported underlying basis was 3.7% CAGR versus non-events businesses Other Marketing results.
Group revenues of 1,002.9m the last edition.
Services OMS are held because they increased by 13.3% at constant currency, are closely aligned to industries served Attractive margin: During 2017 the adjusted operating profit rose by 59.4m by our events portfolio or they are held Group adjusted operating profit margin to 294.2m and adjusted operating for value.
This was cash flow was strong at 295.0m, a driven by improved portfolio mix and the conversion of 100%.
While this reshaping of the business has drop through from stronger underlying been taking place the strategic priorities Given the strength of performance the growth, together with procurement have been accelerating organic growth Board has declared a final dividend of savings and the usual margin benefit towards the average rate for the Events 18.0p which results in a full-year dividend of a biennial 'up' year.
Operating cash industry c. 4%, expanding the operating increase of 6.8%.
margin towards the Groups medium-term target of 30% and on building an industry In the Operating & Financial Review on Best platform: The programme to leading operating platform.
pages 3645 Marina provides further implement a common sales model insight into the 2017 performance.
enabled by Salesforce made good In 2017 the improvement in performance The sectoral and geographic spread of progress rolling out across EMEA and reflected good progress against these our portfolio, combined with its overall into Asia.
The parallel process for the strategic objectives.
scale, provides an inherent breadth and marketing model enabled with Eloqua, a resilience which underpinned the revenues marketing automation tool, has begun in and earnings in 2017.
We continue to derive further UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
