Our business model We create value through constant development and innovation The life of an Alfa customer spans the initial needs assessment through to go-live, continued maintenance services and ongoing development and services work, across a myriad of asset types, geographies and lending products.
But it does not stop there customers often return to a needs assessments as their portfolio increases, their asset types expand and geographical reach increases.
Our resources How we create value Technology Alfas continued product development and innovation creates opportunity.
Innovation We provide a unique software platform that combines modern, disruptive technology with industry-leading functionality and reliability.
People Our team works collaboratively with our customers teams to meet their business needs and strategic aspirations.
A single end-to-end Implement, Expanding our partner network asset finance will accelerate the evolution of our Assessment develop implementation capabilities and platform suitable for and train complement our continued focus any vertical or on delivery.
geography REVENUE STREAMS Culture From proposal Software Our focus on excellence, agility and implementation to end of term, innovation ensures we are always across many Includes implementation at the forefront of the industry, and development work asset types providing solutions to regulatory for new customers and and financing upgrades and geographical and business challenges, digital structures.
or asset type roll-outs needs and hosting solutions.
Experience Our software is built specifically for the asset finance industry and this, coupled with nearly 30 years of proven delivery capabilities, has given us deep experience and know-how.
We work with a wide variety of customers, across geographies, R&PD and innovation cultures and verticals delivering excellence in everything we do.
All underpinned by a sound financial profile and robust risk management 10 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information How we create value The value we create EPS Adjusted EPS Shareholder 1 basic diluted value 9.1p 11.0p Reinvestment Average customer Customer relationship loyalty c. 12 years Employee 95% retention Continued Maintain value creation Amount expensed in R&PD and research and product innovation development over the last three years 37 m Maintenance Ongoing development Ongoing support for Strongest functionality Brand and services ODS existing customers and broadest coverage portfolios, including Includes further of assets and loan type upgrades available on functionality, a monthly, quarterly development or process or biannual basis at the changes in response customers choosing, to new regulation Assets under 20 m help desk support and and further change other maintenance supported by Alfa Systems management as finance services.
UPGRADING AND INCREASING PORTFOLIOS Reinvestment 1 Dilute d Adjusted EPS, diluted is not a measure specifically defined by IFRS.
See Key financial metrics in the financial review on page 42 for further information.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 11
