Viability statement In accordance with the Code, the Board has addressed the prospects and viability of Alfa The three-year timeframe for Assessment of prospects Assessment of viability assessing both prospects and viability Alfa is one of the leading providers of The Boards assessment of the Groups is considered to be appropriate due software to the asset finance industry prospects, as described above, has been to the following: and it is the Groups clear focus to made with reference to current market continue with this competitive conditions and known risk factors.
The It is consistent with the Groups rolling advantage and increase its relatively principal risks and uncertainties are laid three-year strategic planning process: small market share in this space by: out on pages 34 to 35 of this Annual Projections looking out further than Report.
Continuing its excellent delivery three years become significantly less track record: meaningful in the context of the fast Given the Groups financial performance Continuously improving the moving nature of the asset finance in 2017 and in recent years, the Board functionality and performance industry and the software and considers that the key factors which of Alfa Systems: and technology landscape: and could impact the delivery of the Groups financial objectives are as follows: Attracting and retaining the best It reflects reasonable expectations in people, whilst preserving the culture terms of the reliability and accuracy of Failure to deliver a significant of Alfa.
implementation either in whole or on time: During the year ended 31 December The Groups prospects are assessed 2017, the Group generated profit before primarily through its strategic planning Failure to win new customers: tax of 33.9m and was highly cash process.
This process includes an annual Failure to recruit and retain key generative with net cash from operating review of the ongoing plan, led by the personnel: and activities amounting to 28.9m.
Taking CEO through the Executive Committee, into account the Groups current and all relevant functions are involved, A weakening of the Groups leading position and its principal risks and including finance, sales and marketing, market position.
uncertainties as described on pages HR and commercial.
34 to 35 of this Annual Report, the The Board participates fully in the Directors have assessed the Groups annual process and has the task of prospects and viability.
considering whether the plan takes into The strategy and business model as set account appropriately the external out on pages 10 and 19 are central to environment, including technological, an understanding of its prospects.
social and macroeconomic changes, These inputs provide a framework for as well as the risks and uncertainties the rolling three-year plan which is of the business.
developed as part of the annual budget The output of the annual review process process and reviewed by the Board is a set of operational priorities, an to assess the Groups prospects analysis of the risks which could prevent and viability.
the plan being delivered and the annual financial budget.
Detailed financial forecasts which include profit, cash flow and key financial ratios have been prepared for the three-year period to December 2020.
The first year of the financial forecasts forms the Groups 2018 budget and is subject to a reforecast process each quarter.
The second and third years are prepared in detail and are flexed based on the actual results in the first year.
36 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The viability model has assumed the following: 1 2 3 Alternative scenario Alternative scenario Alternative scenario Includes a rapid deterioration in pipeline Includes the case of a significant ongoing Includes both a rapid deterioration in and therefore no new customer wins in a implementation being terminated pipeline and therefore no new customer 12 month period and pressure on existing immediately.
wins in a 12 month period and the case of a customers in the face of an impending significant ongoing implementation being All recruitment plans remain in place.
financial crisis impacting rate increases.
In the case of a terminated implementation, All recruitment plans remain in place.
While the level of recruitment has been deferred revenue would be released in downgraded in the alternative model, the short term and termination payments expenditure in the areas of research and would be invoiced representing up to three development, marketing and payroll has months of implementation effort.
In the been held constant in the first 12 months.
alternative scenario, it is envisaged that the termination payment is not collectible In the case of a terminated implementation, due to the financial condition of the deferred revenue would be released in terminating customer.
the short term and termination payments would be invoiced representing up to three months of implementation effort.
In the alternative scenario, it is envisaged that the termination payment is not collectible due to the financial condition of the terminating customer.
It was determined that none of the Revenue and profitability are clearly individual risks would in isolation affected in this alternative scenario but compromise the Groups viability.
the business remains cash generative.
The Directors therefore reviewed the The lowest cash balance envisaged outputs of the alternative forecasts was 21.7 million before mitigating which were produced to model the items which would conserve a further effect on the Groups liquidity and 5.010.0 million cash, approximately solvency of very severe combinations on an annualised basis.
of the principal risks and uncertainties Based on the assessment of prospects affecting the business.
and viability opposite, the Directors The above scenario 3 is hypothetical and confirm that they have a reasonable extremely severe for the purpose of expectation that the Group will be able creating outcomes that have the ability to continue in operation and meet its to threaten the ability of the Group.
In liabilities as they fall due over the threethe case of such a scenario crystallising year period ending 31 December 2020. the Company has many different levers it can pull to minimise the financial impact and maintain liquidity to continue in operation.
When quantifying the expected financial impact and remediation time period for each of the risks on the viability of the Group, management assessed historical evidence of being able to take such actions and contractual terms of the relevant actions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 37
