Market overview A complex and highly regulated market with a myriad of challenges and opportunities Global trends Alfas approach Global asset finance market Our pipeline, in line with our current Overall the global asset finance market is in good health, customer base, is diversified both with international and national leasing associations and research geographically and by vertical.
Therefore consultancies all indicating that there is continued demand in we are well placed to react to cyclical both the equipment and automotive verticals.
The US asset finance market recovered earlier from the post-2008 downturn than the European market, with the US hitting its seventh consecutive year of growth.
In 2017 we also saw a resurgence in Europe with new business $5.4tn volumes in the key European markets hitting double digits.
1 asset finance receivables, globally Globally, the outlook for the equipment finance sector looks more stable than for the automotive finance sector, which is being buffeted by a number of headwinds.
These include declining new car sales, as well as the spectre of consumption based financing, the increased transparency which e-commerce brings with it and the changing priorities of the millennial generation.
Therefore a key focus of the global asset finance players will be to keep pace with innovations in technology, whilst continuing to comply with greater regulatory oversight.
Alfas approach Regulation We are well placed to take advantage of an Europe is witnessing increasing regulation in the form of the General expected increase in systems expenditure.
Data Protection Regulation GDPR, effective May 2018, bringing enhanced consumer rights and tougher penalties.
This follows Security of data has always been at the on from the Open Banking legislation and the recent Payment forefront of our development and we Services Directive.
are currently working with a number of customers to ensure they are GDPR UK lenders are also awaiting the outcome of the FCA review of ready and assisting with their change practices in the motor finance market, which was launched as management programmes.
a reaction to concerns on the growing use of personal leasing options, specifically personal contract purchase PCP.
In the US, there is expected to be a lower number of new regulations being introduced following the new administrations budgetary cuts in relation to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
As new regulation is implemented, compliance and systems costs are expected to increase and therefore pressure is placed on profit margins at the lender level.
This may put further focus on efficiency and operational gearing in the near term in order to maintain margins at an acceptable level.
1 P wC Market Study on the Asset Finance Software Market, 2017.
4 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Alfas approach Credit conditions Ensuring our pipeline, and therefore future Overall the global economy is in better shape than in recent years.
revenue generation, is diversified across The Euro area is gaining confidence and the further growth in geographical regions, industry verticals the US economy has been supported by what is considered a and types of customers.
With a more business friendly new administration after December 2017 competitive environment, we see lenders tax reforms have been approved.
continue to focus on reducing costs and With interest rate hikes and increased inflation, there is a focus digitalising operations, which are on operational efficiency to support ongoing economic growth.
accelerating the adoption of new systems and increased IT investment.
We are well positioned to benefit from this trend.
GDP growth % 1 2 3 Europe USA UK 2.5 2.5 2.4 2.3 2.3 2.1 1.6 1.5 1.5 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Alfas approach Talent pool We combine agency recruitment with It has always been a challenge to hire graduate and a successful employee referral scheme, experienced professionals at the rate that we need, with many of our new Alfa team members whilst maintaining the supervisory ratio needed to applying through their connections to Alfa.
We benchmark our whole remuneration We continue to receive a high number of applicants for package to ensure that we remain each post although competition for experienced candidates competitive and relevant.
remains high, with relatively expensive recruitment costs.
While our applications from European nationals fell immediately after the Brexit referendum in 2016, we 500 have seen this increase back to pre-June 2016 levels applications for each graduate position in recent months.
1 E uropean Commission Winter 2018 Interim Economic Forecast.
2 Federal Open market Committee 13 December 2017.
3 HM Treasury forecast for UK Economy No.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 5 Market overview continued 01101011 Technology trends 0011010 Alfas approach Cloud Alfa Systems is cloud ready and we are We are seeing increasing demand for cloud based finance currently operating in the public cloud solutions with a lower level of customer investment in hardware environment.
Our experience is that required to support such solutions and decreasing internal significant operational gearing can be personnel time required.
obtained by a cloud hosted solution which complements the efficiencies provided by Alfa Systems.
Our sales approach in 2017 has been Cloud First.
Alfas approach Digitalisation Alfa Systems is developed using open Generally the asset finance industry has been slower than expected API technologies which supports our at implementing wholesale digital change, although it has been on customers digitalisation agendas.
the agenda of most lenders for a number of years.
We continue to develop and partner Digitalisation is not just the embracing of app-based customer with other technology providers to service solutions, but instead is the connectivity of the lenders 1 ensure that our systems remain relevant systems with the asset, with other service providers systems, in an ever changing world.
and with end-customers information leading to a myriad of data which will ultimately change the way that finance is provided and end-customers are communicated with.
On a legacy system or an internally developed solution, which accounts for c. 60% of the asset finance market, this connectivity and transfer of data across technology solutions is difficult.
Alfas approach Usership and autonomous vehicles As we see our customers prepare to In recent years, the desire to own a car has declined globally as many adapt and evolve to this revolution, we consumers look towards other mobility solutions such as ride hailing believe that Alfas flexible configuration or ride sharing.
This is a reaction in part to congestion or an emission will support this fundamental change to target but is also representative of changing consumer tastes and the way products are financed.
In 2017 we have seen a number of OEM and hire car companies launch car share services or invest in ride hailing or sharing players all recognition that the world is adapting to the concept that car 40% sharers may outweigh car owners in the near future.
of all mileage done could be by Ultimately OEM and other lending institutions have recognised that 1 autonomous vehicles by 2030 the landscape is changing and that the lending to end-customers may decline over time, to be replaced by those providing the sharing or hailing solutions.
This will disrupt not only the automotive industry but the entire transportation network and therefore may have a direct impact on rail, truck and other transportation.
Ultimately autonomous vehicles are expected to drive up operating margin as the salary costs are removed and technology increases fleet utilisation rates, although when this will become a realistic alternative is unknown.
1 P wC Report January 2018 Electric and self-driving cars will accelerate the change on our roads.
6 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Europe Alfas approach Overall Europe remains an important market Overall the European market has continued its recovery and there for us, with UK revenues alone growing to is a positive outlook as we move into 2018.
Our pipeline remains In Europe the market players are relatively consolidated, with the diversified between Europe and the UK top 25 asset finance companies accounting for around two thirds and our opportunities in Europe are of funding provided.
70% of funds are managed by bank owned also split equally between automotive lessors, with nearly 20% managed by OEMs.
More than half of the investment in the EU is for replacement assets rather than growth investment which reflects the more modest 350bn economic growth in certain European countries.
1 of financing provided in Europe in 2017 Alfas approach Brexit We have incorporated a German Lenders continue to monitor the progress of Brexit negotiations subsidiary in 2018 as part of our wider closely, especially in the UK.
With March 2019 looming, the main Brexit mitigation plan.
This also impact on the asset finance industry is expected to be on volumes demonstrates our commitment to as investment decisions on business expansion may be delayed the European marketplace.
as companies look for clarity on where negotiations will conclude.
With the UK and Germany accounting for more than 50% of the European asset finance market, this may lead to lower growth than expected as the May 2019 deadline approaches.
Alfas approach Automotive Alfa Systems can comprehensively European new leasing volumes for cars increased by 12.6% support the pay-per-mile model with commercial volumes growing by 13.1%.
Meanwhile, in the UK, new car registrations declined during 2017, with further declines expected in FY18 and FY19.
5% Similar to the US, a pay-per-mile model is becoming more prevalent with consumers demanding a cost effective and affordable leasing expected decline in UK new car 1 solution.
This has led to private leasing and other similar lending registrations in 2018 solutions increasing across every market in Europe.
Alfas approach Equipment Our digitalisation initiative makes us In 2017 the European machinery and industrial equipment market well placed to serve European OEMs continued to grow, with the UK being the largest leasing market, and independents serving customers followed by Germany and France.
The machinery and industrial segment contributes the most to Our market share of the European forecasted growth in 2018, expecting to grow by 10.3% after a equipment market continues to increase period of no growth.
as many of the top 50 lenders use Business machinery and technology was the only sector declining by Alfa Systems.
7.4%, perhaps an indication of a move towards cloud based solutions and therefore a lower need for investment in hardware.
334m European new leasing business 2 in 2016 10.3% 1 .
pdf 2 A sset Finance Europe 50 2017 report Asset Financial International Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 7 Market overview continued USA Alfas approach Overall The US remains one of our key markets.
A steadily growing economy and a business-friendly administration In 2018 we will focus on further expanding are paving the way for future growth.
Although the US car market and diversifying our customer base, may have reached the peak of the current cycle, we are seeing including expansion into US equipment an increase in demand in the equipment finance market.
We have seen lending products evolve, moving away from the relatively simplistic loan products of the past to more bundled contracts.
Lenders are grappling with changes to lease, revenue and credit loss 9.1% accounting as recent regulations are enforced which will lead to forecasted growth in 2018 investment increased system reliance due to the complexity of the real time 1 in IT and software spend calculations required.
Alfas approach Automotive As new sales volumes decrease, Alfa While new car sales are down 5% year on year, they are still at the has been assisting customers with change highest levels since the financial crisis following seven years of growth.
management processes in order to There remains an oversupply of used vehicles which impacts the improve and protect margins.
residual values of both new and used cars.
This will challenge the Although new car sales are forecast to profitability of live lease contracts in the short term.
decline in 2018, new payment models are There has been an uptick in automotive finance in mid-2017 which generating demand for modern systems was due to replacement vehicles following hurricane damage.
and we are well placed for personal contract hire or other consumer We have seen automotive lenders, both OEMs and banks, being consumption focused lending products.
more cautious around lending criteria amid sub-prime lending concerns.
Having said that, the American Financial Services Additionally we are also seeing lenders Association, after convening an expert panel to investigate previously focused on automotive expand sub-prime lending in the automotive market, has given the sector into equipment financing, therefore a clean bill of health.
Although there had been some growth in diversifying their asset portfolio, or startsub-prime loans in recent years, there had been growth over ups entering the market both of which all risk tiers and it was not considered concentrated.
are key parts of our growing pipeline.
Data suggests that lenders have become more adept at using data and analytics during the lending process to assess affordability.
As sub-prime automotive lending is significantly smaller than mortgage lending, the exposure is therefore much less severe.
16.7m new cars and light trucks projected 2 to be sold in 2018 2017: 17.1 million Alfas approach Equipment We are well placed to adapt to changes New business volumes in the US equipment finance sector have in financing structures, with consumption picked up in 2017 and are hoped to benefit from tax reforms.
based financing already a component Although interest rates have increased, this is viewed as a positive of Alfa Systems.
as it will drive more companies to finance investment.
Additionally there has been a shift to more consumption based and managed service financing.
1 2018 Equipment Leasing & Finance US Economic Outlook Equipment Leasing & Finance Foundation.
2 Equipment Leasing and Finance Foundations Monthly Leasing and Finance Index ELFA MLFI November 2017.
8 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 2018 and beyond Our predictions for future trends within the market 1 3 5 Innovative financing structures Asset finance volumes increasing Shifting regulatory landscape We are seeing significant innovation We do not expect to see the numbers The last few years have seen a of lending products as a result of of assets being financed decline overall.
number of seismic shifts in legislation changing end-customers requirements A key opportunity is global growth in in accounting, taxation or data or needs.
The expected result is a the equipment vertical.
Our customers tailored product, based on the sharing economy will have an impact are finding that only the most modern usership profile of the end-customer, on car ownership levels whether this of asset finance systems can effectively matching payments to the is seen in 2020 or 2030 is a matter for adequately deal with these complex benefit gained.
We expect this will debate we predict that this will not and far ranging changes.
While we may serve to increase customer satisfaction have an impact on the overall number see a slowing of new regulation and and therefore, loyalty.
of cars being financed as usership or legislation being introduced, our sharing will serve to increase wear and customers are still assessing what tear and therefore accelerate changes are needed for this new world.
Prioritising connectivity To move to a usership model, there 4 must be an increased use of data and communication between systems.
Focus on operational efficiency Alfas open API platform allows this As interest rates increase and residual and we see the increased system values come under pressure, so does connectivity being a continued the focus on maintaining margin and priority for companies choosing obtaining operational efficiencies.
More and more importance is being placed on automation to save both time and effort, but also to prevent errors and maintain data integrity.
Alfas tried and tested workflow support ensures that this is readily attainable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 9
