Strategy in action We prefer personal, not general Focusing on the customer Together Alfa and PEAC sought to Better functionality PEAC Finance is an independent understand how each of their core pan-European asset finance One system with one login systems should integrate and function leasing company.
User-friendly, intuitive and with the aim of streamlining PEACs Working together with partners and easy to use business processes and delivering fast, brokers alike, they deliver innovative Tailored workflow efficient finance at point of sale for financial solutions funding a wide PEACs external partners.
Integrated case management range of asset classes, from office technology and software to Impact More efficient manufacturing and plant equipment.
Since go-live in May 2017, Alfa Replaces seven core systems and PEAC have continued to work How Alfa helped Partners now use the same closely together to further develop system as PEACs sales Following PEACs acquisition by a platform that works for PEACs support team HPS Investment Partners in January ongoing needs.
Alfa Systems seamlessly 2016, PEAC needed to meet a Automated credit decisioning consolidated seven different operating challenging deadline of less than a systems with multiple logons into a Innovative technology year to identify, build and deliver a single platform, with only one login new contract management platform.
Less development time needed required.
Alfa supports all aspects of The integration of Alfa Systems Highly configurable workflow the PEAC contract lifecycle: onensured PEACs unique business and business rules boarding, operations and processing, requirements ran effectively whilst as well as finance and analytics.
Many APIs available, allowing eliminating several historical Crucially, many of PEACs partners now PEAC to build interfaces without processes and technical system silos.
use the same system as the internal further technical development sales support team to submit proposals Over the course of the year-long Single database via Alfas front-end Point of Sale system.
project, a team of 12 Alfa staff This has not only made the originations worked in partnership with PEAC process faster and more efficient, on site to design, configure, develop, but has enabled external partners to test and implement its new asset receive credit decisions on-line within finance platform.
20 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information PEAC Sector: Equipment leasing Region: Europe The seamless nature and connectivity of the Our entire operational arm is now able new platform enables both the Frontand to work more cohesively using integrated Back-Office teams to access the same end customer case management and highly customer and partner data, allowing for a configurable workflow, ultimately enabling truly unified customer view and enhanced PEAC to better service its customer and data integrity.
Ultimately, Alfa Systems partner base.
helps us to focus on what matters most our partners and end-customers, providing As PEAC continues to grow and expand fast and effective finance on Point of Sale its European footprint, Alfa Systems will and a consistent service delivery from deal continue to work with PEAC to support inception through to end of lease.
and maintain its existing implementation and to further develop and enhance critical Due to our change of ownership, we needed functionality such as Point of Sale and to find a new solution and re-platform scorecard integration.
all legacy systems very quickly.
We now Louise OConnell operate a far more integrated and robust PEAC, COO solution and with Alfas support we have been able to seamlessly integrate our end-to-end business processes.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 21 Societe Generale Equipment Finance UK Sector: Equipment Region: Europe It has been a pleasure to work with Alfa throughout this important project.
Alfas meticulous approach and their willingness to go the extra mile ensured we were compliant with IFRS9 and had processes in place before the implementation deadline, putting us in good stead to adapt to extra changes.
Helen Applegarth CIO of SGEF UK 22 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Strategy in action Flexibility not rigidity Enabling business agility Regulatory compliance at How Alfa helped Impact Societe Generale Equipment Alfa Systems is a fundamental This project was delivered in two Finance UK SGEF component of SGEF UKs IT landscape.
phases, with the first completed in The accounting standard IFRS 9, There was a requirement to update this February 2017 and the second in published by the IASB, sets out the core system, as well as specific December 2017, well within the requirements for recognising and operational processes, in order to required deadline.
Through the measuring financial assets and reflect the new IFRS 9 obligations.
implementation of new automation, financial liabilities.
The deadline for We worked with SGEF to gather SGEF benefited immediately from IFRS 9 compliance is 1 January 2018. requirements, suggest suitable system more robust and efficient processes changes, and assist with the analysis for the Finance and Collections and redesign of Finance and Collections teams.
Alfa continues to provide processes to ensure timely compliance.
on-site support, responding to IFRS 9 queries as SGEF adjusts to the new Although IFRS 9 was the initial driver processes following the successful for this particular project, SGEF also go-live.
wanted to take the opportunity to automate the systems provisions processing features, and enhance Alfas accounting functionality to reduce unwelcome manual work required at the end of each reporting month.
Over the course of the project, a team of Alfa consultants worked closely with SGEF, providing regulatory advice as well as technical design, development and implementation support.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 23 Strategy in action We bring character, not robots Delivering with the best people Working with our clients Energy, teamwork and fun These attributes describe how we work at Alfa: they inform how we work with each other and our customers.
Delivering the best for our customers is our number one priority, but we make sure success is delivered within an environment conducive to respect, collaboration and creativity.
We believe that an inclusive and supportive internal environment internally makes day-to-day life easier for the Alfa team and this positive spirit is carried through to our clients.
Listen to Hannah describe her working day in the office and on client site.
24 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The ability to work almost immediately on real life software implementations is one of the great opportunities our new Alfa team members get on joining the team working at the customer site, seeing how their work transforms the customers business and also gaining real commercial insight.
Lucy Matthews Chief People Officer Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 25 Cultivating in-house innovation is key to continuing the significant progress made by our Alfa product teams over the last year.
We are looking to incorporate more functionality and digital channels in Alfa Systems while streamlining our delivery model for all our markets.
Ralf Neuff Chief Information Officer 26 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Strategy in action 01101011 0011010 We always pioneer, never follow Leading with the best technology Cultivating innovation at Alfa Collaboration and innovation who have ownership of the areas in which they specialise.
This approach The markets our customers operate As well as developing new features that not only encourages continuous in are constantly changing.
Our goal is our customers need, were continually improvement, it allows for the big to help our customers remain relevant investigating and implementing new ideas to grow and develop.
We also by continually enhancing, developing technologies.
In FY17 we had our first run formal innovation programmes and innovating our software in order go-lives on the MySQL database such as our Hackathons, during which to support their growth ambitions.
platform, in addition to the more the whole company works together in common Oracle database, and we added How we develop a highly energetic and innovative support for the NuoDB database, from environment to put new ideas into Our rigorous development protocol which, we believe, our customers will action.
The Hackathons run in 2017 includes robust processes and ensures derive significant benefits.
In FY18 we have produced more than ten active quality output.
To prepare regular expect to fully productionise our support projects or initiatives.
releases and deliver on our quality for Docker, which will reduce the promise we employ an agile installation time of our software to a methodology process that is built matter of minutes for those customers around four-weekly time boxes.
Every who dont adopt our cloud offering.
four weeks this is a period well in How we cultivate continued Alfa UK Hackathon, excess of 1,000 man days new code is innovation June 2017 committed to the code base.
The four week period is supported by a robust New ideas are actively welcomed software development lifecycle using from all the Alfa team.
We firmly test driven development techniques believe that innovation is not achieved and automated regression testing.
through top-down diktats: we actively Suites of tests are executed after encourage participation and the every commit and every day, generation of new ideas from everyone.
including for performance testing Teams are given the freedom to and using a variety of representative explore and develop their ideas.
This gives our Our development community works customers confidence that future in small streams of six to eight people releases will continue to work for them.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 27
