Directors Report Statutory information Research and development The Directors of Alfa present their report and the audited The Strategic Report on page 40 sets out the research financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2017. and product development expensed in the year ended 31 December 2017.
Additional information which is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report, including information required in Employee involvement accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing We place considerable value on the involvement of our Rules 9.8.
4R of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys listing employees, viewing and treating them all as valued team rules, can be located as follows: members and an integral part of our business and our success.
We continue to keep them informed on matters affecting Statutory information Section Page them through both formal and informal meetings and the Employee Involvement Strategic Report 46-49 Company intranet, including the CEO updates.
Teams are Employee Diversity and Strategic Report 48 consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their Disabilities Nomination Committee Report 62 current and future interests.
We are proud to state that the Executive Share Ownership Annual Report on Remuneration 78 share ownership schemes run throughout the Company, not and Benefit Plans just at the executive level, and this reflects our commitment to Employee Long-Term Annual Report on Remuneration 70 Incentive Plans each and every team member within the Alfa family.
Community CSR 45 Further information on team engagement is included in the Directors Biographies Corporate Governance Report 55 CSR Report on pages 44 to 49.
Details of the Groups employee Board of Directors share plans are contained in the Remuneration Report.
Executive Share Plans Annual Report on Remuneration 78 Emissions reporting CSR 49 Employee diversity and inclusion Financial Instruments Note 17.4 to the financial 110 Our policy for the Alfa team and all applicants for employment statements is to match the capabilities and talents of each individual to the Future Developments of the Strategic Report 9,17 appropriate job.
We are committed to ensuring equality of Business opportunity in all employee relations.
We aim to ensure that Financial position of the Strategic Report 43 no employee, potential employee, customer, visitor or supplier Group, its cash flow, liquidity position and borrowing will receive less favourable treatment on the grounds of sex, facilities pregnancy, disability, religious beliefs, marital status, race, Human Rights and Modern CSR 49 ethnic origin, nationality, age, sexual orientation or colour.
Slavery Statement Independent Auditor Audit and Risk 68 Disability Committee Report With regard to existing team members and those who may Internal Controls and Risk Strategic Report 32-33 become disabled, Alfas policy is to examine ways and means Management Corporate Governance Report 67 to provide continuing employment under the existing terms Research and Development Directors Report 10 and conditions and to provide training and career Strategic Report 40 development, including promotion, where appropriate.
Significant related party Note 24 to the consolidated 113 transactions financial statements Directors Subsidiary and Associated Note 2.4 to the consolidated 96 The names of the persons who, at any time during the financial Undertakings financial statements year, were Directors of the Company are: Statement of Corporate Corporate Governance Report 51 Governance Date of appointment Date of resignation Audit and Risk Corporate Governance Report 63 Andrew Page 4 May 2017 n a Committee Report Andrew Denton 5 May 2017 n a Governance Report Corporate Governance Report 51 Directors Remuneration Corporate Governance Report 69 Vivienne Maclachlan 4 May 2017 n a Report Richard Longdon 5 May 2017 n a Nomination Committee Report Corporate Governance Report 60 Karen Slatford 15 May 2017 n a Strategic Report Strategic Report 2 Robin Taylor 5 May 2017 n a Viability Statement Strategic Report 36 Appointment and removal of a Director Principal activities The rules governing the appointment and removal of a The principal activity of the Alfa Group is the provision of Director are set out in the Articles of Association of the software and software related services to the asset finance Company.
The Articles of Association may be amended by a industry.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a special resolution of the shareholders.
Specific details relating holding company.
The Companys registrar is Equiniti Limited to the Principal Shareholder, CHP Software and Consulting situated at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Limited and their right to appoint Directors are set out in the Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Branches outside the UK All Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis, The Company has subsidiaries in the United States of America, in line with the recommendations of the Code.
In 2018, the Company has incorporated a subsidiary in Germany.
The Articles of Association are available on the corporate governance page of our investor relations website.
Significant contracts We have no contracts deemed significant.
82 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Powers of the Directors Shareholders voting rights Specific powers relating to the allotment and issuance of All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend ordinary shares and the ability of the Company to purchase its and vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a general meeting own securities are also included within the Articles and such every member present in person shall have one vote and on a authorities are submitted for approval by the shareholders at poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have the AGM each year.
one vote for every ordinary share held.
No shareholder holds ordinary shares carrying special rights relating to the control Since listing, the Directors have not exercised any of their of the Company and the Directors are not aware of any powers to issue, or purchase, ordinary shares in the share agreements between holders of the Companys shares that capital of the Company.
may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Directors interests Restrictions on transfer of ordinary shares The Directors interests in and options over ordinary shares The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer in the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration of ordinary shares in the Company other than the usual Report on page 70.
Since the end of the financial year and the restrictions applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share.
date of this report, there have been no changes to such interests.
All issued share capital of the Company at the date of this In line with the requirements of the Companies Act, each Annual Report is fully paid.
Certain restrictions are also Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading and or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that marketing requirements relating to close periods and conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the requirements of the Listing Rules whereby Directors and Company a situational conflict.
These were considered and certain employees of the Company require Board approval approved by the Board in accordance with the Articles and to deal in the Companys securities.
each Director informed of the authorisation and any terms on For a period of one year following Admission, each of the which it was given.
The Board has formal procedures to deal Executive Directors, and the senior executives each, a with Directors conflicts of interest.
Restricted Shareholder agreed, on the terms and subject to Directors indemnities the conditions of the Underwriting Agreement, not to dispose Each Director of the Company has the benefit of a qualifying of any of the ordinary shares they hold in the Company which indemnity, as defined by section 236 of the Companies Act, expires on 1 June 2018 the Initial Lock-Up Period.
and as permitted by the Articles, as well as prospectus liability The Initial Lock Up Period is followed by three further lock-up insurance which provides cover for liabilities incurred by periods of 365 days, 720 and 1,095 days, each commencing on Directors in the performance of their duties or powers in the termination of the Initial Lock-Up Period and covering in connection with the issue of the Companys prospectus dated each occasion a further 25% of the relevant Restricted 1 June 2017 in relation to the listing.
In addition, all Directors Shareholders holding of ordinary shares.
The final lock-up and officers of Group companies are covered by Directors & period expires on 1 June 2021.
All of the above arrangements are subject to certain No amount was paid under any of these indemnities or insurances customary exceptions.
during the year other than the applicable insurance premiums.
Authority to purchase own shares Share capital Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies 2017 and 28 February 2018, being the latest practicable date Act 2006.
Any shares bought back may be held as treasury shares prior to the date of this Annual Report, comprises 300,000,000 or cancelled immediately on completion of the purchase.
ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each.
Further information regarding the Companys issued share capital can be found in Prior to listing, the Company was generally and unconditionally note 19 of the Companys financial statements.
authorised by its shareholders to purchase in the market up to 10% of its issued share capital 30,000,000 ordinary shares.
There have been no movements in the Companys issued share As at 31 December 2017, and at the date of this report, the capital since Admission in June 2017. full extent of this authority remained in force and unused.
This Details of pre-IPO employee share schemes are provided in authority is renewable annually, and a special resolution will be note 20 to the Groups financial statements.
proposed at the 2018 AGM to renew it.
The Directors will only Significant shareholdings at 31 December 2017 and 28 February 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report At the relevant dates, the Company has been notified pursuant to DTR5 or is otherwise aware of the following interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: No.
of ordinary shares % of issued No.
of ordinary shares % of issued Nature of Name of shareholder at 31 December 2017 share capital at 28 February 2018 share capital holding CHP Software and Consulting Limited 197,645,649 65.88 197,645,649 65.88 Direct Alfa employee benefit trust 16,744,191 5.58 16,744,191 5.58 Direct Old Mutual 10,597,130 3.53 n a n a Direct and indirect Janus Henderson Investors 9,778,466 3.26 9,221,587 3.07 Direct Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 83 Directors Report continued purchase the Companys shares in the market if they believe it Political donations is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The Group made no political donations and incurred no political expenditure during the year FY16: nil.
It remains Transactions with related parties the Companys policy not to make political donations nor to The only subsisting material transactions which the Company incur political expenditure.
However, the application of the has entered into with related parties are: relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 is potentially Relationship Agreement very broad in nature and the Board is therefore seeking to The Relationship Agreement was entered into on 26 May 2017 review the shareholder authority, granted immediately prior and regulates the relationship between CHP Software and to the IPO, to ensure that the Group does not inadvertently Consulting Limited the Controlling Shareholder and the breach these provisions as a result of the breadth of its Company following the listing.
Subject to a certain minimum business activities, although the Board has no intention shareholding, the Relationship Agreement details the rights of using this authority.
the Controlling Shareholder has to representation on the Interest capitalised in the period Board and Nomination Committee and to appoint observers No interest has been capitalised by Alfa in the year ended to the Nomination Committee if no representation on the 31 December 2017.
The Controlling Shareholder also undertakes not to operate, establish, own or acquire a competing business Going concern during the term of the agreement.
Any transactions between On the basis of current financial projections and facilities Alfa and the Controlling Shareholder will be at arms length available, the Directors are satisfied that the Group is well and on normal commercial terms.
placed to manage its business risks successfully and therefore The Relationship Agreement complies with the requirements have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate of the LRs, including LR 9.2.
resources to continue in operational existence for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of the financial In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules statements.
Accordingly, the financial statements continue 9.8.
4 14, the Board confirms that the Company has complied to be prepared on a going concern basis.
with its obligations under the Relationship Agreement, including in respect of the independence provisions and, so Dividends far as the Company is aware, the Controlling Shareholder has No dividends have been proposed for the financial year 2017. complied with the provisions of the Relationship Agreement Post balance sheet events including the independence and non-compete provisions There have been no post balance sheet events in the period set out therein, at all times since it was entered into.
Other non-material related party transactions are detailed Disclosure of information to the auditor in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Each of the Directors of the Company at the date the Amendment of the Articles Directors Report is approved confirms that: The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Companys shareholders in a general meeting, in accordance information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and with the Companies Act.
he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have Profits and dividend taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware The consolidated profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 of any relevant audit information and to establish that the was 25.9 million FY16: 9.9 million.
The results are discussed Group and Companys auditors are aware of that information.
in greater detail in the financial review on pages 38 to 43.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Compensation for loss of office accordance with the provisions of s. 418 of the Companies and change of control Act 2006.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Deloitte LLP, the Groups auditor, has indicated its willingness Directors or Alfa team members providing for additional to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the compensation for loss of office or employment whether Audit Committee and in accordance with section 489 of the through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that occurs Companies Act of 2006, a resolution to reappoint it will be because of a takeover bid.
The only significant agreement to which the Company is a party Board approval of the Annual Report that takes effect, alters or terminates upon a change of control The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement and of the Company following a takeover bid, and the effect thereof, the Corporate Governance Report were approved by the is the Relationship Agreement.
The Relationship Agreement with the Controlling Shareholder Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by contains a provision under which it will terminate upon the earlier of: i the Controlling Shareholder and its associates ceasing to have the entitlement to exercise or control the Andrew Denton exercise of 10% or more of the voting rights in the Company: or CEO ii the Companys ordinary shares ceasing to be admitted to listing on the Official List of the FCA.
8 March 2018 84 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed Statement of Directors responsibilities in the Board of Directors section, confirm that, to the best of The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report each persons knowledge and belief: and the Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, give a true and UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit statements for each financial year.
Under that law the of the Group: Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in the parent company financial statements, which have been accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted as adopted by the European Union IFRS and the parent Accounting Practices, consisting of FRS 102 The Financial company financial statements in accordance with UK Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the Republic Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, specifically FRS of Ireland and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the parent and Republic of Ireland and applicable law.
Under UK company: and company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company review of the development and performance of the business and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing these and the position of the Company and the Group, together financial statements, the Directors are required to: with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in make judgements and accounting estimates that are accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of the reasonable and prudent: Companies Act 2006. state whether applicable IFRSs, as adopted by the European Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Union, have been followed in the Group financial statements and UK accounting standards, specifically FRS 102, have been followed in the parent company financial statements, Andrew Denton subject to any material departures disclosed and explained CEO in those financial statements: and 8 March 2018 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary to shareholders to assess the Group and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 85
