STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual general meeting Restrictions on the transfer of securities The annual general meeting AGM of the Company will be held at While the Board has the power under the articles of association to 2.00pm on Thursday 3 May 2018 at 195 Piccadilly, London W1J 9LN.
refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are no restrictions on The notice of meeting, which includes the business to be transacted the transfer of shares.
at the meeting, is included within the AGM circular.
The circular Under the Companys articles, the Directors have power to suspend also contains an explanation of all the resolutions to be considered voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of shares in at the AGM.
circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Dividend Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.2 pence per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017, payable to Substantial shareholders shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 April 2018.
This, together with the interim dividend of 3.1 pence paid in September As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified of the 2017, brings the total dividend for the year to 9.3 pence.
following holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Issued share capital Conduct Authority: Shareholder % of voting rights At 31 December 2017, the issued share capital of the Company BlackRock, Inc. 5.80 consisted of 1,726,103,630 ordinary shares of 10 pence each 2016: 1,726,103,630 shares, of which 8,625,886 shares 0.5% Deutsche Bank AG 5.43 were held in treasury 2016: 11,629,654 shares: 0.7%.
During the year, a total of 3,003,768 ordinary shares were transferred out of treasury in connection with the exercise of awards by participants In the period up to and including 1 March 2018, the Company was under the Companys share incentive schemes 2016: 539,274 shares.
advised of the following changes and additions to the interests notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency rules of the The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Financial Conduct Authority: In addition, GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme for which the Bank of New York Mellon Shareholder % of voting rights acts as Depositary.
The ADRs trade in the US over-the-counter 7.047 Bank of America Corporation market where each ADR represents one GKN ordinary share.
Barclays plc 5.259 Deutsche Bank AG Below 3% Rights and obligations attaching to shares GIC Private Limited Below 3% Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when HSBC Holdings plc 6.068 declared, to receive the Companys annual report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Relations with other capital providers On a show of hands at a meeting of GKN, every member present holding ordinary shares has one vote.
On a poll taken at a meeting, The Board recognises the contribution made by other providers of every member present and entitled to vote has one vote in respect capital to the Group and welcomes the views of such providers in of each ordinary share held by him or her.
In the case of joint relation to the Groups approach to corporate governance.
shareholders, only the vote of the senior joint holder who votes and any proxy duly authorised by him or her may be counted.
Shares held in treasury carry no voting rights.
GKN operates an employee share option plan trust the Trust to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
The trustee of the Trust does not exercise any voting rights in respect of shares held by the Trust.
Once the shares are transferred from the Trust to share scheme participants, the participants are entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to those shares.
A dividend waiver operates in respect of shares held by the Trust pursuant to the provisions of the Trust deed.
Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are contained in the articles of association.
com 93 Additional information continued Directors The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: Position as at Service in the year ended Name 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 Mike Turner Chairman Served throughout the year Nigel Stein Chief Executive Retired from the Board on 31 December 2017 Kevin Cummings N A Left the Board on 16 November 2017 Angus Cockburn Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Tufan Erginbilgic Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Shonaid Jemmett-Page Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Richard Parry-Jones Senior Independent Director Served throughout the year Jos Sclater Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board on 10 November 2017 Phil Swash Chief Executive GKN Automotive Served throughout the year Anne Stevens Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Adam Walker N A Retired from the Board on 10 November 2017 Membership of the Board and biographical details of the Directors with an offer by way of a rights issue.
These authorities will remain in office at the date of this report are shown on pages 52 and 53. valid until the 2018 AGM or 30 June 2018, if earlier.
Resolutions to Further details relating to Board and committee composition are renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
disclosed in the corporate governance statement.
Following his appointment to the Board in November 2017 and in Directors indemnities accordance with the Companys articles of association, Jos Sclater will retire and offer himself for election at the 2018 AGM.
All other Directors Pursuant to the articles of association, the Company has executed in office will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2018 a deed of indemnity for the benefit of the Directors of the Company AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
and persons who were Directors of the Company in respect of costs of defending claims against them and third-party liabilities.
These The articles of association provide that a Director may be appointed provisions, deemed to be qualifying third-party indemnity provisions by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing Directors, pursuant to section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Further information during the year ended 31 December 2017 and remain in force.
on GKNs internal procedures for the appointment of Directors is given The indemnity provision in the Companys articles of association in the corporate governance statement.
also extends to provide a limited indemnity in respect of liabilities Anne Stevens, who served as an independent non-executive Director incurred as a director, secretary or officer of an associated company throughout 2017, was appointed as Chief Executive in January 2018. of the Company.
Executive Directors serve under contracts that are terminable with A copy of the deed poll of indemnity is available for inspection at the 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will executive Director.
The non-executive Directors serve under letters of be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
appointment and do not have service contracts with the Company.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for legal Copies of the service contracts of the executive Directors and the letters action taken against its Directors and officers.
of appointment of the non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
Conflicts of interest The Directors remuneration report, which includes the Directors Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors must avoid situations where interests in GKN shares, is set out on pages 73 to 92. they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
As permitted by Directors powers the Act, the Companys articles of association enable Directors to authorise actual and potential conflicts of interest.
The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys articles conflicts are in place.
These procedures enable non-conflicted Directors of association and any directions given by the Company in general to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorisation meeting.
The powers of the Directors include those in relation to the and require the Board to review the register of Directors conflicts issue and buyback of shares.
annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
Any potential At the 2017 AGM, the Directors were authorised to exercise the powers conflicts of interest are considered by the Board prior to the of the Company to purchase up to 171,722,259 of its ordinary shares.
No shares were purchased under this authority in 2017.
The Directors were also authorised to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 57,240,753, with an additional authority to allot up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 57,240,753 in connection 94 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Articles of association Research and development The Companys articles of association can only be amended by special Group subsidiaries undertake research and development work in resolution of the shareholders.
GKNs current articles are available on support of their principal manufacturing activities.
Further details of the our website at www.
Groups research and development activities can be found throughout the strategic report.
Change of control Financial instruments As at 31 December 2016, the Companys subsidiary, GKN Holdings plc, had agreements with 14 banks for 15 bilateral banking facilities totalling Details of the Groups use of financial instruments can be found in 800 million, and a 32 million loan facility with the European note 19 to the financial statements.
Each of these agreements provides that, on a change of control of GKN plc, the respective bank can give notice to GKN Strategic report Holdings plc to repay all outstanding amounts under the relevant facility.
The Company has in issue 450 million fixed rate notes paying As permitted by section 414C of the Companies Act 2006, certain 5.375% per annum interest and maturing on 19 September 2022 and information required to be included in the Directors report has been 300 million variable rate notes paying 3.375% per annum interest and included in the strategic report.
Specifically, this relates to information maturing on 12 May 2032, in each case issued under Euro mediumon the likely future developments of the business of the Group, term note programmes established by GKN Holdings plc the Notes.
financial risk management and the disclosure of greenhouse gas Pursuant to the terms attaching to the Notes, a holder of the Notes has emissions for which the Company is responsible.
the option to require GKN Holdings plc to redeem or at GKN Holdings plcs option purchase the holders Notes at their principal amount Disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R if there is a change of control of the Company and either i the Notes are unrated or do not carry an investment grade credit rating from Information relating to the waiver of dividends can be found on page 93. at least two ratings agencies: or ii if the Notes carry an investment There are no other disclosures to be made under the above Listing Rule.
grade credit rating from at least two ratings agencies, the Notes are downgraded to a non-investment grade rating or that rating is withdrawn within 90 days of the change of control and such Auditors and disclosure of information downgrade or withdrawal is cited by the ratings agencies as being the result of the change of control.
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is Companies in GKN Aerospace are party to long-term supply contracts no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are with customers which are original equipment manufacturers of aircraft unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to and aero engines.
Certain of these contracts contain provisions which have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of would entitle the customer to terminate the contract in the event of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys a change of control of the Company, where such change of control auditors are aware of that information.
conflicts with the interests of the customer.
The strategic report, comprising the inside front cover and pages Companies in GKN Driveline are party to supply contracts with 1 to 51, and this Directors report, comprising pages 52 to 96 which customers which are original equipment manufacturers of motor together form the management report as required under the Disclosure vehicles.
Certain of these contracts contain provisions which would Rules and Transparency Rules 4.1.
8R, have been approved by the entitle the customer to terminate the contract in the event of a change Board and are signed on its behalf by of control of the Company.
All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Payments to suppliers Kerry Watson Company Secretary It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with 26 February 2018 suppliers, provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the contract.
Branches GKN, through various subsidiaries, has established branches in a number of different countries in which the business operates.
Donations In accordance with the Groups policy, no political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred during 2017. gkn.
