STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION eDRIVE The vehicles in which we travel are undergoing the greatest change for over a century, fuelled by the growth of electrification across the automotive sector.
GKN has been working on electric and hybrid The challenge now facing the automotive Predicted growth in production volume transmissions for plug-in hybrids and pure industry is how to take electric vehicles to of electric vehicles m Full hybrid electric vehicles since 2002, pioneering the the next level and make them more appealing 10 development of single and multi-speed eAxles.
GKN believes the answer lies in vehicle dynamics, making electrified cars not 8 Following a series of significant programme Electric only more efficient, but better to drive, and wins with major global automakers, GKNs 6 is developing new technologies to constantly order book for its eDrive technologies hit improve electric vehicles.
GKNs success is also accelerating annual sales growth.
GKNs eTwinsterX system, unveiled in 2017, 2 Sales, which were previously forecast to rise takes efficiency and dynamic benefits to from 35 million in 2017 to 200 million in another level.
The innovative system offers 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2020, are now expected to increase over three key advantages over conventional Source: IHS Automotive.
The unit is significantly smaller than other systems with equivalent GKNs success has been achieved through power outputs due to its integrated design, a long-term commitment to research and while the eTwinsterX boasts industry-leading development, bringing technology from the efficiency, with a unique two-speed test track to the road.
From supercars to transmission optimising gear changes for delivery vans, GKNs eDrive systems are the best possible efficiency.
The new eAxle helping power a broad range of innovative also incorporates GKNs celebrated Twinster and market-leading vehicles.
torque vectoring technology, delivering GKNs electric driveline systems feature on significant advantages for vehicle stability, cars such as the Volvo XC90 T8 Twin Engine, agility and safety.
the BMW 2 Series Active Tourer, the BMW i8, Cementing its position as an eDrive innovator, the Porsche 918 Spyder and the Mitsubishi GKN has agreed a multi-year partnership with Outlander, one of the biggest selling plug-in GKNs eTwinsterX system Panasonic Jaguar Racing, providing design, hybrids on the market.
manufacturing and engineering services to the In Germany, GKN technology is bringing Formula E team.
See page 50 for more details.
emissions-free delivery vans to the road through its work with Deutsche Posts Streetscooter, while the London Electric Vehicle Companys TX5 electric taxi has launched on the streets of London containing a GKN eDrive system.
