22 Divisional review Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Air Management Strategic Report 23 2017 also heralded a refocus by the HVAC businesses on customers to materially www.
com improve service levels, including in one instance a 44% improvement in on-time The Air Management division is delivery rates and the launch of a new the largest in the Melrose Group.
This It comprises the HVAC business will enable the business and customers based in St. Louis, Missouri and AQH, alike to benefit from access to combined headquartered in Hartford, Wisconsin.
manufacturing capabilities, new product pipelines, expanded engineering support Proportion of total revenue and distinctive innovation roadmaps, thereby addressing the market need for smart, energy efficient and sustainable solutions for buildings, homes and cities, and creating opportunities for customers 56% Consolidation of the NAS, Residential to cross-sell multiple products.
and Light Commercial businesses This refocus on customers also involved under one HVAC management team a comprehensive technology roadmap has removed unnecessary complexity and product profitability review, resulting in its business structure, product in the exit of 12% of low margin divisional portfolios and cost base.
sales and enabling HVAC to make material and targeted investments in product This has freed the business up to make development and innovation.
This included investments of more than 12 million across funding the expansion of the CLEANSUITE its NAS manufacturing base which enabled product family, expansion and new HVAC to increase the capacity of its clean breakthrough technologies in data centre room, premium air handler and healthcare cooling and high-performance computing, operating room production capabilities, expanding and updating the Residential as well as upgrade to next generation product portfolio and leveraging sales plant and equipment and expand its two synergies between its Light Commercial Canadian plants.
HVAC also invested and NAS product lines.
9 million in new machinery and updated The key to this transformation has been a technologies for its Residential and Light change in culture throughout the business Commercial facilities to drive utilisation and to reinforce employee engagement, quality improvements.
involvement and ownership, and provide These investments have been bolstered the foundation for the next stage of by the implementation of Value Analysis improvements in 2018 and beyond.
Value Engineering VAVE, LEAN, ISO Outlook and other quality processes in the facilities Having invested heavily to improve to drive process and manufacturing, performance and overcome operational quality, productivity and accountability.
issues and complexity while unifying A warehouse management system Design the culture, HVAC has progressed from for Manufacturing Assembly and Quality transforming the businesses to driving and operational finance and costing tools profitable growth.
In 2018, the business have provided better visibility on its sales will seek to capitalise on its distinctive pipeline, logistics and costings.
capabilities and strong market positions In addition, inventory efficiency drives and to continue to grow and improve.
supply chain initiatives to improve working capital have been very successful.
There have also been significant improvements in safety and quality, with recordable injury rate and warranty costs falling by 47% and 20% respectively in 2017, with continued improvement expected.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 24 Divisional review Continued AQH has developed a robust product development pipeline to strengthen its leadership position in North America.
It also completed the launch of the Alliance range hood platform in 2017, which was the largest new product initiative in over ten years and demonstrates their interchangeable features and product depth.
With the loss-making European business Air Quality & Home Solutions of Best S. p. A. being sold in July, the www.
com business refocused its attention on its North American markets.
The business is AQH is a leading manufacturer of also expanding its professional channel ventilation products for the professional sales model to sell and influence decision remodelling and replacement market, makers and builders earlier in the purchase residential new construction market process.
The retail business continues to and DIY market.
be competitive and will receive investment in further innovation, programming and It supplies to distributors and dealers of promotions during 2018. electrical and lighting products, kitchen and bathroom dealers, retail home centres Outlook and private label customers from its four AQH is in the midst of a fundamental manufacturing locations around the world.
improvement to its operational capabilities, AQH enjoys a leading market share and restructuring its product offering, materially installed base in US residential ventilation improving its service levels and revitalising fans and range hoods.
These ongoing improvements, the strength of professional AQH had a very productive 2017 as it customer relationships and the acceleration reversed a recent history of underinvestment of new product launches in the second half to address a number of operational of 2018, means the business is well challenges.
Supported by significant positioned for further improvement this year.
Melrose investment, the business undertook a number of operational improvement projects, including a 16 million upgrade to the production facility at its headquarters in Hartford, Wisconsin, a consolidation of its Canadian footprint and US warehousing, and substantial automation, efficiency and quality improvement programmes.
New technology, product launches and promotions by competitors had previously taken advantage and chipped away at AQHs 16m strong market presence.
The appointment of a new CEO with substantial large retail customer experience is reversing this trend capital investment in through production upgrades, improved the manufacturing and channel strategy, a refresh of the new product development schedule and a warehousing facilities refocus of the management team on core at their Hartford headquarters product categories.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 25 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
