28 Divisional review Continued Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Ergonomics Strategic Report 29 The 2017 results were impacted by a Ergonomics disrupted transition to a new warehousing www.
This issue has been resolved and the 2018 outlook is strong.
Competitive pressures in the sit-stand desk Proportion of total revenue market impacted growth in Ergotrons premier WorkFit brand, while healthcare and OmniMount remained robust, and its ODM new business revenue continued to grow.
Continual refreshment of the product 13% portfolio remains the key to maintaining The Ergonomics division comprises the businesss market-leading position.
Melrose has supported its expansion Ergotron, a leading manufacturer and projects with approximately $1 million of distributor of innovative ergonomic additional revenue expenditure as it looks technology workstations including to build momentum in e-commerce with wall mounts, carts, arms and stands, a new online portal, as well as to pursue headquartered in Minneapolis, US.
markets in Europe and Asia Pacific.
The business is organised into three The drop in profits in 2017 is mostly as a segments: Commercial, Original result of a one-off credit relating to a legal Design and Manufacture ODM, settlement received prior to our ownership and Consumer.
Ergotrons Commercial business is a top Outlook global manufacturer of products such With the 2017 operational issues resolved, as electronic medical records carts and Ergotron expects its core businesses to workstations for hospitals, sit-stand perform well in 2018.
Several key business desks and technology charging carts growth initiatives are in place that will for education, and ergonomic arms and contribute revenue in 2018, including a sit-stand desks for corporate offices.
The recently launched e-commerce site, an ODM business manufactures ergonomic expanded European sales team, and and charging products for top technology expansion into the office furniture dealer industry brands and is an emerging channel.
New product development is leader in healthcare equipment carts for accelerating focus on an expanded product ultrasound and other specialty healthcare portfolio in healthcare, sit-stand desks, applications.
The Consumer business and OfficePro, a brand focused on the sells ergonomic equipment through retail office dealer channel, and the business channels under the brands OmniMount is positive in its outlook for 2018. and Ergotronhome.
Ergotron retains a strong market position in most of its key markets due to expertise in the design and manufacture of ergonomic technology workstations and computer mounts, utilising its Constant Force counterbalance technology.
A strong supply chain enables Ergotron to leverage component suppliers from the global computer industry, producing high-quality, affordable products.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
