Strategic Report 41 Longer-term viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate In preparing this statement, the following qualifications and Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of assumptions are made: the Company over a longer period than the 12 months required by i t he viability model is based on the Group as at the date the Going Concern provision.
A period of three years is believed of this Annual Report, the model includes no consideration to be appropriate for this assessment since this is consistent with of a combined working capital forecast for the proposed the Groups financing cycle, whereby on average the Group has GKN plc acquisition, for the reasons set out above.
It also refinanced debt in line with this timescale, usually as a result of does not consider any further acquisitions or future disposals acquisition or disposal activity.
We note future acquisitions would The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that be based on the same proven business model applied the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities, as they previously, with related bank debt and equity raised to fall due, up to December 2020. support the acquisition with sufficient headroom to cover business risks: and The Directors assessment has been made by reference to the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2017, its prospects, ii fi nancing arrangements and bank covenant testing are the Groups strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups in line with the current facility which is committed for the principal risks and their management, all of which are described period under review.
The Directors assessment of the Groups viability is supported by comprehensive and detailed analysis and modelling.
The model underpinning this statement is stress-tested, proven and is frequently used by management when determining working capital requirements for transactions and corporate restructuring.
The main assumptions included in the model relate to forecast revenue, operating margin and cash generation.
The model includes three years of forecast data from the Groups business assets and incorporates agreed sensitivities for economic risk impacting revenue and margins to replicate a sales downturn in line with those experienced in previous downturns, foreign exchange risk impacting net debt and assuming adverse movements in foreign exchange rates and liquidity risk impacting net debt and assuming 1 a deterioration in working capital, each of which have been considered both individually and in combination by the Board, together with expected achievable mitigating actions from the working capital model to create severe, but plausible, scenarios.
These scenarios sensitise the main assumptions noted above.
On 1 February 2018 the Company issued an official offer document to acquire the entire share capital of GKN plc.
In anticipation of the potential acquisition, the Company has entered into a senior term and revolving credit facilities agreement with Lloyds Bank plc and Royal Bank of Canada as original lenders which is subject to the acquisition taking place.
The new facilities agreement provides for term facilities and revolving credit facilities in an aggregate principal amount up to 2.6 billion, US $2.0 billion and 0.5 billion.
The maturity of the new facilities would range from three years and six months to five years, after the date of the agreement of the new facility.
At this point in time the Company does not have access to non-public information on GKN plc that would allow procedures to be undertaken for Melrose to be able to conclude on a combined working capital model.
1 For further details on the economic risk, foreign exchange risk and liquidity risk, and the mitigating actions being taken by management, please refer to the Risks and Uncertainties section of the Strategic Report on pages 44 to 49.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
