Board of directors before joining British American Tobacco 1.
Steve Mogford BAT in 1994 and held various executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior leadership positions worldwide over the Chairman of the board Independent Director next 20 years at BAT including COO & Regional Director for Asia Pacific.
Appointment to the board: June 2012 Appointment to the board: May 2016 Current external commitments: Committee membership: Nomination Committee membership: Audit Committee, Non-executive Chairman of Britvic plc and Committee chair and Risk Committee Nomination Committee and Risk non-executive director of Ferguson plc.
Committee Skills and experience: A chartered accountant with extensive experience Skills and experience: First Class BSc 4.
Winnie Kin Wah Fok working in a global business environment Honours Degree in Astrophysics, Maths Non-Executive Director and in sectors with strategic relevance to and Physics from Queen Elizabeth College, the Group.
Appointment to the board: October 2010 University of London.
Extensive experience Career experience: Spent his career until of delivery of complex programmes in the Committee membership: CSR Committee May 2011 with global professional services defence, infrastructure and utilities market.
and Remuneration Committee firm Deloitte, was Global Managing Career experience: Served a 30-year career Director and then Global Chairman Skills and experience: An auditor by training, with British Aerospace, later BAE Systems, between 2007 and 2011.
He was Senior during which time he held several senior with a Bachelor of Commerce degree Partner and CEO of the UK Partnership from the University of New South Wales, management positions before becoming from 1999 until his retirement from COO, with particular responsibility for Australia and fellowship or membership of thefirm.
accounting bodies in Australia, Hong Kong programmes, major projects and customer Current external commitments: Chairman support, and a member of the BAE and England.
ofthe Great Ormond Street Hospital Career experience: International board and Systems plc board.
Chief executive of Charity board of trustees and director SELEX Galileo for four years prior to senior management experience with ofa number of private companies.
extensive knowledge of Asian markets and joining United Utilities Group plc in 2011 as CEO.
Involved in management positions in finance, audit Current external commitments: CEO 2.
Ashley Almanza ofUnited Utilities Group plc.
and corporate advisory work and has had Chief Executive Officer a wide range ofroles in private equity Appointment to the board: May 2013 firms investing with a particular focus 6.
Committee membership: Risk Committee Non-Executive Director Current external commitments: Senior advisor to Wallenberg Foundations AB: Skills and experience: Degree in Commerce Appointment to the board: January 2018 from University of Natal and an MBA from non-executive director of Volvo Car Committee membership: Audit Committee Corporation: and SEB AB and investment the London Business School.
Extensive chair and CSR Committee.
board and executive management committee member for the HOPU Investment Fund.
experience in complex international Skills and experience: A chartered accountant businesses.
with extensive international experience in Career experience: A number of senior innovation-focused businesses.
executive roles at BG Group from 1993 to2012, including CFO from 2002 to 2011 and Executive Vice President from 2009 to2012, during which he led BG Groups UK, European and Central Asian businesses and the groups commercial strategy in Central Asia.
A non-executive director of Schroders plc between 2011 and 2016.
Current external commitments: Non-executive director of Noble Corporation and Board member of the International Security Ligue.
John Daly Non-Executive Director Appointment to the board: June 2015 Committee membership: Remuneration Committee chair and Audit Committee Skills and experience: Diploma in marketing and an MBA from the University of Dublin.
Significant executive management experience inmajor international businesses with extensive knowledge of Asia and the Middle East.
Career experience: Worked in sales and marketing in the pharmaceutical industry 1 2 3 4 5 68 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 OUR BOARD Governance Career experience: Began his career at Capgemini Ernst & Young in Asia and 9.
Barbara Thoralfsson KPMG and developed his experience in then CEO in the UK.
Then served on Non-Executive Director emerging markets, working in Malaysia and Capgeminis executive management Latin America for the manufacturer ICI.
In committee for eight years as deputy group Appointment to the board: July 2016 1993 was appointed Finance Head, Asia CEO and then CEO of Capgemini Global Committee membership: Nomination Pacific for Zeneca Agrochemicals and later Outsourcing Services.
Committee and Remuneration Committee promoted to Group Financial Controller.
Current external commitments: In 2000 he joined Syngenta AG, as Chief Non-executive director of Actual Skills and experience: MBA in marketing and Financial Controller, later being promoted Experience plc.
finance, Columbia University, New York to CFO until his retirement in 2016.
Whilst and a BA in psychology, Duke University, at Syngenta he also served as interim CEO North Carolina.
Clare Spottiswoode for nine months.
and senior management experience in Non-Executive Director Current external commitments: Member of using technology to meet customers the Supervisory Board of Koninkijke DSM needs and develop new business models.
Appointment to the board: June 2010 N. V and a director of RHI Magnesita N. V. Strong knowledge of North America, Committee membership: CSR Committee Latin America, Scandinavia and Asia.
chair and Remuneration Committee Career experience: After an early career in 7.
Paul Spence marketing, held senior management roles Skills and experience: MA degree in Non-Executive Director mathematics and economics from in the consumer goods and telecommunications sectors including CEO Appointment to the board: January 2013 Cambridge University and M. Phil.
degree ineconomics from Yale University.
of NetCom ASA, Norways second largest Committee membership: Risk mobile network operator, between 2001 Considerable experience in the public Committee chair, Audit Committee sector, the energy markets and the and 2005 and has subsequently served andCSR Committee on the board of several international financial services sector.
Skills and experience: Degree in economics Career experience: Worked for the UK technology companies.
Current external commitments: and decision science from the Wharton Treasury, director general of Ofgas, the UK School, University of Pennsylvania.
gas regulator, a policyholder advocate for Non-executive chair of ColArt Holdings Limited and non-executive director of In-depthknowledge of outsourcing in Norwich Unions with-profits policyholders boththe public and private sectors and at Aviva and a member of the Independent Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA publ, Essity Aktiebolag publ and Hilti AG.
extensive international experience in key Commission on Banking and the Future of emerging markets.
Career experience: Served a 30-year career Current external commitments: 10.
Tim Weller with Capgemini, starting as managing Non-executive director of Ilika plc, Chief Financial Officer partner of mid-Atlantic information and BW Offshore Limited, Just Group plc technology for Ernst & Young.
He went on and Naftogaz, the Ukrainian state-owned Appointment to the board: October 2016 to gain significant international experience oil and gas company as well as being having previously served as non-executive for 16years as managing partner of Ernst a director of a number of other director since April 2013.
&Young Consulting Australia, CEO of private companies.
Committee membership: Risk Committee Skills and experience: BSc Hons Engineering Science degree from the University of Exeter.
An accountant by training and aFellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales with significant experience of the energy and utilities sectors.
Career experience: Joined KPMG in 1985, rising to partnership in 1997 before joining Granada plc as director of financial control.
He held CFO positions with Innogy.
a leading integrated energy company at the time, RWE Thames Water and United Utilities Group plc.
He was CFO of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc between 2010 and 2011 and CFO of Petrofac Limited between 2011 and October 2016.
Current external commitments: Non-executive director of the Carbon Trust.
6 7 8 9 10 Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 69
