08 Our strategy and business model Our aim Our objective Melrose aims to acquire high-quality Through investing in businesses, changing manufacturing businesses with strong management focus and operational fundamentals and the potential for improvements, Melrose seeks to increase significant development and improvement and realise the value in such businesses under Melrose management.
at the appropriate time and to return the proceeds to shareholders.
Buy Improve Good manufacturing businesses Free management from Drive operational improvements.
whose performance can be improved.
Use low public market leverage.
Change management focus, Focus on profitability and incentivise well.
Melrose management are substantial operating cash generation not equity investors.
Set strategy and targets and growth for the sake of growth.
Inputs Businesses under improvement Investment into the businesses Value creation model Industry Further investment in the businesses expertise 1 to improve operations Margin growth Good manufacturing Highly experienced 39% businesses whose management team previous potential was constrained Strong track record 100% by leverage.
Equity raised to acquire Operational businesses efficiency Effective governance Reinvestment Sales growth Good demand drivers potentially suggest more than average top line growth.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Our business model Our strategy Strategic Report 09 Air Management HVAC p. 10 AQH p. 12 S ecurity & Smart Technology p. 14 Ergonomics p. 16 Energy p. 17 Sell The Melrose philosophy The improvements made by Melrose vary depending on the needs of the Commercially choose the right business but the common theme for all businesses is the implementation time to sell, often between of the Melrose philosophy: 3-5 years but flexible.
Return value to shareholders 1 2 3 4 5 from significant disposals.
Giving Appropriately Freeing Quick Ready access ownership to incentivising businesses decision to funds for capital the divisions.
the management from central making.
Value creation Outputs 1 Value creation model How has Melrose created value?
Shareholder investment and gain figures up to 31 December 2017 : Average annual return since first acquisition Multiple expansion 25% Multiple expansion is never assumed, but Average return on equity across all businesses sold has been achieved 2.7x on all previous deals on average 30% Shareholder value created to date as the businesses have been improved.
4.8bn Selling for a higher multiple than paid 32% Cash generation 16% Reinvestment Sales growth 4% Investment in research and development Margin growth 48% in last five years Cash generation 1 In respect of the McKechnie, Dynacast, Cash flows have been FKI and Elster acquisitions.
equal to 4% of sales Capital expenditure in last five years 250m Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
