Our strategy Our strategy addresses the positive, longterm demand for security and related services and our enduring strategic aim is to demonstrate the values and performance that make G4S the company of choice for customers, employees and shareholders.
This section summarises our strategic priorities and how we focus our resources and expertise in areas where we can achieve the best results for customers and sustainable growth and PEOPLE AND VALUES CUSTOMERS AND SERVICE return for investors.
Our CSR approach EXCELLENCE covers a broad range of areas, but We recruit, develop and We build longterm customer wehave three material priorities: deploy the best people in relationships based upon Healthand safety, Human rights and our industry trust and understanding of Antibribery and corruption which our customers businesses arecovered in the People and and objectives Valuessection.
Strategic priorities Attracting and retaining the best Positive demand for security people services Watch our 2017 results and2018 outlook online at: Creating the right culture Large diversified customer base www.
com investors and sales pipeline Defining our societal impact Investment in sales leadership Building capability and account management Engaging for success Net promoter score and Promoting the right contract retention organisational culture Improving health and safety Respecting human rights Key risks Our trained and skilled people Failure to understand customers are hired by competitors or changing needs or falling short of See Principal risks: other companies or do not customer expectations pages 62 to 65 behave in line with the Groups values, resulting in a negative impact on customer service or those in our care Negative impacts on our employees health and safety KPI See page 32 onwards for more 47% 1.4bn detail and the progress in our key performance indicators.
Reduction in fatalities from 2016 Annual contract value of substantial to 2017 new business won The following pages highlight some of the Groups financial and non-financial KPIs and how they link to the Groups strategic priorities.
CORPORATE CULTURE BASED ON GROUP VALUES AND 14 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW Strategic report TECHNOLOGY AND OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE FINANCIAL AND INNOVATION AND PRODUCTIVITY COMMERCIAL DISCIPLINE We have secure, safe, reliable We manage risk effectively and We design, market and deliver and efficient operations ensure we provide profitable, innovative, industryleading cashgenerative services technology and services that protect and add value for our customers wherever they operate Well-positioned for trends More focused business cultural Contract risk management towards more technology with change Portfolio management disciplined capital allocation Reinvesting for growth Operating cash flow Secure Solutions integrated Productivity programmes good Strengthening collections security progress but more to do performance Investing in world-leading Efficient organisation design Managing accounts payable proprietary products and services andmanagement fide-layering Capital allocation Cash Solutions Bank and Retail Procurement and property Changing behaviours cash technology Operational excellence IT-enabled lean processes Failure to market or deliver our Failure to comply with our Inefficient capital management services and technology standards results in harm, loss of and failure to comply with Group effectively or failure to deliver expertise or investment fails to risk management standards adequate value for money deliver benefit 30% 4.2% 2.4x Growth in cash management Increase in Adjusted PBITA from Net debt Adjusted EBITDA at technology locations in 2017 core businesses in 2017 December 2017 in line with our target set in2016 CORPORATE CULTURE BASED ON GROUP VALUES AND COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY UNDERPIN THE STRATEGY Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 15 Our strategy continued Attracting and retaining the best people Attracting and retaining the best people continues to give G4S a competitive advantage as well as ensuring we deliver the best results for our customers.
For our senior population, we know from our management survey that the most important factor influencing their decision to join and then to stay at G4S is the nature of the roles and the responsibilities on offer.
Our global footprint and operations across a range of product and service lines helps make the business attractive to the best candidates.
Once appointed, the responsibility, complexity and opportunities for innovation help retain our senior people and keep them motivated.
For other levels in the organisation, we have developed two toolkits which help us attract and retain colleagues by utilising our expertise and sharing resources across the Group.
The first relates to recruitment and is designed to ensure potential candidates for jobs with G4S have a positive recruitment experience while going through an efficient and effective hiring process.
The With around 570,000 people, G4S is one of second provides guidance on good retention practices.
the worlds largest private sector employers.
Both toolkits are online and contain templates that are Our employees and services touch the lives of easy to follow and adopt.
They emphasise the others every day, providing crucial services to importance of ensuring applicants know what will be expected before they apply, and if they do join G4S keep them safe and secure.
Our success is there are robust processes in place to welcome, induct, therefore underpinned by the way we attract, train and support them.
Feedback from our most recent develop and engage with our people, as well global employee survey suggests that our employees as the culture and values that shape the way feel well equipped to perform their role, with over 90% we work and how our colleagues carry out of respondents stating they understand their job their roles.
Often employee turnover is at its highest in the initial months after appointment, which suggests there is still more to do to retain our newest colleagues.
In order to build our reputation as a good employer and attract candidates from the widest talent pools, 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS KPI KPI KPI 8.3% 428,000 37% CREATING THE RIGHT CULTURE Reduction in Employees Reduction in voluntary responded to serious H&S employee our global incidents since The G4S values are embedded in the standards, turnover to engagement 2015 in high policies and guidance which we set out to help 25.3% in 2017 survey priority employees and managers perform.
2016: 27.6% businesses To help our front-line operational employees understand the behaviours we expect, and the decisions they should take in line with our values, we have launched a range of learning and awareness materials.
These materials include an animated video, scenario-based flashcards, presentations and an online exercise.
The materials draw on over 90 scenarios from all product and service lines and are designed to promote discussion and to guide behaviour in line with our values.
They address topics like harassment, bribery and corruption, the care and treatment of others, breaches of health and safety rules and inappropriate use of social media.
To ensure these materials remain relevant we will continue to add different scenarios whenever new values-based operational situations are identified which can help guide our employees.
Work is now underway on values training materials for our managers, using our newly revised competency framework.
In line with our values, this refreshed framework defines leadership and management behaviours in terms of how managers should act today, plan for tomorrow, and build relationships.
The framework is used in our selection processes as well as our 360 degree review process to assess performance and future potential.
It enables us 16 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 PEOPLE AND VALUES Strategic report countries and regions adopt different approaches to diversity, reaching out to recruit from under-represented OUR VALUES groups in their businesses.
In North America, the recruitment of veterans who bring relevant skills and an Our values are the standards we set for ourselves and they are inherent understanding of security risks continues, whilst reflected in the culture of our organisation through our in the UK our businesses are some of the few in the behaviours and actions.
security sector to have been awarded Disability Confident level 2 status as a result of their commitment Integrity and Respect to identify and remove barriers which impact on the Our business activities and relationships employment of people with disabilities.
are built on trust, honesty and openness.
We deliver on the promises Overall employee retention continues to improve with we make and treat our colleagues, voluntary employee turnover reducing to 25.3% 2016: customers and those in our care with 27.6% as closer scrutiny and the implementation of the utmost respect.
good retention practices help us improve performance even in tight labour markets.
This is good for service to Safety, Security and Service Excellence We work in a safe way and take our customers, who appreciate working with staff who great care to protect our colleagues know them better and have more experience.
While and customers from harm.
We are our employee headcount has reduced from 585,000 experts in security and use that to 570,000 as a result of our portfolio management knowledge to protect our customers most valuable assets.
We are programme and our drive to improve organisational passionate about delivering high efficiency, wherever possible we redeploy people and levels of customer service.
retain their skills and knowledge.
For our front-line employees, the launch of a new values related global Innovation and Teamwork recognition programme will add a further opportunity We invest in technology and best practice to improve continually to showcase the amazing work they do for our our service offering.
We challenge customers each and every day.
Ensuring we celebrate ourselves to find new ways of helping success, and share information about the ways in which our customers.
our employees behave in line with our values, not only We work together as a team to achieve helps to bring our values to life but also promotes the the best results for our customers and expertise and capabilities of our people.
Everyone has a valid opinion and their contribution In March 2018, we published our UK Gender Pay is valued.
Gap Report for the relevant UK businesses.
As well as explaining the reasons for any gaps, the report also sets out the actions we are taking to achieve the progress required as part of our wider diversity and inclusion strategy.
to gather insight into what colleagues have achieved as well as whether they have done so in a way which is consistent with our values.
While having a common set of values helps set G4S apart from the competition, as a global employer we also appreciate that having a diverse workforce enables us to better understand our differing customer needs, and harnessing this diversity is critical to driving innovation.
Feedback from our latest global employee survey indicates that 84% of employees who responded believe that the company values people from different backgrounds, and in 2018 we will continue our focus on diversity to ensure we maximise the benefits it brings.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 17 Our strategy continued Employee gender diversity in 2017 % Employees by location as at 31 December 2017 % 100 70 83.9 85.3 80 60 40 30 20 16.1 14.7 Middle East & India 31% 0 Africa 22% Female Latin America 12% Male Asia Paci c 10% North America 10% Europe 8% UK & Ireland 7% Wage inflation Building capability In a number of markets, especially developed regions Building industry-leading capability is at the heart of our such as North America and the UK, economic indicators people strategy.
We want employees at G4S to have have highlighted an increase in wage inflation as a the opportunity to flourish and grow so that they can result of tightening labour markets in some areas and contribute to the future success of the organisation.
asa result of increases in minimum or living wages.
There are many examples of local development Asalong-established global employer, G4S has many programmes which enhance the security and technology years of experience of managing periods of wage expertise in our organisation.
We have to be prepared to negotiate price For example, in 2017 the G4S Academy was launched increases with customers and to look for ways to in Denmark and has provided a structured approach continue to be more productive and cost effective.
For to skills development and accreditation in line with example, we believe this trend is helping to drive more industry standards.
revenue towards integrated solutions, where G4S has a competitive advantage and barriers to entry are higher.
DEFINING OUR SOCIETAL IMPACT We play an important role in society.
Through Our focus on safety has helped reduce the risk of injury its services and organisation, G4S delivers a and fatality.
broad range of significant and farreaching social We encourage industry standards to be raised.
By and economic benefits to the communities in embedding our policies and practices into less developed regions, as well as by supporting new approaches such as which we work, many of which are helping to the Ethical Employment Partnership or the International realise the United Nations Sustainable Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers, we have helped to improve industry standards around the world.
The SDGs call upon businesses to advance sustainable We create employment opportunities, and invest in and development through the investments they make, the develop our employees.
We directly benefit them and solutions they develop, and the practices they adopt.
In this our suppliers through the salaries, benefits and payments report, we have mapped case studies against the SDGs to we make for goods and services.
highlight where G4S is helping to advance the SDGs through In our Care & Justice operations, we develop innovative our programmes and operations.
programmes to rehabilitate offenders and provide them Visit .
org for more information with the encouragement and skills needed to help them on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
rebuild their lives once released.
We deliver a wide range of specialist security services that mitigate the risk or impact of criminal behaviour and help to create safer and more stable communities.
Our colleagues work with governments and nongovernmental organisations in high-risk environments such as former conflict areas, to support humanitarian, stabilisation and  efforts.
18 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 PEOPLE AND VALUES Board Senior management Total employees Strategic report Regional Leadership Programme Recruiting and developing women On a Group-wide basis, our efforts are focused on Recruiting and developing women into line-management 73% developing the next generation of leaders, primarily roles for our operations remains a challenge across the Response rate through our flagship Regional Leadership Programme, Group as well as the security industry as a whole.
We to the biennial which is devised centrally but delivered locally so that it actively monitor our gender balance and were pleased employee is tailored to meet our diverse needs.
The Programme that in 2017 an independent business-led review engagement offers high-potential individuals, in a range of line, supported by UK Government the Hampton-Alexander survey functional and business-development roles, the Review showed G4S as the top performing company undertaken opportunity to enhance their knowledge and strengthen in the business services sector in the FTSE 100.
There is in 2017 their leadership skills.
So far 90 employees have more to do in this area and as part of our wider diversity graduated from the programme, and a further 59 are and inclusion strategy we have identified a number of already on course to do so in 2018. actions to help us to continue to make progress.
84% Talent reviews Engaging for success Favourable Annual talent reviews and quarterly talent exchange We are in no doubt that having well-trained, engaged response rating discussions are helping to identify potential candidates and motivated employees helps us to deliver for our from the global for future regional programmes early and are ensuring customers and make G4S a success.
Consequently, employee career opportunities are more widely available to we invest a lot of time and effort in listening to our engagement employees across the Group.
employees views and responding to their feedback.
survey We do this in a variety of ways including direct dialogue, Broadening use of training and development materials consultation forums and our employee survey.
Whilst our investment in training and development has To ensure the survey is accessible to all employees, to be highly focused, we are doing more to promote 90 it is offered in over 40 languages and three formats the use of materials we already have available to build graduates from paper, online and mobile.
Engagement levels for senior wider capability across the entire management the regional managers were also tested in a separate survey targeted population.
For example, in 2017 we launched a leadership at the leadership team.
Response rates for both surveys 16-week development programme containing relevant programme remained high in 2017.
In the case of the global materials such as articles, assessments, online exercises which continues engagement survey in 2017 the response rate at 73% and e-books relating to a number of specific topics such in 2018 was at the same level as 2015 and for the leadership as change management, delegation and coaching skills.
survey was higher at 87%, compared with 85% in 2015.
The programme is currently running, with thousands of Feedback from the global survey helps identify what employees subscribing.
As learning technology evolves, businesses need to stop doing, start doing and continue our ability to provide access to materials in a more to do to improve levels of employee engagement.
flexible and bite-sized way, to suit our busy managers, is The feedback from the management survey showed increasing.
For example, for specific functions like Sales improvements in almost every area, suggesting high and Business Development, we are establishing on-line levels of confidence and support for the business academies which will help employees identify their own strategy, our values and the executive team.
development gaps and navigate the materials available to find those best suited to meet their needs.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 19 Our strategy continued Union representation Total number of whistle blowing cases Our union and employee representative forums at global level are via the global union UNI, and the GMB, with 500 whom we signed an Ethical Employment Partnership in 2008.
At a European level we have a well-established European Works Council and at a local level there are 400 402 a number of union recognition agreements in place.
Working together with our recognised unions helps us 300 raise standards both internally and, where appropriate, 300 across the wider industry and identify potential problems early and address them constructively.
200 Promoting the right organisational culture 158 100 During 2017, 300 cases were raised by colleagues via Speak Out, our global whistleblowing system.
This was 65 0 25% fewer than the previous year, but detailed analysis shows that employee grievances are being reported and 14 15 16 17 handled more effectively via other channels.
We believe it is very important that employees feel confident to Anti-bribery and corruption speak out confidentially to ensure standards are met Investigations relating to other matters, such as to protect people.
All cases reported to Speak Out bribery, ethical or financial issues, are conducted are reviewed and are directed to the most appropriate by our internal network of investigators or by channel for action.
The majority of matters raised via Speak Out are Matters of a serious nature are investigated at a senior grievances which are transferred to the relevant HR and independent level, with 59 investigations completed department, as they are best placed to investigate and during 2017. resolve the matter promptly.
Concerns regarding operational procedures are investigated by local The Group Ethics Steering committee has continued to oversee implementation of our whistleblowing policy, management to ensure that relevant standards are beingfollowed.
case management of whistleblowing reports, and to conduct regular reviews of serious cases, the investigations progress and the resulting actions.
SPEAK OUT IF YOU SEE OR SUSPECT Values: Integrity and Respect WRONGDOING Safety, Security and Service Excellence do the right thing and speak out!
SDGs: Every G4S employee has a responsibility to ensure that we uphold our core values, adhere to the law and deliver against the important commitments set out in our business ethics policy and ethics code.
Speak Out, our global whistleblowing system, is a key method of ensuring that we maintain a high standard of ethics, respect and integrity.
Speak Out is hosted by an independent specialist hotline and case management provider.
It enables every employee to report concerns that they may have about the behaviour 0808-234-8852 of individuals, or the business operations, which they feel contravene the ethics code or our core values.
com encourage any employee who wishes to raise a matter of ethical concern to contact the free telephone hotline or make a report online.
Both channels are available 24 hours IT IS SAFE TO SPEAK OUT !
SPEAK OUT is for reporting serious You are encouraged to report any serious wrongdoing.
Any other concerns such a day, seven days a week, and are completely confidential.
issues without fear of retaliation.
All concerns as pay queries, uniform issues or general raised in good faith will be taken seriously and employment grievances should be directed treated with respect.
to your line manager, or HR for a quick resolution.
Securing Your World 20 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 PEOPLE AND VALUES Strategic report Improving health and safety There were three non-natural deaths in custody in 2017.
All deaths in custody are investigated by the The safety of our employees and those in our care is 6.7 relevant authorities to determine the cause of death.
one of our key priorities.
Per 1,000 One of the incidents was due to self harm.
To enable us to keep our customers and the employees Pronouncements will be made by the relevant coroner lost time injury communities we serve safe, we must prioritise the on the two remaining incidents following their safety as well as the health and wellbeing of our incidence investigations.
In 2016, we disclosed a death in custody in 2017 employees.
It is our responsibility to ensure that our which was later pronounced as due to unintentional colleagues return home from work safely every day.
drug overdose by the coroner.
The nature of our work and the environments we Respecting human rights operate in mean that safety and security present a We are proud of our role in society and of the positive strategic risk to our business.
We believe that setting the contribution we make to the realisation of human rights highest standards for health and safety across our 65 through the range of services we offer and the standards industry helps keep our colleagues safe and builds loyalty Human rights which we apply.
and commitment to G4S among our employees.
self assessments Leading by example and having expertise in health and completed However, we also recognise that we have a duty to safety gives employees, customers and stakeholders in 2017 ensure that we are not at risk of violating human rights confidence that we will work in a safe way.
through the services we provide, the customers we work with, the suppliers we use, or through the We recognise that our businesses operate in different treatment of our own employees and others who contexts and face varying levels of risk.
All businesses are in our care.
within the Group are required to meet a set of core health and safety standards.
We must make sure that G4S human rights policy and its related framework we are constantly learning and continuously enhancing are based upon the UN Guiding Principles on Business our processes, in order to continue to keep colleagues and Human Rights.
Alongside our values of Integrity safe despite a changing environment.
and Respect, the framework reinforces the continued development of a business model which aids the Compliance is monitored via audits and reviews of realisation of the Sustainable Development Goals performance at regional, group and board level via the through the improvement of industry standards, CSR committee.
Health and safety is included in Group employment opportunities and helping to create Internal Audits scope as part of non-financial risks.
During 2017 we have: By having clear values and standards, and educating Continued to improve the performance of and training colleagues to uphold them, we are creating businesses which have had multiple fatalities.
Serious a positive culture which means our colleagues can be incidents have reduced by 37% in these businesses trusted to do the right thing and behave in a way which since 2015 meets our standards.
In cases where colleagues are Introduced a reporting and tracking process for those deemed not to have upheld those standards, we incidents which have the potential to result in a undertake swift, thorough and impartial investigations fatality, and increased the coverage of our injury into the causes of such behaviour and take appropriate reporting to 98% of businesses action to remedy them.
In addition to this resulting in consequences for the individual or individuals concerned, Reviewed our front-line health and safety induction we learn from such instances and enhance our training and drafted a mandatory syllabus safeguards to prevent similar issues arising in the future.
Revised the G4S Golden Rules of Safety Sadly, during 2017, 25 of our colleagues lost their lives inwork-related accidents.
On a comparative basis this is a reduction from 47 fatalities in 2016.
The number of road-traffic fatalities has decreased by 48% since 2013, when the first road-safety programme was launched.
While the number of attack-related fatalities decreased in our Cash Solutions businesses, this has not been due to a reduction in the number of armed attacks.
The businesses continue to work with the relevant authorities to introduce new procedures and improved controls.
During 2017 the Groups lost time injury incidence rate was 6.7 per 1,000 employees 98% of businesses reporting.
This compares with a rate of 7.7 in 2016 96% of business reporting.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 21 Our strategy continued G4S ACADEMY Values: Innovation and Teamwork G4S Academy is a recently-launched initiative within G4S Denmark, focused on creating an intelligent culture that can embrace and adapt to technological change, and predict future customer demands by leveraging our unique, untapped in-house knowledge and sharing it with customers.
The standards set by our human rights policy have Commenced a programme of internal audits of been embedded into our business policies and human rights controls of businesses in high-risk processes, such as our ethics policy, HR core countries, carrying out audits in 2017. standards, and the group risk and compliance systems.
Assessed operational and other business issues For example, investment proposals are assessed on against our risk universe, such as human rights whether they can be achieved in line with our and other CSR risks.
company values and standards, as well as on the basis Published our first slavery and human-trafficking of appropriate operational delivery, commercial risk statement, setting out the actions we have taken and financialreturn.
to help prevent modern slavery within our During 2017, we have: business and supply chain, including the development and implementation of our Supplier Developed and implemented a human rights Code of Conduct and our migrant worker policy awareness programme for senior managers, g4s.
beginning with the Group Internal Audit department.
Updated our Supplier Code of Conduct Conducted 65 human rights control self-assessments Commissioned an independent review of Brook of businesses operating in high-risk countries.
House Immigration Removal Centre following allegations of unacceptable behaviour and treatment of detainees by employees see page 82.
IMPROVING DRIVER SAFETY Values: Safety, Security and Service Excellence Innovation and Teamwork SDGs: The number of road-traffic fatalities has decreased by 48% since 2013 when the first road safety programme was launched.
During 2017, we introduced new high-visibility clothing for our motorcyclists in Thailand, and brightly coloured seat belts in Hong Kong which enabled a visual check.
22 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 PEOPLE AND VALUES Strategic report Respecting Human Rights ACTIONS FOR 2018 Review human rights risks across the Groups geographic footprint and update our human Create and promote the right rights heatmap.
organisational culture Conduct human rights control self assessments Launch management values training materials, and continue programme of internal audits of embed front-line materials and complete update businesses operating in high-risk environments.
of HR policies and processes to reflect G4S values Carry out human rights risk assessment in key Continue the delivery of regional leadership business areas programmes and promote development paths and learning opportunities for employees at Review and implement key actions resulting from different levels the independent review of Brook House IRC see page 82.
Implement action plans from global employeeengagement survey and address actions from Continue to build awareness of human rights management survey responsibilities across the Groups businesses.
Review opportunities to improve gender balance Anti-bribery and corruption and follow up on UK gender pay gap reporting Continue to increase awareness of Speak Out and create an environment in which colleagues are Improving Health and Safety confident that they may raise concerns without Continue to implement the revised front-line fear of retaliation health and safety induction training Introduce updated controls for security officers working at entrance gates Share and adopt best practice across the Group in managing critical risk areas Develop action plans for businesses which have had multiple fatalities, as well as monitoring their implementation MOUNT GAMBIER PRISON, AUSTRALIA Values: Integrity and Respect Safety, Security and Service Excellence Innovation and Teamwork SDGs: G4S has operated Mount Gambier Prison since 1995 and inSeptember 2017 was awarded a new five-year contract which includes an option of a further term of up to five years.
Mount Gambier Prison, the only privately-run prison in South Australia, is a medium-security mens prison with acapacity of 493 beds.
Taking over as general manager at the prison is the previous deputy director for G4S-managed HM Prison Rye Hill in the UK.
As the new contract begins, the team will be developing newpartnerships with the local community.
These will include support services and technology partners.
Rehabilitation and reintegration services will be provided, as well as programmes aiming to reduce prisoners risks of reoffending, thus supporting the Governments policy to achieve a10% reduction by 2020 and aiding reintegration back into the community.
The prisons management team will alsocontinue to work alongside the State on the planned expansion of the facility, engaging with the community andproviding significant employment opportunities intheregion.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 23 Our strategy continued Positive demand for security services We believe that the long-term demand for our services remains positive, and we expect to grow revenues on average by around 4% to 6% per annum over the medium term.
We continue to sustain contract retention rates of around 90%, have won substantial new business, and more than replenished our sales pipeline together with an improved quality of opportunities.
Large diversified customer base and sales pipeline One of the strengths of the Group is the diversified nature of its contracts and sales pipeline.
Our pipeline is diversified by service, geography and customer.
Our 150,000 customers are spread across many different types and customer segment.
At the end of December 2017, wehad won new business with an annual contract value of 1.4 billion and total contract value of 2.5 billion.
Our sales pipeline has grown despite an increased CUSTOMER AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE - FULL OUTLINE emphasis on pipeline qualification, ensuring we focus on We build longterm customer relationships the best opportunities and improve our win rate.
As the based upon trust and understanding of our Group has invested in innovative products and services, customers businesses and objectives.
we also see an improvement in the quality of the sales pipeline in terms of more technology-related, longerterm, higher-value-added opportunities.
2017 ACHIEVEMENTS KPI KPI KPI YALE UNIVERSITY, USA 1.4bn 24,000 2.45bn New business Customers Technology Values: Safety, Security and Service Excellence won completed net related security Innovation and Teamwork promoter score revenue in 2017 SDGs: surveys New business won KPI Using G4S-owned AMAG technology, Yale University, one Annual contract value bn of the worlds best-known and oldest Ivy League institutions, has carried out, almost unnoticed, a full scale upgrade of its 1.5 access-control and site security system across 350 main campus buildings.
0.7 1.2 0.6 0.6 Securing a prestigious university in a busy urban area presents particular challenges.
High expectations by 0.5 students, parents and staff, combined with modern security 0.9 and environmental factors, demanded an exceptional security solution.
0.6 The innovative AMAG approach was to use their Symmetry 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.6 SR Retrofit System, which is designed so that the customer can use their existing wiring and card readers to avoid a 0.3 disruptive, prolonged, expensive and complex upgrade and without damage to the historic Yale buildings.
This unique plug and play design allowed Yale to replace old 0.0 controllers with Symmetry SR Controllers, and provides Yale with a range of advanced integration options so 14 15 16 17 H1 that additional security measures can be added if and H2 when required.
24 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 CUSTOMERS AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE Strategic report Investment in sales leadership and account management MAJOR REDEVELOPMENT, 4-6% Since 2013, we have invested in sales leadership, sales UNITED STATES Per annum and service training, customer relationships, account revenue Values: Safety, Security and Service management and a mandatory sales management growth over Excellence system.
Our understanding of customer requirements the medium has increasingly resulted in opportunities to sell more Innovation and Teamwork term technology-enabled solutions.
This is particularly the SDGs: case in developed markets, where higher wages and lower hardware costs have made technology solutions more cost-effective.
Since 2016, G4S has been providing detailed risk and threat We have also invested in capturing global customer assessment as well as an integrated solution and unified 2.5bn opportunities, which has delivered success by winning security at the largest multi-use redevelopment programme Total contract in the United States.
This includes access control, systems new work or new customers such as Bank of America value of new integration, monitoring fire, video, intrusion, Risk360, see case study overleaf.
SecureTrax, design and management of the security and business won operating centre, and manned security officers.
in 2017 Net promoter score and contract retention Since 2016, we have embarked on a group-wide Net Promoter Score NPS survey process with existing CARGILL, BRAZIL customers.
In 2017, using automated survey tools, we Values: Safety, Security and doubled the number of surveys conducted, with over 24,000 surveys, including our top 20 customers in most Service Excellence countries, conducted successfully in 29 languages and Innovation and Teamwork we improved NPS scores in most countries compared SDGs: with 2016.
Cargill has been providing food, agriculture, financial and industrial products and services across 70 countries for the last 150 years.
In Brazil, it has 10,000 employees across 17 states and G4S Brazil has been providing electronic security ACTIONS FOR 2018 services CCTV and access control to Cargill since 2016.
Improve win rate After an in-depth study, G4S Brazil designed a CCTV and access control solution in 2017 for each Cargill site in Improve contract retention countryside locations.
This can be challenging due to Improve net promoter scores isolation of the sites and the requirement for power generators to be used.
This solution will be expanded from the current ten sites to 130 sites over the next three years.
350 buildings NEWEST DIAGRAMS - FULL OUTLINE Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 25 Our strategy continued Wellpositioned for trends towards more technology solutions with disciplined capital allocation Increasingly our bespoke offering for customers includes technology in the form of systems and software.
For some customers, we own the equipment in their facilities but for others, usually larger customers, we tend to sell the required equipment to the customer, underpinned by long-term management and maintenance contracts.
Some of our services and technology solutions, which have commercial momentum in key markets, are featured in this section.
Secure Solutions Integrated Security G4S positions itself, not as a technology company but, as a security systems integration company: Revenue by customer type in 2017 % TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION - FULL OUTLINE Since its formation in 2004, G4S has positioned itself as a leader in integrated security, providing a combination of manpower and technology, systems and software.
Through our customer relationships and insight, we have increased focus on investing in the development and marketing of new technology and services to strengthen our service offering, Major corporates & industrials 34% Government 20% to support growth and to improve margins Financial Institutions 18% over time.
Retail 10% Private energy utilities 6% Consumers 6% Transport & Logistics 2% Ports & airports 2% Leisure & Tourism 2% Our work for Goverment is c7% Care & Justice.
The remainder is embassy 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS security, local goverment, support for disaster relief, charity and NGO work, border protection and landmine clearance.
KPI KPI KPI BANK OF AMERICA, NORTH AMERICA 30% 26% 11.4% growth in cash growth in retail Growth in Innovative longterm security partnership with automation cash solutions in technology one of the worlds largest banks locations North America related revenues Values: Safety, Security and Service Excellence globally in 2017 Innovation and Teamwork SDGs: Leading global financial institution Bank of America is one of G4S largest commercial customers.
Bank of America serves 47 million consumers and small businesses across 4,500 retail financial centres in 35 countries around the world.
During 2017, our North America business renewed its integrated secure solutions contract with the bank, including a new region covered by the contract, and including access to the Groups proprietary RISK360 software, with a resultant 10% growth in revenue.
26 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Strategic report Investing in worldleading proprietary products Mobile banking service due to the increase in and services electronic payments and internet banking, traditional bank branch usage has declined in some markets, In our Secure Solutions segment, we continue to invest resulting in bank branch closures.
However, the in product and service innovation combined with sales banks recognise the value of personal interaction and operational support in the following areas: with customers and so in some developed and Software tools including evidence-based risk emerging markets G4S has launched a mobile assessment, incident management and travel advisory banking service using the skills and fleet of our systems such as RISK360.
For example, a global traditional cash-in-transit business in a more financial organisation used RISK360 to reduce integrated and innovative way.
Proprietary security systems such as Symmetry Connect access control systems see Yale case study on page 24 and visitor management systems.
Technology-related security revenues are now 2.45 billion.
Cash solutions Retail Solutions, bankbranch automation For our financial and retail customers, we have ACTIONS FOR 2018 developed a number of innovative and efficient services.
Improve cross-market innovation and growth We have over 19,500 cash technology installations, often combined with our software and managed service Continue to drive market penetration of and have a strong and growing pipeline: integrated security solutions Build on our market leadership in cash Automated cash solutions for retailers this automation services with more customers bespoke solution covers smart safes and cash in more markets recyclers, including our own Deposita equipment in emerging markets through to full cash Continue to invest in innovative and efficient management automation solutions for some services for customers of the worlds largest retailers.
Cross-selling and up-selling within and Automated bulk-teller solution for banks the across markets Deposita solution of hardware, proprietary Continued investment in people, technology, software and managed service is also being used software and systems in bank branches.
% 10 Growth in our new renewed contract with Bank of America.
The three year integrated security solutions contract is the Groups largest individual contract.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 27 NEWEST DIAGRAMS - FULL OUTLINE Our strategy continued More focused business cultural change Historically a significant part of the Groups strategy and development was growth through bolt-on acquisitions and, in many cases, these acquisitions were not fully integrated into the Group.
With the Group offering many services in a large number of countries, this resulted in an inefficient organisation, with many management layers built up over time, resulting in inefficiency and lack of accountability.
The Group is now more focused, on two core business segments, and we are implementing programmes to ensure our organisation and operational costs are just as focused with support functions as shared-service centres.
This requires a substantial cultural change in the organisation and has to be done methodically and properly.
Reinvesting for growth A significant proportion of the gains we have made from our efficiency programmes have been reinvested Our productivity programmes have in the business to improve governance, increase the startedtoshow clear benefits and we have opportunities for growth as well as in processes to drive increasedconfidence that there remain many further efficiency.
We have increasing confidence in moreopportunities to be a more efficient being able to deliver further efficiencies as outlined in the programme progress table opposite and we organisation.
In August 2017, we announced expect the majority of these will increasingly flow that we expected to deliver recurring through to the bottom line.
operatingand financing efficiencies of 90 million to 100millionper annum by 2020.
Efficient organisation design and management delayering Following benchmarking in 130 business units across 90countries in 2017, we have begun delayering the management frameworks in the business and are now working to have more efficient regional, functional and operational frameworks as follows: Procurement and property 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS The Group procurement team has continued driving its activities throughout the different regions with a categoryKPI KPI focused and regionally-deployed strategic approach.
Key areas of improvement included supplier base 1,300 130 rationalisation, standardisation of procurement renegotiations business units across processes and demand management, renegotiation with suppliers 90countries completed of payment terms and the delivery of savings across all organisation categories.
Globally, in 2017, the team delivered over benchmarking HINKLEY POINT C, UK 1st 90m-100m pilot launched in the efficiency savings per Values: Safety, Security and Service Excellence entire Irish manned annum by 2020 Innovation and Teamwork security business SDGs: inNovember 2017, combining HR, operationsand finance inone streamlined Hinkley Point C will be the first nuclear plant to be built in ITenabledprocess the UK in over 20 years.
The build project will last ten years and involves a high level of complexity and risk, with over 5,600 workers on site.
G4S will be providing an integratedsecurity solution covering physical security and facilities management, access control, CCTV, RISK360, control room, vetting, incident response command & control, contractor on-boarding, risk audits and protester management.
28 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AND PRODUCTIVITY Strategic report Programme progress helping to deliver between 70 million and 80 million sustainable operational cost savings per annum by 2020, with an additional c20 million from refinancing: Programme Status Progress Safety performance Foundations laid: building culture and improving performance Organisational efficiency: operations and support functions Benchmarked 130 business units across 90 countries Procurement and property 1,300 supplier negotiations Reduced suppliers and demand Rationalising property IT-enabled automation and shared-service centres IT service management model Progressive, disciplined programme One G4S: standardised operating and functional processes Significant opportunity 1,300 individual re-negotiations with tangible results in The pilot for Javelin was launched in Ireland in all regions and savings in excess of 50% in some cases.
The purpose of the pilot programme New procurement tools were implemented to provide was to learn how to best deliver this complex change more efficient and controlled procurement, such as the programme within our business, identify areas tool rolled out in the UK to manage the procurement of our combined processes that work well and capture of contingent labour.
This will be progressively rolled out areas for improvement before further roll-out.
enhanced version of Javelin encompassing all of the lessons learned will be deployed into Ireland before In 2018 focus will remain on consolidating the supplier implementation commences in the UK later this year.
base, standardisation of procurement processes, demand management and delivering savings.
Automating our core processes for HR screening, payroll, operations scheduling, holidays and leave Operational excellence and finance billing will reduce the amount of time We have a number of initiatives in place to introduce between the work we do for customers and billing standardised operational and functional processes.
We are also using IT-enabled automation and sharedservice centres to improve productivity.
One example ACTIONS FOR 2018 of this is Javelin.
Continue with restructuring and organisational Leanprocess design Javelin efficiency programmes Project Javelin is a new operating model for our business Commence roll-out of Javelin in the UK which takes the best working practices and processes Continue to focus on consolidating the supplier from across G4S.
Javelin replaces our previous systems base, standardisation of procurement processes, and processes for recruitment, core HR, talent demand management and delivering savings management, procurement, finance, contract management, payroll, billing, scheduling, tele-contact, IVR platform and operational control systems with a single Cloud based platform.
Ten-year Contract to provide integrated security at Hinkley Point C. Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 29 NEWEST DIAGRAMS - FULL OUTLINE Our strategy continued Operating cash flow Operating cash flow from core businesses in 2017 was 527 million, down from 633 million in 2016 as expected.
Operating cash flow in 2016 was particularly strong, reflecting the beneficial impact of better terms and conditions with a large number of suppliers and the recovery of weak cash flow performance at the end of 2015.
Our 2017 cash flow conversion performance of 106% of Adjusted PBITA 2016: 133% was in line with our guidance that average operating cash flow conversion will be more than 100% of Adjusted PBITA.
We continue to focus on improved working capital management through strengthening bid evaluation frameworks to increase focus on frequency of invoicing and shorter payment terms.
Reducing the time between event to billing Improving processes and automating event billing information such as hours worked for example FINANCIAL AND COMMERCIAL DISCIPLINE - FULL OUTLINE Project Javelin on page 29, milestones met, collections Through a strong focus on cash management and deliveries in the cash solutions business.
and portfolio management, net debt Adjusted Centralising of billing events of global and strategic EBITDA reduced to 2.4x at the end of 2017 accounts in some countries.
from 2.8x at the end of 2016, in line with our Automation of invoices removing the resource and target set in2015.
Seeking to distribute invoices electronically, at lower cost and quicker than via post.
Contract risk management Our contract risk management model was implemented in 2014, and aims to ensure we sign contracts that we can deliver efficiently and effectively and is shown in the pie chart below: 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS KPI KPI G4S CONTRACT RISK MANAGEMENT AND 2.4x 527m GOVERNANCE MODEL Net debt operating cash Adjusted flow from core EBITDA at end businesses of 2017, within Board risk committee Bid risk assessment our target of The board Risk Committee Based on financial, legal, will undertake a review of a reputational and operational 2.5x major contract at each of risk criteria.
Referred to the its meetings.
region, Group or board as appropriate for review and approval.
106% 156m operating cash in net disposal Bid approval flow from core proceeds Bids customer value Group internal audit propositions, commercial terms businesses as a received Internal audit conducts and risk mitigation strategies proportion of in 2017 audits of selected are challenged.
risk-weighted return is assessed Adjusted PBITA before approval is given or withheld.
On-going contract Contract mobilisation Key contractual assurance requirements and riskContracts subject to mitigation strategies, based on-going scrutiny at on complexity and risk regional or Group level profile of mobilisation, are based on commercial mapped to accountable scale and level of risk.
30 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL AND COMMERCIAL DISCIPLINE Strategic report Strengthening collections performance Changing behaviours Changed incentive plans in 2016 with greater Cash-flow generation is an important part of emphasis on cash-flow generation.
Improved management information to increase Portfolio management accountability and influence behaviour.
The Group made further progress with its portfolio Weekly calls with finance and operations to drive management programme in 2017.
The programme has cash collection.
greatly improved the Groups strategic focus and has also realised over 500 million in disposal proceeds in Managing accounts payable relation to the 41 businesses sold to date.
This includes The Groups days payable outstanding is 42 days gross proceeds of 166 million in 2017 relating to the 2016: 35 days which is still shorter than days disposal of the Groups businesses in Israel and Bulgaria, sales outstanding of 52 days 2016: 46 days, but the Groups cash businesses in Peru and Paraguay, the the gap is reducing.
This shows that, despite the US Youth Services business and the UK childrens progress made, there is still an opportunity homes business.
The proceeds from these disposals have reduced the Ensuring that supplier contracts are linked with Groups leverage and have been reinvested in an organic customer contracts.
growth and productivity programme from which we Re-negotiating improved terms through expect to see good returns.
Pension deficit repair plan Capital allocation ongoing priorities for use of cash G4S had a net defined pension deficit for accounting All investment is reviewed to ensure that the Groups purposes of 318 million 2016: 368 million net of return on investment targets are met, and all major applicable tax as at 31 December 2017.
For more details capital investment projects are approved by the see page 173.
The lower deficit reflects a small increase appropriate authority in line with delegation limits.
in the discount rate assumption used and the payment Other measures, such as whether we are able to of deficit repair contributions of 40 million during the achieve the benefits of the project in line with the year under the current deficit repair plan.
The triennial Group values and whether the commercial risks are review of the scheme and pension contributions will acceptable, are also considered.
begin in 2018 and is expected to be completed in 2019.
We intend to remain soundly financed with average Debt refinancing operating cash flow conversion of more than100% of G4S had gross debt of 2.5 billion 2016: 2.6 billion Adjusted PBITA and a net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio of less than 2.5x.
Priorities for excess cash will and net debt of 1.5 billion at the end of 2017 2016: 1.7 billion.
Around 548 million of the 1 billion debt be investment, dividends and, in the near term, further leverage reduction.
which matures in 2018 2019 incurs post-hedging average interest rates of between 6.90% and 7.75% see page 41.
The Group has good access to capital markets and a diverse range of finance providers and as a result began to refinance its debt at much lower rates in 2017 and early 2018 which should result in a material reduction CAPITAL ALLOCATION in the Groups interest charge from 2019 onwards.
Net debt Adjusted EBITDA of below 2.5x Priority uses of any surplus cash flow: Investment in growth and productivity FINANCIAL OUTLOOK Dividend growth Average organic revenue growth of 4-6% Leverage reduction per annum Restructuring and efficiency programmes to deliver 70m-80m annual costs savings from 2020 and around 20m of refinancing cost reduction per annum by 2020 Compounding benefit of investment, growth and productivity to deliver strong earnings growth Operating cash flow from core businesses of over 100% of Adjusted PBITA Continued focus on cash management and working capital Continued disciplined approach to capital investment expect to invest 100m-150m per annum Maintain net debt Adjusted EBITDA below 2.5x Dividends increasing in line with long-term growth in earnings Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 31
