06 Market overview This section details the market trends and external factors affecting the growth of each of Melroses divisions and explores how they are responding to those trends and factors.
Air Management Nortek Global HVAC Business response AQH Focus on providing new innovative products Market trends Market trends and solutions that help address many of The prevalence of mega trends as shown The housing and remodelling market the trends related to sustainability, energy in the diagram below, which is impacting forecasted another year of growth.
Home efficiency, life cycle technology costs and HVACs customers and therefore informing improvement, e-commerce and digital growth quality environments where people work its growth platforms and technological is expected at 15% overall, with Amazon and live.
Diversification of portfolio of businesses Convergence of smart devices, artificial Outlook for the home improvement in the coming years.
intelligence, virtual reality and ubiquitous data industry remains positive, supported by HVACs product suite can help alleviate means that there will be 50 billion connected job gains and income growth, strong concerns related to energy, water, devices by 2020, high performance consumer balance sheets and favourable sustainability and reliability in a data centre.
computing and new entrants into the space.
Best in class products in ensuring clean Energy efficiency targets are increasing Rising home prices should continue to room certification and healthcare solutions.
globally with a commitment on 43% encourage homeowners to engage in reductions worldwide resulting in an increase more discretionary projects in addition to in demand for energy efficient products.
ongoing maintenance and repair spending.
Two thirds of the worlds population by 2050 Ventilation and air quality in home in cities, 90 trillion in urban investment, construction trends continue to be an backlog of deferred maintenance and important topic to builders looking to add increase in renovations and retrofits.
Increased demand for healthcare and Indoor air quality products growing rapidly understanding the importance of air quality.
Increasing US codes and regulations for Market mega trends proper airflow and ventilation in newly built homes.
Convergence of smart devices, Implications: Digitisation Home building market growth and speed artificial intelligence, virtual 50 billion connected devices by 2020. determined by developable land and reality and ubiquitous data.
Labour is tight in specific High performance computing.
Omni channel research, shopping, and purchasing forces disciplined channel 42% energy use in buildings, Implications: Energy strategy and market awareness.
53% increase in demand by Power and water usage effectiveness 2035, optimisation.
Business response Energy efficient products.
Refocus on the North American markets.
AQH is expanding its professional Innovation and speed.
channel sales model to sell and influence decision makers and builders earlier in Targets are increasing Implications: Legislative & the purchase process.
regulatory globally, commitment on Standards driving product performance The appliance channel is launching a 43% reductions worldwide, and design, energy related products and new line of hoods that will show AQHs increased carbon emissions seasonal energy efficiency.
interchangeable features and product depth.
There is additional focus and opportunity Healthcare design and infection control technologies.
AQH is revitalising their brands websites: Surging middle class and Implications: Demographics strategic growth investments in e-commerce an ageing world, transition Increased demand for productivity, comfort, from baby boomers to and efficiency work, home, play.
channel with plans to grow double digit again millennials, changing racial Shifting demands in customers and channel, in 2018 after a strong 2017. demographics.
Omni channel shifts and strength in current Talent and workforce shortage.
professional customers requires channel and Impact on Healthcare and Cleansuite.
product differentiation as product launches will accelerate in second half of the 2018.
2 3 of population by 2050 Implications: Urbanisation Product development plan for 2018 will in cities, 90 trillion in urban Opportunity to drive retrofit business result in multiple new product launches investment, backlog of and services.
in chimney hoods, supply fans, indoor air deferred maintenance New innovative products.
quality wall mounts, expanded air quality and increase in renovations New competitors and business models.
sensing, LED feature expansion and & retrofits.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 07 Security & Ergonomics Energy Smart Technology Market trends Market trends Market trends Dynamic market, with rapidly advancing Relevant market segments are Renewables are forecast to account for technologies, new services entrants, underpinned by strong technology almost two thirds of the overall growth in growth in new business models and and wellness trends.
the installed generation capacity to 2040. growing global demand.
Electronic medical records are well Demand for gas fired electricity generation Growth in internet of things IoT products established in the US and many impacted by strong growth in the and technologies have required traditional other countries.
renewable energy sector, which has security services to broaden their appeal Digital learning in education and corporate significantly impacted the gas turbine from strictly professional options to new wellness initiatives drive the need for market with orders running more than DIY options.
sit-stand workstations, student desks, 60% below the peak level of 2011.
Technology continues to shift towards and laptop charging carts.
Correlation between economic growth video and audio technology solutions Preparatory design is a rapidly growing and energy consumption weakening including voice control as well as market as large healthcare and due to greater environmental awareness, strong preferences for analytics to be electronic device manufacturers seek energy conservation and efficiency more proactive.
to consolidate into global design and improvements.
Cloud-based software platforms are manufacturing partners.
Low prices high supply of oil in recent growing in importance as mobile-based years have led to the cancellation and or Business response user applications dominate user deferral of many investment projects and Migration from strength in the healthcare requirements for control, security activity in the available oil and gas sector.
cart market to product development in and monitoring.
Excess production capacity leading to adjacent spaces such as mobile device Growing demand for cyber security integrated customers in-sourcing solutions and medication delivery.
Development of superior ergonomic Growth of telecommunication, cable For Switchgear and Transformers, solutions for the sit-stand workstation companies and consumer technology electrification in developing markets, market and also driving e-commerce sales companies entering the business and increased investment in rail and tram and expanding into the furniture channel.
offering lower cost options for traditional infrastructure and regulatory strategies Facilities in both China and the US provide video and audio content management.
favouring asset upgrade over replacement, the flexibility to build charging carts Software becoming a primary present growth opportunities.
Build on key strength in medical cart Business response Business response sector with an aggressive sales initiative Intention to concentrate European The business is transforming its delivering a strong order pipeline.
turbogenerator manufacturing activity engineering base from predominantly Development of a digital marketing in Plzen Czech Republic and the closure hardware to integrated solutions with campaign and launch of e-commerce of generator manufacturing activity in both hardware and software.
website to drive brand awareness.
both Loughborough UK and Ridderkerk Focused attention on developing more Leverage strengths and features from Netherlands.
intellectual property to strengthen its previous offering to enhance broader Organisational changes implemented to position in the market.
support geographic expansion in both the Restructuring of product management Switchgear and Transformers businesses and engineering organisations to add and the Aftermarket organisation were more software capabilities and leverage realigned to take advantage of potential IoT technologies across the business asset extension or upgrade opportunities providing its customers with more in all businesses.
Increased capabilities in security, Brush continues to invest in product safety, control, automation and audio & development across all of its businesses video management.
enabling it to launch several innovative The business has begun partnering with new products in Generators, Switchgear companies that have analytics that can be & HGI during 2018. used to improve its software platform as Product enhancements are ongoing well as launched encrypted sensors that to broaden Brushs product offering to address the concern for better security.
support rail switchgear asset upgrade.
Restructure of international product management and sales efforts through the combination of the businesses to provide greater focus and speed for international sales opportunities.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
