ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES APMS Strategic report Alternative Performance Measures APMs The Group applies the basis of preparation for its Since 30 June 2017 there have been no changes to the statutory results shown on page 136.
As explained portfolio businesses other than the completion of some below, the Group makes use of Alternative minor disposals.
The portfolio programme is considered Performance Measures APMs in the management of to be substantially complete at 31 December 2017. its operations and as a key component of its internal and Going forwards no further transfers into or out of the external reporting.
Whilst broadly consistent with the portfolio businesses will occur.
treatment adopted by both the Groups business sector When presenting these three components separately, peers and by other businesses outside of the Groups the objective is to provide additional information and business sector, these APMs are not necessarily directly analysis to enable a fuller understanding of the Group, comparable with those used by other companies.
the way it is managed, and to identify easily the performance of those businesses that are expected to Business reporting structure form part of the Group in the long term.
These three Since 2016, the Group has reported its results across components, together with the impact of restructuring three distinct components, in line with its strategy for costs, specific items and other items disclosed separately managing the business: from Adjusted PBITA see below on the face of the Core businesses formerly referred to as Consolidated income statement, constitute continuing Continuing businesses, which comprise the operations under IFRS.
Groups on-going activities: Discontinued operations, in accordance with IFRS 5, Onerous contracts, which are being managed represent areas of the business which are being effectively to completion: managed for sale or closure but which represent material business segments or entities.
The Group now The onerous contracts component largely comprises has minimal operations that meet the IFRS 5 definition a small number of material legacy onerous contracts of discontinued operations.
that were identified by management as loss-making and are being run to completion.
The results of these The comparative results for each component of contracts are presented separately so that continuing operations, and for discontinued operations, stakeholders can clearly assess their financial impact are re-presented for consistency to reflect the impact on the Group as well as consider them separately of businesses re-classified between components or sold when assessing the financial performance which the during the current period.
Group is likely to deliver into the future: and Financial performance indicators Portfolio businesses, which are being managed The key financial measures used by the Group in for sale or closure, as part of the portfolio measuring progress against strategic objectives are set rationalisation programme announced by the out below, and are reconciled for the current and prior Group in November 2013. year to the Groups statutory results on page 44.
Businesses are classified as portfolio businesses when the Group Executive Committee, having considered a.
Revenue their performance, market conditions, competitive Statutory revenue arising in each of the three environment etc.
considers that shareholder value business components.
Revenue from core businesses is most likely to be maximised through a sale is a Key Performance Indicator KPI.
transaction rather than through continuing use.
Adjusted profit before interest, tax and businesses are available for immediate sale in their amortisation Adjusted PBITA present condition, but do not represent a major line The Group uses Adjusted PBITA as a consistent of business or geographical area of operation and internal and external reporting measure of its hence do not meet the definition of a discontinued performance, as management views it as being more operation under IFRS 5. representative of financial performance from the Due to the scale and breadth of the Group, together normal course of business and more comparable with the complex changing environment in the period to period.
Adjusted PBITA excludes strategic different countries where the Group operates, the restructuring costs, goodwill impairment and portfolio businesses programme is dynamic.
Changes amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets in performance and market conditions subsequent and specific and other separately disclosed items, to the original launch of the portfolio businesses which the Group believes should be disclosed programme have led the Group Executive separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence, Committee to consider that some additional as explained on page 36. businesses should be sold or closed.
In certain cases, changes in market conditions or business Restructuring costs: performance have provided sufficient evidence for These costs relate to the wider strategic transformation the Group Executive Committee to conclude that of the Group and are excluded from Group and shareholder value will best be maximised through regional Adjusted PBITA since they reflect Group retention of some businesses previously categorised decisions and are not considered to be reflective of the as portfolio businesses, and hence such businesses underlying financial performance of the individual have been re-classified as core businesses.
This programme is of a strategic nature and, as such, is monitored and approved by the Group Executive Committee.
During 2016 and 2017 activities under the programme have focused primarily on Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 35 Alternative Performance Measures APMs continued transforming the operating model in the regions of UK specific items tax charge.
In addition, tax-specific charges & Ireland and Europe.
Going forwards, the Group has or credits, such as those arising from changes in tax announced a three-year plan to 2020 to implement legislation which have a material impact, and which are efficient organisational design and leaner processes, unrelated to net specific items, are also included within which is likely to require further restructuring the specific items tax charge.
Local, non-strategic restructuring costs in treatment of pre-tax specific items, significant tax the businesses continue to be included within Adjusted charges or credits that occur, which are not related PBITA, consistent with prior years.
tocore businesses but which would have a significant impact on the Groups tax charge, would also be Goodwill impairment and Amortisation of  as tax-specific items.
related intangible assets: The goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets Profits and losses on disposal or closure of subsidiaries mainly related to the capitalised value of customer lists, and losses from discontinued operations: which resulted in these charges, arose when the Group These items are excluded from the Groups adjusted acquired a number of its current businesses.
As a performance measures since they are not reflective of contrast,  businesses in the Group, the underlying financial performance of the Group.
whilst clearly benefiting from intangible assets such as Further details regarding these excluded items can be talent and customer relationships, do not have any found in note 8 on page 148. associated goodwill or acquisition-related intangible assets recognised in the Groups Consolidated Adjusted PBITA from core businesses is a KPI.
c. Operating cash flow Impairment and amortisation of goodwill and Net cash flow from operating activities of continuing acquisition-related intangible assets are excluded from operations, adjusted to exclude strategic Adjusted PBITA as they relate to historical acquisitions restructuring spend and cash flows from portfolio activity rather than the underlying trading performance operations and onerous contracts.
Operating cash of the business, and this presentation enables effective flow from core businesses is a KPI.
comparison of business performance across the Group, regardless of whether businesses were acquired or d. Earnings developed organically.
This approach provides Profit attributable to equity shareholders of G4S plc.
management with comparable information for day-toAdjusted earnings from core businesses excludes specific day decision making.
The income and trading profits and separately disclosed items and is a KPI.
earned from previously-acquired businesses are, however, included within Adjusted PBITA, and this e. Earnings per share EPS Profit attributable to equity shareholders of G4S plc, treatment may differ from how other groups present profits and amortisation of intangible assets relating per share, from continuing operations.
Adjusted EPS from core businesses excludes specific and separately tobusinesses acquired.
disclosed items, and is a KPI.
The Group reports amortisation of all  intangible assets, which are mainly related to f. Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA development costs and software, as a charge within The ratio of total net debt, including investments, Adjusted PBITA, to reflect the amortisation of capital finance lease liabilities and cash and overdrafts within expenditure invested in these assets to deliver the net assets of disposal groups held for sale, to day-to-day operations, consistent with the treatment adjusted earnings attributable to equity shareholders ofdepreciation of capital expenditure invested in before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
This ratio is a determinant factor in the boards assessment of the financial strength of the Group, Specific items: and is a key measure of compliance with covenants These items are those that, based on managements in respect of the Groups borrowing facilities.
judgment, need to be disclosed separately in arriving atoperating profit by virtue of their size, nature or Certain of these financial performance indicators in incidence.
They are excluded from the Groups adjusted respect of core businesses also form a significant performance measures since they are not considered element of performance measurement used in the tobe representative of the underlying financial determination of performance-related remuneration performance of the business.
In determining whether and incentives, as follows: anevent or transaction is specific, management Adjusted PBITA annual bonus plans for senior considers quantitative as well as qualitative factors managers in regional management: suchas the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
Operating cash flow annual bonus plans and All items that are reported as specific items are long-term incentive plan for all senior management evaluated and approved by the Groups Audit including executive directors: Committee prior to being separately disclosed.
The Adjusted earnings annual bonus plans for executive Group seeks to be balanced when reporting specific directors and functional directors who are members items for both debits and credits, and any reversal of of the Group Executive Committee: and excess provisions previously created as specific items is recognised consistently as a specific item.
The associated Adjusted EPS growth long-term incentive plan for tax impact of specific items is recorded within the all senior management including executive directors 36 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017
