Jenni Myles Chief Executive Officer Regional CEO, Europe and Middle East Group HR Director See page 68 for full biography Appointed: November 2017 Appointed: July 2015 Skills and experience: Graham has more Skills and experience: Jenni has extensive than 20 years experience in the security experience in employee engagement, 2.
Tim Weller industry, having joined Securicor Cash talent management and organisational Chief Financial Officer Services in 1994.
He has held a number of development, having held HR leadership commercial and line management positions roles in G4S business units and regions See page 69 for full biography in both the cash and security lines of the across both developed and emerging business.
Graham was responsible for the markets.
She also spent a number of years 3.
Mel Brooks creation of the UK cash centres in head office as Director of Employee Regional President, Africa outsourcing business in 2001 and divisional Engagement & HR, leading the Groups managing director for G4S Cash Services employee engagement and labour relations Appointed: May 2015 UK.
He became Group strategy and strategy.
Prior to joining G4S in 1998, Skills and experience: Mel joined G4S in development director in 2008 and joined Jenni held HR positions in a variety of 2012 and his roles included Group the executive committee in 2010.
He then business sectors such as automotive, Strategy & Commercial Director and CEO assumed responsibility for Europe as FMCG and consulting.
She is a Fellow for G4S India, where he led the Regional CEO in November 2013 before of the Chartered Institute of Personnel transformation of the business, improving assuming responsibility for the Europe and & Development FCIPD.
operations, customer service and sales.
Middle East Region in November 2017.
He Prior to joining G4S, Mel held a number of is a director of CoESS and a director of the senior line and functional roles in the 7.
Sren LundsbergNielsen International Security Ligue.
Graham is a defence and technology industries where Group General Counsel Fellow of the Chartered Institute of he was responsible for service line and Marketing.
commercial strategies, technology Appointed: 2001 development and leadership of a number Skills and experience: Sren began his of business unit turnaround programmes.
career as a lawyer in Denmark and since 1984 he has had a wide range of legal 4.
John Kenning Regional CEO, Americas Appointed: January 2018 Skills and experience: John has extensive commercial experience.
He holds a bachelors degree in business from Miami University and prior to joining G4S in 2014, Johns previous roles included executive vice president and president, commercial business for the global division of OfficeMax.
He was also president, North America Commercial for ADT Tyco Security Services, where he led the transformation of the business to a technology services leader.
He is a board member for Miami University Advisory Athletic Board and a past board member of the Make-a-Wish Foundation.
1 2 3 4 5 70 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Governance experience as general counsel for commercial and government businesses 10.
Sanjay Verma international groups in Denmark, Belgium across the Group, including Regional Regional President, Asia and the US before joining Group 4 Falck in President UK & Ireland.
Prior to the 2001 as Group General Counsel.
He was merger between Group 4 Falck and Appointed: January 2018 involved in the Group 4 Falck merger with Securicor, Peter was Securicors Skills and experience: Sanjay joined G4S Securicor and a number of other development director.
He has a degree in May 2017 as Regional President Secure acquisitions by the Group.
Sren has in economics from the University of Solutions Asia Pacific.
Sanjay has overall responsibility for all internal and Nottingham and his early career included extensive business experience operating external legal services for G4S as well as a number of sales, marketing and general across Asia Pacific having been based in the Groups insurance programme.
Sren management roles within Centrica.
India, China and Hong Kong.
Sanjay joined is non-executive director of Basico A S, a G4S from Cushman & Wakefield, a global member of the Danish Bar and Law real estate services firm.
Jesus Rosano Society, a member of the advisory board years in that company he held a number of Divisional CEO, Global Cash Solutions of the Danish-UK Association and author leadership roles including CEO, Asia Pacific of the book Executive Management and Chief Executive, Global Occupier Appointed: January 2018 Contracts, published in Denmark.
Skills and experience: Jesus joined G4S in Services, covering 16 countries in the Asia Pacific region.
Sanjay is a graduate in March 2014 as Latin America Chief Operating Officer and since January 2016 electrical engineering and has a MBA in 8.
was Group Strategy and Commercial Divisional CEO, Care & Justice Services & Director.
Jesus holds a bachelors degree UK Facilities Management in Engineering and Administration from 11.
Debbie Walker Appointed: January 2018 ITESM University, Mexico.
Prior to joining Group Corporate Affairs Director Skills and experience: Peter joined G4S in G4S he held senior line, functional and 2001.
His roles included responsibility for regional roles at DHL, in a number of Appointed: March 2004 the business development programme in markets in Latin America and North Skills and experience: Debbie is responsible the UK and Africa regions, as well as a America over an 11-year period.
Before for the corporate communications team number of senior positions in both the DHL, Jesus worked in strategy consulting which focuses on the Groups key and investment banking.
audiences media, government, employees and customers.
She is also responsible for the Groups CSR and human rights strategies.
Debbie is Chairman of the CBI Southeast Regional Council.
Prior to the merger between Group 4 Falck and Securicor, she held a number of senior marketing and communications roles within the Securicor group, having joined in 1993.
6 7 8 9 10 11 Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 71
