26 Divisional review Continued Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Security & Smart Technology Strategic Report 27 The division has launched a number Security & Smart of new, good margin, high technology additions to its product range, including Technology the 2GIG Vario Hybrid Security System www.
com which adds wireless connectivity to a www.
com hardwired security and home control www.
com solution, as well as the 2GIG Rely DIY panel which allows service providers to Proportion of total revenue enter the renters market.
It has invested in the next generation smart garage door and gate operators equipped with full The SST division comprises the inter-connectivity, as well as additions to its premium ELAN home control system, Nortek Security and Control, Core 21% which streamlines management of lighting, Brands and GTO Access Systems security, audio, video and other aspects GTO businesses.
The decision was of the connected home to a single device.
taken to consolidate these businesses under one management team, which In addition to improved product development, SST continued a controlled is due to move into its brand new expansion of its international sales structure integrated office in Carlsbad, California through entry into strategic arrangements in April 2018. with key partners in Europe, the Middle East and Latin America.
SST is one of the worlds leading developers and manufacturers of security, In addition to the integration of the three home automation and access control businesses, which allowed the division to technologies for the residential and leverage its management, systems and commercial markets, together with audio engineering capabilities, SST continues a visual equipment for the residential audio strong focus on efficiency programmes, such video and professional video markets.
It has as factory investment and improvements, expertise in the design and manufacture the restructure of distribution and logistics of wireless connectivity devices and strong arrangements, and efforts to reduce product brand presence in professional security, costs through improvements in its supply integrator and custom installer channels chain management.
as well as relationships with top resellers.
Outlook The division operates in a rapidly evolving The controlled broadening of its product market in which consumers are increasingly offering into the smart ecosystem and demanding greater focus on software sensor markets has allowed SST to explore and connectivity from manufacturers the possibilities in the growing IoT market, and their service provider partners, as which is linked to its traditional security they embrace the possibilities of the IoT.
We expect this trend to continue In response, under Melrose ownership, in 2018 and, following the consolidation, the division has improved and accelerated the division has a clear strategy that means its product development processes to it is well positioned to take advantage of increase speed to market and service these changing market developments.
options for partners, as well as improving its operating efficiency to eliminate complexity and lower overall costs.
SST is utilising its increased R&D investment and consolidating its engineering and product development capabilities to enable increased leverage of software and hardware product platforms, thereby increasing speed to market and overall flexibility.
This is ensuring it gains the maximum benefit for its increased R&D investment.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
