10 Strategy in action Improve Air Management Each of the HVAC and AQH businesses had been impacted by the capital constraints of Nortek, Inc. prior to acquisition by Melrose.
This had restricted investment and resulted in a loss of focus without coherent business strategies.
HVAC In addition to the underinvestment, Melrose inherited a business split between two management teams, 21m overseeing operations that were capital investment further fragmented, as a result of a into the production lack of integration following previous facilities acquisitions.
Despite some strong brands, the business lacked direction and vision for the future.
Melrose immediately consolidated the Nortek Air Solutions NAS, Residential and Light Commercial businesses under one management team in St Louis, Missouri, closing duplicate sites and administrative functions.
Further work was required to overcome the localised fragmentation.
A targeted 21m capital investment into the production facilities, warehousing systems and quality management processes reinforced a fundamental culture change which was made possible by clarity of strategy and improved financial visibility.
A significant R&D investment was made in the technology centre in Saskatoon, Canada, which unlocked a breakthrough in the data centre climate management sector and put the business at the heart of major customer development plans.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 11 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 12 Strategy in action Improve Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 13 AQH AQH had market leading brands but was steadily losing market share as the underinvestment had made it slow and unresponsive, resulting in poor customer service and a tired product range.
16m The Melrose strategy review with management highlighted that the business needed to refocus capital investment in on its core strengths, rationalise its production the manufacturing and footprint and invest heavily in three main areas: production to drive efficiency: productivity and warehousing facilities quality: and new product development to regain at their Hartford initiative with customers and improve customer service.
headquarters The first step was to change the culture through fresh leadership and a new CEO with relevant large retail customer experience.
Having freed the business from the distraction of the Nortek head office, Melrose also sold AQHs loss-making European business Best S. p. A. to ensure focus remained on its core North American markets.
AQH then set about optimising its production footprint.
This included a 5.6m site consolidation in Canada and a 16m capital investment at their Hartford headquarters focusing on improvements in productivity, efficiency and quality measures and increasing automation, which included the consolidation of US warehousing and distribution into the Hartford headquarters.
This is addressing the issue of inconsistent customer service and having a positive effect on AQHs On Time and Complete delivery rates.
Investment in new product development has increased the rate of refreshment of the product offering and the launch of the Alliance range is the largest in ten years, and the start of the new pipeline.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 14 Strategy in action Improve Security & Smart Technology Previous indecision at Nortek corporate level had meant the NSC, Core Brands and GTO businesses were separated prior to our acquisition and lacked scale.
Although the business had good technology, it was saddled with duplicative costs and in the case of GTO, distracted by material legal action, meaning the division was disjointed and underperforming.
With a high degree of cross over in markets, platforms and customers, each of the businesses had significant contributions to make to the others, together with significant associated back office consolidation savings.
Melrose consolidated all three businesses under one management team, which is currently moving to a new headquarters in Carlsbad, California.
This move involves a capital investment to upgrade the divisional R&D capabilities, as well as investing significantly in new product development.
Non core and underperforming parts of the business were closed and the warehousing was consolidated as control was handed back to the divisions, resulting in $4m of cost savings, which improved flow and customer service.
Significant operational improvements were implemented in the Asian production facility including LEAN and Kaizan projects, enabling the reversal of previous production outsourcing decisions.
Finally, the product development pipeline received heavy investment to differentiate itself alongside significant customer change as well as leverage premium features across the different product platforms.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 15 4.5m invested in software and hardware product development for new panel and accessory launches Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 16 Strategy in action Improve Ergonomics Although already a high margin business on acquisition, and well regarded in the previous 4m Nortek structure, Ergotron had Tooling investment nonetheless suffered from the commitment to same capital constraints as enhance their the other Nortek businesses.
product portfolio Therefore, the Ergotron improvement plan, which was different from the other Nortek businesses, focused on supporting the expansion and leverage of their premier product range, including a 4 million tooling investment commitment to enhance their portfolio.
Despite some initial teething problems relating to the decentralisation, the business is already seeing the benefits of our investment in e-commerce and their digital platform, as well as the growth of the European and Asia Pacific markets.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 17 Strategy in action Reshape Energy Brush is a high-quality turbogenerator, switchgear, transformer and aftermarket business.
It has been a part of the Melrose Group for almost ten years and has received significant investment in R&D, site expansion, new product development and operational improvements during that time to ensure it was well placed to serve its markets.
Unfortunately, the most important of those markets the global gas turbine market has suffered a severe structural change due to the rise in renewables.
Demand for gas turbines has fallen over 60% from the peak levels in 2011 and this has been reflected in a similar fall in turbogenerator volumes.
As a result, and as announced on 1 February 2018, Brush has commenced employee consultations in relation to the restructuring at the turbogenerator production sites in the UK and Netherlands.
Once this restructuring is complete Brush will have a well invested 2-pole and 4-pole turbogenerator production facility in Plzen, Czech Republic, well equipped to cope with any increased OEM demand and complemented by aftermarket facilities in the US, UK and Europe.
Brush is also investing in the next generation of its product ranges across the business, with the uprated turbogenerator trailer set being qualified this year and the Quantum switchgear range providing a major upgrade on its Eclipse project.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
