30 Divisional review Continued Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Energy Strategic Report 31 Alongside certain mitigating actions taken Energy during 2017, Brush conducted a full review www.
eu of the Generator business.
This culminated in the announcement on 1 February 2018 of Brushs intention to restructure its Proportion of total revenue The Energy division comprises: Brush Generator production footprint, impacting the sites in Ridderkerk, Netherlands and Turbogenerators Generators, which Loughborough, UK.
Brush has already manufactures electricity generating closed its Changshu, China site just prior equipment for gas turbines: Brush to year end.
This restructure is aimed at Transformers Transformers, which 10% reshaping Generators in light of the reduced designs and manufactures systems generator volumes and ensuring it is well and power transformers: Hawker positioned for the future.
The cash cost of Siddeley Switchgear Switchgear, a these restructuring items is estimated to be medium voltage AC switchgear and low 40 million and is expected to be materially voltage DC switchgear manufacturer: complete by the end of 2018.
These Harrington Generators International actions are expected to mitigate the Limited HGI, a specialist UK-based current 12 million annual losses of the Turbogenerators business and align it small generator manufacturer: and to the new market conditions.
Brush Aftermarket Aftermarket, which provides comprehensive The Transformers and Switchgear support for customers throughout businesses have performed satisfactorily.
Brush has continued to invest in product development across all of its businesses Brushs Generator business supplies putting it in a position to launch several the global gas turbine market, which innovative products in Generators and had enjoyed a long period of growth.
Switchgear during 2018, such as the This was predicted to continue and, as new generation turbogenerator trailer a result, the business received significant set and the Quantum switchgear.
investment under Melrose ownership, Outlook including the acquisition of the US Global economic prospects remain aftermarket business Generator & Motor uncertain in Brushs main markets and we Services for 8 million in 2010 and its expect the underlying trading environment subsequent expansion to install a 6 million in 2018 to remain very challenging for balancing pit, construction of the new Generators.
There is some optimism for 30 million turbogenerator factory in Aftermarket performance in 2018 and Changshu, China, the over 11 million Switchgear and Transformers should benefit upgrade of plant and equipment at the from the launch of new products and Loughborough facility and a further geographic market expansion.
However, 7 million in its Plzen, Czech Republic site.
this is not expected to result in material Unfortunately, the fossil power generation upside for the business in the short-term.
market experienced large scale disruption Despite the challenges, Brush is taking in a very short timescale.
The growth the difficult but necessary action to of renewables has caused a substantial structurally reduce its cost base and structural change that significantly position the business to the new market impacted the gas turbine market, with realities.
Brush remains a strong business orders falling more than 60% from the and these actions will simplify the structure peak levels in 2011.
This caused a 43% and increase flexibility and responsiveness reduction in Generators unit sales in to the market, positioning the business 2017 alone.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
