Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our strategy in action We will serve markets that are growing and where we have room to grow and where customers value our differentiated products and services.
To support the strategy, the Group has set six key execution priorities: 1 The reorganisation to six global business units was completed in 2016.
It has led to improved global co-ordination across the Group and strengthened accountability within each global business unit, simplifying the approach to customers and markets and increasing operational focus.
Move to a global business structure Improve technical leadership 2 Research and development investment continues to be increased to extend Morgans technical lead Find out more and to accelerate new product development.
The Centres of Excellence allow for the concentration Page 18 of development efforts in those areas which can deliver the greatest benefit globally to the Group.
Improve technical leadership Improve operational execution 3 There are a number of opportunities across the global business units to improve operational execution.
F ind out more Resource and capital are allocated to target specific improvements to efficiency and effectiveness on Page 20 a business-by-business basis.
Improve operational execution Drive sales effectiveness 4 and market focus The Group is focused on improving a number of aspects of its sales capabilities and process: sales processes and their efficiency, the management of key customer accounts and distribution channels, and deeper Drive sales F ind out more understanding of end-markets and faster-growing segments.
Page 22 effectiveness and market focus Increase investment in people The Group aims to strengthen its leadership capability and deepen functional capabilities across the 5 business, including in sales and engineering.
Senior leaders will be benchmarked externally, new talent management and development introduced and future leadership candidates identified from within the business.
Performance management will be enhanced for the Groups top management and the structures and targets for incentive schemes Increase investment in F ind out more will be reviewed.
The Group will invest more in executive training and create clear career paths for its Page 24 people management technologists and engineers.
and development The reorganisation of the business enables the Group to run each business unit on a global basis.
A Morgan 6 business will have sustainable presence in its end-market and be scalable, operating in attractive growing markets where it has the ability to add value to our customers.
It will have synergies with the rest of the portfolio, be organisationally robust and deliver or be capable of delivering strong financial performance.
Simplify the business Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 17 Strategic Report Our strategy in action continued Improve technical leadership Research and development R&D investment has been increased to build Morgans technical lead and to accelerate new product development.
The Centres of Excellence concentrate our development efforts in those areas that can deliver the greatest benefit globally to the Group.
18 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Groups R&D strategy is governed 4.
The depth and the breadth of our by four key underlying principles: understanding will be built through a community whose culture is 1.
To be the acknowledged leader collaborative and which develops in materials science for our chosen deep institutional knowledge.
The Groups commitment to technology is 2.
To understand the application of our demonstrated by the Groups total R&D spend materials science in our customers in 2017 of 34.3 million 2016: 29.2 million, products and processes, providing equal to 3.4% of sales 2016: 3.0%.
The maximum benefit to them through Group anticipates increasing its investment to advanced application engineering.
around 4% of sales over the next two to three years from a 2015 actuals baseline of 2.8%.
To demonstrate a clear understanding of where our technology competences are positioned today against competitors and emerging and competing technologies, forming a clear view of where we need to be.
Centres of Excellence A key underpinning principle of Morgans There has been particular success across a The Metals and Joining CoE is located in R&D strategy is in the investment in four range of end-markets such as iron and steel, Hayward, California, USA.
The CoE supports global materials Centres of Excellence CoE : aluminium processing, automotive and passive the Technical Ceramics businesses which are Insulating Fibre, Structural Ceramics, Carbon fire protection, where new products have involved in providing metallic joining solutions Science, Metals and Joining.
been successfully launched in 2017. and joining ceramic and metal to metals to form hermetic seals.
Hayward is Morgans These four CoEs consolidate the Groups The Structural Ceramics CoE in Stourport, largest facility utilising this technology and R&D efforts around its core technologies, UK, oversees the major advanced ceramic hence this CoE will benefit from close and provide the opportunity to create critical science developments for the Group.
The proximity to the business, production mass to increase the effectiveness of our facility concentrates on leading-edge ceramic processes and customers.
The CoE has R&D spend and accelerate key projects.
materials developments to support both already produced new patented technology current and new markets.
Initial focus that has led to new products starting trials The CoEs focus on the strategic priorities of has been on opportunities in the medical, with customers.
the global business units and the Group to aerospace and environmental sectors, help maintain Morgans world-leading position whilst a focus on new emerging markets Morgans Technical Advisory Board in its chosen technology areas.
The global and technologies also ensures that the One of the key objectives of our R&D business units ensure the CoEs prioritise Group stays at the forefront of materials strategy is to establish a network of global their efforts, and retain a strong commercial science.
As part of this focus the CoE includes technology partners to ensure we are direction.
This in turn enhances the R&D the R&D programme for Morgans additive positioned to work with the worlds best capability of the business by delivering manufacturing of ceramic materials.
academics and research institutes, who core materials science platforms that the are at the forefront of materials science.
manufacturing sites transform into products.
The Carbon Science CoE will support the Electrical Carbon and Seals and Bearings Morgan has established a Technology The Insulating Fibre CoE in Bromborough, businesses and is located in the Innovation Advisory Board, drawn from experts based UK, is a state-of-the-art facility employing 25 Park at Penn State University, Pennsylvania, in Asia, Europe, North and South America.
dedicated scientists focused on the continued USA, close to the universitys top talent and These experts are at the forefront of their development of Morgans fibre product range.
The partnership with Penn State will academic fields in technical ceramics, carbon Morgans market-leading low bio-persistent combine resources and experience, creating science, insulating ceramics, glass ceramics Superwool fibre technology and product a synergy which will enable significant progress and composites.
range continue to be developed with in the development of carbon materials for a patented materials science.
Morgan is now range of sectors and applications.
Their combined knowledge gives us the extending the operational temperature range, opportunity to accelerate key elements allowing it to provide customers with superior Pennsylvania was seen as the ideal location of our R&D programmes whilst assessing insulation performance, improved fire for the new CoE due to Penn States new horizon and emerging technologies.
protection and weight-saving opportunities in cutting-edge academic research and proximity more applications.
to a number of Morgans key manufacturing sites.
The team has been established and the Centre will open formally in 2018.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 19 Strategic Report Our strategy in action continued Improve operational execution There are a number of opportunities across the global business units to improve operational execution.
Resource and capital are allocated to target specific improvements to efficiency and effectiveness on a business-by-business basis.
20 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Procurement efficiency In 2017 we made significant improvements In some sites our boxes are over specified in packaging in our Thermal Ceramics in terms of thickness, material content and business.
We spend around 10 million printing.
Moving to a range of standard per year on cardboard packaging of varying solutions can reduce costs considerably.
specification and size and the Thermal procurement team identified this as a priority We have also identified products where we area for improvement.
dont even need to use cardboard packaging there are alternatives which are just as effective, Through their work, they identified a range lower cost and produce less waste.
of changes we could make to reduce costs.
For example, in the North American business we were paying twice the price for the same cardboard box compared to other sites.
Our larger lean activities are progressing Morgans operational well.
For example, in our Thermal plant in Augusta, USA, the lean project started with efficiency focuses on: a focus on material storage and flow.
The team looked at blanket warehouse utilisation global sourcing moving from local for the site.
Blanket is a lightweight-fibreto regional or global sourcing for its insulation-material and as such we require raw materials high volume storage to hold finished goods.
lean manufacturing transformation The team have redesigned the racking identification and elimination of waste system and material and process flow and within the production processes and have eliminated the need for an offsite the acceleration of continuous warehouse, and all the associated material improvement projects movements and costs.
manufacturing strategy improving global capacity management and planning benchmarking sharing best practice across divisions and global businesses to achieve and monitor cost savings Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 21 Strategic Report Our strategy in action continued Drive sales effectiveness and market focus The Group is focused on improving a number of aspects of its sales activity and the capability of our sales teams: sales processes and their efficiency, the management of key customer accounts and distribution channels, deeper understanding of end-markets and faster-growing segments, and sales incentive plans.
22 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Sales force effectiveness pilots In our Thermal business in China, 80% The pilot also reinforced our understanding of the revenue is derived from 15% of of our position in the market.
However, we were not customers were positive about Morgans necessarily focusing our time only on the products and service, but indicated that roles more important customers.
Our pilot and responsibilities are not always clear in focussed on growing existing customers our teams.
They also identified areas where through segmentation, determining service we should be providing higher levels for each segment, and aligning our performance products.
Four further pilot projects were completed Our work has provided a clear view on in 2017: two in our Thermal business, how we need to segment our customers and one each in Seals and Bearings and and the importance of getting the right route Electrical Carbon.
to market for low volume customers.
The China organisation has therefore made a These looked in depth at customer transition to a model with sales, key account segmentation, pricing, value selling and our management, regional sales and new wider sales process.
Our goal is to improve business development.
those specific areas and build new capabilities for our business that we can roll out more broadly.
The sales effectiveness programme was launched as one of our strategic execution priorities focused on sales processes, structure and efficiency: key account management: channel management: end market understanding and market hotspots: and conducting pilot improvement projects across our global business units.
Through these pilot projects, we have segmented our customer base and aligned our resources to our customers.
We tested tools for pricing and sales management and we designed new sales incentive plans which we are trialling now.
We still have much to do, but we have a good foundation to build upon.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 23 Strategic Report Our strategy in action continued Increase investment in people management and development The Group aims to strengthen its leadership capability and deepen functional capabilities across the business, including in sales and engineering.
Senior leaders will be benchmarked externally, new talent introduced and future leadership candidates identified from within the business.
24 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements One of the Groups six key execution Sales and technology assessment to priorities in 2017 and 2018 is to increase inform future capability requirements investment in people development including and alignment of resources building functional and technical skills and the Development of individuals and teams development of future leaders.
There has Continued recruitment and development been significant investment and progress of graduates.
on this execution priority in 2017.
Building on previous years and the reorganisation In 2018, our Leadership behaviours to a global business structure, the focus will be integrated into our performance has been placed on: management process for our top 300 Launch of our Leadership behaviours leaders.
Following key hires, both external to our top 100 leaders, clearly defining and internal moves, the focus will move to expectations and supporting the delivery the integration of individuals into their new of the strategy roles to enable a better transition to effective External recruitment and internal performance.
We will be making continued promotion into new and existing senior investment in our sales capability through leadership roles to strengthen leadership the provision of training.
and deepen functional capability Increased communication and engagement, for example, our first technology conference focusing on developing an external mind-set and building a more collaborative approach to solution design Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 25
