Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Transportation Petrochemical 20% 8% of 2017 revenue of 2017 revenue Morgan Advanced Materials Morgan Advanced Materials manufactures highmakes critical components performance products for for challenging applications aerospace, automotive, in the global petrochemical marine and rail applications.
These applications require high-performance The petrochemical industry operates components and sub-assemblies in demanding environments, creating a manufactured to exacting standards.
requirement for more durable, resistant and efficient materials.
Morgans components are The Group combines its materials science and used globally in critical applications to meet manufacturing capabilities to offer consistent onand offshore exploration challenges, and and reliable products in flexible production support drilling and downstream processing, quantities.
For example, Morgans carbon thanks to their resistance to chemical and brushes and collectors are used extensively physical wear, corrosion, and extreme in trains, similarly, high-temperature fibre temperatures.
products are widely used for emission control in a wide variety of vehicles, specially Morgan supplies carbon graphite, zirconia engineered to customer requirements.
materials and silicon carbide into a range of critical components such as mechanical seal In the aerospace sector, Morgan continues faces, pump bearings and specialist valves.
to expand its activity and build on the success of the Technical Ceramics range of speciallyengineered ceramic core products.
An example, the recent introduction of two new materials to the market, which can generate exceptionally fine cross-sections in aerofoil and turbine blade casting, while offering enhanced surface finish.
The materials can produce cores with a low profile thickness without compromising stability or rigidity during the casting processes.
These technology advantages have been shown to increase casting yields when compared to alternative materials on the market.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 05 Overview About us Our markets continued Security and defence Energy 7% 6% of 2017 revenue of 2017 revenue Morgan Advanced Materials Morgan Advanced Materials supplies precision-engineered develops products for power materials, components and generation from renewable assemblies to meet the and traditional sources and exacting standards of the insulation materials for international security and heat management.
Morgans advanced thermal insulation is used to insulate heat recovery steam generators in The security and defence industries are power and industrial plants.
Morgans carbon constantly balancing the need for greater brushes offer world-leading performance in protection with the requirement for more power generation applications.
Morgan has lightweight materials, from platform developed new carbon material grades for applications to personnel protection.
wind generation applications that extend life and reduce service costs.
Morgan combines its manufacturing capability and materials technology to produce solutions Morgans partnership with AETC Ltd, part of that deliver real performance benefits for PCC Airfoils LLC, is a good example of the security and defence applications, in the most continued support for the gas turbine industry.
The Group has This year marked 20 years of professional considerable experience in the area of collaboration between Morgan and AETC Ltd, explosive ordnance disposal, where comfort during which we have provided highly stable and freedom of movement need to combine ceramic cores to enable the manufacture of with optimum protection for the user.
blades and vanes which are resistant to oxidation, corrosion and wear, and provide longevity during operation.
Our focus on meeting customer requirements and demands in the harshest environments is key to the success of this collaboration.
06 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Morgans deep understanding of ceramic material properties, together with expertise in Electronics Healthcare braze alloy design, allows the Group to produce high-density, highly reliable feed-throughs for a range of medical applications, including cochlear implants and neuro-stimulation.
To support the development of the metallised components healthcare market, Morgan has opened the Metals and Joining CoE in Hayward, California, USA.
The CoE is focused on the development of new materials for challenging applications, driven by demand for joining solutions which can deliver higher 6% 5% performance, a lower cost of ownership and more efficient operation.
One landmark of 2017 revenue of 2017 revenue initiative currently underway within Morgans Metals and Joining CoE is making traditionally brittle braze alloys available in a flexible wire Morgan Advanced Materials Morgan Advanced Materials form.
In doing so, this will provide a new tool to help reduce waste and cost, while makes components that produces components used simultaneously resulting in a higher quality help the electronics industry in medical monitoring and join and improved application performance.
in its drive towards higher diagnostic instrumentation performance and reliability and tools for treatment in smaller, lighter, more and surgery.
Medical engineering requires the highest standards of precision, reliability and Electronics manufacturers are under constant performance, which is why many medical pressure to meet competing demands on original equipment manufacturers OEMs component size, functionality and cost.
choose materials from Morgan to help Morgan engineers high-purity, highimprove the performance of their equipment.
specification components which are used globally in the fabrication of semiconductor Our experienced team of materials scientists and electronic products.
have a deep understanding of the uniquely demanding environment in which equipment Morgans research and development teams for the global medical market is developed.
work closely with customers to design and This allows the Group to produce a broad manufacture intricate components with variety of components for use in medical specific electrical and thermal properties monitoring and instrumentation as well as in within restricted and challenging size tools for treatment and surgery.
Morgans ceramic metallisation materials innovation with high-quality processes have played a major role in the manufacturing capabilities, Morgan produces commercialisation of modern communication, parts which are optimised to meet precise and signalling and control technologies, including complex physical and chemical specifications.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 07
