Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017. statements reflect knowledge and information available at the Thecomparative period is the year ended 31 December 2016. date of preparation of this Annual Report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking Management Report statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed This Directors Report, together with the Strategic Report on as a profit forecast.
pages 1 to 29, form the Management Report for the purposes Results and Dividends of rule 4.1.
8R of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency The results for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 Rules.
are presented under International Financial Reporting Information Contained Elsewhere in the Annual Report Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law.
Information required to be part of this Directors Report and However, the Company has elected to prepare its financial certain other information can be found elsewhere in the Annual statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, Report as indicated in the table below, and is incorporated into including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The this Report by reference: results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Statement Information Location in Annual Report of Profit or Loss on page 79.
Audit tendering Page 46 An interim dividend of 6.0p per share was paid on Corporate Governance Statement Pages 30 to 47 21September 2017.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 15.4p per share 3.1p on a rights adjusted basis Diversity, human rights Pages 23 to 25 which, if approved by the shareholders at the Annual General and our people Resources and Meeting AGM, will be paid on 6 July 2018 to shareholders Relationships on the register on 8June 2018.
Directors biographies Pages 32 and 33 Events Affecting the Company Since Year End Financial instruments: Note 21, Page 118 On 5 December 2017, the Group announced the proposed Information on the Groups acquisition of Regal by means of an acquisition of the entire financial risk management issued, and to be issued, share capital of Regal.
The acquisition objectives and policies, and its completed on 28 February 2018 and was settled in cash, exposure to credit risk, liquidity funded by a fully underwritten rights issue and committed risk, interest rate risk and foreign debt facilities.
More details may be found onpage 29 in the currency risk Financial Review.
Going Concern Statement Page 34 Financial Risk Management Key Performance Indicators Pages 16 and 17 The Board regularly reviews the financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated therewith.
Full details are set An indication of likely future Pages 1 to 29 out in Note 21 to the financial statements, and are incorporated developments in the business StrategicReport into this Directors Report by reference.
affecting the Company Funding and Liquidity Statement of Directors Page 73 The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity Responsibilities in respect position and borrowing facilities are described in the of theAnnual Report and FinancialReview on pages 26 to 29.
In addition, Note 21 to FinancialStatements thefinancial statements includes the Groups objectives, Viability Statement Pages 22 and 34 policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial riskmanagement objectives, details of its financial instruments Important Post-Balance Page 29 and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and SheetEvents liquidity risk.
Such sections are incorporated into this DirectorsReport by reference.
Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking International Operations and Branches and so involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to At the year end, the Group had operations in the UK, Jersey, events, and depend on circumstances, that will occur in Ireland, Poland, Israel, Hungary, Czech Republic, Bulgaria, thefuture.
Therefore, results and developments can differ Romania and Slovakia.
Substantial Shareholdings At 31 December 2017, the Group had been notified, pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company.
Notifications confirming a partys interest has gone below the threshold notification level have not been included: 1 Shareholder Voting rights % of total voting rights Nature of holding 2 Global City Holdings B. V. 76,626,344 27.98 Direct 1 Percentages are stated as at the time of notification.
The total number of voting rights at 31 December 2017 was 273,915,718.
2 Shares are held by Global City Theatres B. V. a wholly owned subsidiary of Global City Holdings B. V. GCH.
Shares in GCH are held in trust for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger.
The following notifications were received in the period from 1 January 2018 up to the date of this report: 1 Shareholder Voting rights % of total voting rights Nature of holding 2 Global City Holdings B. V. 76,626,344 27.97 Indirect Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 58,894,844 4.30 Direct and Indirect Polaris Capital Management, LLC 9,172,000 3.35 Indirect 1 Percentages are stated as at the time of notification and show the latest notification details.
With the exception of the shareholdings of Aviva plc and its subsidiaries, all notifications were made prior to the 4 for 1 Rights Issue of the Company announced on 17 January 2018.
68 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements restrict the transfer of voting rights attached to ordinary Global City Theatres B. V. GCT is interested in aggregate in shares.
No treasury shares are held by the Company and no 28% of the rights to vote at general meetings of the Company.
shares are held by any trustee in connection with any share The Company and GCT entered into a relationship agreement scheme operated by the Group.
dated 5 December 2017 to regulate the relationship between Articles of Association them.
This agreement replaces the agreement between Global The Companys Articles of Association Articles, together City Holdings and the Company of 10 January 2014 and is on with English law, define the Boards powers.
Changes to the the same terms as the previous relationship agreement.
Under Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance the relationship agreement, the parties acknowledge that the withthe Articles themselves and legislation in force at the Group is capable of carrying on business independently, and relevant time.
that all arrangements between the Company and GCT will be on arms length terms.
The relationship agreement contains Change of Control arequirement where reasonably practical to consult with There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or andconsider the reasonable views of the Chairman or Senior terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company Independent Director of the Company prior to a disposal of except that under its current banking arrangements a change ordinary shares in the Company.
of control may trigger a right for lenders to require early repayment of all sums outstanding.
Share Capital and Control The Company has only one class of share capital formed of No Director or employee is contractually entitled to ordinary shares.
All shares forming part of the ordinary share compensation for loss of office or employment as a result capital have the same rights and each carries one vote.
Details of a change in control: however, provisions in the Companys of the share capital, and changes in it over the year, are shown share schemes may cause options or awards granted to in Note 20 to the financial statements.
employees to vest on a change of control.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive Issue of New Shares and Authority to Purchase Shares Companyreports and accounts, to attend and speak at At the AGM held on 18 May 2017, shareholders gave authority general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and for the allotment of shares up to an aggregate nominal value toexercise voting rights.
This authority will expire at the 2018 AGM of the Company or on 17 August 2018, There are no restrictions on transfers of, or limitations on the whichever is earlier.
holding of, ordinary shares and there is also no requirement of any prior approval of any transfers other than i those which Between 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2017, a total of may be applicable from time to time under existing laws or 6,334,529 shares were issued.
Further details of the 6,334,529 regulation or ii if a person with an interest in 0.25% of the shares issued in this period are set out in Note 20. issued share capital held in certificated form has been served At the AGM held on 18 May 2017, shareholders gave authority with a disclosure notice and fails to respond with the required for the purchase of up to 26,900,000 ordinary shares in the information concerning interests in that share capital, and iii Company for cancellation or placing into treasury.
No shares in respect of shares issued as consideration in respect of have been acquired under this authority.
theEmpire acquisition which were subject to a lock up of 12months from 12 August 2016.
The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGMto renew both the Companys authority to issue new No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard shares and its authority to purchase its own ordinary shares tocontrol of the Company.
Except as set out in the Major forcancellation or placing in treasury.
Details of the proposed Shareholder Voting Arrangements or Share Capital and resolutions are set out in the Notice of AGM the AGM Control sections above, there are no restrictions on voting circular dispatched or made available to shareholders rights attaching to the ordinary shares and the Company is not withthe Annual Report and Accounts or on notification aware of any known agreements between shareholders that ofitsavailability.
Directors Interests at Year End Ordinary shares held by companies in which a Ordinary shares held directly Director has a beneficial interest or is connected Director 31 December 2016 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 31 December 2017 1 1 Anthony Bloom 2,208,006 2,208,006 3 Nisan Cohen 2 2 Israel Greidinger 81,310 76,626,344 76,626,344 2 2 Moshe Greidinger 119,254 76,626,344 76,626,344 Alicja Kornasiewicz 3 Dean Moore Scott Rosenblum 16,877 16,877 Arni Samuelsson Rick Senat 53,874 53,874 Julie Southern 1 Shares are held by a nominee for trusts of which Anthony Bloom is one of the potential discretionary beneficiaries.
3 Dean Moore and Nisan Cohen joined the Board in January 2017.
69 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report continued Directors Interests at the Latest Practicable Date Ordinary shares held by companies in which a Ordinary shares held directly Director has a beneficial interest or is connected Director 1 Anthony Bloom 5,208,006 3 Nisan Cohen 17,352 2 Israel Greidinger 406,550 383,131,720 2 Moshe Greidinger 596,270 383,131,720 Alicja Kornasiewicz 3 Dean Moore 15,000 Scott Rosenblum 84,385 Arni Samuelsson Rick Senat 269,370 Julie Southern 1 Shares are held by a nominee for trusts of which Anthony Bloom is one of the potential discretionary beneficiaries.
GCH is owned by trusts for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger.
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial year Conflicts of Interest had interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at the The Articles permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, beginning and end of the year under review as set out in the toauthorise situations where a Director has an interest that table above.
conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
There is in place a formal system for the Board to Details of the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company consider authorising such conflicts whereby the Directors arising under the Groups share and option schemes are set whohave no interest in the matter decide whether to authorise out in the Remuneration Report on page 64.
No rights to the conflict.
In deciding whether to authorise the conflict, the subscribe for shares in or debentures of other Group non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way which companies were granted to any of the Directors or their they consider would be most likely to promote the success immediate families, or exercised by them, during the year.
ofthe Company for the benefit of all shareholders and they None of the Directors had any disclosable interest in the may, and do, impose conditions to be attached to such sharesof Group companies other than the Company: authorisations.
The Board believes that the arrangements for Appointment and Replacement of Directors reporting and considering such conflicts operate effectively.
The Companys Articles of Association Articles set out the Directors Interests in Contracts rules governing the appointment and replacement of Directors.
The Group has a number of property lease agreements Under the Articles, one-third of the Directors must retire by inplacewith Global City Holdings N. V. GCH and or its rotation at the AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for subsidiary undertakings.
Further details of the amounts re-election each year.
A Director must retire excluding as paidunder these agreements can be found in Note 24 to Chairman of theBoard and will be counted in the one-third to thefinancial statements.
Shares in GCH are held in trust retire, if he was last appointed or reappointed three years or forthebenefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and more prior to the AGM or has served more than eight years as IsraelGreidinger.
In addition, any Director appointed during the year must stand for election as well.
In accordance None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract with best practice, however, all the Directors are retiring and of significance to which the Company or a subsidiary was a are offering themselves for re-election or election this year at party during the financial year, other than as disclosed above, the AGM.
in their service contracts or letters of appointment described in the Directors Remuneration Report and in Note 24 to the Following the Board evaluation process undertaken in 2017, the financial statements.
Board is satisfied that each Director standing for re-election or election continues to show the necessary commitment, and to Directors and Officers Insurance and Indemnity be an effective member of the Board due to their skills, The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and expertise and business acumen.
Officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them whilst acting as Directors and Officers.
Under the terms of the relationship agreement between the Company and GCT described further in the Major Shareholder As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under Voting Arrangements section above, GCT has the right to which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors appoint one Non-Executive Director but only if none of Moshe aspermitted by law and by the Articles against liabilities Greidinger, Israel Greidinger and Scott Rosenblum are on the theymay incur in the execution of their duties as Directors Board for so long as it holds at least 10% of the voting rights ofthe Company.
Political Donations Details of the Directors remuneration, and information on their The Groups policy, which it has followed, is to make no service contracts, are set out in the Directors Remuneration donations to political parties.
70 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Employees The Group encourages the involvement of employees in its The policy is to recruit, employ and develop staff on the performance through the operation of a Sharesave Scheme basisof the suitability of their qualifications and experience, inthe UK and bonus schemes throughout the Group.
regardless of sex, marital status, race, nationality, age, sexual Environmental Matters and Greenhouse Gas Emissions orientation or religion.
It is Company policy to give full and fair Information on the Groups environmental policies are consideration to applications for employment from disabled summarised in the Resources and Relationships section on people, having regard to their particular abilities and aptitudes.
This section provides the greenhouse gas Full consideration is given to continuing the employment of GHG emission data and supporting information required staff who become disabled, including considering them for bythe Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors other reasonable positions and arranging appropriate training.
The health, welfare and development of the Groups employees Organisational Boundary remain a priority.
With the intent of attracting, recruiting, The organisational boundary used for the Companys GHG developing and retaining key employees, Cineworld maintains reporting is operational control.
a number of policies and procedures for the benefit of its employees, which can be accessed by employees via the Reporting Scope Human Resources department and in the UK via the Human The Company is reporting on emissions covered by scopes 1 Resources manual on the Companys intranet.
Continuing and 2 comprising electricity, gas, and fugitive F-gas emissions education, training and development are important to ensure from global operations.
the future success of the Group and employee development is As well as scope 1 and 2 emissions figures, additional outside encouraged through appropriate training.
The Group supports of scope emissions are included for owned transport to individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further education account for biofuel additions.
Scope 3 well-to-tank for all qualifications and reimburses tuition fees up to a specified level.
fuels and transmission and distribution from electricity Regular and open communication between management and emissions are also included.
employees is essential for motivating the workforce.
Briefings Emissions Included are held regularly to provide updates on the Groups business Mandatory emissions sources as specified by the and to provide opportunity for questions and feedback.
The Environmental Reporting Guidelines published by the Company also maintains both an internet website which is Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra freely accessible and an intranet site accessible to all head have been included in this report see also Estimates and office employees and at all cinemas in the UK.
Table 1 shows Defras stated mandatory areas for reporting and how the stated categories apply to the Group.
Table 1: Reporting Requirements Ref Defra requirement Relevance A1 Fuel combustion stationary Natural gas heating A2 Fuel combustion mobile Owned transport fleet B Facility operation: process emissions N A B Facility operation: fugitive emissions F-gases: refrigeration and air conditioning C Purchased electricity, heat, steam, cooling Electricity only GHG Emissions Data The GHG emissions for the Group for the calendar year to 31 December 2017 are shown in Table 2 below in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO2e.
Table 2: 2017 GHG Emissions tCO2e tCO2e Ref Category 2016 2017 2 A1 Fuel combustion stationary 21,915 20,127 A2 Fuel combustion mobile 1,150 1,911 B Facility operation 1,849 347 2 C Purchased electricity 126,088 121,722 Total 151,002 144,108 1 O ur facility operation emissions are entirely made up of refrigerant gas emissions from our air conditioning units.
Changes in these emission levels are primarily driven by our maintenance regimes.
The more servicing and replacement of air conditioning units is undertaken in a particular year, the higher this figure is.
Therefore, from a carbon management perspective, minimal significance should be placed on fluctuations to this figure, which represents 1%of total emissions.
2 D ue to a correction in certain data in relation to electricity in Romania in these categories, these numbers have been corrected and differ from the figures reported in the 2016 Annual Report previously reported as 22,855 and 132,181 respectively.
71 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report continued Estimates and Exclusions A minimal amount of estimated data was used for electricity and gas emissions for some UK meters for December 2017.
This affects less than 0.1% of total emissions.
Data on fugitive emissions from ROW jurisdictions other than Czech Republic and Poland were not available and are excluded from the emissions figures given above.
Also, Polish gas data was captured in local currency and converted into kWh.
This affects less than 4% of total Group emissions.
Emissions Intensity The chosen carbon intensity measure is financial turnover.
This was chosen due to ready availability of the data.
The value for the year was 161.8 tonnes CO e per m turnover.
2 For comparison, 2016s emissions were 151,002 tonnes CO e 2 at an intensity of 189.3 tonnes CO e per m turnover using 2 corrected figures.
Methodology and Emissions Factors This report was calculated using the methodology set out in Defras updated greenhouse gas reporting guidance, Environmental Reporting Guidelines ref.
PB 13944, issued by Defra in June 2013.
Emissions factors are taken from the DECC Defra 2015 update.
Emissions factors for fuels use scope 3 well-to-tank upstream additions to account for emissions from sourcing and processing fuel.
Owned transport emissions include outsideof-scope additions for biogenic additions.
Electricity emissions include transmission and distribution losses.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the AGM, to be held at the Cineworld Cinema in Wandsworth, Southside Shopping Centre, Wandsworth High Street, London SW18 4TF at 10.30am on 16May 2018, is contained in the AGM circular.
Details of all the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the AGM circular.
Auditor and Tender Following the audit tender process in 2016, KPMG LLP was reappointed as External Auditor.
The Company will continue tocomply with the relevant tendering and auditor rotation requirements applicable under UK and EU regulations.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board F Smith Company Secretary Cineworld Group plc 15 March 2018 Registered Office: 8th Floor Vantage London Great West Road Brentford TW8 9AG Registered: England No: 5212407 72
