e c n e i c S s l a i r e t A a p Strategic Report Our business model Group strategy Execution priorities Move to a global business 1 structure Reliable problem Improve technical solving 2 leadership ethically and safely Improve operational 3 execution Our markets are: Industrial, Our strategy is to build Transportation, Petrochemical, distinctive capabilities Security and defence, Energy, Drive sales in materials science, in Electronics, and Healthcare.
Many of effectiveness application engineering 4 our products are required to perform and in customer focus.
and market focus critical duties in harsh or demanding environments.
What we do: the Company is a world-leader in advanced materials Our principal product ranges science and the engineering of are: insulating fibres, electrical Increase investment ceramics, carbon and composites.
carbon systems, seals and bearings, in people We operate in a series of wellceramic cores, crucibles for metals 5 management and defined markets where our processing and high technology applications expertise offers our development composites.
We also develop customers a valuable differentiator, specialist materials and make many engineering high-specification application-specific products to materials, components and subcustomer requirements.
assembly parts that solve their challenging technical problems.
Further information on our markets Simplify the business and principal product ranges can be 6 found in About us on pages 2 to 7.
Underpinned by strong governance, risk management and corporate responsibility 12 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 M p l i c a t i o n E n g i n e e r i s n u g c o F r e m o t s u C Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Generating, capturing and sustaining value Our business model is fundamental to our ability to create value and build a sustainable competitive advantage.
How we differentiate ourselves As the world strives to make better use of limited resources, the demands on our materials, and on our materials science capabilities, are rapidly increasing.
We are producing materials that can work at higher temperatures, higher pressures, in more corrosive and abrasive applications, at more precise tolerances and in smaller form factors than ever before.
We use two fundamental sets of materials: Ceramics and Carbon.
Ceramics Carbon Ceramics typically have high melting We use carbon for its electrical points and are used to make high conductivity, with leading carbon grades Driving sustainable performance insulation, they are for power generation, rail collector growth and ensuring also chemically resistant at high and wind applications.
We use the inert our value is shared temperatures and are used to make and low friction properties of carbon valves for corrosive and abrasive to make seals and bearings used in jet across all our applications.
We work with both engine seals to automotive vacuum stakeholder groups ceramic fibre and structural ceramics, pumps.
We exploit the high temperature exploiting the structural properties of stability in inert atmospheres of carbon Investors ceramics, their hardness, their electrical to produce insulation for vacuum furnaces, Delivering sustainable returns.
properties and their resilience in hostile semiconductor applications and crucibles.
Customers Further information on our technology Creating world class solutions We manufacture and install a wide can be found in Our strategy in action that build competitive advantage.
range of thermal insulation products on pages 17 to 25. that significantly reduce energy Employees consumption and emissions in a Developing and nurturing talent.
variety of high temperature processing applications.
Structural ceramics are Communities used for implanted medical devices Delivering a positive contribution exploiting their strength, abrasion to the local communities in which resistance and chemical stability, we work.
to make power tubes for medical scanners, and in the manufacture of semiconductors.
Morgan has approximately 80 manufacturing sites across more than 30 countries, supported by a network of sales offices around the world.
We employ around 8,800 people serving customers in more than 100 countries.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 13
