Governance Other disclosures The Directors Report is required to be produced by law.
The Financial Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, all the Directors will Conduct Authority FCA s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules stand for election or re-election on an annual basis in compliance with the DTRs and Listing Rules LRs also require the Company to make certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
the skills, experience and career history of Directors in post as at the date of this Report, and the Board Committees on which they serve, can be Pages 54 to 93 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual Report found on pages 56 and 57. incorporated by reference constitute a Directors Report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable law, and the Results and dividends liabilities of the Directors in connection with that Report are subject The total profit profit attributable to owners of the parent and nonto the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
controlling interests for the year ended 31 December 2017 was 113.9 million 2016: 58.5 million.
Profit before taxation for the The Company same period was 135.8 million 2016: 87.9 million.
Revenue was 1021.5 million 2016: 989.2 million and operating profit was Legal form of the Company 158.1 million 2016: 107.3 million.
Basic earnings per share from Morgan Advanced Materials plc is a company incorporated in England continuing operations was 37.8 pence 2016: 18.4 pence.
Capital and and Wales with company number 286773. reserves at the end of the year were 234.3 million 2016: 164.7 million.
The total profit of 107.6 million will be transferred to equity.
Name change The Company changed its name to Morgan Advanced Materials plc The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend at the rate from The Morgan Crucible Company plc on 27 March 2013. of 7.0 pence per share on the Ordinary share capital of the Company, payable on 25 May 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of Annual General Meeting AGM business on 4 May 2018.
Together with the interim dividend of 4.0 pence The Companys 2018 AGM will be held on Friday 11 May 2018 at the per share paid on 24 November 2017, this final dividend, if approved by offices of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, Milton Gate, 60 Chiswell Street, shareholders, brings the total distribution for the year to 11.0 pence per London EC1Y 4AG.
A circular incorporating the Notice of AGM share 2016: 11.0 pence.
Directors Statutory disclosures All those who served as Directors at any time during the year under review are set out on pages 56 and 57, with the exception of Robert Amendment of the Articles of Association Rowley, who resigned from the Board on 31 July 2017.
The Companys constitution, known as the Articles of Association the Articles, is essentially a contract between the Company and its shareholders, governing many aspects of the management of the Powers of the Directors Company.
It deals with matters such as the rights of shareholders, Subject to the Companys Articles, UK legislation and any directions given the appointment and removal of Directors, the conduct of the Board by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the and general meetings and communications by the Company.
Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the Companys Directors interests shareholders and are available on the Companys website at Details of Directors interests and their connected persons beneficial www.
interests in the share capital of the Company are listed on page 86.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors indemnities The Articles provide that the Company may by ordinary resolution at a The Company has entered into separate indemnity deeds with each general meeting appoint any person to act as a Director, provided that Director containing qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined in Section notice is given of the resolution identifying the proposed person by name 236 of the Companies Act 2006, under which the Company has agreed and that the Company receives written confirmation of that persons to indemnify each Director in respect of certain liabilities which may attach willingness to act as Director if he or she has not been recommended by to each of them as a Director or as a former Director of the Company the Board.
The Articles also empower the Board to appoint as a Director or any of its subsidiaries.
The indemnity deeds were in force during the any person who is willing to act as such.
The maximum possible number financial year to which this Directors Report relates and are in force as of Directors under the Articles is 15.
The Articles provide that the at the date of approval of the Directors Report.
Company may by special resolution, or by ordinary resolution of which special notice is given, remove any Director before the expiration of his or Information required by LR 9.8.
The Articles also set out the circumstances in which There is no information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
The Articles require that at each AGM any Director who was appointed after the previous AGM must be proposed Overseas branches for election by the shareholders.
Additionally, any other Director who has not been elected or re-elected at one of the previous two AGMs must As at 31 December 2017, the Company had branches as follows: be proposed for re-election by the shareholders.
The Articles also allow MCE Finance Sarl USA the Board to select any other Director to be proposed for re-election.
Thermal Ceramics Europe France In each case, the rules apply to Directors who were acting as Directors Morganite Australia Pty Limited New Zealand on a specific date selected by the Board.
This is a date not more than 14 days before, and no later than, the date of the Notice of AGM.
Morgan AM&T BV Sweden and Belgium Carbo San Luis SA Peru 90 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Human resources Share allotment and repurchase authorities Details of the Groups human resources policies and employee The Directors were granted authority at the 2017 AGM to allot shares in involvement are set out on pages 52 to 53. the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares in the Company up to a a nominal amount of 23,780,832 There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or and b a nominal amount of 47,561,664 in connection with a rights issue employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted under a.
This authority whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that is due to lapse at the 2018 AGM.
At the 2018 AGM, shareholders will be occurs because of a takeover bid.
asked to grant a similar allotment authority.
Two separate special resolutions will also be proposed to renew the Research and development Directors powers to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to an During the year, the Group invested 34.3 million 2016: 29.2 million in aggregate nominal amount representing approximately 5% of the issued research and development.
The Group did not capitalise any development share capital as at the last practicable date before the publication of the costs in 2017 2016: nil.
2018 Notice of AGM, and an additional 5% of the issued share capital which would be for use only in connection with acquisitions and specified Details of the Groups research and development during the year are set capital investments.
The Directors sought authority at the 2017 AGM to repurchase shares Greenhouse gas emissions in the capital of the Company up to a maximum aggregate number of Details of the Groups annual greenhouse gas emissions are shown in the Ordinary shares of 28,536,998.
The Directors will seek to renew this Environment, health and safety section on page 51. authority at the 2018 AGM.
Political donations Employee share and share option schemes No political donations have been made.
Morgan Advanced Materials plc The Company operates a number of employee share and share option has a policy of not making donations to any political party, representative schemes.
Ninety-nine employees hold awards under the Morgan or candidate in any part of the world.
Advanced Materials plc Long-Term Incentive Plan, including share options held under the Approved Performance Share Plan, eight employees hold Financial instruments awards under the Morgan Advanced Materials Bonus Deferral Share Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, together with Matching Plan and 416 employees participate in the Companys UK information on policies and exposure to price, liquidity, cash flow, credit, Sharesave scheme.
Details of outstanding share awards and share options interest rate and currency risks, can be found in note 20 on pages 131 to are given in note 21 on page 140 to 151.
All information detailed in this note is incorporated into the Directors Report by reference and is deemed to form part of the Directors Report.
All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and Share capital and related matters become exercisable on a change of control, subject to being pro-rated for time and to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Share capital The Companys share capital as at 31 December 2017 is set out in note The Trustees of The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust the Trust 18 and on pages 128 to 129.
The Companys Ordinary shares represent have absolute and unfettered discretion in relation to voting any shares 99.85% of the total issued share capital, with the 5.5% Cumulative First held in the Trust at any general meeting.
Their policy is not to vote the Preference shares representing 0.04% and the 5.0% Cumulative Second shares.
If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares, the Preference shares representing 0.11%.
The rights and obligations attaching Trustees will have absolute and unfettered discretion on whether to accept to the Companys Ordinary shares, and restrictions on the transfer of or reject the offer in respect of any shares held by them.
shares in the Company, are set out in the Articles.
Major shareholdings Shareholders rights As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified of the following, The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled: to receive dividends, when in accordance with DTR 5, from holders of notifiable interests representing declared: to receive the Companys reports and accounts: to attend and 3% or more of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company: speak at general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: and to exercise voting rights.
Number of 1 Ordinary shares % Details of the structure of the Companys Preference share capital and Prudential Plc group of companies M&G 28,533,428 9.99 the rights attaching to the Companys Preference shares are set out in note 18 on pages 128 to 129.
Ameriprise Financial Inc. and its group 24,186,489 8.48 AXA Investment Managers SA 22,707,707 7.96 No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with Black Creek Investment Management Inc. 14,246,065 4.99 regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any Harris Associates 14,119,504 4.95 agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions 1.
Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Companys issued share capital as on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Note: As at 13 March 2018, there were no changes to the substantial shareholdings shown in the above table with the exception of the following: Black Creek Investment Management Inc, which notified the Company on 3 January 2018 that it had increased its interest to 14,317,373 shares representing 5.02% of the issued share capital: and BlackRock Inc. which notified the Company on 1 March 2018 that it had increased its interest to 14,292,286 shares representing 5.00% of the issued share capital.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 91 Governance Other disclosures continued Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements Transactions, contractual arrangements and post-balance unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs sheet events of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
Significant agreements change of control The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, financial institutions.
The facility agreements generally include change the Directors are required to: of control provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
the Company, could result in their renegotiation or withdrawal.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The most significant of such agreements are the UK five-year for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 200 million multi-currency revolving facility agreement, which was prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
signed on 17 October 2014, and the privately placed Note Purchase for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable and Guarantee Agreements signed on 15 December 2007 and UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 27 October 2016, for which the aggregate outstanding loan amounts departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial are US$187 million and 60 million.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is There are a number of other agreements that would take effect, alter or inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover continue in business.
bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
No such individual contract is considered to be significant in terms of its potential The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Post-balance sheet events of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial There have been no material events since the year end.
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to Reporting, accountability and audit safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and Statement of Directors responsibilities other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Remuneration Report with applicable law and regulations.
and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
with International Financial Accounting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or UK GAAP.
In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and A new UK GAAP accounting framework introduced by the Financial understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders Reporting Council FRC became mandatorily effective for the financial to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and statements of UK companies in 2015.
Under this framework, the strategy as required by the Code.
Company is required to prepare its parent Company financial statements on one of the bases permitted by the FRC.
The Directors as at the date of this Report, whose names and functions are set out on pages 56 to 57, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: As previously notified, the Company has chosen to adopt FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, which enables the Company to take advantage of the Groups financial statements, which have been prepared in the permitted election to utilise the disclosure exemptions allowed under accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view FRS 101.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group on pages of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and 100 to 154 are prepared in accordance with EU-adopted IFRSs and the management report comprising the Directors Report and the are unaffected by this accounting framework.
The Company proposes to Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and continue to adopt the reduced disclosure framework of FRS 101 in its future performance of the business and the position of the Group, together financial statements.
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
92 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report The Board has prepared a Strategic Report which provides an overview of the development and performance of the Groups business in the year ended 31 December 2017.
8, the Directors Report on pages 54 to 93 and the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 53 comprise the management report, including the sections of the Annual Report and financial statements incorporated by reference.
Each Director holding office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and that he or she has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
The Strategic Report, the Directors Report and the Remuneration Report were approved by the Board on 27 February 2018.
For and on behalf of the Board Stephanie Mackie Company Secretary 27 February 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials plc Quadrant, 55-57 High Street Windsor Berkshire SL4 1LP Registered in England and Wales, No.
286773 Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 93
