Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy This section describes the Committees Policy on the remuneration of Directors.
The Policy will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM in May 2018.
If approved it will come into effect from the date of the AGM and is intended to apply for aperiod of three years.
Following approval at the AGM, remuneration payments and payment for loss of office to Directors canonly be made if they are consistent with this Policy or otherwise approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
The objective of the Groups Remuneration Policy is that Executive Directors should receive appropriate remuneration for their performance, responsibility, skills and experience.
Remuneration packages are designed to enable the Group to attract and retain key employees by ensuring they are remunerated appropriately and competitively, and that they are motivated to achieve the highest level of Group performance in line with the best interests of shareholders.
This is balanced with the need to mitigate risk and accordingly incentives are structured to ensure that no Director is encouraged to take inappropriate risks because of the level of potential variable rewards.
To determine the elements and level of remuneration appropriate for each Executive Director, the Committee considers, when appropriate, benchmark remuneration data for selected comparable companies and seeks to ensure that an appropriately significant proportion of potential pay is performance-related, and that total pay opportunity is consistent with appropriate superior levels of pay for superior performance.
The policy of the Committee is to set performance conditions for annual bonuses and long-term incentives which are appropriately stretching but fair given the environment in which the Group operates, taking into account internal and external expectations.
While the Boards normal practice is to operate within the above parameters, it will take account of individual circumstances and tailor remuneration packages accordingly.
In cases of material variance, it would seek to take account of major shareholders views.
Changes to the remuneration policy that was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM The Committee has undertaken a review of the existing remuneration policy in light of the acquisition of Regal and is proposing arevised remuneration policy that reflects the scale and complexity of the enlarged Group.
The acquisition is transformational forthe Group and is expected to deliver significant value to shareholders from an earnings perspective.
To reflect this, the Committee proposes to increase the maximum opportunity under the annual bonus plan together with a deferral on a portion ofthe award and increase the normal maximum opportunity under the long term incentive plan within the limit of the current policy, as outlined below.
Component Current policy Amendment to policy Reason for change Base salary, No significant changes.
N A benefits and allowances Pension No significant changes.
N A Annual bonus Maximum opportunity equal Maximum opportunity equal to To align with typical incentive plan to 100% of base salary.
levels in the wider market.
The level of bonus is Two-thirds of the bonus is To continue focus on rewarding determined by a matrix of determined by a matrix of for exceptional financial budgeted Adjusted EBITDA budgeted Adjusted EBITDA and performance in year and to align and personal performance personal performance levels.
The the annual bonus with the levels.
The weighting of weighting of measures for this effective integration of Regal into measures is circa 80% element is circa 80% budgeted the Group over the next two budgeted Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA and 20% years.
Introduction of bonus deferral performance.
The final third of the bonus is based aligns with market best practice Bonuses are paid in cash on performance against strategic and ensures that performance is following the approval of targets, which for FY18 and FY19 sustained over the longer term.
will be based on the delivery of synergy benefits as a result of the acquisition of Regal Entertainment.
Bonus earned up to 100% of salary will be paid in cash: any bonus earned above 100% of salary will be deferred into shares for a period of two years.
LTIP No significant changes to No significant changes.
N A policy, however it is intended that the maximum opportunity of 200% of salary will be made available to Executive Directors.
Share Ownership No significant changes.
N A Guidelines 52 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Policy table Executive Directors remuneration currently comprises an annual salary, a performance-related bonus, participation in a share-based incentive scheme, pension contributions and other benefits as explained below.
The table below summarises the Policy for each element of pay.
Our strategy Provide the best cinema Expand and enhance our Be technological leaders in the Drive value for shareholders experience give our estate to provide consistent, industry to offer the latest by delivering our growth plans customers a choice of how high quality, modern cinemas audio and visual technology in an efficient and effective way towatch a movie, with a rangeof retail offerings, allunderpinned by the best customer service Element of reward Base salary and pension benefits Annual bonus LTIP Shareholding requirement Purpose To provide a core level To incentivise the To incentivise To provide alignment of remuneration and annual delivery of sustainable profitability between Executive market competitive financial and over a period of time Directors and benefits to enable operational targets.
aligned to the overall shareholders.
Cineworld to attract objective of achieving and retain skilled, sustainable growth.
high-calibre executives to deliver its strategy.
Element and link Opportunity Operation tostrategy Base salary To provide a Salaries may be adjusted and any Executive Directors salary levels are agreed on joining and thereafter corelevel of increase will ordinarily be in reviewed annually, generally on 1 July each year.
remuneration percentage terms in line with The Committee considers both the nature and the status of the toenable the those across the Group, in Companys operations and the responsibilities, skills, experience and Company to attract aggregate, allowing for location.
performance of each Executive Director.
The Committee compares the and retain skilled, Percentage increases beyond Groups remuneration packages for its Executive Directors and high-calibre those granted to the wider employees with those of Directors and employees of similar seniority executives to workforce may be awarded in incompanies whose activities are comparable with the Group.
The deliver its strategy certain circumstances such as Committee also takes into account the progress made by the Group, where there is a change in contractual considerations and salary increases across the rest of responsibility, progression in the theGroup.
role, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size value and or complexity of the Group.
Pension To provide marketMonthly employer contribution up All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited to participate competitive to 20% of basic salary or in the in a Group Personal Pension Plan which is a money purchase plan.
retirement benefits form of a cash pension allowance.
Executive Directors may choose to opt out of the Group scheme and instead receive a cash pension allowance equivalent to employer pension contribution i. e. currently up to 20% of base salary.
The Companys pension contribution may be conditional on the Executive Director contributing a percentage of their base salary to the pension scheme in line with general scheme requirements.
Executives may make pension contributions under salary sacrifice arrangements.
Savings as a result of such an arrangement may be shared with the Executive Director in the form of an additional pension contribution.
53 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element and link Opportunity Operation tostrategy Other benefits To provide marketThe cost to the Group of Benefits in kind for Executive Directors currently include the competitive providing such benefits will provisionof a company car or car allowance, private mileage, life benefits and varyfrom year to year in insurance, permanent health insurance, private medical cover and support the accordance with the cost of adisturbance allowance.
healthand safety insuring such benefits.
Benefits are tailored to the individual circumstances of Directors to ofindividuals ensure that overall packages are attractive and additional benefits maybe introduced where appropriate.
A limited flexible benefits scheme operates for all employees including Directors and the intention is to expand it over a period of time.
Annual bonus To incentivise the Maximum opportunity for Two-thirds of the bonus is based on overall Group performance in annual delivery of Executive Directors of 150% meeting its primary financial objectives in Adjusted EBITDA for the financial and ofsalary.
The level of this element of the bonus is determined operational targets bya matrix of budgeted Adjusted EBITDA and personal performance levels.
The weighting of these measures is circa 80% Adjusted EBITDA and 20% personal performance which incorporates the reduction in netdebt.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the Adjusted EBITDA budget is challenging and so there is a clear link between the short-term Group performance and payout under the arrangements: None of this element of the bonus is payable if a minimum threshold of 90% of budgeted Adjusted EBITDA is not achieved.
At this level assuming good performance against individual objectives, a bonus of 30% of maximum opportunity would be payable.
The maximum level of this element of the bonus is only payable if both 110% of budgeted Adjusted EBITDA and exceptional performance against individual objectives is achieved.
The remaining third of the bonus is based on performance against strategic targets, which for FY18 and FY19 will be based on the delivery of synergy benefits as a result of the acquisition of Regal Entertainment.
The choice of these measures reflects the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied both to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
The performance measures and targets are reviewed annually to ensure alignment to strategy.
The bonus will be paid in cash save for any bonus earned above 100% of salary which will be deferred into shares for a period of two years.
Where a Director leaves and is considered a good leaver, he she will be paid on the usual payment date a proportion of any bonus entitlement, which would have otherwise accrued, reflecting that part of the bonus period which was actually worked.
54 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Element and link Opportunity Operation tostrategy LTIP To encourage Maximum opportunity for Annual awards of conditional shares or nil cost options are made to sustainable Executive Directors of 200% Executive Directors and members of the Senior Management Team at profitability over ofbase salary.
the discretion of the Committee.
Since the AGM in 2017, The Cineworld aperiod of time Group plc 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan has been in force and all aligned to the future awards will be made under this plan.
Prior to this, awards were overall objective made under The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan PSP.
ofachieving Awards may vest after three years, subject to continuing employment sustainable growth and the achievement of stretching three-year EPS growth performance conditions.
The Committee will review and calibrate the EPS growth targets on an annual basis for each award to ensure they are sufficiently stretching in light of both internal and external performance expectations.
Threshold performance is generally intended to align to the performance of the relevant market and or of competitors.
If the stretch performance level is achieved, it would be expected that the Company would have significantly outperformed the relevant market and or competitors.
At the threshold performance level, 25% of an award will vest.
At the stretch level of performance, 100% of an award will vest.
Between these levels, vesting will be determined on a straight-line basis.
On vesting, participants will also receive additional shares or a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
At the discretion of the Committee, each participant may have a proportional part of their Performance Share award replaced by an HMRC approved share option granted under the CSOP schedule to TheCineworld Group plc 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan CSOP Plan, up to the maximum value of options permitted by legislation currently 30,000.
Such awards are subject to identical performance vesting conditions as the Performance Shares they replace.
The conditions applicable to awards may be varied in exceptional circumstances following the grant of an award so as to achieve their original purpose, but not so as to make their achievement any more orless difficult to satisfy.
Awards may also be adjusted to reflect corporate events, such as rights issues, to maintain a holders position, but not so as to enhance it.
It is the Committees intention to settle awards in shares, but the plan rules allow for flexibility to settle in cash if required.
Share Ownership Guidelines To provide N A Each Executive Director is expected to build up a shareholding equal alignment between to150% of their base salary.
Executive Directors In order to achieve this level of shareholding, Executive Directors are and Shareholders expected to retain 50% of any shares they acquire under the PSP or onthe exercise of options, after allowing for the sale of shares to pay tax and other deductions, until such time as they have built up such a holding.
For the purposes of these guidelines, only beneficially owned shares will generally count towards the holding however, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to determine whether therequirement has been met in specific circumstances.
Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme To enable Group The maximum saving level is Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Sharesave Scheme, employees to aligned with that for all employees which is an HM Revenue and Customs-approved scheme open to all become Cineworld and the limit under legislation employees of nominated Group companies.
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are eligible to acquire shares encouraging in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant alignment and if they agree to enter into a savings contract for a three-year period.
rewarding for Consistent with the relevant legislation, no performance conditions apply.
Group performance Awards may also be adjusted to reflect corporate events, such as rights issues, to maintain a holders position, but not so as to enhance it.
This Policy also provides the ability for Executive Directors to participate in any other all-employee plan which may be introduced infuture up to the limits which apply to other employees.
55 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element and link Opportunity Operation tostrategy Non-Executive Director fees To attract and The Non-Executive Directors The level of fees is determined by the Board after taking into account retain high calibre receive a fixed fee for their appropriate advice except in the case of the Chairman whose level Non-Executive services as members of the Board offee is determined by the Remuneration Committee, in line with Directors and its Committees.
prevailing market conditions and at a level that will attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a significant Non-Executive Directors do not contribution to the Companys affairs.
participate in the Companys share incentives or otherwise No Director participates in discussions relating to the setting of his receive performance-related pay orher own remuneration.
but may receive reimbursement Fee levels are reviewed on an annual basis.
for travel and incidental costs incurred in furtherance of Company business.
Malus and clawback The Remuneration Committee reserves the discretion to apply malus by reducing or withholding annual bonus payments from the formulaic outcome based on Adjusted EBITDA performance for example, in the event of misconduct or misstatement of financial results.
Following payment, the Committee will retain the discretion to claw back bonuses in the case of misconduct ormisstatement of financial results.
The rules of the LTIP include claw-back provisions that will apply to Awards granted to Executive Directors and may, if the Committee determines, apply to any other Award other than an option granted pursuant to the CSOP Plan.
The provisions apply where it is found within two years of the vesting of an Award that there has been a material misstatement in the financial results of the Company and or an act of gross misconduct on the part of the Award Holder that takes place before the vesting date of the Award but only comes to light after the Award vests and such misstatement or gross misconduct has resulted in an Award vesting to a greater extent than it otherwise should have done Excessive Award.
In these circumstances, the Committee may make reductions up to the value of the Excessive Award to other Awards held by the Award Holder in question which would otherwise vest under the LTIP including cash awards and or require the Award holder in question to pay an amount equal to the value of the Excessive Award which has not otherwise been recovered after taking into account any income tax and social security paid by the Award holder in relation to the Excessive Award.
Satisfaction of Share Options and Share Awards Awards under the LTIP, the PSP, the Sharesave Scheme and the CSOP adopted by the Company in 2010 2010 CSOP can be satisfied using new issue shares, shares held in treasury or shares purchased in the market in conjunction with the Cineworld Group Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, established by the Company on 24 March 2006 with independent trustees based in Jersey.
If new issue shares are used, the following limits will be followed: In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be issued under the LTIP, the PSP and under any other executive share or option scheme established by the Company, and operated on a discretionary basis, may not exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be issued under any employees share or option scheme established by the Company may not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
Resulting Total Pay Levels Under Different Scenarios The chart below illustrates how the potential future compensation of the Executive Directors may vary at different levels of performance and the percentage each element may form together with the possible total value.
For the purpose of this chart, the following assumptions have been made: The base salary levels are those in effect as at the date of the 2018 AGM.
Bonus opportunity and LTIP award levels are the maximum levels set out in the Policy Table above.
Fixed elements comprise base salary, pension and other benefits.
Benefits levels are assumed to be the same as in 2017 for each Executive Director.
For target performance, assumptions of bonus payout of 67% of maximum and threshold vesting 25% for LTIP awards have been made.
For maximum performance, assumptions of bonus payout of 100% of maximum and maximum vesting 100% for LTIP awards have been made.
No share price increase has been assumed.
56 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 3,004 42% 2,417 42% 1,902 1,747 42% 18% 31% 1,409 36% 18% 31% 1,114 36% 18% 31% 799 36% 649 100% 46% 27% 519 100% 46% 27% 100% 47% 27% Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum CEO Deputy CEO CFO Salary, Benets & Pension Bonus LTIP Salary shown in 000s Recruitment Remuneration Policy New Executive Directors will generally be appointed on remuneration packages with the same structure and elements as described in the Policy Table above.
On appointment, base salary level will be set taking into account a range of factors including market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost.
Annual bonus opportunity will be no greater than 150% of salary and the maximum performance share award will be 200% of salary.
For external appointments, although there are no plans to offer additional benefits, cash and or share-based elements on recruitment, the Committee reserves the right to do so when it considers this to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
Such payments will take account of remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and, to the extent possible, would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
If it is necessary in the circumstances, the Committee reserves the right to offer a longer initial notice period than one year.
Insuch a circumstance, this would reduce to a notice period of at most 12 months.
Shareholders will be informed of any Director appointment and the individuals remuneration arrangements as soon as practicable following the appointment via an announcement to the regulatory news services and on the Groups website.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue.
Service Contracts The Groups policy in entering into service contracts with Executive Directors is to enable the recruitment of high-quality executives and to obtain protection from their sudden departure, whether or not to competitor companies.
In addition, service contracts are an important element in maintaining protection for the Groups business and its commercially sensitive information.
A summary of the key terms of the Executive Directors service contracts is set out below: Moshe Greidinger Israel Greidinger Nisan Cohen Effective date 27 February 2014 27 February 2014 11 January 2017 ofcontract 1 2 Notice period 12 months 12 months 12 months Remuneration Base salary Base salary Base salary Pension contribution Pension contribution Pension contribution Company car or car allowance Company car or car allowance Company car or car allowance Entitlement to participate in Entitlement to participate in Entitlement to participate in annual bonus scheme annual bonus scheme annualbonus scheme Disturbance allowance Disturbance allowance Life assurance cover Life assurance cover Life assurance cover Medical insurance Medical insurance Medical insurance Permanent health insurance Permanent health insurance Permanent health insurance Termination Company has right to terminate Company has right to terminate Company has right to terminate on on payment on pre-agreed basis on payment on pre-agreed basis payment on pre-agreed basis Non-competition During employment and for During employment and for During employment and for 12months thereafter 6months thereafter 6months thereafter 1 The Groups policy is to have notice periods for Executive Directors which are between 6 and 12 months.
2 In order to align with the Chief Executive Officer, the notice period for the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will be increased to12 months with effect from the date of the AGM.
The Executive Directors are, under the terms of their service contracts, entitled to an annual review of their base salary each year.
57 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Loss of Office Policy The Companys policy is to endeavour to minimise any payment on early termination by insisting on mitigation of any loss where possible.
To allow the Company to terminate an Executive Directors employment contract legally so it would not face a claim for wrongful termination although a claim for unfair dismissal could still exist, its policy is to pre-agree arrangements which would apply on termination.
Only the Company has the right to trigger such arrangements and it has complete discretion as to whether it does.
Under the terms of their contracts, the Company may, in lieu of giving notice, terminate an Executive Directors service contract by making a payment equivalent to 100% of base salary and contractual benefits for the notice period.
In this event, the Executive Director would not be entitled to any bonus for the unworked portion of his notice period, but would be eligible for a pro rata bonus for the period up to the date of the termination of his contract.
Where an Executive Director works their notice, pension, benefits and bonus will continue to accrue as normal up until the date of the termination.
Any bonus entitlement will be paid as normal on a pro-rated basis.
Leaving arrangements under the Share and Share Option Schemes vary: A.
Under the Cineworld Group PLC 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan: An award will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the employment of the Group unless the participant is a good leaver including death, injury, ill-health or disability and redundancy or the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines.
Any such discretion would only be applied by the Committee where it considers that continued participation is justified by reference to past performance to the date of leaving or because of prevailing circumstances.
In such cases, the award would generally become exercisable on the original vesting date on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed and subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions unless the Remuneration Committee determines other arrangements are justified.
In the case of death, options will remain exercisable for a period of 12 months following the date of death.
Options that have already vested before an Award holder ceases to be employed by the Company or by one of its subsidiaries but which have not yet been exercised at the time that the Award holder ceases to be so employed for whatever reason, will remain capable of exercise in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement or winding-up of the Company all awards will vest to the extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines.
Alternatively, with the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants may exchange their awards for equivalent options to acquire shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
Under the PSP: An award will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the employment of the Group due to resignation or for cause.
If a participant leaves employment for any other reason, the award would generally become exercisable on the original vesting date on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed and subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions unless the Remuneration Committee determines other arrangements are justified.
An award, to the extent it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the period of one month after which, to the extent unexercised, the award will lapse.
C. Under the CSOP: An option will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the employment of the Group.
However, if a participant leaves the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, disability, redundancy, retirement or any other reason as determined by the Remuneration Committee or if the company or business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, then unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines, his option will become exercisable on the original vesting date on areduced basis taking into account only that part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed.
An option, to the extent it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the period of six months after which, to the extent unexercised, the option shall lapse automatically.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement or winding-up of the Company all options will vest to the extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines.
Such options become exercisable for a limited period of time.
Alternatively, in the case of a takeover, with the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants may exchange their options for equivalent options to acquire shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
58 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 D. Under the Sharesave Scheme: An option granted may normally not be exercised until the option holder has completed their savings contract and then not more than six months thereafter.
However, if a participant leaves the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, disability, redundancy, retirement on reaching 60 years or any other contractual retirement age, or if the company or business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, the option will become exercisable.
An option, to the extent it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the period of six months 12 months in the case of death after which, to the extent unexercised, the option will lapse automatically.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement and or a winding-up of the Company, options may be exercised for a limited period of time.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The dates of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and their notice periods are as follows: Non-Executive Director Date of appointment Notice period Anthony Bloom Chairman 7 October 2004 1 month Alicja Kornasiewicz 26 May 2015 1 month Dean Moore 11 January 2017 1 month Scott Rosenblum 27 February 2014 1 month Arni Samuelsson 27 February 2014 1 month Rick Senat 2 July 2010 1 month Julie Southern 26 May 2015 1 month The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have service contracts with the Company.
The terms and conditions of their appointment as Non-Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment, which are subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association.
It is the Boards policy that the appointment of each Non-Executive Director is terminable on a short notice unless their appointment is terminated by a resolution of the shareholders in general meeting or if they fail to be re-elected by shareholders in general meeting when it aims to ensure no notice is necessary.
Where a Non-Executive Director does not serve until the end of his or her term, the policy is to pay the fees due pro rata to the date of cessation.
Consideration of Wider Employee Pay Each year, prior to reviewing the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Team, the Remuneration Committee takes into account average levels of salary increases awarded to employees generally.
Salary increases will normally be broadly in line with those for other employees.
Whilst the Company does not formally consult employees in relation to the Remuneration policy, thorough consideration is given to the wider employee workforce when setting executive pay and ensuring appropriate alignment with executives.
In addition, the Company regularly carries out engagement surveys which enable employees to share their views with management.
Consideration of Shareholder Views in Developing Policy The Committee is grateful that shareholders have been supportive of its Policy in the past.
As appropriate, the Committee will continue to engage and communicate with shareholders regarding Cineworlds Remuneration Policy and take suitable action when required.
In considering the proposed changes to this Policy, the Remuneration Committee has taken into account feedback received from some shareholders.
Wealso consulted with major shareholders on the proposed changes to the previous Policy introduced in 2017.
59 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration The Remuneration Committee and its Role The Companys Remuneration Committee comprises Dean Moore, Julie Southern and Rick Senat, who are all considered to be independent.
The Chair of the Committee is Dean Moore, who took over from Martina King on 11 January 2017.
The Committees principal responsibilities are to: make recommendations to the Board for approval of the Groups broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the Companys Senior Management: determine the specific remuneration packages of the Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and Senior Management: approve the terms of the service agreements of the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and Senior Management: and approve the design of, and determine the targets for, any performance related pay schemes and LTIPs.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website www.
The terms are reviewed annually.
The Committee met for four scheduled meetings during the period and details of the members attendance record is set out on page 38.
Remuneration Committee Advisors The Company receives advice in relation to the Remuneration Policy and its implementation in respect of the Chairman, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and Senior Management.
In September 2017, the Committee appointed PwC as advisors to the Committee following a competitive selection process, replacing Willis Towers Watson.
The terms of engagement with Willis Towers Watson and PwC are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Willis Towers Watson attended three scheduled meetings during the year at the request of the Committee.
Willis Towers Watsons fees for advice to the Committee in 2017 were 44,322 2016: 80,428.
Following the appointment of PwC, there wereno further scheduled meetings for the remainder of the year.
However, PwC will attend scheduled meetings going forward at the request ofthe Committee.
No fees were payable to PwC in 2017.
As founder members of the Remuneration Consultants Group, Willis Towers Watson and PwC operate under the Voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Additionally as a member firm of the ICAEW, PwC complies with the ICAEWs ethical guidelines.
As a result, both PwC and Willis Towers Watson operate under rigorous rules on independence, compliance and quality assurance.
Willis Towers Watson has no other connections with the Company except as the actuary to the pension scheme of AdelphiCarlton Limited, the Groups operating company in Ireland.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice that Willis Towers Watson provided on executive remuneration was objective and independent and that no conflict of interest arose as a result of these other services.
PwC has no other connections with Cineworld except as providing internal audit support to the Companys Risk and Assurance team.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by PwC is objective and independent.
The Committee is comfortable that the PwC engagement partner and team that provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with the Company that may impair their independence.
On appointment as advisors, the Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that therewere no conflicts or potential conflicts arising.
The Committee also received assistance from the Chairman of the Company Anthony Bloom, the Chief Executive Officer Moshe Greidinger, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer Israel Greidinger, the Senior Vice President of Human Resources Tara Rooney and the Company Secretary Fiona Smith, although they did not participate in discussions relating to the setting of their own remuneration.
The Committee also consulted with the Chief Executive Officer and received recommendations from himin respect of changes to remuneration packages for Senior Management.
Board Changes in 2017 As announced last year, on 11 January 2017, Martina King stepped down from the Board, and Nisan Cohen and Dean Moore wereappointed to the Board.
Nisan Cohen became Chief Financial Officer and Dean Moore was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
60 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration for 2017 This section covers the reporting period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 and provides details of the implementation of the Companys Remuneration Policy during the period.
Single Total Figure Table audited information The table below gives a single figure for the total remuneration and breakdown for each Executive and Non-Executive Director in respect of the 2017 financial year.
Comparative figures for the 2016 financial year have also been provided.
2 The value of PSP shares vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of 6.349 being the average price for the last three months of the period as the PSP will not vest until 23 April 2018, and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
Currently, the dividend equivalent payment to Moshe Greidinger would amount to 89,625, the dividend equivalent payment to Israel Greidinger would amount to 61,108, and the dividend equivalent payment to Nisan Cohen would amount to 1,711.
3 Nisan Cohen and Dean Moore were appointed to the Board on 11 January 2017.
4 Martina King left the Company on 11 January 2017.
5 Details of the actual gains made are set out on page 66.
The actual figures set out in the table above differ from those included in the 2016 Annual Report as last year an estimated value of 5.525 per share was used to calculate the theoretical gain, as the awards had not yet vested.
The figures above reflect the share price of 7.00 on the date of vesting, 6 June 2017.
Base Salary audited information The base salaries of the Executive Directors are usually reviewed on an annual basis.
As described in the Policy, the Committee compares the Groups remuneration packages for its Executive Directors and employees with those for Directors and employees of similar seniority in companies whose activities are broadly comparable with the Group.
It also takes into account the progress made by the Group, contractual considerations and salary increases across the rest of the Group.
The salaries of the CEO and Deputy CEO were increased by 2.5% with effect from 1 July 2017.
Following his appointment to the Board in January 2017, the CFO did not receive a base salary increase during the year.
Average salaries across the Group were increased by 2.5%.
Salary levels as at the end of the financial period were: 1 Moshe Greidinger 577,844 p. a.
1 Part of Moshe Greidingers and Israel Greidingers salaries are paid in Israel to enable social security and government healthcare deductions to be made.
61 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Pension audited information Executive Directors are invited to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a money purchase plan, or alternatively may receive a pension allowance in cash.
The Executive Directors have elected not to participate in this scheme and instead receive a cash pension allowance.
For 2017 this was 20% of salary for the CEO and Deputy CEO, and 14.8% of salary for the CFO.
Company pension contributions allowances for the period were: 000 Moshe Greidinger 114 Israel Greidinger 78 Nisan Cohen 42 Other Benefits audited information Benefits in kind for Executive Directors comprised the provision of a company car or car allowance, private mileage, life insurance, permanent health insurance and private medical cover.
Israel Moshe Nisan Benefit Greidinger Greidinger Cohen Car car allowance 14,000 14,000 Permanent health insurance private medical cover 1,676 1,676 2,590 Life assurance 27,826 22,180 Disturbance allowance 40,000 40,000 40,000 Israel Greidinger and Moshe Greidinger both received a disturbance allowance of 40,000 for the period as, under the terms oftheir employment contracts, they are required to spend a sufficient and proportionate amount of time at the Companys head office in Brentford, Greater London.
The decision was taken to also pay a disturbance allowance to Nisan Cohen of 40,000 forthe period to reflect the significant amount of travel he was required to undertake as part of the Regal acquisition process.
Annual Bonus audited information Annual bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors in the year was a maximum of 100% of base salary.
As described in the Policy, the annual bonus for the year was determined by a matrix of Adjusted EBITDA compared to budget, and the achievement of specified individual objectives.
The weighting between the Groups financial performance and personal performance was circa 80%:20%.
TheCommittee retains the absolute discretion to apply malus by reducing or withholding annual bonus payments from the formulaic outcome based on Adjusted EBITDA performance for example, in the event of misconduct or misstatement of financial results.
Personal Objectives The individual performance element for the CEO, Deputy CEO and CFO for 2017 focused on the strategic growth agenda of theGroup.
For the CEO and Deputy CEO, emphasis was placed on the identification and development of acquisition targets.
In addition, objectives focused on the successful opening of new cinemas on time and on budget, and the subsequent management of those new sites from an operational point of view, the successful delivery of results from the Groups renovation programme, the effectiveness of steps taken to improve the customer experience, the introduction of the latest technology, and maintaining strong employee relations.
For the CFO, objectives also included ensuring that appropriate financial controls and systems are maintained across the Group, maintaining focus on investor relations, and ensuring that the Groups financial Key Performance Indicators are driven and monitored, based on the Groups strategy.
Performance Against Objectives The Committee judged the individual objectives to have been achieved at the top level out of five for the CEO, Deputy CEO, and the CFO.
In making this assessment, the Committee considered a number of factors, including the transformational acquisition of Regal Entertainment, the continued profitable growth of the Company, the nine additional cinemas a total of 109 screens that were opened across the Group during 2017, the completion of four refurbishments in the UKand two in Poland, the introduction of a further 11 4DX screens, two new IMAX screens and two new Superscreens, and the progress made in implementing the Groups IT programme.
For the customer focused element of the objectives, the continued drive in improving the customer experience was considered, including the opening of five new Starbucks sites in the UK, and the expansion of the VIP locations now 12 across the Group.
In addition, the strong shareholder support for the Regal acquisition was taken into account in relation to the investor focused element of the CFOs objective, and work in relation to the further strengthening ofthe finance team and the success of the shared service centre in Poland, delivering significant cost savings to the Group.
62 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The table below shows the Adjusted EBITDA targets and performance achieved against them in 2017.
Threshold Maximum Individual bonus bonus Bonus paid Bonus paid Adjusted EBITDA objective opportunity opportunity % of % of base Bonus paid performance performance 000 000 maximum salary 000 Moshe Greidinger 102% of budgeted Above and 102.2 570.8 78.6 78.6 448.4 EBITDA achieved Beyond Israel Greidinger 102% of budgeted Above and 69.7 389.2 78.6 78.6 305.7 EBITDA achieved Beyond Nisan Cohen 102% of budgeted Above and 28.0 156.6 82.2 44.4 128.8 EBITDA achieved Beyond The Committee judged the individual objectives have been achieved at the top level out of five for the CEO, the Deputy CEO and the CFO.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan PSP audited information Awards Vesting Following the End of the Performance Period Ending 31 December 2017 Awards under the PSP made in April 2015 are due to vest on 23 April 2018.
The performance condition applicable to these awards is summarised below: EPS growth performance Vesting level Less than 8% p. a. Nil 8% p. a.
100% Between 8% and 16% p. a. Straight-line basis The adjusted diluted EPS figure for the year represented compound average annual growth of 17.4% on a pro forma basis, compared to the base year, with the result that the level of vesting for this award was 100%.
The number and value of shares that will vest to each of the Executive Directors is set out on page 66 of this report.
Awards Made in the Year Awards were made to the Executive Directors under the PSP in April 2017.
The vesting of these awards will be based on Cineworlds three year EPS growth performance, as summarised in the table below.
EPS growth performance Vesting level Less than 5% p. a. Nil 5% p. a.
100% Between 5% and 11% p. a. Straight-line basis The number and value of share options under the PSP which were awarded to the Executive Directors and vested during the period are set out on page 66 of this report.
Non-Executive Directors Fees audited information The table below sets out the fees payable to Non-Executive Directors.
Fees as at 1 January 2017 Position held andat 31 December 2017 Chairman 175,000 p. a.
Senior Independent Director 10,000 p. a. Non-Executive Director base fee 50,000 p. a.
Audit Committee Chair 20,000 p. a. Remuneration Committee Chair 10,000 p. a.
Committee member nil The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any share options, bonuses or other performance related payments, nor do they receive any pension entitlement or other benefits apart from expenses in relation to travel costs to attend Cineworld Board meetings, including related sustenance and accommodation.
63 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Loss of Office Payments audited information There were no loss of office payments during the financial year.
Payments to Past Directors Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015.
A total of 20,401 shares are due to vest under the PSP on 23 April 2018.
Based on the average share price for the last three months of the period 6.349 the estimated value of this award is 140,175 including a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting 10,649.
External Appointments Moshe and Israel Greidinger are both directors of Israel Theatres Limited.
In relation to these roles, they did not receive any fees.
They do not receive any fees in relation to their additional respective non-executive roles as set out in their biographies on page 32.
Directors Shareholdings at 31 December 2017 audited information Ordinary shares at Share options subject to performance 1 31 December 2017 conditions at 31 December 2017 Executive Directors 2 Moshe Greidinger 76,871,622 448,267 2 Israel Greidinger 76,793,579 305,635 4 Nisan Cohen 36,708 Non-Executive Directors 3 Anthony Bloom 2,208,006 Dean Moore Alicja Kornasiewicz Scott Rosenblum 16,877 Arni Samuelsson Rick Senat 53,874 Julie Southern 1 Relates to unvested awards under the PSP.
This figure includes awards made in 2015, 2016 and 2017 as the vesting of the 2015 awards described above will not happen until April 2018.
No performance conditions apply to Nisan Cohens PSP awards granted in 2015 and 2016 as these were granted before hebecame a Director.
2 Includes ordinary shares held by the Global City Theatres B. V Major Shareholder.
Shares in the Major Shareholder are held in trust for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger Israel Greidingers entire interest in the Major Shareholder was transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015 and Moshe Greidingers entire interest in the Major Shareholder was transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 13 October 2016.
Following the transfers, Moshe and Israel Greidinger ceased to be beneficially interested in ordinary shares in the Company.
However, given the family connection described above, the Committee has determined that they will both be considered as meeting the shareholding requirement under the Policy.
Figures stated above also include individual shareholdings of Moshe and Israel Greidinger following the exercise of their PSP awards in June 2017.
3 Shares are held by a nominee for trusts of which Anthony Bloom is one of the potential discretionary beneficiaries.
The interests of Directors and their connected persons in ordinary shares as at 31 December 2017, including any interests inshares and share options provisionally granted under the PSP are presented above.
As described in the Policy, each Executive Director is expected to build up, over a period of time, a holding in shares equal to150% of their base salary.
Given the family connection described above in Footnote 2 of the table above, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the CEO and Deputy CEO will both be considered as meeting the shareholding requirement.
Current shareholding Shareholding Shares owned % of guidelines outright at salary as at %2017 31 December 31 December Guidelines Executive Directors salary 2017 2017 met Moshe Greidinger 150% 119,254 124% Yes Israel Greidinger 150% 81,310 124% Yes Nisan Cohen 150% No 64 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Nine-Year Total Shareholder Return Performance and CEO Pay The graph below compares the Companys total shareholder return performance against the FTSE 250 and FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure indices over the past nine financial years.
The Remuneration Committee believes these to be the most appropriate comparators as Cineworld is a member of both indices.
For 2014, it represents a combination of two months of Stephen Wiener and ten months of Moshe Greidinger who both held the office of CEO during 2014.
2 The increase in the CEO single figure between 2015 and 2016 primarily relates to the first vesting of a PSP award to the CEO since appointment.
The value of this award vesting increased due to the significant increase in the Companys share price over the vesting period.
3 Moshe Greidinger, CEO, did not have an LTIP which vested in this year.
For those who did, the proportion was 100%.
Percentage Increase in CEO Remuneration The percentage changes in the value of salary, non-pension benefits and bonus between 2016 and 2017 for the CEO and employees generally are set out in the table below: 1 2 CEO Employees Salary 2.5% 2.5% Non-pension benefits 7.1 % 4.6% Annual bonus No change No change 1 Moshe Greidingers salary increased by 2.5% with effect from 1 July 2017.
2 The figures reflect increases for UK-based monthly salaried employees excluding the Senior Management group.
This group has been selected as the UK is the country in which the CEO spends a significant proportion of his time.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The table below shows figures for people costs, shareholder dividends and a number of other significant distributions of turnover that the Committee considers to be relevant in order to provide context to the relevant importance of pay spend.
2017 2016 % change Staff and employee costs 126.4m 112.9m 12.0% Of which, Directors remuneration costs 5.1m 5.2m 1.9 % Corporation tax paid 12.0m 9.8m 22.4% Dividends paid 53.8m 47.0m 14.4% Retained earnings 159.5m 110.5m 44.3% 65 Total Shareholder Return rebased to 100 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Shareholder Voting Results from 2017 AGM The Directors Annual Report on Remuneration and the Remuneration Policy were subject to a shareholder vote at the AGM on 18 May 2017, the results of which were as follows: Number % of Remuneration Report ofvotes votes cast For 199,034,420 93.43% Discretionary 17,206 0.01% Against 13,971,462 6.56% Total votes cast 213,023,088 100% 1 Votes withheld 2,301,461 1 A vote withheld is not counted as a vote in law.
Number % of Remuneration Policy ofvotes votes cast For 199,892,737 95.61% Discretionary 17,206 0.01% Against 9,167,526 4.38% Total votes cast 209,077,469 100% 1 Votes withheld 6,247,080 1 A vote withheld is not counted as a vote in law.
Share and Share Option Awards Granted and Vesting During the Year audited information Awards or grants were made under the Companys Share and Share Options Schemes as follows: PSP: Awards consisting of nil cost options over shares were granted to the CEO, Deputy CEO and CFO equivalent in value to 150%, 150% and 60% of their base salaries respectively on 12 April 2017 which will become exercisable after three years.
Details of the awards are set out below.
Awards are subject to continued employment and the achievement of the performance conditions as set out on page 63.
CSOP: No share options were granted under the CSOP in 2017.
Awards granted or vesting during the year: Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan Details of awards made and vesting during the period are: Market At Awarded Vested Exercised Lapsed At 31 value at 1January during during during during December Exercise date of Exercise 1 2 3 Name of Director 2017 year year year year 2017 price exercise period Gain Current Directors 4 Israel Greidinger 382,329 85,925 162,619 162,619 305,635 Nil 6.78 6 months 1,194,273.94 4 Moshe Greidinger 560,751 126,024 238,508 238,508 448,267 Nil 6.78 6 months 1,751,602.75 5 Nisan Cohen 19,792 25,931 9,015 45,723 Nil 11 months Past Directors Philip Bowcock 96,119 75,718 75,718 20,401 Nil 6.78 6 months 556,072.99 1 This was the price per share received in respect of those shares which were sold.
2 Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions details of which, for the awards made in 2017, are set out on page 63.
3 Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share on 12 April 2017, the last business day before grant, was 6.71.
The face value of the awards to Israel Greidinger, Moshe Greidinger and Nisan Cohen were 577,000, 846,000 and 174,000 respectively.
All awards were granted as nil cost options.
4 The gain has been calculated using the realised share price on the date of exercising and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
The dividend equivalent payments amounted to 91,717.12 for Israel Greidinger, 134,518.51 for Moshe Greidinger, 5,084.46 for Nisan Cohen and 42,704.95 for Philip Bowcock.
5 Due to regulatory restrictions imposed as a result of the Regal acquisition, the Committee agreed to extend the exercise period for Nisan Cohen until after the end of the closed period.
The awards were exercised in January 2017 as reported by an RNS announcement at the time.
Details of the awards vesting in April 2018: Date Number Vesting Number Number Exercise Name of Director awarded awarded date vesting lapsing price Exercise period Current Directors Israel Greidinger 23 04 15 117,065 23 04 18 117,065 Nil 23 04 18 22 10 18 Moshe Greidinger 23 04 15 171,696 23 04 18 171,696 Nil 23 04 18 22 10 18 Nisan Cohen 23 04 15 3,277 23 04 18 3,277 Nil 23 04 18 22 10 18 Past Directors Philip Bowcock 23 04 15 117,065 23 04 18 20,401 96,664 Nil 23 04 18 22 10 18 Nisan Cohens PSP awards granted in 2015 are not subject to the EPS performance conditions.
66 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan No Director was granted an option during the period and no options vested during the period.
No Director, past or present, holds a CSOP option which will vest in 2018 financial year.
Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme No Directors currently participate in the Companys Sharesave Scheme.
Implementation of Policy in 2018 The Remuneration Committee intends to implement the Policy for 2018 as set out below.
The new salaries of the Executive Directors will be as follows, with increases being effective from 28 February 2018, being the closing date of the Regal acquisition: Moshe Greidinger 630,000 Israel Greidinger 505,000 Nisan Cohen 395,000 For the 2018 financial period the benefits of the Executive Directors will be reviewed in the usual manner.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity will be 150% of salary for the CEO and Deputy CEO and 100% of salary for the CFO.
In line with the Policy, two-thirds of the bonus will be based on performance against Adjusted EBITDA targets and individual strategic objectives, with the remaining third being based on strategic targets, which for FY18 and FY19 will be based on the delivery of synergy benefits as a result of the Regal acquisition.
Bonus payments will be subject to Committee discretion to applymalus.
Following payment the Committee will retain the discretion to claw back bonuses in the case of misconduct ormisstatement of financial results.
The face value of awards granted under the LTIP in 2018 will be 200% of salary for the CEO and Deputy CEO and 150% of salary for the CFO.
The calibration of targets for these awards is set out in the table below.
EPS growth performance Vesting level Less than 8% p. a. Nil 8% p. a.
100% Between 8% and 15% p. a. Straight-line basis In considering the appropriate calibration of targets, the Committee has taken into account both the internal business plan and external analyst estimates based on the enlarged Group following the acquisition of Regal.
The Committee believes that the growth targets are stretching and, if they are achieved, a significant amount of value will have been created for shareholders.
Given the international nature of the Group, the Committee continues to believe that UK retail price index inflation is a less directly relevant factor and will therefore express the targets as absolute growth levels.
As with the 2017 awards, in addition to the EPS performance condition, the Committee, in its absolute discretion, will need to be satisfied that an award holder has performed their duties at a satisfactory level over the three years from date of grant in order for awards to vest.
The Committee, therefore, will retain the absolute discretion to apply malus to unvested awards, by reducing or withholding vesting.
Following vesting, the Committee will also retain the discretion to claw back LTIP shares in the case of misconduct or misstatement of financial result.
Incorporation by Reference The sections The Remuneration Committee and its Role and Remuneration Committee Advisors also form part of the Corporate Governance Statement, and are incorporated into that statement by reference.
By order of the Board Dean Moore Chair of the Remuneration Committee 15 March 2018 67
