Strategic Report Group strategy These capabilities strengthen the Group to deliver Our long-term strategy is to build resilient financial performance and faster growth.
a Group with distinctive capabilities and performance in three areas: We will apply these capabilities to solve difficult problems for our customers where they value materials science capability our differentiated products and support, and and technology.
we will apply these capabilities ethically and application engineering capability.
safely in line with our high Group standards.
To support the strategy, the Group has set six key execution priorities: 1 The reorganisation to six global business units was completed in 2016.
It has led to improved global co-ordination across the Group and strengthened accountability within each global business unit, simplifying the approach to customers and markets and increasing operational focus.
Move to a global business structure Improve technical leadership 2 Research and development investment continues to be increased to extend Morgans technical lead Find out more and to accelerate new product development.
The Centres of Excellence allow for the concentration Page 18 of development efforts in those areas which can deliver the greatest benefit globally to the Group.
Improve technical leadership Improve operational execution 3 There are a number of opportunities across the global business units to improve operational execution.
F ind out more Resource and capital are allocated to target specific improvements to efficiency and effectiveness on Page 20 a business-by-business basis.
Improve operational execution Drive sales effectiveness 4 and market focus The Group is focused on improving a number of aspects of its sales capabilities and process: sales processes and their efficiency, the management of key customer accounts and distribution channels, and deeper Drive sales F ind out more understanding of end-markets and faster-growing segments.
Page 22 effectiveness and market focus Increase investment in people The Group aims to strengthen its leadership capability and deepen functional capabilities across the 5 business, including in sales and engineering.
Senior leaders will be benchmarked externally, new talent management and development introduced and future leadership candidates identified from within the business.
Performance management will be enhanced for the Groups top management and the structures and targets for incentive schemes Increase investment in F ind out more will be reviewed.
The Group will invest more in executive training and create clear career paths for its Page 24 people management technologists and engineers.
and development The reorganisation of the business enables the Group to run each business unit on a global basis.
A Morgan 6 business will have sustainable presence in its end-market and be scalable, operating in attractive growing markets where it has the ability to add value to our customers.
It will have synergies with the rest of the portfolio, be organisationally robust and deliver or be capable of delivering strong financial performance.
Simplify the business 16 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017
