Overview About us % of revenue 2017 Our markets In Ind du us str triia all The Group operates in a 5% 48% 6% number of market sectors.
6% Examples of the products Morgan supplies, and its 7% customer collaborations, 8% are provided on the following pages.
4 48% 8% 20% o of 2 f 20 01 17 r 7 re ev five en nu ue e Morgan Advanced Materials Industrial designs and manufactures Transportation products for use in a broad Petrochemical range of challenging process Security and defence and manufacturing Energy environments.
Electronics The Groups advanced materials offer a wide range of performance characteristics including Healthcare superior insulating properties, dimensional stability, strength and stiffness.
Components which are highly resistant to chemical and physical wear, corrosion and extreme temperatures support optimised process efficiency and increase productivity.
These attributes are helping to reduce industrial waste, improve safety and lower environmental impact.
For example, Morgans Molten Metal Systems global business unit has focused on reducing aluminium contamination in molten metal processing.
The development of two specialist crucible coatings, designed to act as a diffusion barrier during the melting process, is helping aluminium casters to improve quality of output and reduce rejections by avoiding metal contamination in the melting and holding process.
Morgan has also continued to invest in research and development R&D to support its role in the industrial market, with construction work underway at our new Carbon Science Centre of Excellence CoE at Penn State University, Pennsylvania, USA.
The collaboration between the university and Morgan aims to drive innovation in the field of carbon science for a range of sectors and applications.
The findings generated by the CoE will support Morgan in the delivery of world-class materials science solutions to meet the challenges of customers worldwide, safely and efficiently.
04 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017
