Strategic Report Directors statements The Directors have made a robust assessment Going concern Viability statement of the principal risks facing the Group and their The Groups business activities, together In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK potential impact and the adequacy of the with the factors likely to affect its future Corporate Governance Code, the directors headroom relative to a severe but plausible development, performance and position are set have assessed the viability of the Group over combination of these risks.
While the review has out in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 53. a three-year period, taking into account the considered all the principal risks identified by the The financial position of the Group, its cash Groups current position and the potential Group, including the impacts of re-financing in flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, impact of the principal risks documented on 2019, the following were focussed on for enhanced are described earlier in this Financial Review.
pages 26 to 29 of the Annual Report.
Based on stress testing: technological obsolescence: single In addition, note 20 to the financial statements, this assessment, the directors confirm that they point exposure, trade compliance and pension includes the Groups policies and processes have a reasonable expectation that the funding.
The geographical and product for managing financial risk: details of its financial Company will be able to continue in operation diversification of the Groups operations helps instruments and hedging activities: and details and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the minimise the risk of serious business interruption of its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
period to 31 December 2020. or a catastrophic damage to our reputation.
Furthermore, the spread of the Groups The Group meets its day-to-day working capital The Directors have determined that a end-markets is such that it is not reliant on requirements through local banking arrangements three-year period to 31 December 2020 is an one particular group of clients or sector.
underpinned by the Groups 200 million appropriate period over which to provide its unsecured multi-currency revolving credit facility viability statement.
This is the period reviewed Whilst this review does not consider all of the maturing October 2019.
The Groups forecasts by the Board in our strategic planning process possible risks that the Group could face, the and projections, taking account of reasonably and is considered to be appropriate given the Directors consider that the approach adopted possible changes in trading performance and dynamics in the markets in which we operate.
and the work performed is reasonable in the exchange rates, show the Group operating circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved comfortably within its debt financial covenants To allow the Directors the make this assessment, and that it allows the Board to confirm that they for the next 12 months.
a business base case has been built up, initially have a reasonable expectation that the Group using a detailed bottom up approach and then will be able to continue in operation and meet The current economic climate continues to applying what the Directors consider to be an its liabilities as they fall due over the period to have an impact on the Group, its customers appropriate set of assumptions in respect of 31 December 2020.
In reaching this assessment and its suppliers.
The Board fully recognises growth, margins, working capital flows, capital the Board have assessed that the existing the challenges that lie ahead but, after making expenditure, dividends and all other matters that indebtedness can be successfully refinanced enquiries, and in the absence of any material could have a significant impact on the financial within the Viability statements timeframe.
uncertainties, the Directors have a reasonable performance and liquidity of the Group.
The expectation that the Company and the resulting base case provides the Directors with Group have adequate resources to continue an EBITDA, debt and finance charge headroom in operational existence for a period of relative to current bank covenants.
18 months from the date of signing of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
40 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017
