Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our Business Model and Strategy Creating long-term value Our vision To be The Best Place to Watch a Movie.
Our purpose To provide our customers with a choice of how to watch a movie, in modern state-of-the-art cinemas with the latest technology and a variety of retail offerings, allunderpinned by great customer service.
1 Diversification of markets and brands 5 What we do, we do well 2 Latest What technology differentiates us 4 Innovation 3 Our Unlimited 5.
What we do, we do well programme We have optimal management structures supported by effective staff planning in our cinemas allowing teams to be focused on operational excellence and maximising face time with customers.
Webelieve its the Tiny Noticeable Thingsthat our people do which make thedifference.
Innovation We are always striving to bring the latest p23 For more information innovation to our cinemas not only through technology but through the design of our new and refurbished sites and retail offerings.
We achieve this through the considerable in-house experience we have across our teams.
Our business is underpinned by Our people Our trusted commercial relationships Our financial strength Our people are the face of our business.
Delivering a high quality film slate is Focus on cost enables us to maintain They are focused on ensuring that our oneof the key external drivers of our healthy margins, which in turn drives the customers feel more from the very start business.
While we do not have control cash flow needed to continue to invest in of their cinema experience.
A well over the content, our close and long and expand our estate.
This continued established training and development standing relationships with the film investment ensures that we are able to programme is used to maintain and distributors are fundamental to providing reach as many customers as possible with continually improve standards.
the best and most varied selection for the high quality experience we believe our customers at the right time.
We manage investment in our estate brands are important to our commercial inconjunction with the maintenance of partners, helping to deepen our astrong Balance Sheet, making the relationships with the film distributors, business financially secure, flexible and retail suppliers, advertisers and landlords.
able to make returns to shareholders.
p23 For more information p23 For more information p26 For more information 14 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Value for our Stakeholders 1.
Diversification of markets and brands The geographic spread of our business reduces exposure to volatility in individual markets.
It also provides opportunities across both mature and growth markets.
Customers Inthe UK wealso cater for different By delivering our vision to be The Best consumer tastes with our combination of Place to Watch a Movie, we are ensuring modern multiplexes and arthouse cinemas.
that our customers feel more and will want to come back to our cinemas again and again.
3.5% admission growth year on year IFC For more information 2.
Latest technology We are technological leaders in the industry, Wider communities offering our customers the latest audio and We give back to our local communities visual technology.
We have six different formats through a range of activities and initiatives in which our customers can watch a movie: from partnering with distributors on regular screens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, Superscreen charity screenings, providing free shows and VIP auditoriums.
We set our prices for organisations and working with local according to the format the customer chooses schools and organisations.
For the second and not the movie they choose.
year we have partnered with BBCs Children in Need, raising 450,000.
38 4DX screens 35 IMAX screens 12 VIP auditoriums Employees The investment we make in ourpeople, particularly through learning and development and the way we operate 3.
Our Unlimited iskey to maintaining our happy and programme motivated workforce.
We continue to run the longest 8 years average length of manager service standing loyalty scheme ofits type in the UK market, Unlimited.
OurUK customers positive reaction tothe scheme led us to extend it to ourPolish market at the end of 2015.
Investors Risk management and governance We remain focused on driving revenues, Maintaining and monitoring an effective increasing earnings and prudently system of risk management and internal managing our cash position, to ultimately control ensures that our business, people provide returns to shareholders.
We create andassets are safeguarded and that value for shareholders through our focus material financial errors and irregularities on continually aiming to enhance the are prevented or detected.
We share the value we generate by reinvesting in thebusiness and expanding our offer to customers, rewarding our employees and paying dividends to our shareholders.
12.7% Adjusted EBITDA growth p18 For more information p26 For more information 15
