STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT TALENT AND PARTNERSHIPS CONTINUED Engage: Informas culture is based on providing This included a leadership development programme, OUR CUSTOMERS AND THEIR personal and professional opportunity, enabling Informa Inspire, targeted at those reporting to Divisional colleagues to contribute at various levels and senior management teams to increase professional VERTICAL COMMUNITIES maintaining a working environment of respect leadership skills, provide networking and collaboration Customers engage with Informa brands to obtain and openness.
opportunities and support succession planning.
knowledge, intelligence and connections that support their personal and professional progress.
Colleague engagement is a key performance Training accredited by the Chartered Management Where our academic research, business information indicator for the Group and is measured through Institute was trialled for UK line managers, and Global and event-based products and services meet those the biennial Inside Informa conversation.
This Exhibitions developed a common training framework needs, customers progress and our business benefits, was last conducted in 2016, with the feedback that will roll out in 2018 to eight global hubs to support generating returns that can be reinvested for future leading to initiatives including new learning and the Divisions growth and business strategy.
The growth and product improvement.
framework mixes online and classroom learning with a focus on practical, applicable skills and knowledge, Most areas of the Group are structured around A short topic-focused edition, Inside Informa enabling colleagues in sales, marketing and operations vertical industries, with vertical-specific products Pulse, took place in late 2017 to enable colleagues to expand their capabilities and effectiveness.
and colleagues who are specialist and highly to comment on the GAP programme and provide knowledgeable about those markets.
This focus feedback to inform future strategy.
Of those After planning and consultation in 2017, 2018 makes understanding and responding to customers who expressed an opinion, 75% said their team will see the launch of the AllInforma Balance and spotting trends easier, and enables resources or business was better placed to succeed as a network, comprising new personal and professional like sales, product development and marketing result of GAP.
Common benefits noted included development opportunities, mentoring programmes to be directed and allocated effectively.
upgraded technology and opportunities to progress and forums to share stories and experience, providing and develop professionally.
A desire for continued additional support to colleagues of all genders with investment in equipment, tools and learning a specific focus on women.
development will be addressed at a Divisional Providing flexible working is another way colleagues level in 2018. are supported.
In the 2016 Inside Informa, 79% Each Division conducts internal communications agreed our working environment provides a good activities to enable an open and informed culture.
Flexible working is enacted by In Academic Publishing, we offer a suite of services To deliver products that meet the needs of customers, Business updates, leadership messages and key policies including specific parental leave practices dedicated to supporting authors at all stages of you first have to understand those needs, and this information are delivered through monthly Stephen per region and through investing in cloud-based their research careers.
One of the groups we give has been a key focus for Knowledge & Networking.
Calling blogs from the CEO, Divisional newsletters technology and tools that allow colleagues to work particular focus to is early-career researchers and campaign-based activity, with regular physical from any location.
As Director of Research & Insight for Knowledge those embarking on publication for the first time.
and online town halls at Group, Division and office & Networking Stuart Corke explained: Over the levels plus online Yammer-based social forums As Mark Robinson, Communications Manager last 18 months, weve scaled and industrialised an enabling two-way engagement with senior for Authors & Researchers at Taylor & Francis, improved and standardised post-event feedback management and the Board.
explains: The publishing process can seem complex, process amongst all customers delegates, sponsors especially to those just starting out.
We aim to make and speakers.
This captures information on key In February 2017, a new, common digital workplace, it simple, helping researchers, extending the value performance indicators such as customer satisfaction, Portal, was introduced, enabling all colleagues to we offer and building our brand to strengthen our likelihood of return and advocacy through a net The podcast is a access and work from the same platform for the first position as a publisher of choice.
promoter measure, with data delivered in real time time.
Portal combines traditional and social intranet to over 200 Divisional users through dashboards real gem... a winning elements with easy access to apps and digital tools, We offer step by step guidance on how to get and automated reports.
helping colleagues work smarter through quick published, demystifying processes such as peer formula for the benefit information retrieval and new discussion and review, and give information on how researchers This feedback has given us a much better idea of collaboration forums.
Most popular so far have been can promote their own work on social media, the areas in which our brands are strong, and the interviews with colleagues that showcase the work of generations of which is an increasingly important tool, to build areas where, if we target investment and introduce they do and share career development tips, and their reputations and positions as experts, as well new features, well deliver value for customers and information supporting the 2017 Informa Awards, as creating forums where researchers can share returns for the business, he continued.
researchers to come which attracted record submissions.
All of this information is online, and We are now seeing year-on-year customer we also deliver in-person workshops to groups Support: Role-specific training takes place performance metrics, and in time aim to build of researchers throughout the world.
throughout the business, and learning and trend data across multiple years.
This has created Dr Mark Proctor development was a key area of investment in In 2017, we launched a new podcast series with benchmarks for our portfolios across several Academic Development Officer, 2017, giving colleagues new opportunities to Vitae for researchers looking to develop their measures and we now better understand the key University of Sunderland grow and enhancing the Groups capabilities.
careers and the feedback has been great.
drivers on our performance versus the events market.
The initial trend is positive and we now understand better the key drivers on satisfaction, retention and advocacy.
38 39 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT TALENT AND PARTNERSHIPS CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITIES AND LOCAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT Our support for local communities is promoted across RELATIONSHIPS WITH the Group and organised at an office level, with BUSINESS PARTNERS each office encouraged to form long-term charitable partnerships linked to their brands and vertical We aim to develop sustainable and long-term markets, and support them through a mix of donations, relationships with our business partners, from fundraising and volunteering.
commercial partners to suppliers, that have a positive impact on all parties and the wider supply chain, by Every Informa colleague can take up to two days each acting in a transparent and equitable manner and year to volunteer with a charitable organisation of their expecting partners to share our standards.
Opportunities where colleagues contribute their professional skills are particularly encouraged, as a Steps were taken in 2017 to strengthen our practices, way of lending extra capabilities to the organisation including the creation and publication of an updated while developing personally.
Nearly twice as many Business Partner Code of Conduct.
This articulates colleagues spent time volunteering in 2017 than in our standards in important areas such as employment 2016, with 9% participating.
conditions, including child labour and modern slavery, the handling of information and data, and zero Walk the World is Informas key, annual global charity tolerance of bribery and corruption.
and engagement initiative, when colleagues come together to participate in a common goal walking Training on this code was delivered to a number Organising an exhibition involves working with in their area and raise money to support local of exhibition partners in the Middle East in 2017, many partners and areas of the supply chain beyond communities.
Fiona Gibson, Communities Senior with further proactive engagement with partners exhibiting companies and attendees, from venues Associate, said: For our second year of Walk the planned for 2018.
To support implementation, and general contractors to hotels and local officials.
World in 2017, we wanted to increase participation clauses are coming into effect in new contracts, in key office hubs and amongst homeworkers.
requests for proposals and framework agreements In March 2017, we acquired YPI, a portfolio of to enable the Group to better act on any partner international yachting exhibitions that includes To expand the programme and get colleagues excited, breaches.
All third parties also have access to our the Fort Lauderdale International Boat Show, we also introduced a new element Connections whistleblowing line Speak Up and are encouraged FLIBS, the largest event of its kind attracting over a video competition that awarded seven colleagues to report any compliance-related concerns.
Work is underway to prepare the first report 100,000 visitors to see more than 1,200 boats.
a trip to the London walk for explaining how their work on our payment practices and performance for makes a difference to colleagues or communities.
To help Informa colleagues understand their A first action was to start detailed engagement UK-related contracts by July 2018, as required responsibilities within the broader business with the business partners fundamental to the under new UK legislation.
community, mandatory online anti-bribery and successful operation of FLIBS, particularly the Double the number corruption refresher training based on our policy When it comes to our direct consumption of natural Marine Industries Association of South Florida, was introduced to the Group in October 2017. resources, Informa has a relatively small direct impact owners of the show, and the Bahia Mar Marina of walks were organised Completion rates are currently 89% and are on on the environment, largely related to carbon emissions venue.
The goal was to understand their objectives track to meet a target of 100% during the first from buildings and generators at events, and our aim is and present the value of Informa Exhibitions as a in 2017 compared with quarter of 2018.
New joiners are required to to minimise these direct impacts.
We are also working committed long-term partner and a professional complete the training within 30 days.
2016, with more participation, to consider environmental impact more fully throughout organiser with specialist knowledge of international the supply chain, including the impact of flights and yachting through organising the Monaco Yacht Show.
more donations the London In the specific area of modern slavery, and as part waste at events, and working with suppliers to reduce of our programme of activities to ensure the business Common areas of interest to all partners included resource consumption.
walk alone raised over 32,000 and supply chain is operated free from modern attracting visitors and their spend to the local area slavery and human trafficking, training on how to In the case of paper and timber, the Group has a policy through marketing and promotion, enhancing the and 28,700km walked, nearly spot and report these issues was delivered to around to ensure responsible sourcing from legally harvested onsite visitor experience, and health and safety 900 colleagues, including senior management and well-managed sources.
In 2017, the print brands at the exhibition.
three-quarters of the worlds working in regions or functions deemed higher risk acquired as part of Penton increased our overall paper for encountering such issues.
Our full approach can These discussions fed into the planning process usage almost twofold.
It also proved be found in our modern slavery statement on the for FLIBS 2017, which included investments in a great way for new colleagues, Informa website.
Information has also been provided Using the knowledge gained from Academic Publishings new floating docks, tent floorage and electrical to colleagues about the new offence of failing to work with print supply chains, 100% of the paper consumed equipment, improved signage and additional focus including those recently prevent facilitation of tax evasion, with targeted within those brands was transitioned to sustainably on advertising and marketing.
The success of the training planned for 2018. certified sources by November 2017, without additional November 2017 edition has created a base for FLIBS joined through acquisition, business cost.
This means around 98% of the Groups future growth and development in a way that brings The Group engages suppliers on a range of different combined paper usage will come from responsibly value to the yachting community and exhibitors, to network and better contract and payment terms depending on the managed forests from 2018. economic development to the local area and trading product or service they are involved with and the performance for Informa.
understand our culture 40 41 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
