STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED US tax reform Business segment results for the year ended 31 December 2016 have been restated to reflect the integration and allocation of Penton In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act US federal tax reform was enacted in the US.
In the 2017 financial accounts, this led business units into the business segments of Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking in 2017. to an 85.4m tax credit within the adjusting items in the income statement, taking the Group tax credit on statutory profit before tax EARNINGS PER SHARE PBT to 16.7% 2016: tax charge of 2.6%.
Basic and diluted adjusted earnings per share EPS calculated on the adjusted statutory profit for the year for equity Shareholders This credit reflects the revaluation of the Groups deferred tax assets mainly relating to tax losses available in the US and deferred tax of 380.9m 2016: 306.3m, resulted in adjusted basic EPS of 46.3p 2016: 42.2p restated.
liabilities mainly relating to Informas substantial intangible assets in the US to reflect the future lower federal tax rate enacted by the Adjusted diluted EPS of 46.1p was 9.5% ahead of 2016 2016: 42.1p restated, principally reflecting the increase in adjusted profit new legislation.
This led to a net deferred tax credit of 101.1m.
The balancing item to the 85.4m tax credit within adjusting items is a before tax, partly offset by the full year effect of the increased average number of shares.
This 13.5% increase reflects the full year 15.7m charge to current and deferred tax, representing tax to be paid in respect of undistributed profits of non-US subsidiaries of our effect of the rights issue in November 2016, which partly funded the acquisition of Penton Information Services, with 162.2m of new US group repatriation tax.
shares placed with institutional investors and 12.8m of shares issued to the vendors of Penton.
This tax credit has no impact on 2017 cash taxes.
The current element of the repatriation tax, estimated at 9.2m, is expected to be 2017 2016 paid in eight instalments commencing in 2018. m m Adjusted profit for the year 383.3 308.2 Tax payments Non-controlling interests 2.4 1.9 During 2017, the Group paid 45.3m 2016: 43.3m of corporation and similar taxes on profits, including 39.0m 2016: 24.2m Adjusted earnings 380.9 306.3 of UK Corporation Tax, which includes 11.8m of tax paid on a gain on a forward contract used to hedge the Penton acquisition.
US tax payments were significantly reduced in 2017 largely due to the use of losses acquired with Penton in 2016 and tax deductions Weighted average number of shares used in diluted EPS m 826.1 727.8 available from the write off of loans in 2016.
These deductions, as well as further benefits from acquired tax losses, will also reduce Adjusted diluted EPS 46.1p 42.1p cash tax outflows in the US in 2018.
DIVIDENDS At the end of 2017, the deferred tax asset relating to US tax losses stood at 45.6m 2016: 90.6m, which is expected to be utilised 164.0m 2016: 134.5m dividends were paid in 2017, comprising 162.0m of dividends to external Shareholders and 2.0m within five years.
The recognition of deferred tax assets relating to the acquisitions of Penton and YPI means that cash savings arising dividends paid to non-controlling interests.
from US tax losses do not reduce the adjusted tax rate.
In its dividend policy the Group aims to achieve a balance between sufficiently rewarding Shareholders and retaining the financial The reconciliation of the adjusted tax charge to cash taxes paid is as follows: strength and flexibility to allow the Group to consistently invest and pursue growth.
The Group made a specific commitment through 2017 2016 the period of GAP to increase the dividend consistently each year, initially at a minimum of 2% per annum, increasing to a minimum m m of 4% per annum in February 2016, and to at least 6% for 2017 in July 2017.
Tax charge on adjusted PBT per Consolidated Income Statement 103.1 67.8 As outlined in the Chairmans Introduction, the Board has proposed a final dividend of 13.80p per share 2016: 13.04p per share.
Deferred tax 0.5 8.0 Subject to Shareholder approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 1 June 2018 to ordinary Shareholders registered as at the Use of US tax losses 21.6 close of business on 20 April 2018.
This will result in total dividends for the year of 20.45p per share 2016: 19.30p representing a 6.0% Current tax deductions in respect of adjusting items 39.4 35.5 year-on-year increase.
The growth in earnings in 2017 means dividend cover against adjusted earnings was 2.3 times 2016: 2.2 times.
Taxes paid in relation to earlier years less 2017 2016 taxes payable in later periods 5.2 18.6 TRANSLATION IMPACT Withholding and other tax payments 1.5 0.4 The Groups strategy to build its presence in North America has increased its exposure to USD revenues and costs.
In 2017, the Group Taxes paid per Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 45.3 43.3 received approximately 65% 2016: 59% of its revenues and incurred approximately 55% 2016: 48% of its costs in USD or currencies Less: tax relating to Penton acquisition forward contract 11.8 pegged to USD.
Each one cent $0.01 movement in the USD to GBP exchange rate, based on the 31 December 2017 closing rate, Taxes paid per free cash flow 33.5 43.3 has a circa 8.5m 2016: 6.5m impact on annual revenue and a circa 3.5m 2016: 2.9m impact on annual adjusted operating profit and a circa 0.3p 2016: 0.3p impact on full year adjusted diluted EPS.
The tax charge on adjusted profits is stated after the benefit of goodwill amortisation for tax purposes in the US and similar amounts elsewhere.
There are 27.3m 2016: 19.5m of current tax deductions which are taken on the amortisation of intangible assets.
These The following US dollar rates versus GBP were applied during the year: are treated as adjusting items and are included in the current tax deductions in respect of adjusting items noted above.
The use of tax 2017 2016 losses in 2016 was negligible and was included in deferred taxes.
Closing Average Closing Average rate rate rate rate RESTATEMENT OF 2016 RESULTS USD 1.35 1.29 1.23 1.36 Results for the year ended 31 December 2016 have been restated, after finalising the provisional amounts recognised in respect of two 2016 acquisitions and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed: Penton Information Services, completed For debt covenant testing purposes and for calculating Informas leverage, both profit and net debt are translated using the average on 2November 2016 and Light Reading LLC, completed on 13 July 2016.
This has resulted in the following changes to the 2016 rate of exchange throughout the relevant year.
adjusted income statement: Before restatement Restated adjusted adjusted results Restatement results 2016 income statement m m m Revenue 1,345.7 0.9 1,344.8 Adjusted operating profit 416.1 0.5 415.6 Net finance costs 39.6 39.6 Adjusted profit before tax 376.5 0.5 376.0 Tax charge credit 68.0 0.2 67.8 Profit loss for the year 308.5 0.3 308.2 Adjusted diluted EPS 42.1p 42.1p 66 67 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED FREE CASH FLOW The following table reconciles net cash inflow from operating activities, as shown in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, to Cash flow generation remains one of the Groups priorities, providing the funds and flexibility for future investment.
The following table operating cash flow shown in the free cash flow table above: shows the adjusted operating profit and free cash flow reconciled to movements in net debt.
Free cash flow is our key financial 2017 2016 measure of cash generation and represents the cash flow generated by the business before cash flows relating to acquisitions and m m disposals and their related costs, dividends and any new equity issuance or purchases.
Net cash inflow from operating activities 433.9 336.3 Add back: 2017 2016 m m Income tax paid before item below 33.5 43.3 Adjusted operating profit 545.5 415.6 Income tax paid related to Penton acquisition-related gain on derivative forward contract 11.8 Depreciation of property and equipment 9.2 6.5 Interest paid 52.0 35.6 Software and product development amortisation 24.8 14.2 Cash generated by operations 531.2 415.2 Share-based payments 5.4 3.9 Add back: Loss on disposal of other assets 0.1 Acquisition and integration costs paid 34.0 20.8 Adjusted share of joint venture and associate results 0.8 Restructuring and reorganisation costs paid 8.6 9.8 Adjusted EBITDA 584.9 439.5 Capex paid 79.0 52.0 Net capital expenditure 79.0 52.0 Operating cash flow 494.8 393.8 1 Working capital movement 11.1 6.3 Adjusted operating profit 545.5 415.6 Operating cash flow 494.8 393.8 Operating cash conversion 90.7% 94.8% Restructuring and reorganisation 8.6 9.8 Net interest 51.8 35.0 NET DEBT 2 We continue to target a ratio of net debt to EBITDA in the range of 2.0 to 2.5 times, with the potential to go up to around 3.0 times Taxation 33.5 43.3 in the short term for an acquisition.
As at 31 December 2017, net debt had decreased year-on-year by 112.3m to 1,373.1m.
This Free cash flow 400.9 305.7 included a foreign exchange benefit of 129.1m, primarily associated with USD weakening by 9.7% against GBP, with a closing rate 1.
Working capital movement excludes movement on restructuring, reorganisation, acquisition and integration accruals at 31 December 2017 of 1.35 compared with 1.23 at 31 December 2016.
Tax payment for 2017 excludes 11.8m of tax relating to adjusting item for Penton derivative forward contract gain of 58.9m 2017 2016 m m Our focus on cash generation led to another year of strong cash conversion in 2017, with operating cash flow of 494.8m equating Free cash flow 400.9 305.7 to 91% of adjusted operating profit 2016: 95%.
This is calculated by dividing the operating cash flow 494.8m by the adjusted Acquisitions and disposals 250.6 1,313.1 operating profit 545.5m.
Equity rights issue net proceeds 701.5 In the final year of GAP, net capital expenditure was 79.0m 2016: 52.0m which is equivalent to 4.5% of 2017 revenue.
In 2018, Dividends paid 164.0 134.5 net capital expenditure is expected to be in the range of 3% to 5% of revenue.
Shares acquired 0.9 1.0 Net funds flow 14.6 441.4 The working capital outflow of 11.1m in 2017 largely relates to timing differences, partly relating to billings for certain events in the Non-cash movements 2.2 2.7 Middle East in Global Exhibitions and partly to subscription journal receipts in Academic Publishing.
Foreign exchange 129.1 146.0 Net interest paid increased by 16.8m principally due to the full year effect of increased borrowings arising from the addition of Penton.
Net debt at 1 January 1,485.4 895.3 In 2017, the Group paid 33.5m 2016: 43.3m of corporation and similar taxes on profits, together with 11.8m of tax related to Closing net debt 1,373.1 1,485.4 the gain on the derivative forward contract associated with the Penton acquisition.
The GAP focus on retaining a robust and flexible financing framework led to a number of developments in our funding structure The following table reconciles net cash inflow from operating activities, as shown in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, during 2017.
On 25 January 2017, the Group issued USD 500m of private placement loan notes, with a maturity of 6 years to free cash flow: USD 55m, 8years USD 80m and 10 years USD 365m, at an average interest rate of 3.6%.
In March 2017, the Group arranged 2017 2016 a new USD400m term loan facility, with a maturity of up to 12 months, refinancing the acquisition facility that was used to fund m m the Penton acquisition on more favourable terms.
The Group also repaid private placement loan notes of USD 102m, EUR 50m Net cash inflow from operating activities 433.9 336.3 and GBP 40m that matured in December 2017.
Finally, in November 2017, the Group agreed to issue USD 400m of new private Interest received 0.2 0.6 placement loan notes which were issued on 4 January 2018 with maturities of 7 years USD 200m and 10 years USD 200m Purchase of property and equipment 14.7 4.6 at an average interest rate of 4.0%.
Proceeds on disposal of property and equipment 1.0 0.6 Purchase of intangible software assets 52.2 36.5 Product development cost additions 13.1 11.5 Add back: acquisition and integration costs paid 34.0 20.8 Add back: tax paid on Penton acquisition-related derivative forward contract 11.8 Free cash flow 400.9 305.7 68 69 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED These actions have increased the Groups overall debt capacity and extended the average maturity, providing long-term visibility and The other main addition through 2017 was the purchase of 100% of the issued share capital of Dove Medical Press Limited, an open flexibility on financing.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had 1.9bn of committed facilities 2.2bn at 31 December 2016, of which access journals business, on 26 September 2017 for net cash consideration of 43.0m.
This business forms part of the Academic 0.6bn was undrawn 2016: 0.7bn.
31 31 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS December December For a description of the expected impact from adopting new accounting standards which have been issued but are not yet effective, 2017 2016 m m see Note 2 to the financial statements.
To briefly review three of these standards: Cash at bank and in hand 54.9 49.6 For IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is effective for the 2018 financial year, the Group does not expect any material change to the Bank overdraft 6.7 9.4 income statement or balance sheet of the Group.
Loans receivable 0.2 For IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which is effective for the 2018 financial year, the Group does not expect there Private placement loan notes 841.0 682.2 to be any material change to the income statement or balance sheet of the Group, except for a reclassification in the balance sheet Private placement fees 1.6 1.5 of approximately 70m of deferred income against trade receivables, for amounts that have been invoiced and where services have Bank borrowings revolving credit facility 287.6 300.2 not yet been provided and amounts are not yet due.
Bank borrowings term loan facility 296.3 For IFRS 16 Leases, effective for the 2019 financial year, the Group is in the process of assessing the full impact of this new standard.
Bank borrowings acquisition facility 548.6 Bank loan fees 2.0 3.7 Gareth Wright Net debt 1,373.1 1,485.4 Group Finance Director According to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, I can confirm that the Strategic Report, which makes up pages 1 to 71 Undrawn portion of revolving credit facility 567.4 599.8 of the Groups Annual Report, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
Undrawn term facilities agreement 150.0 Unutilised committed facilities 567.4 749.8 Derek Mapp Total committed facilities 1,940.5 2,235.2 Chairman 27 February 2018 The principal financial covenant ratios under the private placement loan notes and revolving credit facility are maximum net debt to EBITDA of 3.5 times and a minimum EBITDA to interest cover of 4.0 times, tested semi-annually.
At 31 December 2017, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 2.5 times 31 December 2016: 2.6 times, calculated according to our facility agreements using average exchange rates and including a full years trading for acquisitions.
The ratio of EBITDA to net interest payable was 9.8 times at 31December 2016: 11.0 times.
PENSIONS The Group continues to meet all commitments to its pension schemes, which consist of four defined benefit schemes that are closed to future accrual.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had a net pension liability of 17.8m 2016: 27.6m, net of 5.8m of deferred tax.
This remains manageable and relatively immaterial compared with the size of our balance sheet.
The reduction in the net deficit during 2017 principally reflects the gain on pension assets through the period more than offsetting an increase in pension labilities relating to the reduction in discount rate, with the rate reducing by 20bps year-on-year to 2.4% for UK schemes and by 40bps to 3.3% for US schemes.
There were no employer cash contributions paid in 2017 and, in 2018, we estimate total payments will be approximately 3.3m.
CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT The Group continued to pursue a disciplined and targeted acquisition strategy during 2017, adding several businesses to the portfolio.
Total net expenditure on acquisitions and disposals was 250.6m 2016: 1,313.1m.
As part of our disciplined approach, potential acquisition opportunities are assessed on a case-by-case basis against a broad set of financial and strategic criteria.
For bolt-on additions, we target a post-tax return on invested capital in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital in the first full year of ownership, as well as immediate earnings accretion.
For certain strategic acquisitions, the Group will take a longer-term view on these metrics, to allow time for full integration of the acquired business, coupled with additional investment to maximise long-term returns.
The Group also continually reassesses the mix and focus of the Group, scrutinising if it remains the best owner of businesses or whether better returns could be achieved through a sale.
In 2017, this led to the sale of the Euroforum conference businesses in Germany and Switzerland, as well as the sale of lower level textbook publisher, Garland.
The largest acquisition during the year was Yachting Promotions, Inc. YPI which was purchased for 111.1m, net of cash acquired of 0.6m.
YPI is the operator of some of the largest international yachting and boat events in the US.
We acquired 100% of the issued share capital of YPI on 14 March 2017, and the business has been integrated into the Global Exhibitions segment.
On 29December 2017, the Group sold a stake in YPI to the Principality of Monaco, expanding and strengthening its existing partnership on the Monaco Yacht Show.
70 71 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE duties and discharges them with care and attention.
More to join the Board of the enlarged Group.
The additional knowledge, In the final year of the Growth Acceleration Plan, a key focus information on compliance with the Code and the Listing Rules expertise and relevant experience this will bring will, we believe, has been tracking the direct outputs of GAP and how this of the Financial Conduct Authority can be found on page 73. be valuable in governing the enlarged Group effectively.
has translated into performance, as well as evolving plans for the future direction and growth of the Informa Group.
The DELIVERING FOR SHAREHOLDERS The time commitment of each Director and the effectiveness of Directors remain closely involved in reviewing and approving The primary consideration for Boards is to create value for individuals and the Board as a whole are regularly assessed as major acquisition activity, which most recently has focused Shareholders, and I would like to thank Informas Shareholders part of the annual Board evaluation process.
The Group has a on UBM and led to the recommended offer made in January, for their continued support in 2017 and over the four-year Diversity & Inclusion policy which was introduced in 2017 and which is fully supported by the Board.
is endorsed by the Board, and the Group strives to ensure a GAP programme.
balance of skills, experiences and talent at all levels.
In all cases, your Board looks forward to continuing to support, We appreciate the discussions and the feedback from investors oversee and govern the Group as it seeks to build on the during 2017, both as part of the independent investor perceptions We support the findings of both the Hampton-Alexander Review growth and platforms established through GAP to maintain study commissioned in October 2017, and the engagement on the representation of women in senior leadership positions and improve its reputation, position and relationships with on financial targets and incentive structures at the time of the and the Parker Review on ethnic diversity on boards.
2017 AGM, views that have been reflected in the remuneration findings will inform future Board appointments and succession proposals due for approval in 2018.
There is more on how the planning.
Further information can be found in the Nomination Thank you to colleagues on the Board and within the Group, Group engages with Shareholders on page 114.
Committee Report on page 83 and in Talent and Partnerships and also to all of our Shareholders.
Derek Mapp on pages 36 to 41 of the Strategic Report.
Chairman CONTRIBUTING TO COLLEAGUE, CUSTOMER AND Derek Mapp BUSINESS PARTNER SUCCESS How the Board operates and interacts with management is also Chairman As part of section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, your Directors a factor in performance.
We aim to ensure sufficient time for DEAR SHAREHOLDER are equally aware and committed to acting in ways that are most a thorough discussion of key matters at formal Board meetings Your Board has a clear and simple overarching aim: to encourage likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its and during informal exchanges, and ensure each Director actively and promote Informas long-term success and the creation of COMPLIANCE STATEMENT members as a whole.
These responsibilities include considering engages and can contribute.
Board decisions are made collectively, value.
Over the last four years, this has been focused on the Informas Board is accountable to the Groups Shareholders the interests of colleagues, the need to foster relationships with with input from each Director.
Growth Acceleration Plan, a programme of change and investment for its standards of governance, and is committed to the suppliers and customers, and the impact of operations on the to improve growth and build capability, which the Directors have The aim of all the Directors is to encourage, support and challenge principles of corporate governance contained in the Code community and environment.
management teams by adopting an open, direct, collaborative and of the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Code can respectful approach.
There are clear responsibilities for decision The interests of the Groups colleagues, and the importance We believe GAP has strengthened Informas operational be viewed online at making, a list of which can be found on the Informa website and of engagement and a positive culture, are a regular topic of capabilities and helped to deliver improving financial results.
on page 79 of this Annual Report.
uk getattachment ca7e94c4-b9a9-49e2- discussion at the Board.
In the ordinary course of business, Furthermore, it has laid the foundations for continued growth a824-ad76a322873c  Directors meet a wide range of colleagues each year, from and future scale, offering the potential to create long-term value There are also high levels of interaction between the Board April-2016.
pdf executive management who attend Board meetings, Divisional for Shareholders.
and the Executive Management Team.
Executive and Divisional leadership teams who provide presentations on specific business management present at Board meetings on topical matters, The Board is pleased to report that Informa complied with In this context, the Board and Executive Management Team matters at Board, to Committee and Strategy meetings, as well to ensure the Board maintains a detailed understanding of the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code which was have developed proposals focused on the next stage of the as colleagues from many different functions and geographies.
operations and market trends, and meet informally at Board published in April 2016 the Code.
The Board monitored the Groups development, which includes the recommended offer In 2017, the Board held a colleague town hall in Boulder, dinners to encourage discussion on a broader range of issues.
Companys risk management systems and also carried out a made for UBM in January 2018 that is, at the time of writing, Colorado, a key US hub for Global Exhibitions, an informal New Directors receive thorough and relevant business review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management progressing through the full approval process.
lunch discussion with London Business Intelligence colleagues, inductions.
Additionally, as Chairman I work closely with and internal control systems.
The Board monitored material STABLE BOARD COMPOSITION and our Senior Independent Director participated in the Groups the Group Chief Executive, with meetings to plan agendas controls by exception through the Risk Committee.
The Board of Informa is largely unchanged from 2016, with the Walk the World charity initiative.
These have been both enjoyable supplemented by weekly discussions and exchanges to The Corporate Governance Report, the Audit Committee, planned retirement of Brendan ONeill taking effect at the 2017 and insightful for the Directors, contributing to a greater mutual keep abreast of the latest market and Group developments.
Nomination Committee and Directors Remuneration Annual General Meeting AGM, and John Rishton becoming understanding of the business, and the challenges and Reports explain how Informa applied the principles of The Board also recognises its role in setting high standards of Chairman of the Audit Committee at that time.
good governance set out in the Code.
conduct and fostering culture in the Group, through our actions The Board currently comprises nine Directors, with seven We are also mindful of the importance of maintaining positive, as well as by directing attention to conduct and culture through The Audit Committee has been provided with suitable independent members selected for the relevance and value long-term relationships with customers and business partners, discussions at the Board table.
We are wholly committed to supporting material to review the Annual Report and of their knowledge, experience and skills, and two executive and in particular, the Groups role in delivering content, intelligence acting with integrity and transparency, and in 2017 participated Financial Statements and, in accordance with the Code, members the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance and connections that help customers progress and succeed in their in the same Code of Conduct, modern slavery and anti-bribery has provided assurances for the Board to confirm that Director contributing operational insight.
On pages 39 and 40, we have introduced greater detail and corruption training as all other Informa colleagues, to the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a Committees established to oversee specific remits Audit, and examples around Informas activities in this space.
demonstrate leadership and ensure a thorough understanding whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Board Nomination and Remuneration plus an additional Risk of Informas core values.
also confirms that the Annual Report contains sufficient BOARD OPERATIONS AND CULTURE Committee that reports to the Audit Committee.
KEY ACTIVITIES AND FORWARD FOCUS information for Shareholders to assess the Companys As Chairman, I hold a specific responsibility for the Boards The Board and Directors have a set of distinct responsibilities Key activities conducted by the Board in 2017 included performance, business model and strategy.
performance and its ability to govern the Group effectively.
under the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
monitoring the integration of Penton and reviewing the approach The composition of the Board is kept under ongoing review, Shareholders will see that this year, the Governance Report has to health, safety and security matters and cyber resilience, with to ensure there is the balance of expertise and experience been structured according to the Codes five principal areas, to greater resources directed to both areas, and close monitoring necessary to oversee a growing, international and increasingly provide a clear link between activities and these responsibilities.
of the implementation of the Groups new financial management data-focused Group.
Should Shareholder and regulatory and reporting system.
As Chairman, I can confirm that Informa complies with the approval be secured for our recommended offer for UBM plc, principles of the Code, and that each Director is aware of their it is our intention to welcome three directors from UBMs Board 72 73 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Derek Mapp Stephen A. Carter CBE Lord Carter Gareth Bullock Gareth Wright David Flaschen Helen Owers Non-Executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Derek is an experienced Chairman and Stephen became Group Chief Executive in 2013, Gareth joined the Board in 2014.
He has Gareth has extensive senior executive experience David has 20 years of senior executive and Helen has extensive international senior executive entrepreneur who brings a wealth of commercial after serving as a Non-Executive Director.
He extensive international Non-Executive and in finance roles.
He has held various roles within leadership experience in the Information Services experience within the Media sector, particularly in and governance experience within various sectors has focused the Group on growth, on building Executive experience in the banking Informa including Deputy Finance Director and industry, particularly in the US, including roles business information from her role as President of to the Group.
He promotes robust debate and technology and data capability, on International industry and with FTSE 100 companies.
Acting Group Finance Director having joined the at Thomson Financial and Dun & Bradstreet.
Global Businesses and Chief Development Officer has fostered an open and engaged culture in and US expansion, on building a leadership Company in 2009. with Thomson Reuters.
His previous roles include Group Executive He has also served as Non-Executive Director the boardroom.
He founded and was Managing position in Global Exhibitions and B2B events, Director at Standard Chartered plc where he Prior to joining Informa, he held a range of positions of online companies such as TripAdvisor Inc. She previously worked as a media and telecoms Director of Tom Cobleigh PLC, Leapfrog Day whilst investing for performance in the Groups was responsible for Africa, the Middle East, at National Express plc, including Head of Group BuyerZone.
com, Maptuit, Affinity Express, strategy consultant at Gemini Consulting and in Nurseries and Imagesound Plc.
He also has Finance and Acting Group Finance Director.
OnExchange, Inc, LeadKarma, Affinnova, Survey publishing at Prentice Hall.
He joined Taylor & Francis Group in 1998 He is committed to nurturing a positive extensive risk experience.
He is currently Director He trained with Coopers & Lybrand now part She is Non-Executive Director of PZ Cussons plc as a Non-Executive Director before becoming professional working culture and delivering a and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Paychex, His other Non-Executive directorships included of PwC, working in the audit function from and Eden Project International Limited.
Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent consistently positive operating performance Inc, and has various private company board and Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc, Tesco plc and 1994 to 2001.
Director at Informa plc in 2005. with an approach based on openness, debate, advisory roles.
She has an MBA from IMD Business School and Fleming Family & Partners.
He was a member agility and pace.
Gareth was appointed in July 2014. a BA in Geography from the University of Liverpool.
He has a keen interest in sports and supporting the of the Board and Audit Committee of the British As a professional football player, he was a founding local community and served as Chairman of the He has previously held senior leadership positions Bankers Association between 2008 and 2010. member of the Executive Committee of the North Helen was appointed in January 2014 and British Amateur Boxing Association for five years.
in a range of Media and Technology businesses, He is currently Chairman of Development Bank American Soccer League Players Association.
including serving as President & Managing Director of Wales PLC formerly Finance Wales PLC He is Non-Executive Director and Chairman He has an MBA in Entrepreneurial Management EMEA at Alcatel Lucent Inc, Managing Director and a trustee of the British Council.
at Mitie Group plc and Non-Executive Chairman at from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania and COO of ntl now Virgin Media and CEO and Salmon Developments Limited and 3aaa Limited He has an MA in Modern Languages from and a BA in Psychology from Brown University.
Managing Director of JWT UK & Ireland.
He is Founder and St Catharines College, Cambridge.
David was appointed in September 2015 and Chairman at Imagesound Limited.
He was the founding CEO of Ofcom, the UKs Gareth was appointed in January 2014 and is independent.
He served He is currently also Non-Executive Chairman at is independent.
as Chief of Strategy to Prime Minister, The Rt Hon.
Huntsworth plc but it has been announced that Gordon Brown and was Minister for the Media and he will step down from its board in 2018 once Telecommunications industry, where he wrote a successor has been appointed.
and published the Digital Britain Report.
Derek was appointed in March 2008 and He has served on a number of company boards, is independent.
including Travis Perkins plc, 2Wire Inc. and Royal Mail plc, and is currently a Non-Executive Director of United Utilities Group PLC and a Board member at the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy BEIS and Chairman of the Henley Festival Charitable Trust.
Stephen was appointed in September 2013.
Cindy Rose Stephen Davidson John Rishton Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Cindy brings present-day operational experience Stephen brings extensive media, telecommunications, John joined the Board in September 2016 and to the Board as well as expertise in the TMT corporate and financial market experience to brings further significant international experience and digital sectors.
Informa having acted as Chief Financial Officer and to Informa.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Chief Executive of Telewest, Executive Chairman She is currently Chief Executive Officer of He was Chief Executive of Rolls Royce Group plc of Mecom Group plc and Vice-Chairman of Microsoft UK, having spent nearly three years between 2011 and 2015, having previously been Investment Banking at WestLB.
as the Managing Director of Vodafones UK Chief Executive and President of the Dutch Consumer Division.
Prior to this, Cindy was an Over the past 15 years he has held a number international retailer, Royal Ahold NV and, prior to Executive Director of Digital Entertainment at of Chairman and Non-Executive positions on that, its Chief Financial Officer.
He was formerly Virgin Media and held various senior executive the boards of media, telecoms and technology Chief Financial Officer of British Airways plc.
roles at The Walt Disney Company.
He is currently Chairman of Datatec He is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Limited, Actual Experience Plc and PRS for Music She has a BA in Political Science from Columbia of the Audit Committee at Unilever plc and Serco Ltd, and is Non-Executive Director at Restore plc.
University and trained at the New York Law Group plc, and a Director of Associated British School before working as an attorney in the He achieved a first class honours MA in Mathematics Ports Holdings Ltd and Associated British Ports US and the UK.
and Statistics from the University of Aberdeen.
Jersey Ltd. Cindy was appointed in March 2013 and Stephen was appointed in September 2015 and John was appointed in September 2016 and is independent.
74 75 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK SECTION A: CORPORATE AND REPORTING STRUCTURE This report explains the role and function of the Board.
The responsibilities and activities of the Audit Committee can be GOVERNANCE found on pages 87 to 93, of the Nomination Committee on LEADERSHIP pages 83 to 85, of the Remuneration Committee on pages 94 Informa PLC is the ultimate holding company of the Group to 113, and of the Risk Committee on page 90 of this report and is controlled by its Board of Directors.
This report has been and also pages 24 to 32.
The responsibility of the Treasury prepared in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Committee is to put in place policies to identify and analyse Code of April 2016 the Code and the Companys statement the financial risks faced by the Group, set appropriate limits of compliance with the Code is on page 73. and controls, and review compliance.
1 THE ROLE OF THE BOARD Board activity in 2017 written principles on funding investments, credit risk, foreign The Boards priorities are to create value for Shareholders, with Throughout the year, the Board considered a range exchange and interest rate risk.
consideration for the interests of other stakeholders, including of matters including: the Groups colleagues, customers and business partners, Strategy and an understanding of the impact of activities and strategic Group strategy and the portfolio mix decisions on these groups.
More on Informas stakeholders Divisional strategy including Global Exhibitions growth in can be found on pages 37 to 41. the US and investment in digital operations The Board has overall responsibility for the management Acquisition opportunities and oversight of the Group and its activities and provides The impact of new technology and investments in enhanced entrepreneurial leadership for Informa.
It is responsible for digital platforms approving the Groups strategic objectives and ensuring The competitive landscape that the necessary financial and human resources are made The management of external risks including geopolitical available to meet those objectives.
The Board also reviews, issues and weather-related disruption to events through the Audit and Risk Committees, risk management Finance and internal control systems on an ongoing basis.
ACADEMIC BUSINESS GLOBAL KNOWLEDGE & GLOBAL Approach to refinancing, including the cash pooling arrangements PUBLISHING INTELLIGENCE EXHIBITIONS NETWORKING SUPPORT The Board maintains a schedule of matters on the decisions Dividend payments and the dividend policy that are reserved for the Board including: Appropriate leverage targets and levels Revisions to the audit approach and connected fees approval of the Companys long-term strategy and objectives: Systems for cash collection and invoicing after the introduction setting the Companys risk management strategy: of the Groups new enterprise resource platform approval of major contracts and significant investments The impact of US tax reforms divestments: setting the dividend policy and the approval of interim and EXECUTIVE Operational performance MANAGEMENT TEAM final dividends: The introduction of a new Group-wide enterprise approval of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts: resource platform appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys Progress on the integration of Penton Information Services external auditor subject to Shareholder approval : and The performance of GAP in its final year integration following completion of the combination with UBM.
People and culture BOARD The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed Informa culture and initiatives to support a positive and CHAIR: DEREK MAPP annually and was last approved in December 2017.
It is available productive working environment, including Walk the World on Informas website.
charity activity and investment in talent and skills development Succession planning in Academic Publishing and the Directors indemnities appointment of Annie Callanan as Divisional CEO The Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the Strategy, results and outcome of Inside Informa extent permitted by English law and the Articles of Association AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE all-colleague conversation of the Company the Articles, in respect of any liability arising CHAIR: JOHN RISHTON CHAIR: DEREK MAPP CHAIR: STEPHEN DAVIDSON Informas brand position and the articulation of purpose from or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a Director of the Company, any of its Shareholder relations subsidiaries or trustee of an occupational pension scheme for Feedback from ongoing Shareholder meetings and results colleagues.
The indemnity would not provide coverage where of investor perception study the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Consideration and approval of 2016 Annual Report and TREASURY COMMITTEE RISK COMMITTEE The Company purchases and maintains Directors and Officers Accounts feedback following annual results presentation CHAIR: GARETH WRIGHT CHAIR: GARETH WRIGHT insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for Proxy agent reports claims in connection with any act or omission by its Directors and officers in the execution of their duties.
76 77 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 F E E V I I H T C U STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS P C U E O X R E G S E N I O N R D A I I R M N E D R C I E T A P O H E R C N D E N T GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Governance A.
2 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES Requirements from new and forthcoming reporting regulation There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN and impact of legislation changes, including modern slavery of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Senior Independent Constructively challenge and help develop Leads the Board and sets the tone reporting and the Non-Financial Reporting Directive Director and the Non-Executive Directors.
This complies with proposals on strategy and agenda, promoting a culture of Board Directors skills, ongoing training needs and any conflicts guidance from the UK Institute of Chartered Secretaries and openness and debate Scrutinise the performance of management The Board evaluation process and outcomes Administrators and is summarised here, and viewable in full in meeting agreed goals and objectives Ensures the effectiveness of the Board Approving matters reserved for the Board on Informas website.
and that Directors receive accurate, Monitor the reporting of performance timely and clear information Satisfy themselves on the integrity of Risk management and compliance A.
3 THE CHAIRMAN Ensures effective communication financial information Revisions to Group policies including Code of Conduct, The Companys Chairman, Derek Mapp, is considered to be with Shareholders Ensure that financial controls and systems of Gifts & Entertainment and whistleblowing and .
He has never been CEO of the Company and the Acts on the results of the Board risk management are robust and defensible related training Company has always had separate Chairman and CEO roles.
performance evaluation and leads on the Determine appropriate levels of remuneration implementation of any required changes Impact of data protection legislation and GDPR Further details on Dereks qualifications and experience can of Executive Directors Renewal of insurance cover be found in the Directors biographies on page 74.
Proposes new Directors and accepts Play a primary role in succession planning, resignation of Directors Informas Group Authority Framework appointing and, where necessary, removing A.
4 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Holds periodic meetings with Non-Executive Principal risks and material controls, including around health, Executive Directors The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors who Directors without the Executives present safety and security, technology and cyber, and the Boards Meet without the Executive Directors present help develop and constructively challenge proposals on strategy.
risk appetite and tolerance statement Attend meetings with major Shareholders They bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and to discuss governance and strategy Board priorities for 2018 experience to the Boards deliberations and have been selected The end of 2017 marked the completion of the Growth for expertise, ensuring their views carry significant weight in the Acceleration Plan and its programme of measured change Boards decision-making process.
For 2018, the Boards focus will As Senior Independent Director, Gareth Bullock is available to continue to be on initiatives that support Informas ongoing the Chairman and all Board members to discuss any concerns performance and growth, using the platforms built through they have.
He is also available to speak to Shareholders where it GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GAP, with specific priorities including: is not possible to speak to the Chairman or other communication Runs the Company and is in direct channels are not sufficient or appropriate.
maintaining oversight of Divisional performance and the charge of the Group day-to-day COMPANY SECRETARY strategic direction and ambitions of each Division: Accountable to the Board for its The Chairman frequently speaks to the Non-Executive Directors, keeping under review the Groups organisational structure, operational and financial performance Responsible for advising the informally and individually without Executives present.
At least to ensure it remains effective as Informa grows in scale Board, through the Chairman, Responsible for implementing one meeting is held annually with just the Non-Executive Directors THE BOARD on all governance matters the Companys strategy, including and internationally: and the Chairman in attendance.
Similarly, the Non-Executive driving performance and optimising All Directors have access to the approach to risk management, including risk tolerance Directors meet without the Chairman once a year and a full the Groups resources the Company Secretarys and resources allocated to this area: review of the Chairmans performance is carried out.
advice and services Primary responsibility for managing the Groups culture, talent management and succession the Groups risk profile, identifying planning, and the support and opportunities provided The Directors contracts are available for inspection at the and executing new business to colleagues: registered office during normal business hours and will be opportunities, and for management development and remuneration Informas digital strategy, from customer facing platforms to available for inspection at the AGM.
operational resilience and measures to manage technology risk and cyber security: and integration if the combination with UBM completes.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Available to meet Shareholders on request Responsible for raising the finance required to fund the Groups strategy, servicing the Ensures that the Board is aware of any Groups financing and maintaining compliance Shareholder concerns with its covenants Assists where Shareholder issues are not Maintains a financial control environment capable resolved through existing mechanisms for of delivering robust financial reporting information, investor communications to indicate the Groups financial position Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman Leads the Finance functions and has day-to-day and, if and when appropriate, serves as an responsibility for Finance, Tax, Treasury, Shared intermediary for the other Directors Services and Internal Audit Chairs key internal committees such as the Risk Committee and the Treasury Committee 78 79 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 G E R V S I O T D R U I U O R P C T E E F C C I X T E N E O R - A R I N N D O C N E Y Y R N A A T P E M R O C C E S STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: EFFECTIVENESS SECTION B: Attendance at 2017 Board and Committee meetings The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director attended each Audit Committee meeting by invitation.
Scheduled Unscheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Board Committee Committee Committee meetings Meetings meetings meetings meetings EFFECTIVENESS 1 1 of 7 of 5 of 4 of 8 of 2 Derek Mapp 7 5 2 Stephen A. Carter CBE 7 5 2 Gareth Wright 7 5 Gareth Bullock 7 5 4 8 2 B.
1 THE COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD B.
2 APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD Cindy Rose 6 4 3 1 Informas Board consists of two Executive Directors and seven The Nomination Committee takes the lead on appointments Helen Owers 6 5 7 Non-Executive Directors.
Their biographies, including skills and to the Board.
The Nomination Committee Report follows this Stephen Davidson 7 5 8 qualifications, experience and external commitments, are set section on page 83.
David Flaschen 7 5 4 out on pages 74 and 75.
As part of its ongoing review on Board 2 John Rishton 7 4 4 The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a term of effectiveness the Nomination Committee looks at whether each 3 one year, following which they are asked to resign and seek Dr Brendan ONeill 2 0 1 3 Director is sufficiently independent.
No Non-Executive Director re-election at the AGM.
With the exception of the Chairman, had a prior connection with the Company on appointment and 1.
I n addition to the Board meetings, a Committee of the Board met in January, July and November to approve certain financing arrangements.
The five unscheduled Board each Non-Executive Director has served on the Board for the Directors continue to appropriately challenge the Executives meetings related to strategy and acquisitions.
no more than five consecutive years.
and each other in the boardroom.
John Rishton was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 26 May 2017 following Dr Brendan ONeills resignation from the Board.
all of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character 3.
Dr Brendan ONeill stepped down from the Board and the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 26 May 2017.
The Code states that directors should allocate sufficient time to discharge their responsibility effectively and this was reviewed Directors conflicts of interest by the Nomination Committee in 2017 as in previous years.
The Articles include provisions covering Directors conflicts of interest.
They allow the Board to authorise any matter that would Derek Mapp was appointed to the Board of Mitie Group plc otherwise result in a Director breaching his or her duty to avoid in May 2017 and was elected Chairman from July 2017.
The Company has procedures in place to to this appointment, the Chairman consulted with all Board deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict of interest.
members, who were satisfied that he could continue to commit As part of this process, the Board will endeavour to: the necessary time, attention and dedication to his role at the Group.
consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: B.
DEVELOPMENT Directors are also updated on any changes to the Groups legal The Companys Non-Executive Directors are expected to consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the Articles: On joining the Board all Directors receive a formal induction and governance requirements and those which affect their duties commit 1215 days a year to Board meetings and other keep records and Board minutes on authorisations granted to the Group, designed to enable them to understand the as Directors.
Regular reports and papers are circulated to the work for the Company.
Specific terms of their appointments, by Directors and the scope of any approvals given: and Divisions and the markets Informa operates in so they can be Directors ahead of time in preparation for Board and Committee including time commitment, are contained in their letters of regularly review conflict authorisations.
effective Board members from the outset.
These papers are supplemented by any information appointment, which are available for inspection at the Companys to various Informa offices and forums to meet colleagues and specifically requested by the Directors.
registered office during normal business hours.
Copies of the In 2017, no Director had any unauthorised conflicts of interests.
Informas newest Board member, letters of appointment will also be available to view at the AGM.
The Board noted the following: Training is available at the Groups expense, to ensure that Directors John Rishton, completed a formal induction in 2016 and as a are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and changing All Directors are required to disclose their additional appointments final part of the process was involved in a risk management Derek Mapp is Chairman of 3aaa, which provided training commercial risks.
Should any Director wish to seek professional and other significant commitments, and details can be found in induction in March 2017 prior to his appointment as Chairman to some UK Informa colleagues: advice on any matters relating to the Companys affairs, this is the biographies on pages 74 and 75.
Stephen A. Carter CBE has of the Audit Committee.
John Rishton is a director of Majid Al Futtaim, a company available at the Companys expense.
Additionally, the Company been a Non-Executive Director on the board of United Utilities that takes part in Global Exhibitions Cityscape Global event: The Company Secretary regularly discusses training and Secretary is available for the Directors and liaises frequently with Group PLC since September 2014, which the Informa Board David Flaschen previously worked with adviser Bruce Fador, development needs with the Chairman, who also uses Board all Board members.
The Board as a whole is responsible for the approved and believes is a valuable complement to his Group who now acts as a consultant to an Informa-owned finance evaluations to further assess the Boards requirements.
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
Stephen was also appointed as a Non-Executive board business in the US: Discussions between the Chairman and the Directors also member for the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Cindy Rose is Chief Executive Officer at Microsoft UK, B.
6 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE BOARD take place regularly to ensure all Board members are confident Strategy BEIS during the year.
a key Informa supplier: and AND ITS COMMITTEES in their ability to add valuable contribution to Board and each of the Directors has a small shareholding in the The Directors undergo an annual performance evaluation, Committee meetings.
Company, which is not considered significant.
both individually and collectively as a Board and Committee.
INFORMATION AND SUPPORT An external evaluation is carried out every three years with The Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business the last one undertaken in 2017 by Independent Audit Limited, and the environment in which it operates by written briefings and selected by the Chairman due to its specialism in governance by meetings with Senior Executives.
Nearly every Board meeting matters and experience.
The next external evaluation is expected includes a presentation from Group Senior Executives on a matter to be carried out in 2020. of topical interest.
Non-Executive Directors receive management reports prior to each Board meeting from the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, which enable them to scrutinise the Groups and managements performance.
80 81 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED BOARD TENURE NOMINATION THE BOARD EVALUATION PROCESS IN 2017 0-2 years COMMITTEE John Rishton INTERVIEWS WITH BOARD REVIEW OF BOARD AND OBSERVATION OF Stephen Davidson MEMBERS AND OTHER David Flaschen COMMITTEE PAPERS BOARD MEETING REPORT KEY INDIVIDUALS 2-5 years Gareth Wright Gareth Bullock Helen Owers Stephen A. Carter CBE CEO Cindy Rose ANALYSIS OF FINDINGS 5-10 years Derek Mapp Chairman DRAFT REPORT OF FINDINGS DISCUSSION OF KEY POINTS WITH CHAIRMAN BOARD BALANCE BY INDEPENDENCE RESPONSIBILITIES PRESENTATION OF FINDINGS AND Ensuring a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure DISCUSSIONS WITH BOARD for appointing and inducting new Directors to the Board and its Committees Reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board, BOARD OBJECTIVES Executive Directors 22% including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity SET FOR 2018 Independent Reviewing succession plans for Directors and Senior Executives Non-Executive Reviewing colleague engagement activities in line with legal Directors 78% requirements such as gender pay gap reporting, and monitoring The review took place over June and July and feedback was The evaluation gave suggestions and recommendations for diversity, ethnicity and talent mapping provided to the Chairman.
A formal report was presented 2018, including considering the appointment of an additional Implementing the annual Board evaluation process, and discussion took place at the December Board meeting.
Non-Executive Director to ensure the Board has the skills which includes external evaluation every three years The report covered a broad spectrum of issues including the and experience to meet the Groups future strategic needs: Reviewing Non-Executive Director time commitments Board size and balance: the role of the Chairman, the Senior ensuring succession planning for all levels, including the Board, The Committees full terms of reference are on Informas website Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors, the Executive is discussed: encouraging the evolution of managements and were last reviewed and approved in November 2017.
Directors and the senior management: the dynamics at the approach to risk management: ensuring sufficient time is made Board: the Boards role in strategy, mergers and acquisitions, available to discuss innovation, the digital strategy and people MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE innovation, digital strategy and risk management: the oversight matters: ensuring the organisational structure evolves at an Attendance of financial and operational performance, along with people, appropriate pace to meet the needs of a Group that is growing Committee during 2017 behaviour and culture: the organisational structure: the in size and complexity: broadening the focus beyond financial Members member since of 2 meetings BOARD BALANCE BY GENDER Shareholder focus: and the roles of the Committees and KPIs to strategic and non-financial KPIs: and agreeing the Derek Mapp Chairman of the Committee 10 March 2008 2 the support they receive.
level of detail the Board needs to receive for operational 1 Dr Brendan ONeill 1 January 2015 and strategic discussions.
2 It was observed that the Board exercised strong oversight and Stephen A. Carter CBE 1 January 2015 2 provided good support, input and challenge as the Executive B.
7 RE-ELECTION Gareth Bullock 24 July 2014 2 Directors have tackled a very busy agenda as outlined elsewhere.
The Articles prescribe that all Directors are subject to annual Cindy Rose 24 July 2014 1 Male 78% Many examples were cited of where the Board and individual re-election at the AGM.
The performance evaluation of the Board Non-Executive Directors have added value or influenced the concluded that each Director remains effective, committed Female 22% 1.
Dr Brendan ONeill stepped down from the Committee on 26 May 2017. thinking of the Executives.
It was noted that the Board has and is able to devote the required time to their role.
S tephen A. Carter CBE stepped down from the Committee with effect from 27February 2018.
He attended that meeting and will attend future meetings evolved and become more effective since the last external as a result of the evaluation, the Board is satisfied that each by invitation only.
In addition, it has been refreshed Non-Executive Director remains independent.
Therefore, all and now benefits from: Directors will stand for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
The Company Secretary, the Head of Talent & Transformation and fresh thinking and perspectives: external search agencies attend by invitation, when appropriate.
increased diversity, with a US resident Non-Executive Director: and stronger recent FTSE 100 CEO and previous CFO experience.
82 83 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD BALANCE BY EXPERIENCE AND SKILLS This includes reviewing the time Non-Executive Directors are Informa operates several apprenticeship schemes and the required to give to their roles at Informa.
We were satisfied that Informa Graduate Fellowship Scheme as an additional way of Experience and skills each Director is able to contribute the time, as well as the focus, attracting younger talent, and the Committee received updates Media and Technology sector care and quality of attention, to fulfilling their duties to the on the Groups contribution to and use of the UKs Apprenticeship Company and Shareholders.
Informa is accredited to the UK Living Wage Foundation Business-to-business operations and UK colleagues are paid at least the independently calculated Succession planning US market experience Living Wage, above the governments National Minimum Wage, The Committee keeps succession planning for the Board which is regularly audited.
Digital and technology and the Executive Management Team EMT under ongoing review.
It specifically discusses and reviews succession plans Gender balance Financial management for the Chairman and Group Chief Executive as part of its overall Informas principal measure of gender at Executive level is based Governance and risk control responsibilities, and monitors talent management and performance on balance within the Senior Leadership Group, a group of management across the Divisions for Senior Executives.
approximately 160 colleagues based around the world with the Marketing engagement highest levels of responsibility and accountability in the business.
M&A When appointing new Directors, the Group uses specialist This is a slightly enlarged group compared with the definition executive search consultants to identify candidates that meet the International experience used by the Hampton-Alexander Review, which considers criteria the Committee sets, after which all candidates, internal and external, are interviewed by the Committee and proposed colleagues who report directly to the EMT only.
We believe the PLC expertise to the Board for approval.
Senior Leadership Group is a better representation of senior talent for Informa, because of the Divisional structure of our COLLEAGUE BALANCE BY GENDER To support the recommended offer for UBM plc, the Committee Average over 2017 Average over 2016 Group and the nature of reporting lines across functions.
looked at the current mix of Directors skills, experience and F 4,220 F 56% F 3,662 F 56% background and those that may be needed to lead the enlarged It is also the best equivalent to the calculation of senior managers, Colleagues M 3,305 M 44% M 2,879 M 44% Group.
Having considered the Boards future needs and reviewed as defined by section 414C 9 of the Companies Act 2006 F 46 F 27% F 34 F 23% 1 Senior Leadership Group M 123 M 73% M 113 M 77% suitable candidates on the UBM plc board, the Committee Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. recommended that Greg Lock be appointed as Deputy Chairman, F 2 F 22% F 2 F 22% Having standardised the criteria under which colleagues Directors M 7 M 78% M 7 M 78% and that Mary McDowell and David Wei be invited to join the are part of the Senior Leadership Group, the numbers and Board, conditional on the deal completing.
proportions for the prior year have been restated.
Figures for 2016 have been restated due to the standardisation of the criteria under which colleagues are part of the Senior Leadership Group.
Diversity and balance now in place are intended as the new measure for future years.
The Group and the Boards belief that diversity, and maintaining Over 2017, the Committee has overseen submissions to the a balanced mix of talent at all levels, brings competitive Hampton-Alexander review, and received regular updates advantage remains unchanged.
on the work to report Informas gender pay position, a new DEAR SHAREHOLDER Board composition under GAP Informa aims to recognise diversity in its broadest sense, including obligation for UK companies.
The Groups gender pay figures The Nomination Committee the Committee is responsible As Informas operations have developed under GAP, but not limited to gender, nationality, ethnicity, professional and are currently under review and will be published in line with for continuously assessing and reviewing how the Board is becoming more weighted to the US and to exhibitions and personal experience and age, and to uphold a working environment the UK regulatory requirements.
structured now and how it might be in the future, as well as data and information services, for example, the Committee that is welcoming, stimulating and based on respect.
for monitoring how Informas colleagues are engaged and has reassessed the skills and knowledge necessary at a Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by how talent is retained across the Group, and for ensuring Board level to oversee the Groups strategic direction effectively.
When considering succession planning for Executive and Derek Mapp legal reporting requirements are met.
Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers candidates When Directors have retired or stood down, we have taken Chairman of the Nomination Committee from a wide range of backgrounds.
The Board notes and fully Informa recognises that colleagues are amongst its most the opportunity to look for specific additional expertise.
This 27 February 2018 supports the findings of the Hampton-Alexander Review on important assets and places value on difference and diversity.
has included Directors with greater international experience, womens representation in senior leadership positions, and There is a focus throughout the business on attracting, such as David Flaschen appointed in 2015 : with listed company the Parker Review on the ethnic diversity of boards.
Their supporting and engaging colleagues wherever they work, and financial management experience, such as John Rishton recommendations will be actively considered when it comes to and maintaining a culture of openness and respect.
The appointed in 2016 : and with expertise in technology and digital new Board appointments and succession planning.
The Group Committee focuses on ensuring there is a balanced mix information delivery, such as Cindy Rose appointed in 2014.
Chief Executive, who now attends the Committee meetings of skills, experience and backgrounds at Board and senior by invitation, is a member of the 30% Club, an international Details of each Directors professional experience can be management level, to fuel future growth and opportunity organisation that works to increase the representation of found on pages 74 and 75, and an overview of the range and deliver value for stakeholders including Shareholders, women and diverse talent at all levels.
of skills available to the Board is shown above.
This focus and receives updates and monitors the application of talent on composition, as well as the size of the Board overall, will and colleague-focused policies to the wider Group.
During 2017, the Committee received regular updates on continue as the Group exits the GAP.
AllInforma, Informas Group-wide approach to Diversity and The Committee met twice in 2017 to discharge its duties, Inclusion.
Activities included the introduction of a standalone Director evaluation and Board performance and there were no unanticipated Director changes in 2017.
Diversity & Inclusion policy, to bring more specific focus to The Committee is responsible for reviewing and implementing Dr Brendan ONeills retirement from the Board and as Audit the Groups commitment to maintaining a culture of equality, any feedback from the annual Board performance evaluation Committee Chairman after nine years of service took effect on dignity and respect free from unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Feedback from the 2017 26May 2017, and John Rishton, appointed in September 2016, See pages 37 and 73 for more detail.
external Board evaluation can be found on pages 81 and 82 became Chairman of the Audit Committee on Brendans retirement.
of the Corporate Governance Report.
84 85 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: ACCOUNTABILITY SECTION C: C. 3 AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to present this years Audit Committee report, having taken over as Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee in May 2017 on Dr Brendan ONeills retirement AUDIT COMMITTEE from the Board.
The Committees thanks and appreciation ACCOUNTABILITY go to Brendan for his expert chairmanship and contribution.
REPORT Fair, balanced and understandable reporting As in previous years, the Committee has given significant time and attention to ensuring that this Annual Report and the incorporated financial statements provide a fair, balanced and C. 1 FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING Informas internal control and risk management systems and understandable assessment of the Groups financial reporting.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report procedures around financial reporting include: and Financial Statements.
The Directors Responsibilities The Committee also continued to oversee the work of the Business planning each Operating Division produces Statement can be found on page 119, which includes an Risk Committee, and its responsibility for the effectiveness and agrees an annual business plan against which the explanation of how the Directors ensured that the accounts of the Groups internal control policies and the procedures performance of the business is regularly monitored.
prepared are fair, balanced and understandable.
Pages 20 for identifying, assessing, managing, and reporting risk.
This function and process was strengthened in 2017. and 21 of the Strategic Report explain the business model Financial analysis each Divisions operating profitability To fulfil these duties, the Committee received sufficient, reliable and how the Company generates value for stakeholders.
and capital expenditure are closely monitored.
Management and timely information from the Groups senior managers.
C. 2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL incentives are tied to in year and longer-term financial results.
Membership and attendance The Board is responsible for Informas system of internal controls These results include explanations of variance between The Committee consists of independent Non-Executive and reviewing its effectiveness.
It recognises that risks must be forecast and budgeted performance, and are reviewed in Key responsibilities Directors, and their full biographies are on pages 74 and 75. taken to achieve the Companys business objectives and has detail by Executive Management on a monthly basis.
Key Review the integrity of the Groups financial statements Members are independent in their judgement and mindset.
mandated a responsible and balanced approach to managing financial information is regularly reported to the Board.
and reporting The Board and Committee are satisfied that members have the risk through its risk appetite and tolerance statement.
Group Authority Framework the framework provides Review and monitor the effectiveness of the Groups risk broad commercial knowledge, competence in the business-toclear guidelines on approval limits for capital and operating Informas system of internal controls is designed to manage risks management programme and internal control procedures business information services market and vertical industries in expenditure and other key business decisions for all Divisions.
to address causes and reduce their potential impact.
It can only Oversee the relationship with the external auditor which Informa operates, mix of business and financial experience The Group Authority Framework was reviewed and updated provide reasonable rather than absolute assurance against material including appointments, qualifications, independence, and the resource to effectively discuss, challenge and oversee during 2017. misstatement or loss, a concept that recognises that the cost of fees and performance key financial matters and fulfil their responsibilities.
Risk assessment risk assessment is embedded into control procedures should not exceed its expected benefits.
Review the effectiveness of the internal audit function the operations of the Group and is reported on to the EMT, In terms of specific expertise, the Committees Chairman for and the annual Internal Audit plan Risk Committee, Audit Committee and the Board.
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group the first five months of 2017, Dr Brendan ONeill, was a qualified Compliance Compliance controls have been strengthened in rests with the Group Chief Executive, supported by the EMT.
The Committees full terms of reference are on Informas website management accountant with extensive experience of Audit 2017 and are based on the US Federal Sentencing Guidelines.
The EMT includes the CEO of each of the four Divisions, the and were last reviewed and approved in November 2017.
John Rishton, who became Chairman in Group Finance Director, the Director of Strategy & Business May 2017, is also a qualified accountant and is currently chairman The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Membership and attendance Planning, the Director of Investor Relations, Brand & of the Audit Committee of Unilever plc and Serco Group plc.
He system of internal controls, including financial, operational and Attendance Communications, the Director of Talent & Transformation has previously been Audit Committee chairman of Allied Domecq Committee during 2017 compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high Members member since of 4 meetings and the General Counsel & Company Secretary, who met plc and Rolls-Royce plc.
Further information on John Rishton can level internal control arrangements.
1 John Rishton 1 September bi-weekly by call and bi-monthly in person in 2017 to consider be found in the biographies on page 75.
A summary of the Chairman of the Committee 2016 4 the implementation of Group strategies, plans and policies, The Audit Committee has been charged by the Board with Committees performance, as part of the broader performance 2 Dr Brendan ONeill 1 January 2008 1 to monitor operational and financial performance and to oversight of the above controls and has considered the following evaluation conducted in 2017, can be found on pages 81 and 82. manage risks.
Each Division is given operational autonomy, factors in determining the overall effectiveness of the Groups David Flaschen 1 October 2015 4 There were four meetings in 2017, structured to allow a full, open as far as possible, within an internal control framework.
risks and associated control environment: Gareth Bullock 1 January 2015 4 and robust investigation into key accounting, audit and risk issues The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 71 details the activities Cindy Rose 1 August 2013 3 The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Audit Committee, relevant to the Group.
reports on the effectiveness of risk management, governance 1.
John Rishton became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 26 May 2017.
The whole Board is invited to and has attended Committee and compliance activity within the Group.
As illustrated in the Risk Management section on page 24, 2.
D r Brendan ONeill retired from the Board and as Chairman of the Audit meetings this year save for one Director who missed one meeting The Audit Committee has approved a schedule of work to the Board has a risk management framework for identifying, Committee on 26 May 2017. due to prior commitments.
Certain colleagues from the business be undertaken by the Groups Internal Audit team during evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the are also invited to attend to facilitate information gathering and S ee Risk Management and Principal Risks, pages 24 to32 the period.
It receives reports on any issues identified around Group which is overseen by the Risk Committee.
Oversight of sharing, specifically the Head of Group Finance, Head of Internal the Groups business processes and control activities over risk management continued to be strengthened and enhanced S ee Board biographies, pages 74 and 75 Audit and, when appropriate, the Head of Group Tax, Head of the Groups key risk areas, including following up on the in 2017 and was in place throughout the year, up to the date of Risk, Head of Compliance and the Group Treasurer.
Twice a year, implementation of management action plans to address any approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, and Committee meetings conclude with private meetings with the identified control weaknesses, and reporting any overdue is in accordance with the Code.
Outside this meeting cycle, the actions to the Audit Committee.
Committee Chairman is in regular contact with the Board KPMG LLP is engaged to provide the Group with internal audit Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, services and acts as Head of Internal Audit.
the External Audit Partner and the Head of Internal Audit.
86 87 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Training and external advice ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR As noted in the Corporate Governance Report on page 81, all new members of the Board and the Committee follow a formal JULY 2017 Risk management MARCH 2017 induction programme on appointment when they are provided Review of IT risk and critical systems and controls including with detailed information on the Group.
Directors are provided Financial statements audit risk following migration to new reporting systems Financial statements with updated information on legal and governance requirements The Groups draft 2017 half-year results statements prior to the Update on the work carried out by the Risk Committee The Groups draft 2016 full year results statements and the Annual on an ongoing and timely basis.
Members of the Committee are Boards approval, as well as the external auditors detailed reports.
Report and Financial Statements prior to the Boards approval, as This included a review of the opinions of management and the able to obtain training at the Companys expense on any legal well as the external auditors detailed reports.
This included a review Financial statements external auditor on the carrying values of the Groups assets or accounting requirements required to carry out their roles.
of the opinions of management and the external auditor on the Review of non-financial KPIs relevant to the Group Critical accounting judgements carrying values of the Groups assets Audit standards update The Committees terms of reference mean it can obtain Viability statement and going concern assessment Critical accounting judgements FRC thematic review of Alternative Performance Measures independent external advice at the Companys expense.
Principal risks review including material controls Update on accounting standards No such advice was obtained during 2017.
External audit Viability statement and going concern assessment Review of the external auditors plan for auditing the Groups Taxation risks review Treasury committee The Committee also has access to the services of the financial statements Ensuring the financial statements were fair, balanced and understandable Update on the work carried out by the Treasury Committee Company Secretary on all Audit Committee matters and Review and approval of the updated audit fee schedule Alternative Performance Measures and non-financial KPIs relevant he provides necessary practical support.
Review and approval of non-audit services and related fees to the Group Corporate governance payable to the Groups external auditor Corporate governance update including review and approval External audit partner Confirmation of auditor independence External audit of Committee terms of reference The external audit partner is William Touche from Deloitte LLP.
Review of external auditors interim review report on the Groups External auditors review of the Groups full year financial results He is a qualified accountant, a senior audit partner in the half-year financial statements Review and approval of non-audit services and related fees payable FEBRUARY 2018 London audit practice and a Vice-Chairman of the UK firm.
to the Groups external auditor He first acted as the Groups external audit partner for the Internal audit Confirmation of auditor independence Financial statements year ended 31December 2015 and has, therefore, served Status of the Internal Audit plan The Groups draft 2017 full year results statements and the Review of the work done by Internal Audit and monitoring of three of a maximum of five years.
Internal audit Annual Report and Financial Statements subsequent actions Review and approval of the annual Internal Audit plan The external auditors report on the 2017 full year results Interactions with the Financial Reporting Council Review of the work done by Internal Audit and monitoring of the Key accounting matters In 2017, the Company received a letter from the Conduct Risk management subsequent actions Viability statement and going concern assessment Committee of the FRC with regard to the FRCs thematic Oversight of the operations of the Groups Risk Committee Fair, balanced, and understandable assessment of the and its roadmap for 2017 review of the Alternative Performance Measures disclosure in 2017 full year results statements and the Annual Report Group policies Review of IT risk and critical systems and controls the 2016 Annual Report.
The purpose of this monitoring activity and Financial Statements Review of the appropriateness of the Groups tax and treasury policies Overview of work carried out by the Risk Committee on was to drive continuous improvement in the quality of corporate principal risks reporting.
The FRC review only covered the specific disclosures Risk management External audit Review of the management of treasury and tax risks Review and approval of non-audit services and related fees payable relating to the thematic review and provides no assurance that Fraud reporting Discussions on the material controls in place to mitigate principal risks to the Groups external auditor the 2016 Annual Report was correct in all material aspects.
Review of fraud and fraud reporting across the Group Review of the Groups system of controls and its effectiveness, and Auditor effectiveness The FRC stated they had no substantive issues to raise with approval of the compliance with the Code requirements Group-wide enterprise resourcing platform the Company and noted some minor points of disclosure Internal audit Review of the introduction and phased go-live dates for the where improvement could be made.
These disclosure points 2018 Internal Audit plan Fraud reporting Groups new platform Review of the work done by Internal Audit and monitoring of the were agreed by the Committee in November for inclusion in Review of fraud and fraud reporting across the Group subsequent actions the 2017 Annual Report.
NOVEMBER 2017 MAY 2017 Group policies IT internal controls External audit Review of the appropriateness of the Groups tax and treasury policies Cyber security deep dive The external auditors preliminary audit plan for auditing the Group-wide enterprise resourcing platform update and Groups financial statements, including the scope of work Risk management discussion of issues and key risks on the financial statements 2018 Risk Committee planning Discussion of Penton financial controls Preliminary audit fee schedule Financial controls and their effectiveness Approval of the external auditors preliminary audit plan for 2017 Review of management of treasury and tax risks External audit The material controls in place to mitigate principal risks Review of the external auditors report for auditing the Groups 2017 Internal audit Cyber security and technology full year financial statements, including the scope of work and key Reviewing the work done by Internal Audit and monitoring of risks on the financial statements Fraud reporting the subsequent actions Review and approval of non-audit services and related fees payable Review of fraud and fraud reporting across the Group to the Groups external auditor Group policies Review of the appropriateness of the Groups tax and treasury policies Internal audit Status of the Internal Audit plan Risk management Review of the work done by Internal Audit and monitoring Review of the management of treasury and tax risks of subsequent actions Review of IT risk and critical systems and controls 88 89 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Systems, security and data capabilities RISK COMMITTEE Valuation of separately identifiable intangible assets Contingent consideration Notes 18 and 26 As part of its Audit remit, the Committee regularly monitors Another of the Committees responsibilities is to oversee the Notes 17 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements to the Consolidated Financial Statements the Groups investment and approach in areas that are work of the Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee reports to the To determine the value of separately identifiable intangible The calculation of contingent consideration involves estimating critical to performance, the protection of its intellectual Committee and the Group Finance Director, Gareth Wright, is assets on a business combination, and deferred tax on these the future performance of an acquired asset, generally based property and the integrity of its data and financial reporting.
It comprises the CFO of each Division, the Group intangibles, the Group is required to make judgements when on a multiple of revenue or profit in a specified future year.
CIO, General Counsel & Company Secretary, Director of Talent & utilising valuation methodologies.
These methodologies include When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business In 2017, the Committee focused on a number of key areas, Transformation, Head of Group Finance, Head of Risk and Head the use of discounted cash flows, revenue forecasts and the combination includes assets or liabilities from a contingent including: of Compliance, and meets quarterly.
Its principal duties include: estimates for the useful economic lives of intangible assets.
consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value, and included as Cyber security: The growing threat of cyber security is a There are significant judgements involved in assessing what providing guidance to the Board and the Committee regarding part of the consideration transferred in business combination.
key issue for all companies today and one which constantly amounts are recognised as the estimated fair value of assets the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy: evolves with technology.
As part of its regular assessment, and liabilities acquired through business combinations, Changes in fair value of the contingent consideration that overseeing and advising the Board and the Committee the Committee asked the Internal Audit function to conduct particularly the amounts attributed to separate intangible qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted on the Groups current risk exposures and recommending an in-depth review of Informas IT security, the results of assets such as titles, brands, acquired customer lists and retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against a risk strategy: which were presented in the last quarter.
These adjustments will result in a restatement to reviewing the Groups overall risk assessment processes, the amount of goodwill recognised on acquisitions.
Any previous reported results if the changes relate to amounts the parameters of the qualitative and quantitative metrics While some defences were robust, it was clear that more provisional amounts are subsequently finalised within the arising in previously reported periods.
Measurement period used to review the Groups risks, and confirming the actions could be done.
This has led to a number of initiatives, including 12-month measurement period, as permitted by IFRS 3. adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional taken to mitigate them: establishing a Cyber Security Capability Roadmap, increasing information obtained during the measurement period, which overseeing processes to ensure the Groups adherence the frequency and effectiveness of patching across the Group, The Group has built considerable knowledge of these valuation cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date, about to the approved risk policies: introducing Multi-Factor Authentication as a new security techniques, and for major acquisitions, defined as when facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
reviewing reports on any material breaches of Group policies measure and implementing a next-generation threat solution consideration is 75.0m or above, the Group also considers and the adequacy of proposed actions: called Crowdstrike.
the advice of third party independent valuers to identify and Subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls calculate the valuation of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
contingent consideration, which do not qualify as measurement In addition, the Group is raising awareness amongst colleagues and risk management systems, including all material financial, Details of acquisitions in the year are set out in Note 18. period adjustments, depends on how the contingent consideration of the risks and the IT security protocols in place to protect operational and compliance controls: is classified.
Contingent consideration classified as equity is not the Group, including, through the launch of new Global reviewing the Groups approach to and management of Impairment of assets Note 16 to the remeasured at subsequent reporting dates, and its subsequent Cyber and Data Security training modules and colleague health and safety risks, including the Health and Safety Consolidated Financial Statements settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration communications in 2018. risk appetite statement: Identifying indicators of asset impairment involves estimating classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reviewing the adequacy and security of the Companys future cash flows based on a good understanding of the Data management: A related area of focus is that of the effective reporting dates at fair value, with the corresponding gain or loss arrangements for its colleagues and contractors to raise drivers of value behind the asset.
At each reporting period, management and use of data across the Group.
This is particularly recognised in the income statement.
concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in an assessment is performed to determine whether there are relevant in light of the upcoming GDPR, which comes into effect financial reporting or other matters: any such indicators of impairment, which involves considering EXTERNAL AUDITOR at the end of May 2018, and the Committee has been reviewing reviewing the Groups instances of fraud and of fraud the performance of our businesses, any significant changes The Committee takes seriously its responsibility for the the Groups preparation for this deadline.
reporting to the Committee: and to the markets in which we operate and future forecasts.
For development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups Progress has been made following the appointment of a Group reviewing the Groups insurance arrangements.
impairment testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to the specific policy on external audit.
This policy assigns oversight responsibility Data Protection Officer to lead the programme.
There remain cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from for monitoring independence, objectivity and compliance with FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT some challenges, particularly related to securing relevant and the goodwill.
When there are changes in business structure, ethical and regulatory requirements to the Committee, and JUDGEMENT AREAS experienced talent to support implementation and lead training judgement is required to identify any changes to CGUs, taking day-to-day responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
It states As part of evaluating the appropriateness of Informas and awareness.
account of the lowest level of independent cash inflows being that the external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and the financial statements, the Committee assesses whether generated, amongst other factors.
Committee, with the Committee as primary contact.
The policy Global Data Privacy training and communications will be suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether also sets out which categories of non-audit services the external launched alongside Cyber and Data Security training in 2018, management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The Group has considered a number of assumptions in auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, subject and will provide a good opportunity to raise awareness of The Committee reviews accounting papers prepared by performing impairment reviews of assets, which can be found to fide minimis levels.
GDPR internally and the measures and practices being put management that provide details on the main financial reporting in Note 16.
The determination of whether assets are impaired in place to meet the new requirements.
The Committee also reviews reports by the external requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the auditor on the full year and half-yearly results, which highlight assets have been allocated, except where a fair value less costs external auditor, the Committee reviewed: Enterprise resource platform: The Committee has also been any issues identified in their audit process.
During the year-end to sell methodology is applied.
The value in use calculation provided with regular updates on the progress of the Groups the external auditors plan for the 2017 year-end audit, noting process, the Committee concentrated on the following critical requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to implementation of its upgraded enterprise resource platform, the role of the senior statutory audit partner who signs the accounting judgements and key accounting matters: arise from each CGU, using five-year projections and determining Globe.
As with many large-scale IT deployments, this has audit report and who, in accordance with professional rules, a suitable discount rate to calculate present value and the been complex to manage, with implementation challenges has held office for three of a maximum permissible five years, long-term growth rate.
The Directors are satisfied that the leading to delays.
However, the majority of the Group is now plus any changes in the key audit staff: Groups CGUs have a value in use in excess of their balance live on the platform.
the arrangements for day-to-day management of the sheet carrying value.
The sensitivities considered by the Directors audit relationship: for CGUs that have less headroom are described in Note 16. a report from the external auditor describing its arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor, in addition to its approval of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor that exceed the pre-approval threshold.
90 91 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Audit review 2018 policy Permitted non-audit services, subject to governance INTERNAL AUDIT As part of best practice, management reviews the performance Following the approval of a new policy on 2 March 2017, the and pre-approvals under the policy The Internal Audit team is outsourced to KPMG.
It provides of the external auditor once a year to assess the delivery of Group kept under review the provision of non-audit related Audit-related services independent assurance through planned audit activities that the external audit service and identify areas for improvement.
services by the external auditor.
This policy seeks to safeguard Reporting accountant services identify controls on a sample and rotational basis and whether In 2017, Deloittes performance was therefore assessed according the ongoing independence of the external auditor and ensure Assurance services in relation to financial statements they are adequately designed and implemented, making to whether it exceeded, met or was below expectations against a the Group complies with new regulatory guidance in this area.
within an M&A transaction e. g. providing comfort letters in recommendations for improving controls.
variety of factors, with a questionnaire completed by Group and connection with any prospectus that Informa may issue At the beginning of each year the Committee approves a To safeguard the independence of the external auditor, the Divisional colleagues in different geographies to gather a full set Tax advisory and compliance work for non-EEA subsidiaries schedule of work to be undertaken by the Groups Internal updated policy defines and describes: of opinions.
The results of this assessment process are reviewed Expatriate tax work Audit team, with an emphasis on work covering the Groups by the Committee.
Other non-audit services not covered in the list of prohibited those services the auditor is not permitted to provide: key risk areas and certain key financial controls.
Internal Audit and permitted services, where the threat to the auditors those services acceptable for the auditor to provide, where attends each Committee and Risk Committee meeting, tabling To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the independence and objectivity is considered trivial and provision has been pre-approved by the Committee: reports on: Committee reviewed: safeguards are applied to reduce threat to an acceptable level those services where the specific approval of the Committee is required before the auditor provides the service: any issues identified around the Groups business processes the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors Prohibited non-audit services the fee arrangements appropriate for external auditor and control activities during the course of its work: independence and objectivity: Bookkeeping and preparing accounting records or engagements: the implementation of management action plans to address the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan financial statements and any variations from the plan: the internal approval mechanisms, governance and any identified control weaknesses: and Services that involve playing any part in management the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in its Committee oversight required for engaging the external any management action plans where resolution is overdue.
or decision making handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and auditor: and Payroll services Internal Audit also attended the Enterprise Resource the content of the external auditors reporting on internal control.
the external reporting on the non-audit fee policy required Design and implementation of internal control or risk Platform Steering Committee from go-live until the end of as part of the Committee report in the Annual Report management procedures related to the preparation Audit tender 2017, assessing the governance process around monitoring and Financial Statements.
and or control of financial information, or the design and Deloitte LLP Deloitte was reappointed as the Groups external the SAP implementation and reporting on this to the Committee.
implementation of financial information technology systems auditor following a tender process carried out in 2016 and The policy is designed to ensure that as a public interest entity An Internal Audit effectiveness review is carried out each year to Certain valuation services including valuations performed in Shareholder approval at the AGM on 26 May 2017.
Deloitte was PIE, the Group complies with both the Financial Reporting assess the delivery of the function and areas for improvement, connection with actuarial services or litigation support services first appointed as the Groups external auditor in 2004.
The 2016 Council Ethical Standard for Auditors and other EU audit where senior internal stakeholders are consulted and provide Services linked to the financial, capital structure and allocation Annual Report provides details of the tender process undertaken regulations, which require that: their feedback.
Any areas for improvement are discussed at a and investment strategy during that year.
Committee meeting and Internal Audit discusses any identified from 2020 the Group will comply with a 70% cap on non-audit Promoting, dealing in or underwriting shares weaknesses directly with senior management.
Compliance with the CMA Order fees for services provided by the external auditor to European Internal audit services The Committee confirms compliance with the provisions of Economic Area EEA PIEs and their EEA subsidiaries.
The Certain HR services Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market cap is based on the ratio of the average of three consecutive Certain legal services Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes years of statutory audit fees to the non-audit fees for services John Rishton Services provided on a contingent fee basis and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
It will keep its paid to the external auditor in the fourth year: and Chairman of the Audit Committee external auditor under review on an annual basis.
Deloittes last certain non-audit services are permitted and prohibited 27 February 2018 eligible year to serve as the Groups auditor is the year ending as of 1 January 2017.
The policy is also designed to ensure that protocols are in NON-AUDIT SERVICES, FEES AND POLICY place before the 70% cap comes into force, to ensure that The Committee considers that certain non-audit services the Committee has adequate opportunity to consider should be provided by the external auditor, because its existing whether it should pre-approve non-audit spend with the knowledge of the business makes this the most efficient and external auditor that would exceed this cap.
effective way for non-audit services to be carried out.
This policy is supervised by the Committee, which has In 2017 the non-audit fees paid to Deloitte totalled 0.3m delegated day-to-day management to the Head of Group 2016:5.1m and were 14% 2016: 364% of the 2017 audit fee.
Finance and who ensures that compliance with the policy The majority of non-audit fees in 2017 were incurred for work on is kept under constant review.
the half-year review and training services provided to Knowledge The following non-audit services are approved and prohibited & Networking.
Deloitte acquired a training business during 2017 under the policy, subject to certain pre-approvals governed by that previously provided trainers and course materials for fee limits and nature of service by the Group Finance Director participants in a limited number of Knowledge & Networking and the Committee: events.
The Committee approved the continuation of these services in 2017, which are for the benefit of course participants, with fees in the year amounting to 0.1m of the total non-audit fee of 0.3m.
92 93 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT SECTION D: 2017 PERFORMANCE AND INCENTIVE OUTCOMES The Committee reviewed its remuneration advisers in early 2017 As detailed in the Strategic Report, 2017 was another year of and following a tender process, approved the appointment of improving operational and financial performance.
The Group Mercer Kepler, taking over from Willis Towers Watson, which completed the Growth Acceleration Plan with all four divisions served the Committee up to the AGM on 26 May 2017. in growth, with the Groups underlying revenue growth over DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Summary of Remuneration Policy proposals 3% and with strengthened platforms and capabilities for future The Committee has continued to actively engage with major scale and performance.
Shareholders through the year, including on its evolving thinking The two measures for the Executive Directors 2017 Short-Term on proposed changes to the Policy.
Initial thoughts were Incentive Plan STIP were adjusted diluted earnings per share communicated through a series of letters from the Remuneration EPS and underlying revenue growth URG.
The reported Committee Chairman during 2017 and the Committee intends The recommended offer for UBM plc is subject to a Shareholder adjusted diluted EPS of 46.1p reflected 100.6% of the target and to meet with major Shareholders in March 2018 to further vote in April and also requires regulatory consent in a number of combined with URG of 3.4% led to a total annual bonus of 82.4% understand views and expectations prior to the 2018 AGM.
Consequently, the Committee intends to engage of the maximum potential, or 123.6% of base salary, being with major Shareholders on the updated Remuneration Policy The Committees own review of its Remuneration Policy awarded to both Executive Directors.
Of this award, bonus equal ahead of this vote and provide full and final details of all changes concluded that the overall approach and structure, which to 100% of base salary will be paid in cash and 23.6% will be to the Policy before the 2018 AGM.
These will be sent to Shareholders has served the Company well through the last three years, in deferred for three years under the terms of the Deferred Share after the vote in regard to UBM plc but in advance of the AGM.
substance continues to remain appropriate as Informa moves Bonus Plan DSBP.
into the next stage of its evolution.
However, the framework for As it is currently drafted: the current Remuneration Policy was originally introduced in 2013 The 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP performance period when Informa was a very different company.
It is now a far larger, The Remuneration Policy can be found on pages 98 to ended on 31 December 2017.
The measures within this plan more international and complex business, even ahead of the 104 of this Report.
Shareholders will vote on the updated cycle were total shareholder return TSR compared to the DEAR SHAREHOLDER proposed addition of UBM plc, and so the Committee feels this Remuneration Policy at the 2018 AGM, in accordance with FTSE 51150 peer group excluding financial services and natural On behalf of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, needs to be reflected in the structure, range and targets within regulatory requirements.
resources companies, and the compound annual growth rate I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report the updated Remuneration Policy.
Changes made to the Remuneration Policy since Shareholders CAGR in adjusted EPS.
The Groups performance against for 2017.
This report is split into two sections: the Remuneration last approved it at the 2015 AGM are set out on page 97. these measures resulted in an overall vesting outcome of Furthermore, should the recommended offer for UBM plc be Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
As part of our While the updated Remuneration Policy may stay in place 82.98% of the original award for both Executive Directors.
successful, the Committee believes that in order to closely align regular three-year cycle, we will be asking Shareholders to for up to three years without a further Shareholder vote, COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 2017 with Shareholder interests, the success of that acquisition and approve an updated Remuneration Policy at the 2018 AGM.
the Committee will keep it under regular review.
The Committee met eight times in 2017, with full attendance the returns it generates through the Accelerated Integration Plan The Committees primary focus is to align Directors remuneration at each meeting except on one occasion when one member should be another key component of management incentives The Committee also considers environmental, social and to the Groups strategic priorities, the needs of the business and was absent due to exceptional circumstances.
Informas over the next few years.
governance issues, and is specifically mindful that the the creation of long-term value for Shareholders.
Performance Chairman, Derek Mapp, attends meetings by invitation only Remuneration Policy does not inadvertently create risks measures and targets are designed to be suitably challenging, and he is not present when matters relating to his remuneration in these areas or promote irresponsible behaviours.
and are based on a range of factors including internal budgets, are discussed.
None of the members who served on the As in 2016, the reward structure for all Informa colleagues is set strategic ambitions, analysts views and investor expectations.
Committee during the year had any personal financial interest, out on page 110 and a comparison of CEO to average colleague other than as a Shareholder of the Group, or conflicts of interests While our existing Remuneration Policy has served the Group pay is also included in this report.
The Group operates in highly arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in and its Shareholders well, we are proposing a number of competitive markets for talent across the world and the majority running the business.
changes in the updated Policy set out on pages 97 to 104 of Informa colleagues are employed outside of the United that are designed to reflect market best practice.
In each market the Group operates an approach to remuneration that is both market relevant and competitive.
Our In addition, we will be consulting with major Shareholders in statement on reward structure contains more details about the March on how best to motivate and incentivise our Executive progressive terms used for most colleagues and how, through Directors going forward, in a way that aligns closely to Shareholder ShareMatch, the Committee is encouraging and incentivising interests whilst reflecting the evolution of the Group.
Even before Weighting on all colleagues to own shares in the Group.
performance measure Percentage of the proposed addition of UBM plc, Informa is a far larger, more Performance measures % of maximum Performance outcomes maximum international and complex business today than it was when the STIP 2017 Adjusted diluted EPS 80% EPS of 45.12p, which was 62.4% framework for the current Policy was first introduced in 2013.
100.6% of target Should the recommended offer for UBM plc be successful, the URG 20% URG of 3.4%, which was 20.0% above the maximum target Committee also believes the success of that acquisition and the Total STIP 82.4% returns it generates for Shareholders through the Accelerated Integration Plan should be another key component of managements LTIP 2015 award TSR relative to FTSE 51150 50% 67.2nd percentile vs. peer group 32.98% constituents excluding incentive structure and targets over the next few years.
financial services and natural resources companies EPS CAGR 50% EPS CAGR of 6.9%, which was 50.00% above the maximum target Total LTIP 82.98% 94 95 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Committee is also conscious that market thinking and 2017 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY REMUNERATION POLICY Malus and clawback provisions best practice on remuneration continue to evolve and it is Shareholder approval for the updated Remuneration Policy will be In order to better align with the latest market best practice, UNDERLYING REVENUE GROWTH % 3.4% keen to reflect this.
In this respect, it intends to propose a sought at the 2018 AGM, as is required every three years under the Committee is proposing an additional malus and clawback number of changes to update the Remuneration Policy, the Companies Act 2006.
Pages 98 to 104 of this document set event referring to mathematical errors in calculating the incentive including an increase in the level of equity investment and 2014 0.7 out the Remuneration Policy, which is subject to further Shareholder outcomes.
This is noted on page 101. holding required by Executive Directors, the introduction consultation through March and April.
The final proposed form of 2015 1.0 Leaver and change of control provisions of a two-year post-vesting holding period for LTIP awards the updated Remuneration Policy will be published to Shareholders 2016 1.6 In order to better align with the latest market best practice, the following the three-year performance period, strengthened prior to the AGM and will also be displayed on our website at 2017 3.4 Committee is proposing some minor changes to the incentive malus and clawback provisions, and minor changes to the www.
If approved by Shareholders it will take effect plan structure and wording of the good bad leaver and change structure of good bad leavers and change of control provisions.
from the end of the AGM on 25 May 2018.
2014-2016 figures reflect previous measure of organic growth of control provisions.
These changes are: More detailed information is contained in the Policy Table Following consultation with major Shareholders and advisory ADJUSTED DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE p 9.5% Leaver categories: Leavers are categorised into good on pages 98 to 110. groups during 2017, the changes outlined below are being leavers defined as death, retirement, ill-health, disability, proposed by the Committee, bringing the Group in line with The Group actively encourages colleagues to participate in redundancy, or any other reason at the Committees current market best practice and the latest developments in ShareMatch and as part of the Groups ongoing investment discretion and all other leavers.
Additional changes to the Remuneration in opportunities for colleagues, the matching element of Good leaver treatment: STIP: Good leavers will normally 2015 39.5 Policy will likely be introduced following the planned further ShareMatch was increased to a one for one match at the start receive a time pro-rated bonus subject to performance consultation and these will be clearly documented in the 2018 2016 42.1 of the plan year in April 2017.
Participation was immediately measured at the normal time, with Committee discretion AGM notice under the appropriate resolution, which will be sent 2017 46.1 extended to colleagues who joined the Group from Penton to dis-apply time pro-rating and or accelerate testing of to Shareholders in advance of the AGM.
Shareholder approval and 18% of colleagues in countries where ShareMatch is offered performance.
Default treatment was previously to forfeit will be sought at the AGM on 25 May, and the updated Executive Directors reward in 2017 were members in 2017.
To make it easier and more efficient for any bonus if under notice prior to bonus payment date, Remuneration Policy will be included in next years Directors US colleagues to invest in the Groups shares, we plan to launch with Committee discretion to override.
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE Remuneration Report.
a US Employee Stock Purchase Plan in early 2019.
The Group Good leaver treatment: DSBP: Awards will normally vest is committed to growing colleague participation in share-based Incentive structure on the normal vesting date, with Committee discretion to incentive plans in order to align as many colleagues as possible An increase in the level of Executive Director equity accelerate.
No Committee discretion was included in the with Shareholders and provide colleagues throughout the Group investment and holding previous Remuneration Policy, and good leavers received with the opportunity to participate in the Groups success.
Base salary 825,271 In order to align with the latest market best practice, the Committee their deferred awards earlier, at the end of the notice period.
is proposing that the percentage of salary Executive Directors are Good leaver treatment: LTIP: Awards will normally be Taxable benets 57,574 As the Group continues to grow and expand internationally, we required to hold in shares should increase from a minimum of pro-rated for time and vest on the normal vesting date will monitor and review incentive plans accordingly to ensure we Pension 206,316 150% of salary to 200% of salary.
subject to performance, with Committee discretion to maintain a strong link between pay and performance.
As part of accelerate performance-testing and vesting.
Default STIP 1,020,035 this process we will continue to regularly engage with Executive An increase in post-vesting holding periods treatment was previously to test performance early and Directors and Shareholders, particularly if any changes are LTIP 2,169,729 for LTIP awards to two years allow early vesting, with no Committee discretion to override.
As always, we welcome comments and feedback on our In order to align with the best market best practice, the Committee Change of control: The treatment of incentives on a change of Total xed and executive remuneration arrangements from all our Shareholders.
is proposing that future LTIP awards made to the Executive variable pay 4,278,925 control was not included in the previous Remuneration Policy.
Directors including in 2018 will be subject to a two-year The new change of control provisions are set out on page Stephen Davidson post-vesting holding period following the three-year performance 103, and are aligned to market practice.
Committee Chairman period, other than any disposals made to meet income tax, 27 February 2018 The following tables summarise the six key elements of National Insurance contributions or other regulatory obligations.
GARETH WRIGHT Executive Director remuneration packages and the fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Base salary 470,559 Taxable benets 16,475 Pension 117,636 STIP 581,611 LTIP 923,273 Total xed and variable pay 2,109,554 96 97 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Overview and Overview and link to strategy Operation Performance framework Maximum link to strategy Operation Performance framework Maximum Base Salary Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP Executive Directors Reviewed by the Committee prior Not subject to performance measures.
There are no prescribed maximum The STIP rewards Bonus can be delivered entirely in cash, The performance measures, Below threshold: performance results receive an annual to the beginning of each year and However, an individuals experience, increases for base salary.
In usual Executive Directors for or in a combination of cash and shares.
weightings and targets are set in a zero bonus.
salary, which is upon a change of position or scope development and performance in the circumstances, increases will be delivery of excellent levels Any bonus up to 100% of base salary annually by the Committee.
targeted to be broadly of responsibility.
role will be taken into account when broadly in line with those awarded Threshold: performance results in a bonus of annual performance.
is paid in cash and any above 100% market competitive.
setting and reviewing salary levels.
to Group colleagues taking into Bonus opportunity will be linked to the of up to 25% of maximum of the award.
In deciding appropriate levels, the of base salary is deferred in shares account performance and geography.
Performance achievement of challenging financial Committee considers pay practices for a period of three years under the In exceptional circumstances, such as On-target: performance results in metrics are selected and, when appropriate, non-financial in the Group as a whole and makes Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
following a significant increase in the size a bonus of up to 67% of maximum to ensure a focus on performance targets.
Details of the reference to objective external data that and or complexity of the Group or an of the award.
improvements in Participants will receive a dividend measures and their weightings will be gives current information on remuneration individuals role and scope, the Committee short-term performance equivalent payment in the form of cash or disclosed annually in the Annual Report practices in appropriate comparator can exceed the normal level of increase.
Maximum bonus payout: will that will help drive the shares in respect of DSBP awards that vest.
on Remuneration, with the targets companies of a similar size to Informa.
be confirmed following the major sustainable long-term disclosed retrospectively in the following The Committee will provide the rationale Shareholder consultation.
If, in the Committees judgement, it is In certain circumstances the Committee success of the Group.
year provided they are not deemed to for any such higher increases in the appropriate to appoint an individual will have the discretion to reduce the size be commercially sensitive at that time.
Annual Report on Remuneration following The Committee reserves the right to on a salary below market norms, the of or cancel an unvested award malus the increase.
adjust the targets if events occur e. g. Committee may exceed the normal under the DSBP or require the repayment material acquisition and or divestment rate of increase set out in the Policy of the cash bonus or shares received or of a Group business which cause Table in the following two to three an equivalent cash amount clawback it to determine that they are no years based on performance in role.
once awards have been received by the longer appropriate.
Benefits Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The arrangements Ongoing benefits may include but are not Not subject to performance The maximum car allowance is 20,000 offer Executive Directors The LTIP rewards Executive Directors can receive an The performance measures, Below threshold: performance results limited to company car, car allowance, measurement.
Other benefits are provided Executive Directors annual award of shares or share-based weightings and targets are set in a zero vesting.
market competitive death-in-service insurance coverage, through third parties and therefore the for delivery of strong, equivalent subject to the achievement annually by the Committee.
benefits to retain and family private health insurance, family cost to the Company and value to the Threshold: results in vesting of up sustained performance of specified performance conditions over attract high calibre dental insurance, accident insurance Executive Directors may vary.
LTIP awards will be linked to the to 25% of maximum of the award.
over a period of a three-year performance period.
and permanent health insurance cover.
However, the nature of the provision achievement of challenging financial three years.
On target: results in vesting of up In the event of an international relocation will remain unchanged.
Awards may vest after three years, and, when appropriate, non-financial to 67% of maximum of the award.
additional benefits may include but are and a two-year holding period applies performance targets.
There is no prescribed maximum for not limited to relocation, housing and for vested awards, during which time Maximum award: will be Details of the measures and benefits related to an international schooling costs, financial advice and Executive Directors may not sell shares, confirmed following the major their weightings will be disclosed relocation given the nature of the repatriation.
It is the intention that any save to cover tax or to meet other Shareholder consultation.
annually in the Annual Report on provision and the amounts will vary such arrangements ensure that an regulatory requirements.
Remuneration, with the targets based on factors such as an individuals individual is not adversely impacted Participants will receive a dividend disclosed, at the start of the circumstances and the countries involved.
should the Group require them to relocate.
equivalent payment in the form of cash performance period, provided or shares in respect of awards that vest.
they are not deemed to be commercially sensitive.
In certain circumstances, the Committee will have the discretion to reduce the At the end of the performance Retirement and life assurance benefits size of or cancel an unvested award period, the Committee will assess malus under any share plan or bonus performance against the targets The arrangements Retirement benefits will be paid in part Not subject to performance Retirement benefits: 25% of base salary.
plan operated by the Company or set and review any other relevant offer Executive or in full into a Group Personal Pension measurement.
require the repayment of the shares events during the period in reaching Life assurance: Four times base salary.
Directors a retirement or Personal Pension vehicle.
The pension received or an equivalent cash amount a judgement with respect to the plan contribution which allowance may also be taken in part or clawback once shares have been overall level of vesting under the award.
is motivating and in line in full as a gross cash payment.
Any received or options exercised by the with previous plans at cash payment will be paid monthly.
the point of recruitment assurance is payable in a lump sum, as well as in line with in the event of the insured individuals the market.
98 99 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
