STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE Examples of product launches include the new Ovum Forecaster SPECIALIST product in the TMT vertical, which responds to greater convergence 2.2% in the mobile, fixed line and TV services market by delivering integrated data and forecasts across more than 140 metrics.
The underlying revenue growth INSIGHT AND Finance vertical introduced an upgraded fund flow research and 2016: 1.1% analytics platform for the EPFR brand, and in Agribusiness the INTELLIGENCE Fertecon platform was refreshed, allowing customers to better search, manipulate and export data on global fertiliser markets.
27.1% Following the addition of Penton Information Services brands reported revenue growth to Business Intelligence, it became meaningfully bigger in REVENUE m 2016: 4.8% 2017.
Around 30% of the Penton business, including around 100 digital and print-based insight products and 400 colleagues, 2014 281.7 was combined with Business Intelligence in the first half of 2017.
This has further expanded its presence in the US, led to 2015 276.8 22% the creation of a sixth vertical, Infrastructure, including specialist 2016 302.4 brands such as IndustryWeek and EquipmentWatch, and of Group revenue 2017 384.2 broadened the coverage of the Transportation vertical to include 2016: 22% automotives and trucking alongside maritime.
Penton also brought new capabilities in specialist B2B marketing ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m services, which provides customers with tools and specialist 38,000 products to target new sales leads and promote new products.
2014 75.2 Customers can leverage our deep knowledge of vertical markets, subscribers 2015 63.2 database of segmented professional audiences and expertise 2016 70.5 in content-led marketing to reach those making purchasing decisions effectively.
This business was relaunched as Informa 2017 92.2 Engage in September and will work more broadly across the Group in 2018. Business Intelligence is a subscription-led Division, accounting he Business Intelligence Division provides for around 75% of its revenue.
Penton has broadened the revenue specialist data, insight and intelligence for mix to incorporate specialist marketing services, and the consulting professionals and businesses operating within business also continues to grow.
Both are contingent on the six international vertical markets: Agribusiness, subscriptions business, building from its customer relationships TFinance, Infrastructure, Pharmaceuticals, and specialist expertise.
Transportation, and Technology, Media and Telecoms TMT.
It is a digital subscription business, with additional revenue coming The Division also has a collection of B2B media brands, many from specialist marketing services and consulting services with of which are print-based or generate revenue through print and these verticals.
The Divisions more than 200 product brands digital advertising.
There is a natural shift in spend between the serve an international customer base, helping them make more two and this is being managed carefully.
Print declines eased informed business decisions and gain competitive advantage.
since the integration of the Penton businesses into the Division, a reflection of a more commercial approach to this revenue stream.
2017 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE One of the key objectives of the 2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Another change as part of the Penton integration was to appoint Plan was to repair and return the Business Intelligence Division two Divisional managing directors, each responsible for three to growth.
The six businesses also became more autonomous by moving previously shared functions such as In 2016, the Division reported positive underlying revenue growth sales and marketing into each business and streamlining for the first time in six years, and this positive momentum carried Divisional central support.
into 2017, leading to further steady improvement in underlying revenue growth to 2.2%.
This growth was broad-based with This has brought greater market focus, with management teams all six verticals now in positive growth.
more directly accountable for performance and able to allocate resources and manage cost accordingly.
Business Intelligence received the largest portion of GAP funding to upgrade its content and platform functionality, develop new offerings and improve its sales and marketing.
The continued improvement in its performance reflects the benefit of this investment, with a steady deployment of new product launches and platform enhancements through 2017, boosting subscription renewals, new business pipelines and annualised contract values, as well as helping to drive consulting and specialist marketing services revenue.
46 47 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE CONTINUED INFORMATION SERVICES MARKET TRENDS Over the same period, intelligence trusted, specialist, actionUPGRADING PRODUCTS Business Intelligence operates in the growing and international oriented insight that provides information on what businesses market for B2B information services.
Consultants Outsell estimate can and should do has increased in value, as customers seek FOR CUSTOMER SUCCESS that the market for B2B media and business information was to gain competitive advantage in the information era, more so AND VALUE worth around $40bn in 2016 and grew at 3.1%, part of the wider than general news reporting or simple industry analysis, which Fertecon, part of the Agribusiness vertical, provides over $1.6tn global information industry, nearly 50% of which is based can increasingly be found for free.
1,500 customers with data and intelligence on the market in the US.
The more specialist an information services product is, the more for global fertilisers.
But its historical format PDF Key trends across this market reflect the explosion of digital predictive and intelligence focused, and the closer its application reports delivered by email, with limited online presence media, with a dramatic increase in the consumption of is to critical business decisions and investment plans in a given was increasingly preventing the full use of content information and data digitally and the innovation and utility market, the more value the product tends to have and, hence, and data by customers, as well as limiting the ability that this has brought.
In the continuing shift from a push to a the stickier it is and more defensible within customer budgets.
of sales teams to attract new subscribers and product pull environment, customers increasingly want to select and development teams to create additional services.
Each of our Business Intelligence brands operates in a specific combine different pieces of intelligence and data from different vertical market, and the trends within each vertical influence sources, integrating them into their own models and workflows Through GAPs investment programme, work started to the businesss positioning and prospects.
The Division tends for additional proprietary analysis and business application.
upgrade Fertecons entire digital interface and service to focus on verticals that are international, fast moving and in in early 2017.
Michael Dell, President and Managing Responding to this trend, many product upgrades under GAP growth, and in niche markets, which typically mean there are Director for Agribusiness Intelligence, explained: This fewer competitors for our brands.
Several are showcased on have focused on making the digital delivery of data more flexible was a wholesale redevelopment project, moving to pages 14 to 19, including the markets for Pharma and TMT.
and user-friendly, on our own platforms and through developing interactive data delivery and re-engineering workflows APIs that enable customers to take data feeds direct into their 2018 FOCUS AND POSSIBILITIES and technology to deliver an improved experience and own systems.
In 2018, the focus for Business Intelligence will be to maintain product performance overall.
We took six months of its recent positive momentum, delivering further steady product development time, beta testing with customers DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY TYPE % improvement in underlying revenue growth, with a target to and incorporating their feedback to ensure the at least match wider industry growth levels of around 3%.
redevelopment would hit the mark.
To achieve this, we will continue to focus the business around In terms of key features, at the heart was fast access verticals and customers, and invest in strengthening delivery to Fertecons market data, and improved search.
If you platforms and developing new products.
Customer retention will cant get search right comprehensive, accurate, quick Subscriptions 75% remain key, as will building and converting our new business customers wont know about, let alone be able to find and pipeline to expand the customer base by category and Unit sales 7% utilise, the wealth of insight and data Fertecon produces.
This will include more focus on international Advertising 18% growth, including in markets such as Asia.
Learning from other Business Intelligence GAP projects, improving data download and export features was also We will also continue to build our contingent revenue base, critical.
Customers want to take data to use in their own building on the launch of Informa Engage and the relaunch market models, files and presentations, and facilitating of the consulting business.
Informa Engage will seek to apply that provides them with flexibility and better value from its specialist skills and marketing capabilities across a broader their subscriptions.
range of verticals and international customers, partnering not just with businesses in Business Intelligence but also in the New elements introduced include interactive cost curves other Operating Divisions.
for Fertecon Outlook subscribers, plus Data Explorer, a set of tools that enable Fertecons global fertiliser price, Another constant in the Division will be the commitment supply, demand, cost and trade data to be dynamically to continuous reinvestment in platform innovation and DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY % investigated, compared, charted and exported.
new product development to maintain the quality, value and relevance of our brands.
As new and refreshed products The new site launched in October 2017 with an immediate deliver a better experience and greater value, this should impact on usage including a 90% increase in unique increase customer loyalty and support continued growth.
monthly active users, 160% increase in monthly visits The attraction and retention of talent, and the addition of and a more than 200% increase in average page views North America 62% skills in key areas such as product development, data and per visit compared with the previous website.
Rest of World 14% analytics, also remain critical to the delivery of the Divisions growth ambitions.
We remain equally committed to investing Michael summarised: This upgrade has delivered greater Continental Europe 12% in colleagues to develop the talent and expertise needed to value for current customers and improved the ability UK 12% lead and grow the business.
of our sales teams to achieve renewals and seek new business.
On top of this, it gives us a platform for exploring and introducing additional services and enhancements in the future, not just for Fertecon, but also through combining and building on our proprietary market intelligence across the full Agribusiness value chain.
48 49 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS Recent acquisitions have increased its weighting to the US and PLATFORMS FOR brought new and expanded positions in key industry verticals.
7.6% In March, Global Exhibitions added YPI, a portfolio of US yachting shows which includes the Fort Lauderdale International underlying revenue growth INTERNATIONAL Boat Show, the largest of its kind in the world.
YPIs brands 2016: 8.7% complement our existing position in International Yachting TRADE AND through the Monaco Yacht Show, adding further depth and international reach in this vertical.
74.5% COMMERCE The acquisition of Penton Information Services in late 2016 reported revenue growth materially expanded our portfolio of exhibitions.
Around 60% of REVENUE m 2016: 16.9% Pentons businesses were combined with Global Exhibitions.
a process completed in the first half of 2017, with each business 2014 200.2 operating and reporting as a single unit through the second half of the year.
2015 262.5 32% 2016 321.1 The combination with Penton particularly strengthened our of Group revenue positions in Health & Nutrition, with the New Hope and Natural 2017 560.4 2016: 24% Products Expo brands joining our Vitafoods range: in Agriculture with the US Farm Progress show joining the Agrishow brand in Brazil: and in Sustainability & Waste with Waste Expo complementing ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m the WWETT show.
This has expanded customer relationships, circa increased our market knowledge and international connections 2014 67.4 and strengthened the role we play in supporting trade and 2015 98.0 commerce in these specialist industry sectors.
200 2016 119.5 Our top 30 events were again a key driver of growth, with strong 2017 201.4 shows worldwide performance across major brands that account for over 60% of Divisional revenues, including Arab Health Life Sciences, Natural Products Expo West Health & Nutrition and China Beauty Beauty & Aesthetics.
lobal Exhibitions organises transaction-oriented A number of product initiatives also contributed to 2017 growth.
events that allow international buyers and sellers In Dubai, we successfully separated MEDLAB from the venueto meet face to face, build relationships, trade and bound Arab Health see overleaf for more detail.
The Division is among the top The rollout of a customer value initiative to a number of exhibitions Gthree commercial exhibition organisers in the world, took place, after a successful trial of tiered, value-based pricing and is focused on building must-attend, B2B exhibition brands in at The International Surfaces Event.
This provides flexibility for verticals including Agriculture, Beauty & Aesthetics, Construction exhibitors through a more customer service-oriented approach, & Real Estate, Health & Nutrition, International Yachting and Life.
with the potential to improve rebooking rates and generate 2017 FINANCIAL AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE incremental yields.
This initiative is being extended to a number A key element of the Growth Acceleration Plan has been to expand of other exhibitions in 2018. the Groups position in the growing B2B exhibitions industry, and Investment continued in developing our digital and data particularly in its single largest market, the US, through underlying capabilities, both to strengthen marketing and sales effectiveness, growth and the targeted addition of new businesses.
and in relation to our Market Maker strategy.
The Division is This focus continued in 2017, producing another year of strong building a number of vertical-specific platforms under the above-market growth alongside continued investment and MarkitMakr brand, to address revenue opportunities outside innovation.
The Division delivered underlying revenue growth of of exhibitions and leverage customer relationships and industry 7.6%, and revenues of 560.4m, of which 57% was generated knowledge to connect buyers and sellers online.
The first, Omnia, in North America, making Global Exhibitions Informas single launched in Life Sciences, to provide customers with rich data largest Division by revenue.
on buyer behaviour and targeted, developed sales leads.
MarkitMakr platforms in other verticals are in development and due to be rolled out progressively from 2018 onwards.
50 51 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS CONTINUED EXHIBITIONS TRENDS In this way, major exhibition brands can become fundamental ADDRESSING EXHIBITION The global exhibitions industry continues to grow at above to the commercial health and success of an industry sector, GDP levels.
Consultants AMR International estimate it expanded helping to drive investment and growth.
As they become DEMAND, CREATING NEW by 4.3% in 2016 to $30bn, and forecast an annualised growth established, they become an annual convening place for an MARKETS rate of 4.2% between 2016 and 2021. industry and many exhibitors will pre-book their space far in Arab Health is the largest medical exhibition in the advance, providing organisers with high levels of visibility on The US is by far the largest market for exhibitions, with China Middle East and the second largest in the world.
For the their own revenue, as well as attractive cash dynamics.
Building & Construction is the single largest sector.
last 43 years, it has been held at the Dubai International Exhibition organisers rely on a range of resources and stakeholders It remains a highly fragmented market the four largest Convention and Exhibition Centre, the regions largest to deliver events, from trade association partners to venue commercial organisers account for just 9% of the US market events venue.
owners, suppliers of stand services and hotels.
For an example creating a backdrop for continued consolidation.
of how we work with partners to deliver exhibitions, see page 41.
Healthcare is a booming industry in the Middle East and Industry growth is supported by the enduring value of face-toFor any individual exhibition, the biggest single risk is anything we are incredibly proud of our role in helping companies face interaction between buyers and sellers, particularly in a that disrupts travel to the local area or the venue, such as extreme showcase their products and services, share medical world of increasing digital communication.
A platform where weather conditions or security-related travel restrictions.
The innovation and do business in the region, said Arab buyers in an industry vertical can access multiple suppliers mitigations we put in place for such events are explained in the Health show director Ross Williams.
efficiently and effectively, learn about and source new products Risk Management section on page 24. and services, and transact has become part of the annual The show is a buzzing place in 2016 there were over Each of our Global Exhibitions brands operates in a specific buying cycle for many businesses.
Similarly for sellers, the trade 4,100 exhibitors across more than 22 halls, plus many vertical industry sector, and the features and trends within these show has become an increasingly important part of the sales ancillary events and country pavilions.
But when we specialist markets have an influence on the performance of the cycle as a tool for building customer pipeline for the year and looked at the markets development versus the space show.
We typically focus on verticals that are international, dynamic for launching new products.
available at the event venue, we could see that our and in growth, with a fragmented supply chain where buyers and growth and ability to meet increasing exhibitor sellers value opportunities to meet.
Several are showcased on demands would start to be curtailed.
DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY TYPE % pages 14 to 19, including Aviation and Health & Nutrition.
After exploring options for additional space nearby, 2018 FOCUS AND POSSIBILITIES and consulting with key customers and business Global Exhibitions is targeting a further year of growth ahead partners, the team decided to separate one of the of the market in 2018, supported by continued growth in the largest sub-areas at Arab Health MEDLAB into wider industry and our strong portfolio of major brands in Exhibitor 69% its own dedicated exhibition focusing on the medical growing, attractive industry verticals.
laboratory sector of the healthcare industry.
Attendee 10% Following the successful integration of Penton, the Division has Sponsorship 8% greater scale and increased balance and breadth internationally This addressed market demand, freed up more exhibition and by sector.
This is delivering cost efficiencies in general Advertising 13% floor space at Arab Health and expanded laboratory contracting and marketing, as well as revenue benefits through interest in the region, allowing for more exhibitors and cross-marketing, international sales and geo-cloning.
The investment in our digital and data capabilities made under In 2017, MEDLAB was held immediately after Arab GAP will continue, further strengthening customer relationships Health at the same venue, to minimise disruption to and presence in key verticals.
Products like MarkitMakr provide participants calendars and to allow them to attend new opportunities to connect with customers throughout the both events successively.
year, and an enriched quality and depth of data can be used to create new products and services.
Reflecting this potential for It was a customer and commercial success.
MEDLAB growth, AMR has forecast annual digital revenue growth in the attracted more than 570 international exhibitors and DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY % exhibition industry of 9% between 2016 and 2021.
20,000 attendees, with positive feedback from customers, Operationally, 2018 will see the phased introduction of a new, said Tom Coleman, MEDLAB, Group Exhibition Director.
single sales platform across the Division to improve sales MEDLAB also immediately ranked amongst the Divisions effectiveness and enable greater cross-selling, plus the top 30 events, and generated a new business opportunity completion of a marketing platform rollout that provides greater North America 57% for the Division.
Splitting out the events helped cement flexibility and efficiency in targeting new and existing customers.
medical laboratory as its own sector and create a true Rest of World 33% There are additional growth possibilities from extending our community in this space.
Continental Europe 8% brands into new geographic markets, notably in Asia.
Global Exhibitions has a small but growing presence in China, where UK 2% Thanks to the commercial success our customers had, our approach has been to partner with local businesses that and our own trading performance, we were able to bring have connections and capabilities in our target verticals, to an additional MEDLAB event to the European market in bring our brands to a new, largely national, audience.
Barcelona in 2017, and are extending the brand into the US in 2018.
It has been a successful enterprise in its own As the Division grows in reach and scale, further opportunities right and has created a new market for our exhibitions, arise to generate efficiencies in areas such as procurement, as Coleman concluded.
well as incremental revenue opportunities such as sponsorship where we are able to monetise access to specialist audiences.
52 53 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING Technology Arena for the first time in 2017, which helped ENGAGING to boost attendance to a record of nearly 13,000.
While the Division has increased its focus on core verticals COMMUNITIES, and larger, branded events, there have also been investments in strengthening digital capabilities to build and develop communities online as well as face to face.
By creating IN PERSON websites for specialist communities that provide relevant content, webinars, videos and white papers, the Divisions AND ONLINE brands are becoming more deeply embedded in the verticals and communities.
This enhances customer relationships, builds loyalty around core branded events and provides new revenue opportunities, particularly in specialist marketing services.
REVENUE m As part of the strategy to simplify the Division, in November we completed the sale of Euroforum, our German and Swiss conference business, to leading German media group 2014 246.2 Handelsblatt.
This follows the prior sale of regional conference 2015 225.5 businesses in Scandinavia, the Netherlands and Russia amongst 2016 230.9 others, each of which largely focused on domestic language, 2017 283.0 one-off spot conferences.
Proactive portfolio management leaves the Division streamlined, with a core of internationally focused events in key verticals and ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m geographic hubs.
To support this structure and focus on end markets and customers, the operating model was updated 2014 41.5 during 2017 to give each vertical business greater autonomy, 2015 39.6 with dedicated commercial, operational and marketing teams and a more streamlined central Divisional support function.
2016 38.4 2017 43.9 Following the acquisition of Penton Information Services in late 2016, around 10% of the Penton business was integrated into Knowledge & Networking.
This included complementary brands in TMT including TU Automotive and critical communications he Knowledge & Networking Division engages event IWCE, plus specialist content-focused platforms in the specialist vertical communities through content-driven Food and Restaurant and Meetings areas.
These businesses events and increasingly through online platforms, have helped increase the Divisions presence in North America, enabling professionals to know more, do more and which now accounts for 40% of revenue.
Tbe more by providing opportunities to meet, network, learn and share knowledge.
It operates as KNect365 and EVENTS TRENDS focuses on three key international Vertical communities Life The content-led confex, conference, community and event sector Sciences, TMT and Global Finance with an additional specialist that Knowledge & Networking serves helps professionals stay subject matter events business that works in niche areas of up to date on trends and innovation in their specialist areas, gain sectors, including Energy, Food and Maritime.
insight and knowledge from experts and network with peers, supporting personal and business success.
2017 FINANCIAL AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE 0.1% One of the key objectives of the Growth Acceleration Plan was to Revenue is generated in a number of ways, including delegate streamline and bring greater focus to Knowledge & Networking, underlying fees from attendees at an event, which are typically paid for by shifting it away from smaller conferences and towards branded revenue growth employers with booking taking place up until the first day of the events and networks within targeted vertical communities.
Sponorship is another major source of revenue, with corporates investing in promotional activities connected Following a programme of investment and restructuring designed to the event, including presenter and demonstration slots.
to stabilise, simplify and strengthen the Division, Knowledge & Amongst our confex brands, we also generate revenue through Networking returned to positive underlying growth in 2017 for 22.6% selling exhibition space, where suppliers promote and sell the first time since the launch of GAP, moving from a revenue reported revenue growth goods and services.
This is typically smaller than sponsorship decline of -4.1% in 2016 to growth of 0.1%.
2016: -0.5% and delegate income but is increasingly significant, particularly This reflected strong trading among the Divisions largest 40 at better established and branded events.
events and in all three major verticals, including Global Finance, Corporate marketers spend on events remains strong, with which celebrated the 20th edition of SuperReturn, our leading 16% consultants Outsell estimating growth of nearly 3% in event budgets private equity event.
In Life Sciences, partnering events like in 2017 as they seek to reach targeted and engaged audiences.
Bio-Europe continued to perform well and in TMT, AfricaCom of Group revenue had another successful year, incorporating a dedicated 2016: 17% 54 55 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING CONTINUED To be successful, event organisers need to invest in their Across the market, the rise of digital connectivity has created BRINGING FESTIVALS TO brands and the experiences they offer, demonstrating value opportunities and challenges.
Increased digitisation has led and making them must-attend events in their community or PROFESSIONAL COMMUNITIES to more business and customer interaction happening online, sector.
This is achieved by bringing together and engaging increasing the value of face-to-face platforms that provide 2017 marked the first year of KNect365s partnership niche international communities, providing exclusive content access to customers, communities and networks at scale.
to deliver London Tech Week, a festival of technology and expert insights, as well as creating structured opportunities innovation, inspiration, learning, networking and The Internet has also provided a powerful platform for free for networking and partnering, while promoting brands effectively showcases across London.
content and information, including video and instantaneous both online and offline.
This has reduced the value and The festival concept is a new type of model for B2B uniqueness of some conference content.
At the same time Knowledge & Networking is now focused on three key verticals, events.
For London Tech Week, we worked with different however, specialist branded content, delivered online, can and the trends within each industry sector will ultimately influence partners most notably, the Mayors Office through its engage vertical communities year-round and create new its performance.
The Division has deliberately focused on building agency London Partners and a host of businesses, revenue possibilities in areas such as specialist marketing larger-scale, branded positions in verticals that are international entrepreneurs and innovators to curate and deliver a services, and in which Knowledge & Networking is investing.
and in growth, and where high levels of change and innovation multi-day, multi-venue, multi-format and topical experience create an ongoing need to keep up to date with developments.
in one city, all designed to connect and promote the Several of these verticals are showcased on pages 14 to 19, success of the UK and international tech community, said including TMT.
Carolyn Dawson, Managing Director for the TMT vertical.
2018 FOCUS AND POSSIBILITIES London Tech Week comprised more than 200 individual Following the Growth Acceleration Plan, Knowledge & events, from seminars and talks to demonstrations, Networking enters 2018 in positive growth, with greater workshops, debates, meet-ups, parties and concerts.
More focus around its customers and markets.
DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY TYPE % than 55,000 people from over 90 countries attended, The sale of a majority stake in the German and Swiss making it Europes largest tech gathering in 2017. conference business Euroforum leaves the Division more streamlined, focused on branded confexes and events within This festival is something KNect365 would have found the three core verticals of Life Sciences, Finance and TMT.
much more challenging to deliver effectively before GAP, Attendee 45% Carolyn continued.
Streamlining the Division helped Combined with our investment in digital capabilities to build us focus on building our tech brands, capabilities and Sponsorship 21% audiences online and offline, and increasing traction in specialist relationships, and GAP investments brought improvements marketing services, this leaves Knowledge & Networking Exhibitor 23% to our digital estate that allowed us to present and promote well positioned to continue delivering a steady and improving London Tech Week as a unified brand.
Improved marketing and e-commerce platforms have strengthened the visibility and presence of our brands It also created new opportunities to showcase KNect365s online, leading to higher inbound enquiries and increased wider Technology portfolio.
As part of the festival, we ran volume of natural search leads.
At the same time, investment TechXLR8, a portfolio of eight KNect365 events covering in the events experience and a more structured process for augmented and virtual reality to connected cars and 5G gathering and interpreting customer feedback is leading to broadband.
Our LeadersIn Tech Summit was packed out increased levels of satisfaction and higher rebooking rates.
thanks to the calibre of speakers.
KNect365 Learning ran an Innovation Academy, which included a mini-MBA for The next phase of investment will focus on strengthening developing tech leaders.
our digital content publishing platform with enhanced social media capabilities.
This will build further year-round customer DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY % And Im particularly proud of the partnership we had with engagement, delivering specialist content and tools to reach the youth charity The Princes Trust.
We committed that engaged online audiences.
a legacy of the festival would be developing talent in the The development of our sales processes and capabilities will tech space, and we facilitated with The Princes Trust a continue in order to improve customer management and lead Get Started in Digital Media programme for a group of conversion rates, including the rollout of a new common sales young people, to help them explore the field and build North America 40% platform to assist campaign planning and forecasting.
This will their skills, with a view to securing further training or Rest of World 19% also help the Division in its work to ensure readiness for new employment, said Carolyn.
European data privacy regulations that come into effect in 2018 Continental Europe 28% see page 24 for activities already undertaken.
The training KNect365 is looking to apply this festival model to other UK 13% available to colleagues in core functions like sales, event verticals and cities.
In September 2017, it launched production and marketing will continue, ensuring the skills Biotech Week Boston with a similar approach in the and talent needed for long-term performance and success.
56 57 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
