STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED GLOBAL SUPPORT These changes have simplified the HR organisation and brought THE TEAM consistency and equity to what the Group provides to US-based colleagues, incorporating both current Informa colleagues and new joiners from acquired businesses, including Penton and YPI.
BEHIND In 2018, this standardisation of platforms and processes will be extended through the introduction of a single common applicant THE TEAMS tracking system internationally, making it easier to analyse the mix of talent attracted to the Group and how consistently candidate applications are processed.
The team is working on a common global online learning platform to make the delivery of compliance lobal Support provides common, efficient business and career-development training more efficient.
services to the four Operating Divisions, and the In Finance, after preparatory work in 2016, Global Business leadership and governance that enables the Group Services launched a new Group-wide SAP enterprise to function effectively and fulfil its growth ambitions.
resource platform, designed to consolidate, standardise G It has three major hubs London and Colchester and upgrade our financial operations globally and replace in the UK, Sarasota in the US and Singapore with around multiple out-of-date systems.
The integration of Penton Information Services The platform was rolled-out in phases by Division and into the Group in 2017 added around 100 colleagues to Global geography during the year, to allow findings and learnings Support, largely in the US and predominantly in legal, finance to be applied iteratively to future releases, and the majority and technology.
Global Support is structured into two areas: Group, which Once the platform is fully in place, it will bring benefits from comprises specialist functions such as legal, company simplifying our financial processes and generating improved secretary, brand, investor relations and corporate development, management information, as well as enabling increased volumes and Global Business Services, which delivers centralised and of transactions to be processed efficiently as the Group grows, scalable technology, finance and HR support services that and allowing acquired businesses to be incorporated into enable the Operating Divisions to focus on implementing their processes and reporting infrastructure more easily.
Global Business Services Technology also played an extensive Since the outset of the Growth Acceleration Plan, Global part in the implementation of the new enterprise resource Support has focused on putting in place the infrastructure, platform and retirement of legacy financial technology during the talent and expertise and the capabilities to support the 2017.
The team also worked on the programme to onboard Groups growth plans, particularly the ambition to expand Penton Information Services into Informas technology in scale and international reach.
infrastructure and start decommissioning old platforms.
2017 saw a number of developments focused on supporting The resilience of our infrastructure remains a priority Group-wide future growth, including the rollout of a common finance matter, using cloud-based technology to maximise availability, reporting and information platform, and the creation of a and this is led by Global Supports technology teams in close centralised health, safety and security function with new collaboration with the technology leadership of each Division.
investments in security and travel-related support.
In 2017, we continued to invest in enhanced information The ambition for 2018 is to maintain the responsiveness security measures, from additional threat detection capabilities and effectiveness of our Global Business Services offering, to enhanced authentication measures for colleagues.
continuously scanning for opportunities to leverage our increased scale to deliver efficiencies, and to strengthen Our awareness programmes to support colleagues and mitigate our functional centres of excellence, in part by ensuring risk are being expanded for 2018, including new information Global Support is a stimulating and rewarding place to security training based on our information security and work for current colleagues and future talent.
acceptable use policies and new cyber security solutions designed to address emerging and real-world digital risk.
ROBUST AND SCALABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS SERVICES EXPERT DIRECTION AND SUPPORT In 2017, Global Business Services continued and extended FROM GROUP FUNCTIONS several initiatives based on implementing robust, efficient Global Supports Group functions work closely and and high quality systems and processes, with the long-term collaboratively with Divisional teams and senior management aim of leveraging benefits from common, scalable platforms.
with a common purpose: to provide expert advice, direction and support that enables the Divisions and the Group to execute In HR, Global Business Services led the design and implementation their strategies effectively.
of a new, consistent approach to benefits and HR processes in the US.
This included introducing a single payroll system and During 2017, the integration of Penton Information Services approach to timekeeping and salary payments, and a common involved many Group teams, with business planning and yet flexible benefits offer in time for 2018. change management overseeing the progress and success 58 59 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
