STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FINANCIAL KPIs For 2017, the new measure of underlying revenue growth MEASURING UNDERLYING REVENUE GROWTH % 1.8% ADJUSTED DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE p 9.5% refines and replaces the previous measure of organic revenue that is reported for 20142016.
We have also added scoring in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI GROWTH AND as a new non-financial performance measure.
This index 2014 0.7 2014 37.8 assesses companies on multiple economic, environmental 2015 1.0 2015 39.5 PERFORMANCE and social performance factors to understand a businesss 2016 1.6 2016 42.1 sustainability, and aligns with the Groups focus on creating 2017 3.4 2017 46.1 a business that is resilient, successful and in growth over Informas management team and Directors use a range the long term.
2014-2016 figures reflect previous measure of organic growth About: of financial and non-financial measures to track the Measures the underlying performance of earnings attributable to Shareholders, As part of Informas recommended offer for UBM, we About: performance of the Group.
Other metrics, specific to excluding adjusting items that the Directors believe would distort underlying One view of the Groups financial performance and growth.
It measures provided an update on current trading including a target results.
It is one measure of the value created for Shareholders, a central aim of each business, are used to assess performance at a change in revenue that includes year-on-year growth from material the Group, and one of the factors considered in executive remuneration plans.
for Group underlying revenue growth of more than 3.5% product and Divisional level.
acquisitions, as if they had been owned in the corresponding period the year for 2018.
Other 2018 targets will be updated based on before.
It also strips out the impact of event phasing, disposals and currency 2017 performance: the enlarged Group should this offer complete.
Delivery against several of these measures is included movements.
One of the factors considered in executive remuneration plans.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share of 46.1p met the target of a further year of improvement in earnings.
in executive remuneration plans as well as long-term 2017 performance: incentive plans.
Underlying revenue growth of 3.4% met the target for a further year of improved Group revenue growth.
NON-FINANCIAL KPIs FREE CASH FLOW m 31 % GEARING RATIO GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT LEVEL 2 2 2 2014 237.2 2014 2.2 2017 2016 2015 2014 2015 303.4 2015 2.2 Scope 1: Gas & 74% 3% heating tonnes CO e 1,333 1,136 1,287 1,497 2 2016 305.7 2016 2.6 About: Scope 1: Refrigerant 2017 400.9 2017 2.5 Our colleagues and their skills, ambition and contribution are one of Informas 1 gases tonnes CO e 612 520 534 539 2 most important assets and therefore a key factor in growth.
Engagement levels Scope 1: Vehicle measure colleague support for business objectives, attitudes to the company About: About: & generator fuel and levels of participation in work life at the Group.
Free cash flow is important as a measure of financial discipline.
It indicates A measure of the Groups financial leverage, and therefore an indicator 1 tonnes CO e 1,672 62 62 95 2 the availability of capital for reinvestment, which remains key to the Groups of financial discipline, a specific part of the GAP.
The ratio is a calculation 2017 performance: Target: Scope 2: Electricity & growth strategy, for the payment of Shareholder dividends and for reducing of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation compared Engagement levels are established To enhance engagement levels by steam tonnes CO e 7,181 6,268 7,373 7,190 debt.
This measures the cash flow generated by the business before cash with net debt.
See the Financial Review on page 62 for further detail.
2 through the biennial Inside Informa focusing on particular gaps and flows relating to acquisitions, disposals and their costs, dividends and any Total Scope 1 & 2 initiative, with the next edition due opportunities.
We intend to introduce 2017 performance: new equity issuance or purchase.
In 2017, we conducted a a new index for 2018 based on a 2 The Groups year-end gearing of 2.5x was in line with our target range of 2-2.5x.
shortened Pulse survey and when wider set of questions that reflect Scope 1 & 2 2017 performance: comparable questions were asked, additional factors determining Intensity per colleague 1.43 1.25 1.41 1.41 Free cash flow of 400.9m met ambition for a further year of growth and engagement increased from 71% to colleague satisfaction and support.
74% driven by specific improvements By this new method, engagement 1.
N ewly introduced elements of our carbon footprint in 2017 due to change in Divisional engagement.
in material usage in these areas 2.
D ata for years restated due to property changes, new data and new PERFORMANCE IN DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m 31% DIVIDEND PER SHARE p 6% elements of footprint About: We recognise the importance of understanding and controlling our environmental 2014 334.0 2014 17.80 impacts and in this area stakeholders most frequently request carbon footprint 88th 67 2015 365.6 2015 18.50 data.
The Group follows reporting guidelines from the GHG Protocol and Defra.
2016 415.6 2016 19.30 With the additions of Penton and YPI, the profile of our carbon footprint Percentile ranking Absolute score has shifted significantly with fugitive emissions and fuel consumption by 2017 545.5 2017 20.45 About: vehicles and generators now material sources of emissions.
These are This index measures listed businesses against a range of economic, social therefore added to our reported scope.
About: About: and environmental factors through a detailed and rigorous questionnaire and Adjusted operating profit is an alternative measure of the Groups operating Represents distributions paid to Shareholders annually, and therefore evidence gathering.
Companies participating are graded into percentiles, with 2017 performance: Target: performance.
It represents profit before tax, interest and adjusting items in a a measure of the value created for Shareholders, a priority for the Group.
the top 10% joining the DJSI World Index.
Although our buildings continue to By 2020, cutting our carbon way that is comparable to prior year and peers.
Consistent profitability enables cause fewer emissions per head after footprint by another 10% per 2017 performance: Target: 2017 performance: the reinvestment in the Group needed under Informas growth strategy and investment and a move to green colleague, with at least five of Informa has participated in the index since 2013 Enhance our absolute Another year of progress in the growth of dividends per share, meeting facilitates Shareholder returns.
power in much of our UK estate, the our top 10 offices having invested and this is a new KPI for 2017.
The score of 67 is score by focusing on the Groups commitment of at least 6% growth in 2017. addition of YPI has significantly in energy efficiency measures.
an increase of 11 points on 2016, when Informa opportunities to progress 2017 performance: increased our use of vehicle and ranked in the 73rd percentile with a score of 56. in constituent parts Adjusted operating profit of 545.5m met the target of a further year of generator fuel, affecting overall Performance was driven by the results of GAP of the index, and work improvement in profit growth at a Group level.
initiatives in areas like brand, training and customer towards DJSI World relationship management, and the increased inclusion by 2020. sustainability expertise introduced in 2016.
Informa was awarded RobecoSAM Industry Mover status for the largest improvement in the media sector.
22 23 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Assurance Assesses the condition of risk management STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Informas culture plays an important part in risk management.
The It meets quarterly on a formal basis, and colleagues regularly likelihood.
Each risk has a colleague or oversight body accountable RESPONSIBLE Board encourages a culture of transparency, integrity and doing work together outside of these meetings as is required to for its management, and where mitigating actions are required, the right thing, in which identifying risk is encouraged, and actions manage risk.
Financial controls are monitored, checked and the colleague responsible and relevant deadlines are recorded to are taken to ensure any necessary controls or resources are in assured through the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit reports ensure oversight and monitoring.
At a minimum, this information RISK TAKING place to manage that risk and ensure business objectives are to the Audit Committee and has the remit to test all controls.
is reviewed quarterly in formal Risk Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee oversees the work of the Risk Committee and The Risk Committee runs a rolling programme of analysis on how challenges its activities, ensuring its work, and that of the Divisions, principal risks are managed, and reports their status to the Audit During 2017, there was a considerable focus on culture, is fairly assessed and reported.
The Risk Committee and Audit Committee or Board.
Material controls for each principal risk behaviour and ethics with enhanced training, updated policies Committee provide independent reports to the Board.
Steering were mapped and monitored during 2017, including identifying and new, accessible reporting facilities introduced.
For 2018, committees for major projects report directly to the Board.
the person or body responsible for overseeing each control.
the focus is on continuing to support a culture that enables rowth has been central to Informas strategy since Verification was also sought to ensure material controls had been responsible risk taking, and maintaining the ongoing 2014, and the continuation of growth remains Through the governance channels and reporting process, the reviewed by the appropriate oversight bodies during the year.
improvement in risk management rigour, including a more a key principle for 2018 and onwards.
Board monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups After reviewing the effectiveness of material controls, a number holistic oversight of our principal risks and the identification internal control systems, issues guidance for the management of specific principal risks were prioritised for enhanced controls and monitoring of key risk indicators.
The Group recognises that continuing to deliver G of risk and approves risk management initiatives.
including those relating to health and safety, technology, data growth requires taking commercial risks.
To RISK GOVERNANCE and cyber.
Audit Committee visibility over the Risk Committees enable the business to pursue opportunities at all levels in PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Informas Risk Management Governance Framework is designed forward planning was enhanced and a status update was an agile away, Informas approach is one of responsible risk Principal risks are those with the potential to most significantly to provide the Board with oversight of, and insight into, the most provided to the Audit Committee and Board throughout the year.
taking, where risks are transparently identified, monitored, impact Informa if they materialise or are managed ineffectively.
significant risks the Group faces.
This overall approach enables the Board to form a robust The Risk Committee ensures the Groups principal risks are The Groups Divisions form the first line of defence against risks assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties that might The Board believes risk and reward should be balanced, and identified from each Divisions risk register.
These Divisional and are required to identify and report risks in their business impact the companys business model, future performance, that no risks or rewards should be taken that are outside of risk registers are reviewed quarterly along with an update on and markets to the Risk Committee.
The Group risk function solvency and liquidity.
Informas approved strategy, guiding principles and financial emerging risks, and the most significant risks based on impact, provides specialist support to each Division in risk identification objectives.
Through its risk appetite and tolerance statement, likelihood and frequency are assessed for inclusion in the Group and analysis.
Informas principal risks map to the Groups strategic growth the Board directs the Group to assess risks when considering risk register, from which principal risks are identified.
They also reflect the importance of talent, the Groups opportunities and mandates an actively managed and The Risk Committee gives the Board informed direction and colleagues and the use of resources, including technology and A risk taxonomy is used to conduct analysis across Divisional adequately resourced management of risk.
guidance on acceptable levels of risk and advises on any brands, to the Groups business model.
They fall into three risk registers, and risks are rated using a prescribed method necessary changes to compliance and operational controls.
categories: growth, people and culture.
according to their quantitative and qualitative impact and their PRINCIPAL RISKS DURING 2017 Removal of failure to deliver GAP After the completion of GAP in 2017, failure to deliver the RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Seven principal 1.
Economic instability Growth 2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Plan, a principal risk in risks relate to factors 2.
Market risk previous years, was removed from the risk register.
A cquisition and BOARD Groups growth strategy integration risk Addition of privacy regulation risk 4.
I neffective change Privacy regulation risk was added to capture the specific Issues guidance on the extent of risk taking it determines to be appropriate.
management Monitors key controls of principal risks through the activities of the Risk and Audit Committees.
risk that tightening privacy law presents to marketing, 5.
R eliance on key The Board tables discussion on specific risks and receives risk papers.
counterparties compliance, technology, operations and resources.
Technology failure Movements in mitigated risk ratings 7.
D ata loss and Our principal risks are rated according to the potential financial cyber breach AUDIT COMMITTEE and non-financial impacts they could have, and the likelihood they will materialise in the near or long term, considering the Oversees the Risk Committee.
Acts as a check and balance for the Risk Committees work.
In ability to attract controls currently in place to manage those risks and how People Sets the audit programme to test the condition of controls.
Forms the third line of defence.
relate to the colleagues and retain key talent effective the Risk Committee believes those controls are.
Health and Group relies on to deliver safety incident The net mitigated risk ratings of some principal risks changed products and services 10.
Major incident during 2017, with changes explained on pages 27 to 32 under RISK COMMITTEE the relevant risk.
All risks are analysed to determine if they would have a material financial impact, and those that would Oversees the effectiveness of risk management and compliance.
Advises the Board on the Two principal risks relate 11.
I nadequate regulatory Culture are modelled for their impact on the Groups financial viability.
status of principal risks and makes recomendations.
Forms the second line of defence.
to how culture, behaviour compliance and ethics contribute to 12.
Privacy regulation risk CONSIDERATION OF OTHER RISKS the Groups success A range of risks are kept under review, and some of those that are not currently considered principal risks to the Group include DIVISIONS tax compliance risk, climate change and instability caused by Identify, assess and monitor risks specific to each Division.
Maintain Divisional risk registers Britains exit from the European Union.
which are reported to the Risk Committee quarterly.
24 25 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance and mandate for risk management Reports principal risk status and key controls STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Indicators of change in the year STRATEGIC REPORT No change RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Increased during the year Decreased during the year NEW Newly recognised principal risk KEY 2017 ACTIVITY Risk Description 1.
Economic instability Health and safety also see page 60 Acquisition and integration: The wider economy affects customer budgets for Risks specific to the Penton business and integration Statement on appetite and tolerance for health Has potential to cause material financial impact travelling to events and discretionary spend on attending process identified by integration and Divisional teams, and safety risk issued by the Board Is modelled for the viability statement conferences.
Downturns in commodity cycles may affect facilitated by the risk function, and added to the relevant Risk Committee reviewed Health and Safety function, associated verticals.
Political factors can also influence Oversight: Board Divisions risk register for recording and monitoring with a restructure and expansion of resources, economic stability.
Additional analysis undertaken on integrating introducing a central Global Support team HR administration with findings addressed New security risk assessments and management Impact Link to strategy New colleagues introduced to and trained on introduced and new training delivered Negative impact on the Groups ability to grow in particular A global economic downturn could affect the Groups ability Informas policies, embedding culture and meeting Group travel framework created to better manage geographies, verticals or overall.
Potential to weaken brands to deliver growth in the near term but could also present regulatory requirements risks related to business travel and value over time leading to reputational damage and an opportunity to acquire businesses at more competitive impairing ability to raise funding.
Impact from fluctuations rates and lay the foundation for long-term growth.
Market risk Major incident in currency exchange rates.
Market risks and Divisional controls for managing Management preparedness to respond to this reviewed by the Risk Committee and Board emergencies tested Mitigating activities Informa has an international customer base, selling into over 165 countries, which dilutes the effect of downturns in specific Technology and cyber security Regulatory compliance also see pages 37 to 40 geographies.
The breadth of the Group portfolio by verticals, products and customer types also mitigates the impact of Cyber security controls increased to strengthen Code of Conduct refreshed with mandatory training downturns in particular markets and builds resilience.
There is a particular weighting to the US, one of the largest markets resilience against ongoing attempts on infrastructure Updated Business Partner Code of Conduct published for information services like exhibitions.
and systems New Speak Up whistleblowing line introduced for colleagues and third parties Conferences that rely on domestic delegates can be vulnerable to economic downturns, and the Knowledge & Networking Privacy regulation risk also see page 60 Online training introduced on anti-bribery Divisions streamlining under GAP and focus on major branded and international events manages this exposure.
Many Preparation for introduction of the EUs General and corruption and modern slavery.
In-person content and data products are subscription based, making revenue more predictable.
Exhibition revenue is often contracted Data Protection Regulation GDPR, including anti-bribery and sanctions training conducted for well in advance of the event and credit exposure is minimised through advance payments, particularly exhibition stands, and data mapping, readiness assessments and targeted groups of colleagues through credit control activities.
identification of outstanding actions required New breach management framework introduced Economic risk and opportunity is considered in the three-year planning process overseen by the Group Finance Director.
The Group Data Protection Officer appointed annual budgets that result from the planning process are a control against which results are monitored through the monthly Privacy regulation recognised as a standalone reporting process, surfacing any effects of economic instability and informing commercial decision making.
Movements in principal risk currency can have positive and negative impacts on the Groups reported earnings.
This is managed through hedging currency fluctuations so that our net debt profile is proportionate to our exposure to currency fluctuations in EBITDA.
In the area of tax, the Group takes a principled and low-risk approach, which limits the likelihood of disputes with tax RELATIVE RISK RATINGS OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk Description 2.
Market risk authorities and is unlikely to give rise to unexpected tax liabilities.
AND MOVEMENT IN NET RISK RATINGS OVER 2017 Customer demand for the Groups products and services Has potential to cause material financial impact Informa has a relatively small direct impact on the environment, is influenced by competition.
The business may not be largely related to carbon emissions and the use of paper in Is modelled for the viability statement able to innovate at a pace that ensures that our products, 7 products in the supply chain.
Colleagues and customers also services and brands remain relevant to customers.
Oversight: Executive Management Team travel to attend Informas exhibitions and events, which generates business opportunities for travel and accommodation providers 6 4 and host economies, but also consumes natural resources.
Impact Link to strategy 1 2 If market risk is not addressed through strategy, Group strategy is informed by customer demand, and Our contribution to climate change from direct and indirect 8 development and innovation, products and services could wider market and strategic decisions are made with due 11 carbon emissions is not viewed as a principal risk because 3 be perceived as less valuable, with revenues and margins consideration of market risk.
the emissions are small in scale compared with the size of the 12 5 eroded and some products or services becoming obsolete.
NEW business, even if legislation were tightened or extended carbon pricing introduced.
We recognise extreme weather events as a 10 9 Mitigating activities potential cause of a major incident, one of our existing principal The Groups business model, including the Divisional operating structure and, beneath this, vertical team structures in many risks, which could increase with changes in climate.
places, enables flexibility in product development and in response to customer demand and market developments.
As a UK-listed international Group with 78% of revenues In 2017, the Risk Committee reviewed how each Division manages market risk and found that the management of market generated outside of the UK and Continental Europe, the impact risk is ingrained throughout the business and in each Division as a standard practice.
Market developments and risks are of Britains exit from the European Union is not considered widely considered in decision making and addressed at strategic levels and through market research into peers and material.
This will be kept under review as the form of the exit Impact comparable products.
Currency fluctuation, particularly the relative Indicators of change in the year Key The Executive Management Team oversees market risk through holding regular people, planning and product-focused value of sterling and the US dollar, is one potential impact, where No change Risk related to growth meetings with each Division.
Market risk is also regularly addressed by the Board and addressed formally as part of an increase in the value of the dollar would have a positive effect Informas three-year planning cycle, with these plans presented to the Board.
Increased during the year Risk related to people on revenues.
The management of currency risk is overseen by the Treasury function and its policies.
Decreased during the year Risk related to culture NEW Newly recognised principal risk 26 27 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Likelihood STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Description Risk Description 3.
Reliance on key counterparties Acquisitions are sub optimal if they fail to deliver the The Group has key strategic partners who enable the Has potential to cause material financial impact Financial impact considered low expected benefits defined in the business case.
This delivery of its business objectives.
The Groups aim is to Is modelled for the viability statement could arise if potential acquisitions are not evaluated Not modelled for the viability statement not rely on individual partners, but in certain conditions, accurately, there is a significant due diligence failure markets and geographies this can be unavoidable.
Oversight: Board Oversight: Risk Committee or acquisitions are integrated ineffectively.
Impact Link to strategy Impact Link to strategy If key counterparties fail, there could be serious disruption This risk relates to key relationships that could influence Sub-optimal acquisitions could result in lower return Informas growth strategy includes acquiring businesses to certain business activities, lower levels of trading and the Groups ability to generate and preserve value.
Key on investment, diminished returns and growth, weaker in target verticals and markets as well as achieving revenues, and customer satisfaction could decline.
counterparties are identified and monitored in relation acquired brand assets and inconsistent corporate culture.
The Group is prepared to take measured to strategic aims.
Sub-optimal acquisitions may lead to impairment charges risks to acquire new assets, talent, brands and innovation.
and the inability to obtain future funding.
Mitigating activities The Group diversifies its reliance on key counterparties wherever possible.
For example, the treasury policy ensures the Mitigating activities company is not over-reliant on a particular financing partner.
Informa proactively monitors the market to identify suitable acquisition targets, which are tested to ensure they are Divisions are required to identify key counterparties, explain the nature and extent of their exposure to them and report a good strategic and cultural fit.
Investment decisions are made according to fixed financial parameters and capital is on activities in place to mitigate specific exposures to the Risk Committee when requested.
allocated to the markets and Divisions with the best value-creation potential.
This process is led by the Director of Strategy & Business Planning.
Mitigations include requiring counterparties to have robust and tested business continuity plans in place, service level agreements, contracts, proactive relationship management and working with suppliers to ensure that invoices are paid Capital allocation for acquisitions is determined at a Group level.
Targets are analysed by the corporate development team on time so that services are not suspended.
and a cross-functional team of experts from finance, legal, risk, tax, treasury and communications meets weekly to review and assess the risks and considerations posed by acquisitions.
These parties also support the commercial leads through Following deeper analysis and understanding of our exposure to key counterparties in each Division, the assessment due diligence prior to acquisition.
of the potential impact of this risk was reduced.
Integration plans are developed in Divisions and reviewed and challenged at a Group level.
This is supported by detailed technology and finance integration plans.
Significant acquisitions have formal leadership and project management to Risk Description 6.
An annual acquisition performance review is presented to the Board to test post-acquisition performance, The Group relies on technology to deliver products including any assessment of variation to expected return on investment.
Financial impact considered low and services, engage with customers and pay suppliers, Not modelled for the viability statement without which it would experience severe disruption.
This dependency is recognised in the risk of a major Risk Description Oversight: Risk Committee 4.
Ineffective change management technology failure.
As the Group grows through innovation and acquisition, Financial impact considered low it is necessary to adjust to change and assimilate new Impact Link to strategy Not modelled for the viability statement business cultures.
The breadth and pace of change The prolonged loss of critical systems networks or similar Technology underpins all the Groups business activity can present strategic and operational challenges.
Oversight: Executive Management Team services could inhibit the ability to deliver events, products and enables future scale and innovation.
and services, increase costs and negatively impact the Groups reputation.
Impact Link to strategy Change not managed effectively could result in unrealised The Groups culture is based on support and inclusion, opportunities, poor project delivery, colleague turnover, but if an inconsistent corporate culture develops through Mitigating activities erosion of value and failure to deliver growth.
poor change management, the Group culture could The Groups technology strategy, including the controls set around technology, is led by a technology leadership forum weaken and result in behaviours that undermine and comprising the CTOs of each Division and the Group CIO.
The forum provides quarterly reports to the Risk Committee.
degrade performance and strategic direction.
The Group operates a cloud-first approach and is moving to a cloud-only strategy, which requires all new hosting platforms Mitigating activities to be from cloud providers rather than in-house.
This minimises the risk of failure as platforms are run by specialist companies The most significant changes result from large acquisitions and projects, and these have well-defined governance and with a sole focus on platform provision and governed by agreed standards of service.
Technology standards, including reporting structures in place.
Project management teams co-ordinate and control change projects and monitor implementation policies and IT controls, which are aligned with industry standards apply across the Group.
Security is emphasised through plans and the associated risks.
Significant changes in 2017 included the introduction of a new enterprise resource platform.
standards including ISO 27001, NIST and COBIT, which also benchmark us against recognised control objectives.
Risks were identified and dealt with on a rolling basis during the project, such as the need to grant wider access to systems Key systems that are business critical or hold more sensitive data are subject to higher controls and greater scrutiny from during implementation than ordinarily, with access controls re-tightened post launch.
assurance assessment and audit work.
Global Support is responsible for delivering large-scale changes that affect the whole Group, and has a dedicated change In 2017, the Risk Committee lowered this risk rating in view of the controls in place to manage this risk.
delivery team that provides change and project management expertise.
The risk function assists with risk analysis and identifying controls and action plans for managing change risk, and Group and Divisional communications teams are attached to large projects to ensure effective information, engagement and feedback flow to support cultural change.
The Executive Management Team oversees change management risks through regular people, planning and products meetings.
28 29 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Description Risk Description 7.
Data loss and cyber breach 9.
Health and safety incident Major information security breach, loss of sensitive or A serious health and safety incident at or while travelling to Financial impact considered low Financial impact considered low valuable data, content or intellectual property.
As cyberan Informa event or office has the potential to cause physical Not modelled for the viability statement attacks have become more frequent and sophisticated Not modelled for the viability statement harm to colleagues, customers and business partners.
across the world, the threat of this risk has increased.
Oversight: Risk Committee Oversight: Risk Committee Impact Link to strategy Impact Link to strategy Loss of sensitive data through mismanagement, theft, The business and delivery of strategic objectives is reliant A major health and safety incident has the potential to cause Informa takes the welfare of its colleagues, customers and cyber-crime or security breaches could lead to losses on data.
If a significant loss materialised, this would distract life changing injuries and, at worst, fatalities.
Mismanagement business partners seriously and expects to operate in safe for our stakeholders, damaged reputation, investigations, from our strategic goals through excessive demands on of health and safety can result in reputational damage, and healthy conditions.
A serious failure in this area could fines and business interruption.
investigations, fines and multiple claims for damages.
undermine Informas reputation as a leading and trusted business and organiser of events.
Mitigating activities Technology security strategy is overseen by the technology leadership forum.
There is also an information protection Mitigating activities steering committee that oversees data-related security, privacy and compliance matters Group-wide: and a more detailed Informas health and safety policies set guidance on health and safety standards in all areas of the Group.
To set tone assessment of direction and response is delivered through the information protection management forum.
Quarterly security and direction, the Board issued a health and safety risk appetite and tolerance statement in 2017 articulating the primary reports are provided to the Risk Committee.
importance of the welfare of colleagues, customers and business partners and that anyone may raise health and safety concerns without fear of reprisal.
Multiple preventative and corrective controls are in place to manage this risk.
Enterprise technology strategy incorporates a cross-divisional approach to technology selection, integration and security.
Security credentials are assessed in the selection Resource for the health and safety function was restructured, expanded and refocused, installing specialist leadership within process.
Technology acquired with new businesses is ring fenced and tested rigorously prior to integration with existing systems.
Global Support and introducing a regional approach serving all Divisions.
Security risk is now managed within this function to bring a more robust treatment to managing and responding to incidents.
Security training is being rolled out to events Vulnerability scanning, testing and actions are carried out on a rolling basis.
Information and awareness campaigns continue operation teams and will be expanded to senior managers alongside the ongoing health and safety training programme.
to be run to help colleagues spot, report and avoid threats such as phishing.
There is a facility and process for recording, escalating and reporting incidents.
There are three main areas of exposure to health and safety risks: events, travel and premises.
Health and safety at our premises is monitored monthly with incidents and near misses reported to the Risk Committee.
A Group-wide travel The risk from criminal cyber activity continues to grow and attempts to attack and disrupt business are more common and management system allows us to book accommodation and travel that meet acceptable safety standards and know widespread.
The risk rating was raised during 2017 because of this increased activity and likelihood of impact.
In response, where colleagues are in the event of an emergency.
the Group is accelerating security improvement programmes related to key risks, while focusing on improving the detection and response to incidents.
Major incident Risk Description A significant accident or event.
Inability to attract and retain key talent Financial impact considered low The inability to attract, recruit and retain colleagues, result from several causes, including natural disasters, Financial impact considered low and inadequate succession planning at senior Not modelled for the viability statement extreme weather events, disease, epidemics, civil unrest Not modelled for the viability statement management levels.
Oversight: Risk Committee Oversight: Executive Management Team Impact Link to strategy Impact Link to strategy Major incidents have the potential to cause harm and The global operation and footprint of the business Increased turnover of colleagues with associated The sum total of contributions by Informa colleagues injury to people, venues and premises and severely exposes Informa to extreme weather events, civil increased costs, loss of knowledge, decreased efficiency, creates the products and services the Group delivers interrupt business.
If the Groups response to a major unrest and terrorism.
and a demotivated workforce with the associated erosion and the ideas and innovation necessary for future growth.
incident is inadequate, this could result in additional of corporate value.
Loss of expertise, engaged resource, corporate knowledge reputational damage.
and contacts may impact the Groups future success.
Mitigating activities Mitigating activities Proactive response planning for major incidents was improved in 2017, with schedules for some events adjusted Culture, and the value that colleagues bring to the Group, is a matter of significant importance for the management team to avoid annual extreme weather such as hurricane season in the southern US.
There is investment and focus in maintaining a culture based on inclusion and respect, where colleagues With changes to the way security risk is assessed and managed, the Group increasingly considers terrorism threats, are supported and given opportunities to develop and succeed, in order to retain talent and ensure Informa is a positive proximity to other likely terrorist targets, unrest or protests in event planning, so that appropriate additional security and enjoyable place to work.
measures can be taken to protect customers, colleagues and business partners and proactively deter attacks.
Colleague engagement levels and attitudes are regularly assessed through the Inside Informa campaign and reported as The Groups crisis communications manual was refreshed in 2017 and a desktop exercise conducted with senior a key performance indicator, with feedback informing new initiatives designed to improve the experience of working in the management on responding to emergency situations, with learnings being addressed.
There is a Graduate Fellowship Scheme and Apprenticeship schemes designed to attract young In recognition of improved preventative controls, and that major incidents with a Group-wide impact are infrequent, talent and development programmes in each Division to enhance colleagues skills and support career development.
For this risk rating was lowered in 2017. more on these activities, see page 37.
HR teams engage in talent mapping, to ensure there are succession plans for senior management and that colleagues have access to development opportunities.
30 31 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED VIABILITY STATEMENT FACTORS IN ASSESSING LONG-TERM PROSPECTS INFORMAS Risk Description Groups current position 11.
Inadequate regulatory compliance The risk that the Group may not comply with Recurring revenue streams with strong cash dynamics, including Financial impact considered low PROSPECTS applicable regulations.
positive working capital driving high cash conversion Diversified business model by geography of operations and customers Not modelled for the viability statement Diversified business model by products and by the verticals in which AND VIABILITY Oversight: Risk Committee Informa operates Strong market positions, brands that customers value and a focus on long-term customer relationships Impact Link to strategy Flexible cost structure, enabling the business to respond effectively Failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to The Groups licence to operate and ability to grow is in part to changes in demand or in markets fines, imprisonment, reputational damage and the inability determined by compliance with national and international s part of the Groups strategy and ambition to continue See the Financial Review on page 62 for more detail.
to trade in certain jurisdictions.
regulation and the support of stakeholders, including its growth and performance, Informas Directors at customers, colleagues and Shareholders, who increasingly all times maintain a sharp focus on assessing the Strategy and business model favour companies that work in an ethical way.
Groups long-term prospects and the companys Clear growth strategy A viability as a business on a three-year basis.
Focus on creating capabilities for future growth and scale under the Mitigating activities 2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Plan ASSESSING INFORMAS PROSPECTS Through the Groups compliance programme, Informa aims to conform with all necessary regulations and encourage Intention to build further operating scale and specialism in vertical Informa operates in the market for knowledge and information, industries, and in B2B information services, through the January 2018 a culture of transparency, integrity and respect, which ensures individual behaviours support compliance.
and has developed strong positions in many specialist vertical recommended offer for UBM In 2017, the Groups Code of Conduct was refreshed and mandatory training was provided to all colleagues and Board Business model that draws on talent, brands and intellectual capital, markets that offer the potential for long-term growth.
It has many technology, relationships, access to finance and natural resources members, instilling standards around working with one another, customers, suppliers and third parties, and our of the elements necessary for greater future business success communities.
valuable brands, strong customer relationships and market See the Business Model on page 20 and Strategy on page 6 for more detail.
knowledge, talent and a culture of ideas with commercial focus.
Anti-bribery and corruption training was delivered to all colleagues, with completion and an adequate pass score set as Principal risks related to the Groups business model targets.
A Group-wide breach management and investigation framework was introduced to standardise how issues are The Group seeks to build on these strong foundations with Colleague and talent-focused risks around retention and managed, and a Speak Up whistleblowing line launched for confidential reporting.
continued investment in its products and customer platforms, change management alongside further expansion.
The onboarding process has been improved to ensure new starters receive these training modules promptly and accept Market risk related to new entrants and economic instability related to access to finance core policies, including those on technology use and information security.
Through the recommended offer for UBM, Informa will benefit The risk of technology failure, data loss and cyber breach Customers and relationships impacted by privacy regulation from increased operating scale and industry specialisation, risk and reliance on key counterparties creating a leading B2B information services group with the Risk Description 12.
Privacy regulation risk Acquisition and integration-related risk scale and specialist capabilities to capture the long-term The inability to comply with diverse tightening and NEW Financial impact considered low See pages 2732 for a description of each principal risk.
growth potential of this expanding market.
Privacy regulations Not modelled for the viability statement are regionally focused which presents further challenge Informa runs a rigorous annual business planning process, for Informa as an international business.
STRUCTURED STRATEGIC AND Oversight: Risk Committee involving Divisional and Group management with Board input FINANCIAL PLANNING PROCESS and oversight.
This produces Divisional and Group strategic The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through the plans, which in turn generate three-year financial plans that Impact Link to strategy annual strategic planning process, which involves the creation drive the setting of in-year budgets.
The potential impacts include changes to operations to comply Compliance with privacy regulations will influence of business plans by Divisional management that are reviewed This process, and the plans that result from it, are a significant with regulations and changes to the way the company can marketing strategies and therefore the acquisition in detail by the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director contributor to the assessment of the Groups prospects.
market its products, services and events.
Over-compliance with privacy and the Director of Strategy & Business Planning.
Informas current position, Group level strategy, business can result in significant fines with associated customer regulations, such as applying the strictest rules To create these plans, each Division assesses external factors model and the risks related to the business model are also dissatisfaction and reputational damage.
globally, could result in commercial disadvantage.
such as peers and their activity, broad and specific risks and used to assess prospects.
market trends and internal factors including people, products Mitigating activities and platforms that influence the businesss approach today.
There is a global trend towards tightening privacy laws, examples of which include the Canadian Anti Spam Law, EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR and ePrivacy laws and cyber security law in China.
This trend has a broad impact on Objectives are set with consideration for what is known the Group, from how the Group addresses privacy compliance to how marketing strategies adapt to ensure successful Informa runs a about customer trends and demands, and emerging risks business operations under new regulation.
and opportunities over that period, plus an analysis of what each Division needs to do to achieve those objectives, whether rigorous annual business The Group is proactively responding.
In preparation for GDPRs introduction in 2018, a data discovery and mapping exercise that is launching new activities, securing additional capabilities has been completed to understand the gaps between current practice and future requirements.
This found we have a good or continuing existing programmes.
planning process, baseline of compliance, with further work to do in specific areas.
A new Group data protection officer was appointed and a data protection management forum was established to support and oversee privacy regulation compliance initiatives.
What results is a set of objectives and initiatives, from which involving Divisional each Division will derive a three-year financial plan including 2018 will see the launch of new global cyber security and data privacy training, with Group and Divisional communications detailed financial forecasts and a clear explanation of key to educate and inform colleagues.
and Group management assumptions and risks.
Plans are updated at key dates and for significant events.
with Board input At its annual Board strategy meeting, the Board Directors input, scrutinise and test the strategic and financial plans.
and oversight 32 33 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
