STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Work to eliminate single use packaging by specifying reusable serviceware, bulk serving of condements and sharing bags Local partners can help us donate leftover materials for upcycling and food for others FOOD BANK HOTEL s FRANK`S CAFE LOCAL VEG JOE BUTCHERS COMMUNITY Inspiring speakers can promote different ways of doing things and help our audiences solve global challenges Tours around the show an highlight learning opportunities and what we do to make it sustainable Recruitment fairs hosted at events can help solve skills shortages and attract alent to the customer industry B O J Volunteering by the delegates, either at the Specify cost effective alternatives to materials such as venue or offsite provides great networking styrofoam, foam core board, vinyl signage and solvents opportunties and a strong community IN PARTNERSHIP WITH A GREAT SUSTAINABLE EVENT EVENT 39 21 THE ANATOMY OF AN IMPACTFUL EVENT 20 40 ideas to showcase sustainability 18 We`re volunteering 40 13 We`re measuring 29 1 3 34 We`re solving challenges We`re cooking seasonally Were cooking locally 8 STRATEGIC REPORT DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED 12 GLOBAL SUPPORT CONTINUED 5 15 26 Particular investments STRENGTHENED CONTRIBUTING TO We`re donating APPROACH TO HEALTH, COMMUNITIES AND TO were made in compliance 38 SAFETY AND SECURITY COMMERCIAL SUCCESS 30 and in health, safety A new Global Support team was created in late 2017 Global Support incorporates a dedicated sustainability Group health, safety and security to centralise function, providing leadership and subject matter and security over the 22 and strengthen our capabilities in managing health, expertise to all areas of the Group.
safety and security risk, matters that had previously The goal is for each part of the Group to recognise and year, to strengthen the been managed within the Operating Divisions.
2 capitalise on the contribution sustainability makes to the The team is divided into three areas: Informas events, communities Informa works with and in, as well as the Groups capabilities in We`re learning our offices, and colleagues when they travel for business.
We believe there are commercial It is responsible for setting policies in each area, reviewing opportunities and competitive advantage from delivering significant areas 10 how each Division operates in each region and reporting a positive impact through our activities and products.
to senior management, the Risk Committee and the Board.
We`re pitching our start-up idea The sustainability team reports to the Director of It also provides expert guidance to Divisional teams on Investor Relations to ensure business alignment.
The 16 23 We`re touring matters like venue assessment and approval, where teams strategy has four pillars, with a primary focus of the overall integration programme, risk and compliance local operations teams focus on implementation and on the content we produce and its role in disseminating introducing new colleagues to our codes, policies and working with venues and suppliers.
knowledge to help customers solve challenges.
The commitments and understanding any change in risk profile 33 other three elements are how Informa works with resulting from adding a new business, and the brand and Security risk management was introduced during the specialist communities, the way colleagues are communications team advising on retiring the Penton brand year, in recognition of the growing global threat of supported, and our impact on the environment.
The team made new and experienced hires, 36 Particular investments were made in compliance and in health, designed security-specific training for event operations Global Supports sustainability team co-ordinates safety and security over the year, to strengthen the Groups teams that will be rolled out globally and widened to global activities in these areas, and 2017 saw a capabilities in significant areas and ensure Informa meets include senior managers in 2018, and is introducing number of highlights built on 2016s sustainable upcoming new regulation.
A greater number of event 32 impact assessments were conducted, which analyse The team is working towards achieving certification the value of major exhibitions and conferences to local in the new ISO 45001 occupational health and safety areas and build our relationships with host cities.
PROVIDING LEADERSHIP ON 6 standard over an 18-month period.
37 In 2018, further work will be conducted to improve DATA AND INFORMATION USE Investments were also made to improve the infrastructure Informas understanding of key stakeholders and the Alongside the programme to enhance Informas codes and support available to colleagues when travelling for issues that matter to them.
and policies described on page 37, in 2017 the Group work.
This included the introduction of a global supplier for compliance team was responsible for leading Informas booking business travel that brings standardisation and Support will also be provided to vertical teams to data privacy programme, including developments to 31 scale benefits, as well reporting capabilities, to the Group.
identify the commercial opportunities arising from prepare for new privacy regulations including the the UNs Sustainable Development Goals, a worldwide introduction of the European General Data Protection An additional emergency assistance service came into 9 set of goals and targets that are directing government Regulation GDPR in 2018. effect in early 2018, providing real-time intelligence and corporate investment into particular areas of on travel risks and dedicated crisis assistance for society and the economy, as well as to recognise how For Informa, a particular impact of GDPR is the way colleagues in the event of an emergency.
We`re volunteering our products and services help customers and society 13 data and information is used in the marketing activities 19 progress towards those goals.
conducted by each Operating Division, and the risk of non-compliance with privacy regulation has now The team is also working on an internal campaign to been recognised as a principal risk for the Group.
showcase the many ways in which sustainability can 35 be incorporated into events to enhance our contribution Over the year, the team conducted data mapping 28 to customers and host cities.
and readiness assessments per Division, revised and updated internal policies and processes around This includes benchmarking criteria brought to life 27 31 the way personal data is handled and established through a set of 40 ideas that can enhance an events Were awarding I`m refilling a data privacy management forum, bringing together positive impact.
For more information and stories, see stakeholders from across the Group to develop and the dedicated Sustainability Report.
implement our plans to achieve compliance.
Global 7 Support has also invested in the new role of Group Were hiring 25 data protection officer to better co-ordinate and enhance how data is used by the organisation.
A detail from our Anatomy of a Sustainable Exhibition 60 61 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Welcome 17 4 Were networking 14 29 24 Were growing locally CONTENT ENVIRONMENT 1 Inspiring speakers can promote different approaches and help our audiences solve global challenges 24 Information in advance can help visitors choose walking, shuttles and public transport 2 Innovation zones involving students and other creators can showcase upcoming technologies and solutions 25 Digital show guides and using sustainable paper cuts waste 3 26 Content can be enhanced by linking to relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals Freight forwarding and offsite consolidation reduces vehicle movements, congestion and pollution 4 27 Post-event surveys can measure how the event has helped visitors learn and solve challenges Water refill stations, reusable water bottles and not selling single-use bottles saves waste 5 Contractors can brief labourers on safety and environmental standards 28 Sponsored products like bags and giveaways can be responsibly sourced and have a long-term use 29 Having recyclable lanyards, badges, bags etc and collection stations for these can cut waste COMMUNITIES 30 Venues, suppliers and visitors can collaborate on a waste management plan and provide recycling options around site 6 Safety and security are important expectations for all people onsite 31 Booths can be recognised for participating in sustainability programmes and awards can highlight best practices 7 Recruitment fairs hosted at events can help solve skills shortages and attract talent 32 Our own spaces at events should be made from reusable shell schemes or pipe and drape 8 Local recipes share the citys culture and help source food locally seasonally.
Buying FairTrade or MSC certification improves sourcing 33 Suppliers and contractors can be encouraged to use sustainable materials in booths, signage, table coverings etc 9 Donating booths or advertising to industry charities and community groups helps raise their profile 34 Caterers can donate excess food or make sure it gets composted 10 Providing space for local start-ups can help attract investment and growth 35 Single use items can be eliminated by specifying reusable serviceware, bulk serving of condiments, table water etc 11 A variety of networking spaces events brings many different chances to build relationships 36 Cost-effective alternatives can often be chosen to replace styrofoam, foam core board, vinyl and solvents 12 Software can matchmake important meetings and create space for more unplanned meetings 37 Carpet usage can be reduced by careful layouts, reuse on future shows and offcuts being recycled where possible 13 Volunteering by the delegates, whether onsite or offsite, provides networking and a strong community feel 38 Local partners can help us donate leftover materials and products for community projects like upcycling 14 39 Supporting visitors wellbeing can also create networking at group runs, yoga classes, morning mindfulness etc Hotels can be encouraged to implement and stick to green programmes as well as donating leftover toiletries 15 Education sessions provide CEU CPD credits that count towards ongoing professional education 40 Measuring and reporting environmental and social KPIs can encourage ongoing improvement 16 Free or discounted access for students, especially volunteers, brings knowledge to our future audiences 17 Partnering with industry associations can create scholarships for national and international students to attend 18 Local partners can help us deliver a legacy project in the host city such as renovating a community centre or educating restaurants 19 A long-term charity partner linked to the shows industry can demonstrate industry commitment to issues 20 Local economies can be supported by promoting local restaurants, entertainers and tourism both at show and online 21 Measuring the shows impact on GDP jobs helps us to show how it creates benefits for the city 22 We can tell stakeholders how were doing via touchscreens, signage and or a post-show report Informa.
com anatomy 23 Tours around the show can highlight learning opportunities and what we do to make it sustainable Donating booths or advertising to industry charities and community groups helps raise their prole H 0 2 i Venues, suppliers & visitors can collaborate on a waste management plan and provide recycling options around site Safety and security are important minimums for our visitors, suppliers and colleagues REGISTRATION Water rell stations, sponsored sold rellable water bottles and not selling single use water bottles can save waste STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW n 2017, the final year of the Growth Acceleration Plan, ATTRACTIVE Informa delivered further operational progress and an We have focused... on improving financial performance, producing a fourth consecutive year of growth in revenue, adjusted earnings MARKETS AND Iper share, free cash flow and dividends.
maximising the generation This performance, and the Groups broader financial position, SOUND FINANCIAL of cash while remaining continue to be underpinned by our robust business model, the attractive markets in which we operate, sound financial discipline DISCIPLINE disciplined in our approach and improving operational momentum from the various GAP initiatives implemented over the last four years.
to funding and leverage Gareth Wright GROUP FINANCIAL CHARACTERISTICS Group Finance Director In 2017, almost two-thirds of Informas revenue could be classed as recurring and forward booked in nature, being generated through the sale of subscriptions to data intelligence products and scholarly journals, the sale of stand space at exhibitions and 2017 HIGHLIGHTS 2018 FOCUS AND POSSIBILITIES through multi-year sponsorship deals at our major confexes.
This Throughout the last four years of GAP, we have focused our The operational and financial progress made through 2017 creates a good level of visibility and predictability, and a balanced financial management and operations on maximising the and throughout GAP has, we believe, laid the foundation mix of products and geographies across the portfolio.
generation of cash while remaining disciplined in our approach for continued growth and scale in the future.
As an increasingly international Group, currency movements to funding and leverage.
In January 2018, the Board of Informa announced a impact our reported revenues and profits.
With the majority of This provides stability and the flexibility to reinvest for growth, recommended offer for UBM plc, to create a leading our revenues and profits generated in US dollars or currencies pursue accretive acquisitions and pay a progressive dividend to B2B information services group.
pegged to the US dollar, there is particular sensitivity to Shareholders, while meeting the Groups financing commitments.
fluctuations in the USD GBP exchange rate.
As detailed in the announcement of the offer on 30 January, Our improving financial performance in 2017 reflects the the enlarged Group will reap the immediate benefits of operating Operating internationally also means we make tax contributions operational progress achieved under GAP and described scale, with a target of at least 60m of annual recurring pre-tax in several countries.
We continue to recognise the value of taxes in the Divisional Review, combined with favourable currency cost synergies by the end of 2020. to society and our broader stakeholders, and for funding the movements and strong returns from acquisitions.
infrastructure that companies rely on.
As a result, we remain This is expected to result in attractive earnings accretion and committed to paying our taxes in full and on time, in compliance Over the year, these included the purchase of US-based a post-tax return on invested capital in excess of Informas with the laws of the countries in which we operate.
international yachting exhibitions group YPI for net cash cost of capital within three full financial years of ownership.
consideration of 111m, and the acquisition of specialist The level of Informas financial obligations to its pension schemes The enlarged Group is expected to generate annual free cash open access publisher Dove Medical Press for net cash remains limited and manageable relative to the size of the Group.
flow of approximately 600m based on pro-forma 2016 figures, consideration of 43m.
We continue to meet our commitments to these schemes and with around two-thirds of its revenue forward booked and their members, and our policy is to provide sufficient funding so Financial highlights for the year include: predictable in nature.
that any deficits are addressed over a reasonable period and Underlying revenue growth of 3.4% and reported revenue The offer for UBM will be funded through a mixture of cash pension obligations to current and future pensioners are fulfilled.
growth of 30.7%, reflecting the full year effect of the addition and equity, with the cash element funded through a new We have two UK defined benefit pension schemes plus another of Penton in November 2016. acquisition facility.
Leverage is expected to be around three two US defined benefit schemes that came with the Penton Underlying adjusted operating profit growth of 2.3% and times net debt to adjusted EBITDA on completion, returning acquisition, all of which are closed to future accrual.
reported growth in adjusted operating profit of 31.3%.
below our target ceiling of 2.5 times net debt to EBITDA over Adjusted diluted EPS growth of 9.5% and reported EPS time, a level the Board believes is broadly consistent with an Outside of Informa, we view the market for knowledge, businessgrowth of 60.2%.
to-business events and information services as an attractive one.
Strong operating cash conversion of 91%, and 31% growth The Groups focus on specialist vertical markets that are dynamic in free cash flow to 400.9m.
and growing, such as those set out on pages 14 to 19, provide the potential for continued growth and expansion.
The combination of strong cash generation and our balanced approach to funding led to a robust balance sheet at year end, with net debt to EBITDA of 2.5 times, back within our target range of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
62 63 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED INCOME STATEMENT Our proactive and targeted acquisition programme led to an increase in intangible asset amortisation, reflecting a full year of amortisation In the final year of the 2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Plan, we delivered a 30.7% increase in revenue to 1,758m and a 31.3% of Penton acquired intangibles.
Amortisation relates to book lists and journal titles, acquired databases and customer and attendee increase in adjusted operating profit to 546m.
relationships related to exhibitions and conferences.
Intangible asset amortisation arising from software assets and product development is not treated as an adjusting item and is included as an ordinary cost within the calculation of adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted Adjusting Statutory Adjusted Adjusting Statutory results items results results items results 1 1 1 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Acquisition and integration costs of 24.0m included costs relating to the integration of Penton Information Services totalling 17.9m.
m m m m m m In 2017, the 17.4m loss on disposal relates primarily to two Business Intelligence businesses: Biotechniques acquired in 2001, Revenue 1,757.6 1,757.6 1,344.8 1,344.8 a 19.2m loss and Lloyds List Australia acquired in 1999, a 4.6m loss, as well as the Academic Publishing business, Garland Operating profit loss 545.5 200.2 345.3 415.6 217.0 198.6 Science US Book List acquired 2004, a 7.5m loss.
These losses were partly offset by the 15.5m profit on disposal of Euroforum, Loss on disposal 17.4 17.4 39.8 39.8 the German and Swiss conference business.
2016 restated for finalisation of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for the Penton acquisition completed in 2016 Statutory operating profit 154.1 47.8 126.2 17.2 345.3 MEASUREMENT AND ADJUSTMENTS Add back: In addition to the statutory results, adjusted results are prepared for the income statement, including adjusted operating profit and 1 adjusted diluted earnings per share.
The Board considers these non-GAAP measures as the most appropriate way to measure the Intangible asset amortisation 50.1 24.0 66.7 17.0 157.8 Groups performance so it is comparable to the prior year.
This is in line with similar adjusted measures used by our peers and facilitates Impairment of goodwill and intangibles 2.0 3.2 0.4 5.6 comparisons.
The adjusting items section provides a reconciliation between statutory operating profit and adjusted operating profit by Acquisition and integration costs 1.5 10.2 6.7 5.6 24.0 Division.
Adjusting items include recurring and non-recurring items.
Restructuring and reorganisation costs 0.3 7.0 1.2 4.4 12.9 Following the combination of Penton with Informa, we have adopted an approach where year-on-year growth from material acquisitions Subsequent remeasurement of contingent consideration 0.2 0.3 0.1 is included in the calculation of underlying growth from the first day of ownership, as if we had owned the business in the corresponding Adjusted operating profit 208.0 92.2 201.4 43.9 545.5 period in the previous year.
This measure of underlying growth also strips out the impact of any events phasing during the relevant Underlying adjusted operating profit growth 0.7% 6.2% 6.5% 13.3% 2.3% period, the impact of any disposals and the impact of foreign exchange movements.
Intangible asset amortisation is in respect of acquired intangibles, and excludes amortisation of software and product development Underlying growth in 2017 reconciled to reported growth is as follows: 2017 Acquisitions 2017 NET FINANCE COSTS Underlying Phasing and and Currency Reported growth other items disposals change growth Adjusted finance costs, consisting principally of interest costs on US private placement loan notes and bank borrowings, increased by Revenue 3.4% 0.2% 21.4% 5.7% 30.7% 19.5m to 59.1m.
This reflects the full year effect of higher average debt levels following the acquisition of Penton in November 2016 Adjusted operating profit 2.3% 0.2% 20.8% 8.4% 31.3% and an increase in US LIBOR rates, plus a stronger average USD exchange rate in 2017 than in 2016.
TAXATION ADJUSTING ITEMS Approach to tax The adjusting items below have been excluded from adjusted results.
The total charge against operating profit for adjusting items was The taxes we pay are part of the economic benefit created for societies in which the business operates, and a fair and effective tax 200.2m in 2017 2016: 217.0m with amortisation of acquired intangible assets being the major element in both years.
system is in the interests of taxpayers and society at large.
The Group supports the adoption of international best practices and 2 2017 2016 governance standards, and aims to comply with tax laws and regulations everywhere we do business.
We have open and constructive m m working relationships with tax authorities worldwide and our approach balances the interests of stakeholders including Shareholders, Intangible amortisation and impairment: governments, colleagues and the communities in which we operate.
1 Intangible asset amortisation 157.8 116.4 Impairment of goodwill and intangibles 5.6 67.7 Tax contribution Acquisition and integration costs 24.0 33.1 The Groups total tax contribution TTC, which comprises all material taxes paid out of profits and other material taxes generated Restructuring and reorganisation costs: by our businesses, was 208.4m in 2017 2016: 183.2m.
The UK element of our TTC was 89.5m 2016: 77.2m.
The increase in Redundancy and reorganisation costs 6.7 5.6 worldwide TTC was due to an increase in corporation tax payments, particularly in the UK, and higher employment taxes paid out of profits and by colleagues.
The increase in UK TTC reflects higher UK Corporation Tax payments, including 11.8m of payments Vacant property costs 6.2 1.6 related to a gain on a derivative forward contract relating to the acquisition of Penton.
Remeasurement of contingent consideration 0.1 7.4 Adjusting items in operating profit 200.2 217.0 Tax expense Loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 17.4 39.8 Our effective tax rate ETR reflects the blend of tax rates and profits in the Groups various jurisdictions, some with lower corporate Investment income 58.9 tax rates than the UK.
In 2017, the adjusted effective IR tax rate was 21.2% 2016: 18.0%.
Adjusting items in profit before tax 217.6 197.9 The increase relates principally to changes to UK tax legislation, introduced from 1 January 2017, which reduced the tax benefit of Tax related to adjusting items 62.6 63.1 certain internal financing structures.
This new legislation led to approximately 8m of additional tax to pay for 2017.
In addition, the mix Tax adjusting item for US federal tax reform 85.4 effect of more profits being generated in the US following the addition of Penton Information Services and YPI, where the headline tax Adjusting items in profit for the year 69.6 134.8 rate is higher, also pushed up the Groups overall ETR.
Intangible asset amortisation is in respect of acquired intangibles and excludes amortisation of software and product development 2.
2016 restated for finalisation of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for the Penton acquisition completed in 2016 64 65 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
