STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT VIABILITY STATEMENT CONTINUED Impact Impact on MultiRisk above 5% viability scenario Capabilities, Principal risks assessed EBITDA modelled test Market trends, RIsk and Current people, products, Ambition peers, customers sustainability portfolio Economic instability platforms Market risk Acquisition and integration risk Ineffective change management Multi-year Divisional MULTI-YEAR GROUP STRATEGY PLAN strategic plans created Reliance on key counterparties Technology failure From which three-year financial Data loss and cyber breach THREE-YEAR FINANCIAL PLAN plans are formed by Divisions Inability to attract and retain key talent Health and safety incident Major incident Tested against Tested against Tested against Tested against acquisition and Inadequate regulatory compliance economic instability market risk major incident Plan tested against the four integration risk Privacy regulation risk principal risks where, in a severe but plausible scenario, impact of risk valued at over 5% of EBITDA Tested against economic instability, market risk and major incident simultaneously VIABILITY STATEMENT GOING CONCERN Group is viable if covenant Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have Each of Informas Directors, as noted on pages 74 and 75, test passed and facility a reasonable expectation that the Group, excluding UBM, confirms that the Groups business activities, together with OUTCOMES ASSESSED AGAINST COVENANT AND FACILITY HEADROOM headroom maintained will be able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities as the principal risk factors likely to affect its future development, they fall due over the three-year period to December 2020. performance and position, are set out in the Chairmans Statement and Strategic Report on pages 1 to 71.
In making this assessment, the Directors have made the key assumption that the revolving credit facility is renewed in As described on pages 27 to 32, a number of principal risk factors October2020.
could potentially affect the Groups results and financial position.
The latest set of three-year business plans were reviewed and The Group is considered to be viable if gearing and interest The Group adopts extensive business planning and forecasting agreed by the Board in September 2017.
The first year of this plan cover ratios within its financial covenants are maintained The Directors also have a reasonable expectation that the processes around trading results and cash flows, and regularly enlarged Group, including UBM, will be able to continue to was used to inform the 2018 budget, itself ratified by the Board within prescribed limits, and if there is available debt headroom updates these forecasts to reflect current trading.
operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the two-year in December 2017. to fund operations.
The Groups net debt and banking covenants are discussed These detailed financial forecasts are also used as a basis Viability testing is carried out against Informas current debt in the Financial Review on pages 62 to 71 and the exposure In making this assessment, the Directors have made the key for the annual impairment review, to inform treasury funding facilities, with an assumption that the Groups present revolving to liquidity risk is discussed in Note 30 to the Consolidated assumption that continued access to capital markets to refinance requirements and as an assessment of the liquidity available for credit facility is renewed in October 2020.
debt will be available to the enlarged Group.
reinvestment and for returns to Shareholders through dividends.
In all cases, including after modelling the largest three scenarios The Directors statement of working capital supports the On the assumption that the acquisition of UBM completes as reasonable expectation statement about the scenario where Divisional financial plans combine to produce the Groups overall together, no mitigating actions are necessary in order for Informa expected during 2018, the Directors expect to follow the planning Informas recommended offer for UBM is accepted and the financial forecast, where it is assumed that dividends grow by at to remain viable.
process outlined on page 33 and therefore the Directors expect acquisition completes.
to report a viability statement covering a period of three years in VIABILITY OF THE ENLARGED GROUP the Groups 2018 Annual Report.
Should the offer not take place, projections made as part of the ASSESSING THE GROUPS VIABILITY The results of the viability modelling show that the company viability assessment support the view that for the period up to For each principal risk, a severe but plausible scenario is created, is viable over the three year period to December 2020.
To reflect 30June 2019, Informa is expected to be able to operate within the to analyse how the risk could materialise and to calculate its Informas recommended offer for UBM, and the enlarged B2B level of its current financing and meet its covenant requirements, financial impact.
information services group that would result from this combination, for a period of one year from the date of the signing of the Groups the Board has also considered a separate business planning Scenarios include considerably worse performance from financial statements for the year ended 31December 2017. model to support the statement by the Directors on the sufficiency acquired businesses than anticipated, general market downturns of the enlarged Groups working capital.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable and external incidents in regions in which we hold events.
expectation that there are no material uncertainties that may This model uses a two-year horizon and also demonstrates cast significant doubt about the Companys ability to continue Where a severe but plausible scenario creates a financial impact that the enlarged Group, comprising Informa and UBM, is as a going concern.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the of over 5% of EBITDA, the principal risk is modelled against the viable over this period using the committed facilities available going concern basis in preparing this Annual Report and three-year financial plan to test whether it would adversely impact in the enlarged Group.
Additionally, the three largest risks in terms of their potential financial impact are modelled together as a single scenario, to understand their combined financial impact.
34 35 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT TALENT AND PARTNERSHIPS circa 7,500 56% : 44% 94% : 6% colleagues female : male colleagues full : part time colleagues ow we engage with colleagues, customers and business partners, understand their needs and address what matters to them and our business supports the Groups success Hand we focus on creating and maintaining positive, mutually beneficial and long-term relationships.
Engagement with the investors who provide capital for the Groups operations is discussed in the Relations with Shareholders section on page 114.
OUR TALENT ATTRACTING, ENGAGING AND AND PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORTING COLLEAGUES Informa colleagues are one of the Groups most important assets.
We are a people business: the ideas, Working closely and successfully with our energy and contribution of colleagues create and deliver our products and services.
Investing in and colleagues, customers and business partners supporting a broad mix of talent is critical to our success and is, we believe, the right way to operate.
is fundamental to Informas long-term growth Annie Mickle Our talent programme has three major elements: and success.
They are relationships we are attract, engage and support.
Informas framework of codes and policies, plus the Speak Up whistleblowing service, were enhanced proud of, invest in and nurture.
Attract: The Group sets out to attract and retain and relaunched to colleagues in 2017.
Annie Mickle, a diverse range of skilled colleagues through fair, Group Head of Compliance, explains why.
inclusive and robust recruitment and promotion practices.
Our recommended recruitment practices, Our Code of Conduct was updated to meet the which were promoted internally during 2017, latest regulation and fully articulate our views and standardise and enhance how candidates are selected, Business Model Risk Management Relations with Shareholders 2017 Sustainability Report commitments in areas like human rights, dignity page 20 page 24 page 114 at www.
com including using mixed-gender panel interviews where and respect in the workplace, modern slavery, and practical.
The rollout of unconscious bias training to safeguarding personal data and information assets.
HR and recruitment teams started, to minimise the potential barriers to recruiting the best talent.
We also put a real focus on making sure our code, and 15 global policies that support it, give Since 2014, the Group has established formal colleagues clear, accessible guidance on doing the schemes in the UK to attract, support and invest right thing in an engaging and accessible way.
in younger colleagues: the Informa Graduate Fellowship Scheme and the Informa Apprenticeship The code includes a foreword from the Chief Scheme.
We are also trialling the use of diverse job Executive and is available in five languages to boards in the UK to explore how alternative platforms ensure accessibility.
The whistleblowing service, can assist in capturing a balanced mix of candidates.
Speak Up, allows colleagues and suppliers to report issues confidentially in multiple languages by phone Rewards are one factor in attracting and retaining or online, and there is a strict no-retaliation policy.
talent, and we invest in flexible benefit programmes tailored to each region, providing colleagues with To implement the code, mandatory training was choice to match their lifestyle.
The Group aims to offer successfully rolled out to colleagues including salaries that are competitive within each sector and contractors and the Board.
Our target is to region, and we are accredited by the Living Wage achieve a 100% completion rate while allowing Foundation for ensuring UK colleagues are paid at new joiners a period of 30 days to finish their least the independently calculated UK living wage.
Non-compliance with the code can result in disciplinary action.
In 2017, the Group further invested in ShareMatch, the equity share incentive scheme launched at the One of the 15 global policies is a new standalone start of GAP to enable colleagues to participate in Diversity & Inclusion policy, created during the the Groups financial performance in an efficient way.
year to provide greater detail on anti-discrimination The matching offer was improved to provide one free practices and promote a culture of equality share for every share purchased, and participation and opportunity.
levels now stand at 18% of qualifying colleagues.
36 37 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
