STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Informa brands: STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS Insight & intelligence: In Vivo, Scrip, Sitetrove, Trialtrove, Biomedtracker See pharmaintelligence.
com for more detail Exhibitions & events: Arab Health, MEDLAB, FIME, Biotech Showcase, Biotech Week Boston, Partnerships in Clinical Trials Other Information Services: PHARMA: WORKING IN Pharma Consulting, Care Scrip Awards COMPETITION GROWTH MARKETS AND INNOVATION Informa serves customers who operate in t is a time of change, and both challenge and opportunity, for one of a range of industry verticals, through major Western pharmaceutical companies.
Competition and innovation are emerging from China, and many non-traditional brands, businesses and teams that are players, revolutionary cell and gene therapies are starting to specialist and deeply embedded in their Igain approval, and the industry is exploring the potential of artificial intelligence and data analytics.
We typically focus on The world is wrestling with the increasing costs of keeping verticals that are international and dynamic, people well, and companies face the commercial challenge of ensuring research and development efforts provide sustainable with long-term growth prospects, and where returns on investment.
specialist intelligence and the ability to Strategies to keep healthcare budgets under control include demanding that pharma companies demonstrate how their connect with customers are highly valued.
medicines deliver value, renegotiating existing prices downward and boosting the uptake of less expensive alternatives such as generics and biosimilars.
Read on for examples of Informas At the same time, more Chinese capital is being put to work in verticals and the trends in these Western businesses, and the influence of innovative home grown companies with global ambitions is on the rise.
The number of markets that create opportunities reviewers for new drug approvals in China is now 600 from just 60 a few years ago, with plans to have 1,600 within a year.
Chinas Food and Drug Administration has ambitions to be as significant as its US, European and Japanese counterparts.
With the new tax proposals in the US, and estimates that the largest 10 US pharma companies may be sitting on as much as While the pharma industry is global, companies have to maintain $160bn, a surge in merger and acquisition activity is expected for intelligence on what is happening locally to ensure optimal market 2018.
Indeed, in January alone, Sanofi and Celgene announced access and tailor their approaches by country and indication.
This is particularly acute in the fast-growing biosimilars space, Beyond marquee acquisitions, an upswing in bolt-on acquisitions which has seen growing influence from companies based in and product in-licensing is likely to boost pharma pipelines.
India, South Korea and China.
Many of these assets reside in emerging small to medium-sized Currently, the best selling drugs are monoclonal antibody-based biopharmaceutical companies, who often have less than a biologics Humira, the top selling drug, posts sales of more than handful of assets in their pipeline and are reliant on capital market $18bn but many are about to go off patent, opening the door support.
In 2017, the global biotech industry secured more than to less expensive biosimilar alternatives.
Companies will need access to databases identifying the most promising emerging companies Some leading pharma companies are putting in place defensive and unpartnered assets while stepping up their own strategies to protect their franchises, while others see opportunities biopartnering capabilities.
to build out their own offerings, and indeed the pharmaceutical industry has many reasons to be optimistic.
Pharma is also beginning to wrestle with the potential of artificial intelligence to handle the terabytes of data associated with In 2017 there was an upswing in regulatory approvals, particularly human healthcare globally.
This may mean pharma companies for innovative new medicines and revolutionary cell and gene look beyond their usual partners to develop relationships with therapies, which some believe signals the dawn of a new businesses familiar with handling such data sets.
With data likely pharmaceutical age.
The US Food and Drug Administration to be a key differentiator in future healthcare provision, do not be approved 46 new molecular entities, while the European surprised to see an increasing presence of IOT giants such as Medicines Agency gave the green light to 28 new products Google, Microsoft and Amazon in the sector in the coming years.
Regulators are taking a more pragmatic view around approvals to get help to patients Mike Ward as quickly as possible.
Head of Pharma Content, Business Intelligence 15 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS CONTINUED TMT: HEALTH & NUTRITION: TELECOMS AT THE CLEAN CHOICES n the US, consumers are increasingly paying attention TIPPING POINT to what they put in and on their bodies.
They are reading product labels, scrutinising chemical-sounding or perceived he future of telecoms and TV is fast emerging, with unnatural ingredients, and seeking out healthier, less processed TV reaching a long-awaited tipping point and the Iofferings that their grandparents would recognise.
rapid adoption of mobile broadband leading to innovation in services.
Technology, Media and Consumers are also increasingly demanding greater transparency TTelecoms TMT companies in the US and around in the foods and packaged goods products they purchase: what the world are closely watching, responding to consumer trends is in the products they buy, where the ingredients came from and targeting their investments accordingly.
Shoppers, particularly millennials, want to know the stories behind products and use those stories The rise of over the top video will impact one of the strategies Few trends will be bigger in 2018 and the coming years than to determine how much they trust a brand and how much they for growing broadband and TV subscription numbers and the transformation of TV and video by the delivery of services will pay for it.
According to New Hope 2017 consumer research, revenues: the multi-play bundle.
Traditional dual-play bundles over the top of the Internet.
Netflix, Amazon Video, YouTube 65% of millennials would pay more for responsibly produced food of fixed broadband and fixed telephony will see the greatest and other online-only services will account for 18% of total paid compared with 25% of baby boomers.
and ad-supported TV and video revenues next year and 60% At our own Natural Products Expo West and East, more of growth.
In the worlds most advanced TV and video market, As US consumers put more dollars towards healthy, clean But US operators are innovating with bundling in other ways, than 1,000 new finished product brands launch each year.
the US, these over the top services will take an astonishing 89% and sustainable nutrition, their expectations are putting pressure looking to hitch their next-generation video services to rapid of revenue growth.
on traditional food and beverage consumer packaged goods The food choices prioritised in Dubai look different to those in adoption of mobile broadband.
Uptake of quad-play offerings companies.
But as the big food companies struggle in the age of Dallas, and yet these same macro forces rocking the food and that include mobile will continue to grow, and mobile broadband Understandably, telecoms and media companies worldwide are the new consumer, other companies are finding market opportunity.
beverage landscape in the US are causing ripples elsewhere subscriptions in the US are due to exceed 555 million in 2022 watching the US closely.
A meaningful number of households throughout the globe, as evidenced by worldwide growth of including 104 million to 5G services.
in the country are cutting the cord by cancelling their pay TV Growing at 6-10% each year over the last decade, US consumer everything from organic food to dietary supplements.
contracts, tired of paying for bundles including hundreds of sales of natural, organic and functional foods and beverages In other markets, outcomes will be different.
It is easier to TV channels they never watch.
Ovum data shows that pay TV are far outpacing total US food industry sales, which grew less say what is singular about the US than to generalise about the In the last 10 years in the supplements market, for instance, subscription numbers began to decline from a high of 100.8 than 1% in 2016 according to Nutrition Business Journal NBJ.
At over 90% penetration of TV households, Chinas share of the market has grown faster than any other million at the end of 2013 and will fall to 95.8 million by 2022.
The Although still small in comparison to the total industry, natural, the US pay TV market has been saturated for a very long time.
country, up to 14.3% of the worlds industry in 2016 from 9.6% creation of new households uninterested in subscribing in the organic and functional food and beverages are forecast to reach Operators have focused on increasing subscription fees to grow in 2006.
The Chinese market has gained the attention of many first place, known as cord-nevers, means pay TVs penetration of $196billion by 2020. revenue, which has led average triple-play prices to reach as high supplements companies as consumers are increasingly households will fall nearly 10 percentage points to 71.9% in 2022. as $145 per month.
spending on health products and e-commerce continues Other consumer packaged goods product categories are to grow exponentially in the country.
A growing number of consumers will opt to use lower-priced, also being impacted by the new consumer.
The US dietary Globally, subscriptions to fixed-broadband bundles that do not online-only services instead.
We forecast the number of supplement market grew 6% to $41bn in 2016, as consumers include pay TV will begin to decline from 2017, while those that And in vitamins and minerals, the strongest growth is coming subscriptions to online video services in the US will rise to continued to increasingly spend their dollars on natural nutrition do will grow strongly over the forecast period.
But outlooks from Eastern Europe and Russia, with increasing health concerns, 213.1 million in 2022, more than double the total for pay TV, and wellness products.
Combined sales of natural and organic differ greatly by market.
rising obesity rates and disposable income spurring sales of split between 130.4 million Netflix-like subscription-based personal care, household and pet products increased nearly supplements for overall health.
video-on-demand-only services, and 82.7 million subscriptionLooking at the 10 largest countries by number of households 7% to $18.6bn in 2016.
Carlotta Mast based linear online video services such as AT&Ts DirecTV at the end of 2021 China, India, the US, Brazil, Indonesia, The entire US natural and organic products industry, which Senior Vice President, Content & Insights, Now, Amazon Channels and YouTube TV.
Russia, Japan, Nigeria, Germany and Mexico fixed broadband includes foods and beverages, dietary supplements and New Hope Network will dominate in some, and pay TV in others.
personal care, household and pet products, surpassed the Varying take-up of subscription online video reveals just how $200 billion mark in 2017 and has more than doubled in much of an outlier the US will be, with more subscriptions than size since 2007, when industry sales were less than $100bn.
Informa brands: homes as services proliferate and some households sign up Informa brands: By 2020, NBJ is forecasting nearly $300bn in annual consumer to two or more.
Insight & intelligence: Insight & intelligence: sales, impressive for a business sector that was once considered Ovum, Light Reading, FinTech Futures New Hope Network, One factor will remain constant: mobile broadband will be a fad and supported only by yoga moms and tree-hugging hippies.
Nutrition Business Journal, adopted widely, presenting new opportunities and challenges Exhibitions & events: Delicious Living Shifting market dynamics, coupled with the increased and to TV the world over.
AfricaCom, London Tech Week, new kinds of investment dollars available to emerging brands, is Broadband World Forum, 5G World, See newhope.
com for more detail Rob Gallagher motivating a growing number of companies to launch each year Internet of Things World Exhibitions & events: Research Director, Consumer & Electronic Services, Ovum with product innovations that provide healthier, cleaner options: See tmt.
com for more detail Natural Products Expo West East, greater product transparency: and mission-driven business SupplySide West China, Vitafoods Other Information Services: models that address societal and planetary problems like global Europe Asia, Engredea Ovum Consulting warming, food security access, nutritional poverty and more.
Other Information Services: NEXT, specialist marketing services through Informa Engage 16 17 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS CONTINUED SPECIALISM AND THE RISE OF THE EXPERT In addition to new sales, the Aviation Week Intelligence Network n the last few years, a sense of distrust has seeped into the Technology has a major role to play in building connections with AVIATION: AWIN forecasts the maintenance, repair and overhaul MRO global zeitgeist.
Due to the proliferation of fake news spread audiences and communities, and is now essential to deepening market for commercial aircraft will generate $88.3bn in demand through websites and social media, as well as the failures of trust with an audience.
in 2018, with another $8.3bn for business aircraft and $6.5bn for the establishment to adequately respond during times of FROM DEFENCE In addition to the fact that social media is increasingly where civil helicopters.
But the civil MRO market is experiencing some Icrisis, people are wary of government, corporations and the people find news and information a Reuters Institute 2017 churn as large aerospace contractors, most notably Boeing, media, unsure if they have honest intentions or if they are Digital News Report found that 33% of those between 18 and SPEND TO SPACE aim to grab a larger share of those lucrative revenues.
motivated by a desire to promote self-interests.
24 listed social media as their main source of news, it has The air cargo market grew 9% in 2017, according to the However, futurists who track global trends believe this mistrust also made it possible for savvy influencers to take parasocial START-UPS International Air Transport Association, with e-commerce has also given rise to a countermovement.
While people are relationships a one-way relationship with someone you do not underpinning new demand.
Further growth is expected in still sceptical of the perceived establishment, they are eager know in real life to the next level by using online interaction with 2018.
Two pockets of the aviation market that continue to to embrace and bring attention to the good work of individuals fans and followers to supplement real life interactions.
struggle are business jets, which is still climbing out of a brutal with whom they directly relate.
There is a good chance that for each of us, technology has aided downturn that began in 2008, and civil rotorcraft, which was in creating or preserving a relationship that would have otherwise In this environment, there is potential for experts to cultivate even hit hard by a slump in demand from oil and gas companies.
been difficult to grow or maintain.
Having met someone at a greater influence within their industries by complementing their Longer term, the nascent market for urban air transport bears networking event, an exhibition, a party or someones house, vertical-specific expertise with deeper audience engagement, watching.
Uber is aiming to begin experimental flights in Dubai particularly through online and social media channels.
you connect online afterwards, and follow and interact with them, and Dallas in 2020, which could lead to commercial operations often over the course of years.
Indeed, some researchers believe Recent data from the Edelman Trust Barometer, an annual by 2025.
Multiple urban air taxi concepts are in development.
that online and offline relationships are often indistinguishable and global survey of trust and perceptions of credibility, points offline relationships are not somehow more real than online ones.
After several years of decline, Defense Department funding in to the validity of this approach.
Their 2017 study found most the US, by far the worlds biggest spender, is growing again.
The participants considered peers to be just as trustworthy as So what matters?
Trends and data show that audiences and Trump administration has requested $686bn for the Pentagon in those categorised as experts.
However, in 2018, technical communities are looking for experts, first and foremost: people fiscal 2019, a nearly 18% increase since the budget bottomed out and academic experts once again landed in the top spots, as who are credible, creating and providing original content and in fiscal 2015.
Missile defence programmes should see hefty they had in previous years.
These two groups were deemed unique insights and intelligence, and connected to their world Informa brands: increases as Washington seeks to counter strategic threats from most trustworthy of all those tracked in the and more often than not, actual people a nuclear-armed North Korea, with additional money going to 2018 edition, with 63% and 61% respectively and individuals, and sometimes brands, Insight & intelligence: modernise forces and aircraft used during conflicts in the Middle believing technical and academic experts rather than institutions.
They expect that Aviation Week & Space Technology, Aviation Week Intelligence Network, Air Transport World East and Afghanistan.
were very or extremely credible, while trust engagement to be online as well as offline 61% in peers decreased to 54%.
and to use multiple formats video, audio, See aviationweek.
com for more detail The Pentagon is also under pressure to reach for more advanced images, long reports and short form content.
believe technical and technologies such as efficient engines that can power combat Why?
One theory is that the global political Exhibitions & events: academic experts are MRO Americas Latin America East Asia Europe, aircraft and hypersonic missiles, as well as upgrades to artificial and policy instability of 2017 made people Connecting with audiences in these ways extremely credible SpeedNews conferences intelligence, automation and big-data analysis, which appear to more trusting in only those with access, is essential to the growth and future of be lagging behind investments in China.
deep knowledge and understanding of many information services products, and Other Information Services: specific subjects, giving experts a leg up.
Specialist marketing services through Informa Engage European defence budgets have risen as NATO prepares to Even though peers saw declines in their Without these, brands may one day find 33% counter an increasingly aggressive Russia, and alliance members trust ranking, they were still the third most their readers have abandoned them and come under pressure to meet a commitment to spend at least trustworthy group out of a field of 11, of those between 18 and 24 gone elsewhere.
he global aerospace and defence industry enters 2% of GDP on defence.
But political turmoil and the UKs staying influential partly due to the power listed social media as their 2018 with the wind at its back.
In commercial aviation, impending exit from the EU have created uncertainties.
Germany Informas response to these trends, of human connection.
main source of news the large jetliner market continues to grow, fuelled by and France are strengthening their defence ties and have and the initiatives underway to cultivate new demand for air travel and more efficient aircraft.
declared an ambition to jointly build a European answer to the But it is clearly not about blindly believing communities, are covered elsewhere in this TIn the Western defence industry, government F-35 fighter jet, while a decline in the value of the British pound and following anyone who is friendly or report.
This includes the ongoing focus on spending is rising again, while the space market is being has hit the UK since it invests heavily in US-made equipment, claims to be an expert.
Expertise is often being specialist in chosen, international transformed by entrepreneurial start-ups.
Nothing will do more to transform the in the eye of the beholder, after an evaluation vertical markets and investing in our data, military aircraft market than the F-35, which AWIN projects will of a persons qualifications, demonstrated intelligence and connection credentials.
It The large commercial jetliner market dominated by Airbus and see nearly $73bn worth of deliveries in the next five years.
knowledge, and public perception of their includes broadening in-person formats at Boeing is heading into an unprecedented 15th year of growth.
exhibitions and conferences to year-round History would suggest the market is overdue a downturn, but Space is an industry characterised by disruption, with companies interactions and community building online.
there are few signs of weakness.
Global economic growth, rising such as SpaceX and Blue Origin progressing toward their goal of Where authors and experts can demonstrate It includes supporting the authors we publish numbers of middle-class travellers in emerging markets and low radically reducing the cost of access to orbit.
Investors pumped they have a genuine intention to inform so that they can also extend their position interest rates are underpinning strong demand for new airplanes.
$2.8bn into 43 US space start-ups in 2016, many of them and help the reader as a fellow member as experts in their communities.
communications satellite ventures, according to the consultancy of the community be that a local, or Boeing delivered a record 763 aircraft in 2017 and took orders Bryce Space and Technology.
New commercial space start-ups personal interest, or professional vertical Richard Stanton for another 912.
The two airframers massive backlogs would are also popping up in China and Japan.
community they are more likely to be Chief Digital and Innovation Officer, take seven to nine years to deliver at current production rates believed and trusted.
Business Intelligence and both companies are bolstering output.
Chinas Comac Joe Anselmo is emerging as a third player but is not expected to pose Editor in Chief, Aviation Week a significant challenge to either company for some time.
18 19 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS E & C K N N N S E O E S T G E W W I N O L L I R S E L K U D E B I G T N E G N I T G R O L P O B P U A S L STRATEGIC REPORT Financial key performance indicator see page 23 BUSINESS MODEL WHAT MAKES INFORMA DIFFERENT?
A focus on serving specialist international vertical markets Non-Financial key performance indicator see page 22 see pages 14 to 19 for some of our key verticals The strength and specialism of our brands.
Many are among the must-attend events for a particular market or must-have sources of insight HOW INFORMA Unique content, trusted insight and high quality data sets, delivered in ways that can be easily used and integrated A culture where authority is close to the business, and ideas and implementation are valued OPERATES Discipline in capital allocation and financial management Using a Divisional To create benefits and What the Group draws on What makes our operating structure returns for Shareholders assets powerful and common culture and other stakeholders to organise activities Four Operating Divisions, each with a distinct focus Long-term capital growth for Shareholders Colleagues are experts in their function and market, TALENT and management team using experience and specialism to create valuable Capture revenue from the sale of subscriptions, The knowledge, ideas and contribution of 7,500 1 content, data and events exhibition space, units of content, sponsorship, colleagues worldwide to create and commission marketing and advertising opportunities to content, produce events and deliver data Our culture encourages participation and ideas, drive earnings supporting innovation and professional development 1,757.6m revenues 20.45p total dividend per share Authority is close to the business and incentives aligned to business objectives Generate free cash flow to pay dividends and to reinvest for future growth possibilities Brands are protected and actively promoted amongst BRANDS & INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 400.9m free cash flow in 2017 target markets 200 market facing brands that customers 2 Circa 80m reinvested in product, platform and engage with and buy, plus the content and CULTURE We follow codes and standards around the quality, people initiatives over 2014-2017 GAP period data we create and source PURPOSE trustworthiness and independence of content and data GOVERNANCE Fund tax contributions to benefit local communities and national infrastructure We invest in platforms and technology to improve how TECHNOLOGY 208.4m worldwide, 89.5m UK content is assembled and delivered, for brand promotion, Platforms and capabilities that serve customers 3 to safeguard the customer experience and maintain Deliver information and connections that allow online and at events, manage sales and operations resilient business operations customers to work smarter and benefit their and deliver content businesses and markets We engage closely with customers to understand and RELATIONSHIPS & PARTNERSHIPS Create rewarding work and ongoing professional serve their needs, and form long-term relationships with opportunities for colleagues Relationships formed with customers in 4 partners such as venues and societies specialist vertical communities plus key Make positive contribution to local communities business partners through employment opportunities, charitable skills Central support teams that bring efficiency and and financial support scale benefits through common business services We cultivate relationships with Shareholders and debt FINANCING A common culture of opportunity, engagement partners to maintain access to flexible, competitive finance Strength of the balance sheet and access 5 and support to external sources of equity and debt capital Disciplined approach taken to capital allocation and A shared purpose to help customers and vertical investment decisions, including acquisition identification communities progress and succeed and funding Overarching guiding principles of acting commercially, working responsibly, striving for excellence and having the freedom to succeed 20 21 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 S L U A B P P O O L R G T E G X G C N H I L I I M B H O I E S B T I D I A L O A L N B C S A U P
