OUR STRATEGY Our vision is to become the customers favourite for food-on-the-go.
Our strategic plan has four pillars and our commitment to having a positive impact on peoples lives is embedded across them all.
GREAT TASTING, freshly prepared food BEST customer experience We work hard to make sure our range meets our customers We provide customers with fast and friendly needs and while our classic favourites cant be beaten, there service, fixing issues without a fuss and enjoy is always something new to excite them.
We offer great value making every day a great day by rewarding at every time of the day and care about where our ingredients them for their loyalty.
We are taking our modern come from.
shops to where our customers want them to be, becoming more and more convenient alongside their busy lives.
positive impact on peoples lives We care about the health of our customers We care about our local communities.
and where our ingredients come from.
We share our success with the people around us, We publicly commit to encouraging healthier food-on-the-go choosing to help charities that our customers and choices and are currently working with Public Health England on people care about.
Thats why we donate at least sugar reduction in response to the Governments commitment one per cent of our pre-tax profits to the Greggs to reducing the sugar in our diets.
We also signed the Food Foundation and fundraise all year round for this Foundations Peas Please pledge.
Our Balanced Choice range fantastic charity.
Since the charity was founded, now accounts for more than 100 million of sales with each item 30 years ago, it has given over 26 million containing fewer than 400 calories and rated green or amber on to support the local communities that we serve.
the nutrition traffic light system.
Turn to page 19 to find out more.
Were proud of our commitment to purchasing Fairtrade products and take great care to ensure that the animal products used in our recipes are produced and delivered in a way that avoids the abuse or exploitation of animals.
Our leadership on farm animal welfare has been acknowledged by the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare by achieving Tier 2.
Turn to page 16 to find out more.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 08 Strategic Report We stand out from the crowd because we make great quality bakery products ourselves and love to create new things that will excite customers.
We are always looking for ways to be more efficient and to support shop growth.
We have well-trained people providing great service to their colleagues and ultimately our customers, and we are always looking to improve the way we do things by investing in first-class systems.
We care about the environment.
We aim to use energy efficiently and minimise We are committed to creating a great place to waste because we want to do our bit to reduce work.
We are strong advocates of equality, diversity the environmental impact from our operations.
and inclusion and have committed to the National We continue to reduce our carbon footprint on Equality Standard programme to drive this agenda an annual basis and we are proud holders of the forward in the years ahead.
Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of our work Turn to page 16 to find out more.
We use the money raised by the carrier bag charge to support the important environmental initiatives delivered by both national organisations such as The Rivers Trust, Keep Britain Tidy and Surfers Against Sewage, as well as grassroots projects.
Turn to page 18 to find out more.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 09
