STRATEGY IN ACTION We are investing in our future We care about our people and value their opinion We work hard to ensure Greggs is a great place to work and that our people feel valued.
Now in its second year, our dedicated employee health and wellness initiative Balanced You, which covers four key areas: healthy eating and drinking, keeping active and physically well, healthy social life and good relationships, and positive mental wellbeing, received a Bronze award from Better Health at Work.
Roger Whiteside signed the Time to Change Employer Pledge, illustrating our long-term commitment to raising awareness about the importance of mental health and wellbeing at work and helping to break the culture of silence around mental health.
We are committed to helping improve the health of our customers We believe in offering our customers choice so, Balanced alongside our traditional favourites, youll see a whole host of healthier options including savouries, Choice sandwiches, salads, porridge and soup.
Our Balanced Our Balanced Choice range continues to grow in popularity and now Choice range accounts for more than 100 million of sales.
continues to grow and now accounts We have made a number of public commitments to for over 100m highlight that were serious about customer health.
We are currently working with Public Health England on sugar reduction in response to the Governments commitment to reducing the sugar in our diets.
We made a Pledge for Veg in partnership with the Food Foundation which will enable us to help customers increase their vegetable intake through our salads, soups and cold sandwiches.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 16 Strategic Report Strategy links Great tasting, freshly Best customer Competitive First class prepared food experience supply chain support teams Sustainability links Customer Responsible Community Environment People health sourcing We are incredibly grateful to Greggs for the We aim to donate as much unsold delicious support it has provided to our Contact food to charity as we can the Elderly groups in Scotland.
The unsold food is welcomed by our tea party groups which meet once a month, giving older people who live alone the chance to enjoy a vital lifeline of friendship.
Contact the Elderly relies upon the We have been donating unsold food from shops for many kindness of the local community to make an years.
Traditionally our bakeries would team up with larger charities who would collect the unsold food from us and immeasurable difference to the lives of older distribute to their own network of smaller charities.
By supporting our work in this way, Greggs has played an integral role in this While this process is still in place, we have also been working wider community kindness.
hard to increase the amount of unsold food donated by our shops to local good causes where we can find an outlet.
Janice Kerr, Development Officer To this end, we ramped up our campaign in 2017.
This involved at Contact the Elderly creating a dedicated application page for unsold food donations on the Greggs Foundation website.
We also have a sign placed prominently in our shops inviting customers to come forward if they know of a good cause that could benefit from unsold food.
The amount of unsold food we donate has increased by 45 per cent in the last 12 months.
We care where our TRUST Our customers can ingredients come from what our food is made of We only buy free-range whole eggs and we are proud to have received Compassion in World Farmings Good Egg award.
Our tuna is caught by pole and line fishing or by using methods without any Fish Aggregating Devices and all of our prawns are from MSC certified sustainable sources.
We only use palm-derived fats and oils in our ingredients, that are certified as sustainable.
We measure our progress against the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare and were proud to have moved our rating from Tier 5 to Tier 2 over the last three years.
Were committed to making a positive difference through our commitment to purchasing Fairtrade products.
All the tea, coffee, hot chocolate, sugar sachets, orange juice, apple juice, peppermint tea, green tea and bananas we sell are certified Fairtrade.
We were proud to once again be a high-street partner for Fairtrade Fortnight in 2018.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED We care about the environment Were committed We have been successful over several years in to reducing our reducing the carbon footprint of our operations annual carbon and, whilst this programme continues, we are now footprint and turning our attention towards specific problems achieved a 15% such as product packaging.
We have the advantage reduction in of selling most of our products freshly prepared in intensity in 2017. shop and in that way require less packaging than Were proud factory food competitors.
Nevertheless we are holders of the committed to further reducing the use of plastic Carbon Trust in our processes.
Standard in recognition of our Alongside this, money raised by the carrier bag work on carbon charge is being used to support local community efficiencies.
environmental projects through the Greggs Foundation and environmental initiatives delivered A reduction of: by national organisations such as The Rivers Trust, Keep Britain Tidy and Surfers Against Sewage.
15% Surfers Against Sewage is delighted to work with Greggs to grow the impact of our work to tackle litter and plastic waste in communities right around the UK.
Together we are inspiring and educating thousands of school children to take action to protect the beaches, parks and playgrounds they love, and mobilising thousands of beach clean volunteers in every part of the country.
Together we really are making a difference to community spaces.
Hugo Tagholm, CEO, Surfers Against Sewage In 2017, we opened We are proud of the 48 new breakfast clubs, taking the Greggs Foundation total number to 454.
This means that we are helping to ensure that In 2017, the Greggs Foundation 28,900 children th celebrated its 30 birthday.
In that time, a day thats circa through the provision of its five main 6 million breakfasts grant programmes, North East core a year!
are getting funding grant, local community projects the best possible fund grant, environmental grant, hardship start to their fund grant and breakfast clubs, the school day with Foundation has donated over 26 million a nutritious to help improve the quality of life of breakfast.
450 Breakfast Clubs Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 Strategic Report We support those in need through charitable giving The Greggs Foundation isnt the only charity we support.
We also fundraise for a number of other charities which our people and customers feel passionate about, including BBC Children in Need, the Poppy Appeal and the Disasters Emergency Committee DEC. We are also proud supporters of the North of England Childrens Cancer Research charity and are the main sponsor of its annual Childrens Cancer Run.
To date, the run has raised over 30 million to fund research into improving th recovery rates.
In 2017, we celebrated our 11 anniversary supporting BBC Children in Need.
During that time, our team members and customers have helped raise over 8.5 million for the charity something we are all incredibly proud of!
We want our business to have a positive impact on peoples lives Understanding and rewarding our loyal customers through Greggs Rewards Our award-winning loyalty scheme, Greggs Rewards, has had a very successful year and has provided numerous benefits to both our customers and our shop teams.
The app has grown in popularity across the UK throughout the year.
We surpassed the one million customer downloads milestone along with achieving the No 1 slot in the App Store after we helped ease students back into university life with a free Greggs lunch.
We rewarded our customers with a wide variety of their favourite products via the app, whilst launching new technology that enables them to instantly rate our products and service after shopping with us.
This information will prove invaluable in helping our shop teams to deliver a great Greggs customer experience every day.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED We are taking Greggs to new areas Convenience is key when it comes to customer choice and, as the internet changes the way we shop and our food-on-the go eating habits, we have been opening new shops to take Greggs to where our customers want us to be.
In 2017, we accelerated our shop growth, opening 131 new shops, including 45 franchise shops focused on travel locations, reaching th a significant milestone as we celebrated our 200 franchise shop opening.
We opened a new Drive Thru format in Irlam, Manchester and we took Greggs to new territory in Devon whilst opening further shops in Northern Ireland.
New shops opened Franchise shops in in 2017: travel locations: 131 45 We are proud to fuel the nation at breakfast time Breakfast remains our fastest growing part of the day and we have established a leading position by offering our customers outstanding value at just 2 for a breakfast deal an offer we are proud to hold for the eighth year running.
We continue to build on our reputation for high quality, great tasting, good value coffee and increased our hot drinks menu choice with the introduction of flavoured lattes towards the end of the year.
We are OPEN when our customers want us to be, including from 7am and on Sundays Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 20 Strategic Report We are making great progress in transforming our supply chain In 2017, we made great progress in our 100 million supply chain investment programme to increase logistics capacity, consolidate our manufacturing operations into centres of excellence to improve product quality and support shop growth, allowing us to compete more effectively in the food-on-the-go market.
We completed the transfer of our operations in Edinburgh to our Glasgow bakery which we have extended to create a centre of excellence for Yum Yum production.
We also extended our Leeds bakery to create a centre of excellence for cake and muffin production.
100m to reshape our supply chain to support shop growth Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21 STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED We are proud of our bakery heritage We are proud of our heritage and our longestablished traditional bakery categories such as freshly baked savoury snacks, freshly prepared sandwiches and delicious sweet bakery treats remain our best-selling products.
Greggs iconic sausage roll remains our number one bestseller.
We have been making GREAT QUALITY bakery products OURSELVES for over 75 years We love to excite our customers with new reasons to visit Greggs In 2017, we delivered an exciting variety of new products including additions to our hot food range with sales of our hot sandwiches and gluten-free soup growing well.
More products will feature in 2018 as we create new reasons to visit us for food-on-the-go, at all times of the day.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 22 Strategic Report We believe in equality, diversity and inclusion At Greggs we are committed to treating our people equally and ensuring that everyone no matter what their background, race, ethnicity or gender has an opportunity to develop.
We are signatories to the National Equality Standard and are committed to supporting the development of all our colleagues, in particular our talented female colleagues, as we work towards reducing our gender pay gap.
We have made good progress with this in recent years and at Board level have exceeded Government guidelines with 43 per cent of our Board being women.
81% Our Employee Opinion Survey engagement score has increased by two percentage points over the last two years.
81 per cent of our people say they feel committed to Greggs and to helping us achieve our goals.
We are investing to improve our customer service As well as our great tasting, great value food, our customers love our fast and friendly service.
We have been investing to further improve our customer service by putting simpler processes in place which will help to increase the productivity of our amazing teams.
21,000 well trained colleagues provide great service to their customers Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23
