BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SECRETARY Ian Durant Roger Whiteside Richard Hutton FCA Allison Kirkby Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director Biography Ian has a background in international Roger began his career at Marks Richard qualified as a Chartered Allison is currently President and finance and commercial management, and Spencer where he spent 20 years, Accountant with KPMG and gained CEO of Tele 2, a major European with experience in the retail, ultimately becoming head of its food career experience with Procter and telecoms company.
Prior to Tele 2, property, hotels and transport business.
He was then one of the Gamble before joining Greggs in where she joined as CFO, Allison sectors.
His career includes founding team of Ocado, serving as 1998.
He held a number of roles spent two decades in the FMCG leadership roles with the retail Joint MD from 2000 to 2004.
From within the Companys finance sector at Procter and Gamble in division of Hanson and Jardine 2004 to 2007 Roger led a successful function before joining the Board a variety of senior financial and Matheson, HongKong Land, Dairy turnaround as Chief Executive of the as Finance Director in 2006. operational roles before moving Farm International, Thistle Hotels Thresher Group off-licence chain to the TMT sector first at Virgin and SeaContainers and as Finance before joining Punch Taverns, Media and then as Group CFO at Director of Liberty International.
Shine, a division of 21st Century Fox.
Roger was appointed as Chief Allison is a Fellow of the Chartered Executive of Greggs on 4 Institute of Management Accountants.
Appointed since 5 October 2011 17 March 2008 Non-Executive 13 March 2006 30 January 2013 Director until 3 February 2013 Independent Yes Not applicable Not applicable Yes External appointments Chairman of Capital and Counties Member of the Womens Trustee of Greggs Foundation.
Director of Secure Value Consulting PLC.
Chairman of DFS Furniture plc.
Trustee Director of Business in the Limited.
Board member of Reach Community.
Trustee of The Alnwick for Change.
Committee membership Chair of Nominations Committee Not applicable Not applicable Chair of Audit Committee: Remuneration and Nominations Committee member Board diversity Our Board brings a balance of relevant backgrounds and gender to their discussions.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 38 Directors Report Helena Ganczakowski Peter McPhillips Sandra Turner Jonathan Jowett Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive and Senior Company Secretary and Independent Director General Counsel Biography Helena worked for Unilever for 23 Peter spent most of his executive Sandra has been involved in the Jonathan is a lawyer by profession years and held senior positions in career in food manufacturing having retail sector throughout her career and has held the position of brand management and marketing held a number of executive positions and was employed by Tesco PLC, Company Secretary for a number including UK Marketing Director and including Divisional Managing latterly as Commercial Director for of FTSE 250 and FTSE SmallCap ultimately Head of Global Agencies.
Director of Hillsdown Holdings, Tesco Ireland, from 1987 to 2009. companies.
His previous employers Helena has a PhD in Engineering Director of Terranova the chilled Prior to this she worked in sales and include Avon Cosmetics Limited, SSL from the University of Cambridge.
foods business demerged from marketing roles for Unilever and International plc, Wagon plc and Hillsdown Holdings and ultimately Wilkinson Sword.
as UK Managing Director of Uniq plc.
More recently, Peter was European Chairman of Hain Celestial Group.
Appointed since 2 January 2014 10 March 2014 1 May 2014 12 May 2010 Independent Yes Yes Yes Not applicable External appointments Non-Executive Director of Croda Non-Executive Director of Browns Non-Executive Director of Member of the British Retail International Plc and also owner, Food Group.
Non-Executive Director Carpetright plc, McBride plc Consortium Policy Board: Chair manager of consulting business of Jacksons Bakery Limited.
of the Trustees of the Percy working with companies ranging Hedley Foundation.
from start-up businesses to FTSE Non-Executive Director of Newcastle 100 constituents, helping them to Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Committee membership Audit, Remuneration Audit, Remuneration Chair of Remuneration Committee: Secretary to the Board and and Nominations and Nominations Audit and Nominations all its Committees Committee member Committee member Committee member 4:3 6.3 Board diversity, M F Board diversity, 3-6 years 7 years by gender by tenure years Average 4.5 10.8 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39
