24 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Q&A MMM AND NEW OPENINGS OUR CREATIVE AND DEVELOPMENT LEADERS MMM Mark Fisher Q.
What are you most excited about going into 2018?
MERLIN MAGIC MAKING MMM project manages the delivery of all Merlins major capital investments.
This MMM coming year, on top of the launch of the Wicker Man roller coaster at Alton Towers Resort, and the LEGO City: Deep Sea MMM is the unique resource that sits Adventure ride at LEGOLAND California, at the heart of everything Merlin does.
we will see the innovative work we have been doing in Madame Tussauds and SEA FINDING THE MAGIC LIFE come to fruition.
Im looking forward Utilising consumer insight and research, MMM to seeing the guests reactions as we move finds new business opportunities, ranging from Q.
What is your teams greatest to the next stage of bringing these brands the strategic roll out of the Midway estate to achievement in 2017?
In 2017, getting the new NINJAGO ride at LEGOLAND Windsor open on time Q.
What is your teams greatest challenge CREATING THE MAGIC and on budget was key for the resort over the next few years?
Driving innovation across the Group, MMM todeliver a strong performance.
It was Were always looking around us to anticipate creates high-class compelling propositions for agreat example of everyone coming changes in the market or consumer trends, the existing estate and new attractions.
This together to get a project over the line.
or at what other operators are doing.
There includes creating Merlins very own in-house We saw the same can do attitude as are two things we will continue to focus on.
wedeveloped Madame Tussauds Delhi, First, we need to ensure that we continue to our first business in India, and a terrific PRODUCING THE MAGIC find new sites which generate the required example of the teamwork needed to MMM takes creative ideas and then produces investment returns for both existing and solve the countless practical issues which amazing content for our attractions, making newbrands.
There are lots of opportunities arise when entering new countries.
Finally LEGO models, wax figures and attraction around the world, but we need to be really we delivered the models, theming and theming.
The Merlin Animal Welfare careful about how and where we spend animation for the new Little BIG City Development MAWD team ensures that money.
Weve got a great site search brand in Berlin.
The team showed Merlin provides the best animal care possible teamwho lead on this, and have strong howtalented they are by transferring aswe source creatures for display in relationships with landlords and property their skills to a new brand and utilising ourattractions.
Second, the ever increasing expectations of DELIVERING THE MAGIC Q.
What is your favourite customer our guests also challenges us to think outside MMMs project management teams produce story of 2017?
of traditions and look into new fields to world class attractions for our guests to enjoy.
There is never just one story!
Sitting on continue delivering memorable experiences.
They deliver all of Merlins major existing estate the tube in London I overheard three As we develop a wide range of new capital projects and new Midway attractions, twenty-somethings talking about Derren products and features, the artistry and the latter being handed over to the New Browns Ghost Train at THORPE PARK creativity of the LEGO modellers, clay Openings team who manage the opening and and hearing its the coolest thing ever, you sculptors and our animal welfare colleagues are responsible for operations in the first18 to have to go on it, it feels so real.
Its always never ceases to amaze me as they find 24 months of trading.
brilliant hearing guest feedback when they newways of entrancing our guests.
The experience our new attractions for the MMM team is a truly unique resource and first time.
Also, watching kids running into Iam confident that we will continue to the new NINJAGO ride and experiencing successfully develop new products.
it for the first time at Windsor made all the work worth it.
