MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 59 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY COMMITTEE REPORT Industry safety standards Security and terrorism Dear Shareholder Merlin continues to support the development 2017 was a disturbing and challenging year due Merlin delivers millions of safe experiences to of international standards that are applicable to multiple terrorist attacks in cities where its guests every year, underpinned by a passion to deliver industry leading health, safety and to the sector especially on ride safety.
Whilst already adopting robust security standards, a rigorous safety culture Our membership of Technical Committees, security arrangements prior to such incidents, and complete commitment from management including those for ASTM US Global, EN the Company nevertheless has taken further and staff.
The Health, Safety and Security EU and British Standards, allows for our action to enhance both our active and passive HSS Committee assists Merlins Board knowledge and learnings to be incorporated security protocols in order to maintain the of Directors govern the safe management in new or revised sector standards.
integrity of our physical boundaries and our of HSS risks across the Group.
This report operations and assets within.
As the types of In 2017, Merlin has contributed to the authoring describes the work of the Committee during threats and risks evolve, the Company will of a revised UK Standard HSG175, the revision 2017 and how it discharged its obligations.
continue to work closely with local police and of the European Standard EN 13814 and governmental security agencies to ensure the production of a brand new International Strengthened HSS governance appropriate intelligence is shared and attraction Standard ISO 17842 pertaining to ride In 2016, the Committee commissioned an based security protocols remain suitable, safety.
Merlin now also sits on the ASTM independent review of the Companys proportional and robust.
F24 series Technical Committee governing corporate governance arrangements for HSS.
ride design, maintenance and operation.
Whilst governance arrangements at Board and Sir John Sunderland Executive Committee level were considered to Applied learnings Chairman of the HSS Committee be sufficiently robust, the Committee felt that Following the 2016 independent review of 28 February 2018 its function could be further strengthened and ride safety by the global risk management supported through the appointment of an consultancy DNV GL, the Committee can independent adviser.
In 2017, an HSS specialist, report that good progress has been made with experience in high-hazard industries, was in 2017 to complete the great majority therefore appointed to assist the Committee by of the suggested recommendations and providing independent oversight and challenge, thereby enhance the Companys internal as well as further advice and support.
Theremaining activities are scheduled to be closed out in 2018.
Best practice benchmarking The Committee believed it was important UK regulator audits to look outside of the sector to understand Following some high-profile theme park and how other leading organisations manage fairground accidents in the UK over the past few safety-critical and high-hazard low-frequency years, the UK enforcement authority, the Health accident risks.
In 2017 the Company and Safety Executive HSE, has embarked upon has therefore established partnerships an enhanced programme of inspections and with three leading organisations in their audits across the sector.
respective sectors: aviation, rail and health In 2017, THORPE PARK and Alton Towers services.
Initial benchmarking and best Resort were both subject to a regulatory audit practice sharing has occurred on topics by the HSE.
These comprehensive examinations ranging from Behavioural Safety to Safety scrutinised our safety and maintenance practices Critical Maintenance Management.
and procedures, specifically in relation to multi-car roller coasters.
The Committee was pleased to learn that the HSE found no material issues and indeed commented positively on our safe systems of work.
60 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY COMMITTEE REPORT C ON T INUED To help communicate these to our key internal The initial focus has been to adopt these The role of the HSS Committee and external stakeholders, the Committee enhanced practices for all new ride projects The HSS Committee reports to the Board, advised on and subsequently endorsed a and the intention is that the same innovative operating under specific terms of reference available on the Companys website.
It has new informative brochure Protecting the processes will be applied to all new hotel three areas of focus: Magic aGuide to Health, Safety and Security and attraction projects in the future.
To oversee the Groups policies and The Committee welcomed and endorsed these is available via our corporate website and procedures for ensuring the HSS of guests, new arrangements in 2017.
employees, contractors and operating assets.
believes they will foster earlier assessment of 2.
To monitor the Groups processes for Action planning and HSS focus areas safety risk in project timelines and greater identifying and managing risks.
To ensure a consistent HSS approach across collaboration between key multi-functional 3.
To monitor the skills, effectiveness and levels the Groups global attraction portfolio, a departments associated with each project.
of resource within the Groups HSS teams.
structured and formulaic HSS action plan Performance monitoring template was considered and endorsed The Committee receives advice from HSS The Committee regularly reviews HSS by the Committee and subsequently professionals and is updated on industry best performance, including near-miss and incident cascaded out across the business.
Issues discussed at the HSS Committee reporting, focusing on performance against the are shared with the Board.
The Companys global HSS team support Groups defined leading and lagging indicators.
the attractions in addressing the required In addition, the Committee also examined In December 2017, Committee members actions and focus areas.
The sufficiency qualitative information and data pertaining undertook a familiarisation site visit to one of such HSS resource was monitored toincidents that occurred both within the of the Companys UK theme parks.
The during the year by the Committee.
Company and also those that have occurred Committee was particularly keen to learn across the wider sector.
more about engineering practices during the Hotel fire safety review deep maintenance winter period and the Following the tragic Grenfell Tower fire in the The Companys HSS performance information associated independent inspections conducted UK in the summer of 2017 the Committee for 2017 is reported on page 46. by the Appointed Inspection Body.
Committee asked for a due diligence review to be initiated Safety training and competency of staff members observed and scrutinised ride stripinto the suitability of fire safety practices, During 2017 the Company further enhanced its down arrangements, in-service inspections and procedures and construction standards across safety competency policies for staff involved in non-destructive testing, repair and replacement the hotels operated by the Company.
ride operations and ride engineering.
These procedures, and the process for functional This review was completed by internal HSS policies set clear and prescriptive minimum testing following the re-assembly professionals together with specialist engineering standards in relation to the recruitment and of a ride.
support from third party consultancies.
The selection of staff in these two key functions, Effectiveness review Committee was pleased to learn that no their induction and role-specific training needs, During the year an external effectiveness significant issues were found.
A number of the triggers for refresher training, the ongoing review of the Committee took place, based opportunities for improvement were however assessment of competency and the monitoring on a questionnaire sent to Committee identified, which are being implemented.
members, all other attendees and the Board.
Triple Lock assurance In 2017 the Company collaborated with third It covered a broad range of matters including Following scrutiny and endorsement by the party associations and the UK Government the Committees scope: organisation and Committee, the Company introduced a new to establish a new engineering apprenticeship meetings: the quality of debate at Committee Triple Lock HSS assurance programme from scheme for the leisure and entertainment sector.
The programme comprises The Committee oversaw this initiative, believing showed the Committee to be effective.
annualised self-audits by each attraction, it is an important step in ensuring a pipeline of Asmall number of improvement areas independent internal audits by a new and new engineering talent is attracted to working werenoted which we will address in 2018. dedicated team of HSS auditors and periodic in UK theme parks and other leisure businesses.
Details of the Committees membership, external audits by a specialist risk assurance Merlin Safety Week together with the frequency of and attendance organisation.
The Committee encouraged and supported the at meetings, are outlined on pages 52 to 57.
The Committee monitors findings and trends creation of Merlins inaugural Safety Week in Strategic HSS vision and initiatives arising from the independent internal audit May 2017.
This initiative provided an excellent At the start of 2017 the Committee was pleased programme.
In particular, the Committee has opportunity, just ahead of the peak trading to endorse the Companys new Strategic HSS monitored the status of improvement actions season for many attractions, to enhance Vision and supporting strategic initiatives.
The identified in these audits to ensure they are employee engagement and reinforce the vision sets out the Companys philosophy with addressed within the pre-set time periods.
regard to ensuring the safety and well-being Operational and use risk assessments The week proved to be particularly popular, of our guests, employees and contractors.
To The Group rolled out updated processes engaging and informative.
Given the benefits support this vision the Company has also set and arrangements in 2017 to provide a more created, Merlin Safety Week will now become out its core HSS strategic initiatives and how structured methodology for the completion an annual event across the Company.
these must direct and focus all future efforts in a of Operational and Use Risk Assessments.
manner that is both systematic and progressive.
