40 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 TEAM MERLIN PEOPLE Counting penguins.
Crafting the perfect celebrity eyebrows.
AtMerlin we all help deliver memorable experiences for our guests, and that is why our people are so important to us.
But what makes us one of the worlds most Here are just some of the building Ofour management positions General blocks we focus on, to be a truly Managers up to and including the Executive unique and rewarding places awesome employer Committee 137 34% are female and 268 towork?
This is an increase from We value our people employee 2016 where we had 123 32% women.
engagement We have also increased the percentage Employee engagement has long been a key of female permanent employees by focus for Merlin.
We know that a happy and 1% to 48% 2017: 4,182, 2016: 4,226. productive workforce will give our guests Although improvements have been made a day to remember.
Our annual employee we want to increase the percentage of survey, The Wizard Wants to Know, is the female staff in all areas even further.
perfect opportunity for Team Merlin to tell us what they think.
We are extremely proud In 2018 Merlin will publish its first gender that our scores are significantly above the pay gap report, based on data from 5 April global average: even so we continue to put 2017, that will show the differences in our energyand enthusiasm into talking to pay between men and women in all roles our teams about areas for improvements across the UK using various statistics.
While The Wizard Wants to Know and better understanding how outside we operate in the visitor attraction and our staff survey environmental factors influence them.
entertainment sector, we employ many people in roles that have been traditionally With almost 30,000 employees at peak dominated by men, such as engineering or season across the globe, we are conscious 95% electricians.
This has an effect on any gender that we need to keep each and every one Response rate pay gap along with the larger proportion ofthem up to date on what is happening of men in senior leadership roles.
For this we have the My Merlin intranet, as well as a quarterly In recent years we have worked hard to groupwide newsletter, The Wizard.
We achieve a more balanced workforce and 94% also use behind-the-scenes areas, such as TV better female representation, with two I enjoy working screens in staff rooms and noticeboards, to particular areas of focus.
Firstly, we will for Merlin keep them up to date on specific topics.
seek to increase the number of women holding senior management positions.
We embrace diversity Secondly, we look to hire locally for Offering an inclusive working environment, leadership positions as Merlin expands.
97% where difference is valued, is a crucial To support our aims: I am encouraged to part of ourstrategy, so we are committed We continue to drive our Women at minimise risks and to ensuring that diverse groups are fully Merlin W@M initiative which gives ensure a safe working and properly represented at all levels of women the support to help achieve their environment our organisation.
We strive to ensure ambitions and develop into senior roles.
we have the best people for every role, We require balanced shortlists for all regardless of gender, race, disability, management vacancies.
sexual orientation, or any other factor.
We regularly conduct talent reviews to 86% We are doing well at Board level.
A recent recognise and develop potential.
Engagement index report by Hampton Alexander put us in We have introduced our Managing thetop FTSE companies for Board diversity, Inclusively programme to support with 44% of our Board members being recruiters and line managers.
Our Board members also have a Our regional teams are empowered to 92% wide spread across nationalities andbring a look at diversity at a local level and are I think we deliver range of experience over industrysectors.
required to have development plans in memorable place that support their local initiatives 18% of our Executive Committee experiences for aswell as Merlins overall goals.
arewomen, compared to 20% in 2016. ourguests MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 41 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 42 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 TEAM MERLIN PEOPLE CONTINUED In 2017, we launched a number of new We care We constantly innovate development programmes to support our 2017 has seen the launch of our wellbeing One of our proudest moments of 2017 was business growth: programme, Be Well.
The programme consists how hard the new team worked to successfully open LEGOLAND Japan in April.
The team are of five key focus areas, with an emphasis on Our Attraction Management programme is already building their own culture of fun and local delivery to ensure that we are focusing our designed for the General Managers of the innovation.
A number of roles were filled by attention on the relevant wellbeing initiatives future with a series of global, interactive local graduates who spent time in LEGOLAND within each attraction.
Our 2018 plan will see us webinars, projects and activities which focus parks in other countries, allowing them to bring expanding our global frameworks, whilst on the key areas of a high performing a wealth of knowledge to this new park opening.
creating and nurturing our internal support General Manager.
networks, to allow us to continue to safeguard As part of getting to know the local community Marketing the Magic supports our and support our employees.
around Goshen, ahead of our announcement marketing community to drive value through that we are targeting to open LEGOLAND understanding the specific capabilities New York in 2020, we opened The Community needed for success in our business.
This initiative helped us Situational Leadership is delivered to our engage with local students to arrange internship managers, in partnership with a global programmes.
external partner, to ensure consistency of approach across Merlin in driving We inspire careers and develop potential performance.
We have always nurtured a global career focus The Mentoring at Merlin programme looks for our employees and are extremely proud to to enhance our mentoring culture and add have many success stories.
For example: another dimension to development and career conversations, taking advantage of the One of our team started working in the magnificent people that we have at Merlin.
Alton Towers waterpark in 2006 and now In keeping with our philosophy of she is the head of our hotels at Alton Towers nurturing new talent, we have set up three the skys the limit!
apprenticeship focus areas with external The Head of Operations for our Bangkok partners.
We are extremely pleased Cluster started her life with Merlin as a that, throughout 2018, we will roll out guest host and has worked her way up over apprenticeships in Food and Beverage, the years.
One of our Executive Committee started his career as a mascot at one of our parks In September 2017, we welcomed 23 new global now that has to inspire you!
graduates into Merlin across our management and marketing schemes of Accelerate The depth and breadth of roles within our Graduates.
They will now spend time around attractions, our creative teams and our central our different brands and geographic regions functions, gives endless opportunity for our developing the skills that they need for their passionate and hardworking employees.
Developing our people has always been a real focus.
We want to ensure we deliver memorable We share ownership experiences for our guests, which means we Merlin is strongly committed to ensuring need talented people to support our business our employees have an active interest in the growth.
Reflecting this, our approach is focused Company by having the opportunity to buy on three things Education: Exposure: and shares.
Of our permanent employees, 33% Experience.
Incorporating these into our now participate in at least one of our Sharesave development programmes gives our people the plans, with many contributing to more than one.
right practical skills to perform in their unique We are extremely proud of this response.
Encouraging the individual to take Merlins first global Sharesave plan matured ownership of their own development is vital.
Our during 2017 and, as a result, approximately role is to give them lots of opportunities to learn 400 more Merlin employees were able to and grow as they build their Merlin careers.
We also made more than 420 share awards to colleagues at executive, senior and middle management levels under our long term incentive plans.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 43 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Looking to the future WHEN YOUR JOB GIVES We are engineering pioneers Natalie Bickford, our Group HR Director, is Our Merlin engineers are a vital part YOU THE OPPORTUNITY anticipating an exciting few years ahead for of our team, and yet the engineering Team Merlin: TO RIDE ROLLER COASTERS, undertaken by our technical teams at Our focus in the coming years is all around parks and attractions was not a recognised EXPLORE DUNGEONS AND ourpeoples role in delivering memorable form or discipline like aviation or experiences for our guests.
In order to achieve MEET SEALS, ITS HARD TO automotive engineering for example.
this, we plan to hone in on aspects of the In the past, our engineering apprentices SEE HOW ANY OTHER JOB people agenda such as: were educated as mechanical or electrical COULD EVER MATCH UP delivering structured and exciting career engineers, but had to have a significant progression: amount of industry specific on-the-job driving productivity: training to become competent for the developing robust succession and workforce engineering work that Merlin carries out.
planning: We wanted to pioneer a change and the ensuring employees have the opportunity to introduction of a new UK Government be heard and to contribute: and approach to apprenticeships and communicating transparent and motivational WE MAKE IT FUN FOR apprentice standards presented an rewards.
opportunity for our Global Head of OUR GUESTS, BUT FUN But our single most exciting project will be Engineering, Dawn Childs.
Dawn lobbied IS CONTAGIOUS launching our compelling and relevant Employer engineering institutions, the Institute for Value Proposition across the globe, where we Apprenticeships and BALPPA for approval encourage all Merlin employees to Love your and support to set up a Trailblazer Group IT AFFECTS US ALL AND Work, Work your Magic.
to develop an apprentice standard for an entirely new form of engineering that WE REALLY DO LOVE is specialised for the industry Leisure WHAT WE DO!
Dawn quickly achieved support for the standard from over 20 other non-Merlin parks and attractions and the Standard and End Point Assessment EPA methodology was approved by the Institute for Apprenticeships.
MERLIN IS A PLACE TO The new standards will define key skills, knowledge and behaviours for BRING MY CRAFT TO LIFE leisure and entertainment engineering technicians, where college-delivered engineering academics are supplemented by industry led masterclasses.
The syllabus and delivery model is very innovative and it is the only Standard and EPA to pass through the required approvals process at the first attempt.
Dawns commitment is now being showcased as a model for how industry can work with the further education sector.
Our first engineering apprentices will start in October 2018.
