MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 25 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NEW OPENINGS New Openings is Merlins specialist team that develops new LEGOLAND parks, opens new Midway attractions and integrates acquisitions.
John Jakobsen NEW BRAND OPPORTUNITIES Over the coming months and years MMM and the New Openings team will continue to work closely together to find, develop and open attractions with new brands.
The teams are currently working on two new Intellectual Property partnerships.
What is your teams greatest achievement in 2017?
THE BEAR GRYLLS ADVENTURE It would have to be the opening of Customer type Adventure experience LEGOLAND Japan.
This was accomplished seeker only six months after the opening of Adventure seekers want a combination LEGOLAND Dubai and inthe same month offunmixed in with mental and physical we opened three Midway attractions.
The Bear Grylls Adventure busy, but we truly did see thebenefits of willprovide this in a unique format that being able to draw on the experience of brings anumber of challenges together in ourcolleagues from all over the world to onelocation, enabling guests to experience make it happen.
acore attraction and then upgrade to other challenges such as indoor skydiving or Q.
What is your teams greatest challenge highropes.
We have a very strong long term pipeline of potential LEGOLAND projects, particularly in PEPPA PIG China, where we are working on a number of Customer type Pre-school study agreements.
Our challenge will be to Using this global IP as a platform we ensure that we manage our resources in the will develop unique attraction formats.
interim such that we are adequately prepared We see opportunities for high levels of to execute against multiple openings, repeat visitation and strong retail spends potentially inquick succession.
in attractions which will trade smoothly In the meantime our current focus is on the throughout the year.
We will build on what opening of our third LEGOLAND resort in we have learned in our current successful the USA, Merlins single biggest investment products in this market such as The Gruffalo ever of approximately 250 million.
River Ride Adventure at Chessington World Construction will ramp up in 2018 for the of Adventures Resort, and the CBeebies targeted 2020 opening of LEGOLAND Land and hotel at Alton Towers Resort.
The first realisations of this new partnership will be themed lands at Heide Park Resort Q.
What are you most excited about going in Germany and Gardaland Resort in Italy.
2018 will be the highest number of newopenings in one year for Merlin Entertainments, nine in total.
We plan to open seven new Midway attractions under our existing brands, plus the new The Bear Grylls Adventure in Birmingham, our first new brand Peppa Pig Midway attraction, as well as our 252 room LEGOLAND hotel that will transform LEGOLAND Japan into aresort.
