RESORT DEVELOPMENT FIVE STAR EXPERIENCES CBeebies is a strong and The CBeebies Land Hotel THEMED compelling Intellectual Property opened inJuly 2017 at a cost of ACCOMMODATION asset operated under a licence 14 million.
With 76 rooms it deal with BBC Worldwide.
It offers a high level of theming, Alton Towers Resort has welcomed families uses the characters and theming including Octonauts, Postman with older children for many years.
In 2014 from a number of childrens Pat and In the Night Garden the resort introduced CBeebies Land, aimed favourite shows.
Guests can meet at families with young children, previously CBeebies characters and enjoy an under-represented demographic at that live shows, story time and attraction.
The CBeebies Land Hotel opened CBeebies games.
in 2017 and looks to further enhance the offering to that market.
FIVE STAR EXPERIENCES FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES We will look to further enhance our themed accommodation offerings in the future, given the benefits thisbrings to Merlin resorts.
In 2016 and 2017 Merlin opened 593 rooms and will continue to expand the portfolio, with 644 new rooms expected in 2018.
With high customer satisfaction levels and occupancy at 99% during the peak school holiday period, thishas been ahighly successful first trading period for thehotel.
99% Occupancy NEW LEGOLAND PARKS COMPELLING INVESTMENTS Since 2010 we have added four new LEGOLAND Japan has been NEW LEGOLAND PARKS parks in two continents.
These new developed under our operated and investments, together with growth leased model, where we partner at our existing parks, have increased with a third party, in this case a As a strong theme park market, Japan total LEGOLAND Parks revenues subsidiary of KIRKBI, a major Merlin presented an amazing opportunity to continue from 215 million to 609 million shareholder and owners of the the roll out of LEGOLAND parks in Asia.
The site was located and developed by our specialist Ideally positioned for Japans 127 million New Openings team, who will also population, the park is located in Nagoya, oversee the management of the Japans third largest city.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS LEGOLAND Japan is designed New York in October 2017 Merlin announced plans for for young families and features LEGOLAND New York, targeted for a 2020 opening.
This will over 40 themed rides, shows be a fully owned park with a 250 room themed four star hotel and attractions.
also planned to open at the same time.
To further build on our resort South Korea we continue to work with our development destination strategy, a 252 partners as they pursue further investment funding to enable room themed hotel and a SEA the completion of LEGOLAND Korea.
China Merlin has a number of study agreements in progress for potential developments in China with different possible funding options.
We see China as a significant development opportunity for future parks.
MIDWAY ROLL OUT NEW MARKETS OUR FIRST VENTURE IN INDIA India is the worlds third largest consumer market for leisure tourists, with an emerging middle class and GDP growth expected to be between 7% to 7.5% over 2018 19.
Located in the iconic Connaught Place area of New Delhi, Merlins first investment in India, a Madame Tussauds, targets both domestic and overseas visitors.
Madame Tussauds MT Delhi MT Delhi is taking the visitor opened on 1 December 2017.
The experience to a new level with attraction contains 50 figures of WAX.
Whilst Madame Indian and other celebrities from Tussauds will always be famous for making the most incredible around the world and is arranged lifelike wax figures, our guests will in five areas, comprising Sports, be the real stars of this story in an Bollywood, History & Leaders, exciting, interactive and immersive Hollywood and Music.
experience that places them right at the heart of the action!
NEW MARKETS NEW BRAND OPPORTUNITIES Pre-school market Adventure We anticipate significant growth at the attraction over experience seeker Recognising the opportunity the next decade, mirroring our experience in other to expand our offering to the Customers are increasingly developing markets such as Shanghai, as we develop pre-school market, we are seeking adventure and brand awareness and build market share.
partnering with eOne, the experiences in their leisure owners of the global Peppa time.
In partnership with Bear Longer term, we see opportunities for more Midway Pig IP, to develop new and Grylls, we are developing a attractions in India as well as the potential for a highly interactive attraction unique attraction format that LEGOLAND park.
formats specifically aimed at will let guests really stretch this market.
themselves in a series of mental and physical challenges.
