14 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategy and business model New strategic objectives and a changing business model.
At the beginning of 2018 in light of continued and increasing competition and market share erosion in our funeral business, the Board took decisive action and announced a change in strategy.
New strategic objectives Our overall strategic approach Protect market share and reposition the Our new strategic objectives and the means of delivering Group for growth.
them are based on the following four key elements: In the short-term, our key strategic objective and priority is to protect market share and reposition the Group Continue to build on the strong fundamentals 8 for growth.
of the business and use these as a platform for change.
How: These strengths, which derive from our well established By oering a wide choice of new price points and services and highly regarded local businesses, our proven ability to our clients while preserving our unrivalled levels of to deliver exceptional service and strong corporate service.
governance allows us to remain robust and exible in the face of change.
By continuing to prioritise excellent client service regardless of market segment which we believe will lead to organic growth.
Continue to be distinctive in the 8 marketplace.
At the same time we have embarked on a rigorous review to ensure that our funeral operations are organised to run define clear market positions and build on our positive more eciently and eectively in the light of this change reputation, and business, by delivering a high-quality and of strategy and positioning.
Continue to make ecient use of our balance We establish ourselves as the best value service provider 8 sheet to enhance shareholder returns.
Continue our successful strategy of acquiring and How: integrating businesses.
By combining our unrivalled service levels based on historic, long-term investment, with a new, competitively Continue to be a good corporate citizen.
8 priced range of service and product options for clients.
Digital Corporate responsibility is integral to our business as it Through our comprehensive digital strategy be the leading supports the delivery of our strategy and aligns with online presence in the funeral sector.
Brand Build our brand to stand out in an increasingly Our previous strategic objectives and our Key commoditised and competitive market.
Performance Indicators KPIs For 2017 and previous years our strategic objectives Re-base the business model and market expectations.
were as follows: In 2018 nd the optimum relationship between price, Continue to prioritise excellent client service which we service and demand for our funeral business going forward.
1 believe will lead to organic growth.
How: Control our costs without compromising the quality 2 of our service.
By using 2018 to gauge the market response to various 3 Expand our funeral and crematoria portfolios.
pricing scenarios while maintaining our high levels of Gain new clients through the sale of pre-arranged professional service and care.
5 Increase our returns through ecient capital management.
These five objectives are repeated here because they guided the Group in 2017 and underpin and relate directly to the longstanding KPIs which appear in this Report and Accounts.
They form a crucial means of measuring performance.
In the light of the change in pricing strategy announced in early 2018 it is expected that the Groups KPIs, as they relate to a newly stated set of strategic objectives, will be reviewed during the course of this year to ensure they remain appropriate.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 15 Links Find out more about our KPIs and how we measure performance: p. 16 to p. 18 Find out more about how we manage and mitigate risk: p. 32 to p. 36 Find out more about our CSR commitments: p. 37 to p. 43 Find out about our governance framework within which we conduct our business and deliver our strategic objectives: p. 44 and p. 45 How we operate Creating and delivering value Our clients Generating profitable growth: Our objective is to be the Our consistent track record in strong cash generation and financial company that everyone knows discipline enables us to reinvest and grow the business both organically they can trust in their time of and through strategic acquisition.
We generate revenues from new and need.
We achieve this through returning clients and by carefully acquiring businesses that complement continuous improvement and our network of locations, extend our geographic reach and represent a delivering products and services reasonable return on our capital.
Controlling and measuring growth: Our people We do this by making well informed decisions, supported by careful risk We believe that the quality of management and good governance.
our people is a strong enabler of business growth.
We value our people and they are a great asset.
Operating responsibly: We support them by recognising and rewarding performance We do this through embedded policies and robust initiatives, appropriate and long service plays a key to the distinct needs of our stakeholders, alongside reducing our impact part in this.
on the environment and making a positive social impact.
Our shareholders Maintaining performance across our operations: We aim to deliver the best possible We strive to provide our clients with the highest standards of facilities, operational performance from service and care.
We achieve this by our commitment to continuous the business to deliver maximum improvement and investment in our portfolio and consistently delivering returns to our shareholders over excellent client service.
Communities Building strong relationships: Contributing to the communities Our clients are the foundation of our business and their trust is in which we operate benets earned through our actions both individually and as a group.
both local people and our Our people are our most important asset and we value and invest in business.
It enhances our prole them as they are integral to the delivery of our strategic objectives.
and reputation, promotes employee engagement and For shareholders, our priority is to reposition the Group for helps to attract new employees.
We play an important part in and are valued by the local communities we serve and we are committed to making a difference.
Governance Risk KPIs Remuneration Dignity has a well Our strategy is focused on Our approach to good The Group uses both established risk delivering short and longgovernance continues to be non-financial and financial management process term financial performance.
Clear KPIs to both manage the which is embedded within Earnings targets, share price Board roles and governance business and ensure the its business to support the return and the achievement processes offer balance and Groups strategy and identication and effective of strategic objectives are experience to our strong objectives are being management of risks measures of performance executive team, helping drive delivered.
used to incentivise Executive strategic and performance Directors to deliver the progress.
