Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 20 21 Chief Executives statement SUCCESSION WORTHWHILE FOR ALL Howdens is a highly successful trade business When Howdens first started trading in 1995 with The key aim of Howdens is to create a business just 40 people and seven kitchen ranges, I could not that is worthwhile for all concerned customers, that started with just 14 depots in 1995 and imagine the journey we would undertake.
Thanks prospective customers, homeowners, tenants, local has now grown to more than 660 depots, with to our builder customers, we grew quickly and communities, our suppliers, investors, staff and weathered both the problems with MFI in 2005 and their families, and our apprentices.
the opportunity for even more.
We are the the financial crisis, to emerge as a business which I set out to make Howdens feel like home.
The has grown strongly and invested significantly in its leading supplier of kitchens in the UK because sort of business our customers parents used and long-term future.
I hope our children and our we continue to keep the builders needs at the Howdens has done well, is doing well and has great customers children use Howdens too and feel the prospects for the future.
centre of everything we do.
I decided in 2017 that I would retire from my I wish all in the company and all who work with it, role as CEO in 2018 and pass the baton on to the best for the future.
I am pleased to report that Howdens has seen We expect to introduce around 20 ranges in Andrew Livingston information about Andrews another successful year, with good revenue growth, 2018and will continue to develop our products As good as it ever was.
appointment may be found on page 7.
Andrew has finishing the year with net cash of 241 million.
an outstanding track record at Screwfix and I look forward to seeing the business move to its next LOCAL EMPOWERED STAFF SUPPLIERS AND SUPPLY CHAIN Matthew Ingle chapter under his leadership.
I am also pleased I will The general economic backdrop was mixed in 2017, We had 100% availability of products to our depots Chief Executive Officer continue to be in touch with Howdens in my role as but we knew we could do more to help the builder during our peak trading Period 11 in October, Lifetime President.
28 February 2018 and help our depot managers sell more kitchens.
demonstrating the strength of our supply chain.
Following a successful trial in one of our regions, we We have our own warehouses and distribution We have the financial and operational capabilities increased the autonomy of our depot managers by operations, and our trucks only deliver our product to make our own future.
I believe the business has giving them additional flexibility over pricing.
During Period 11 our supply the resources it needs to move to a new chapter in division made around ten thousand deliveries to our its development, and there are exciting choices for I believe that this was the key decision taken during depots, and of the eight million items received, all Andrew and the new generation of leaders to make.
We know that depot managers understand were correctly delivered.
their local builders and market better than anyone, MARKET CONDITIONS and we were pleased to see positive results Achieving this level of service demonstrates our After a turbulent 2016, which saw an increase in UK immediately following the change.
shared values and positive personal relationships, Stamp Duty on second homes and buy-to-let house both within Howdens and with our suppliers and I purchases, as well as rapid shifts in both foreign THE RIGHT PRODUCT would like to thank our suppliers for their continued exchange and in consumer confidence, 2017 was a support of our business.
As well as the right price, it is important that when more stable year in our markets - albeit one in which a builder shows their customer our kitchen, the we saw a stable, if muted economic environment.
OUR INVESTMENT customer is inspired by enlightened and relevant designs.
We recognise that kitchens are an area In 2015, we announced that we were to undertake As I noted above, we responded to this environment in which taste and fashion are moving faster a three-year investment programme to upgrade by increasing price flexibility for our depot managers thanbefore.
our manufacturing as well as our distribution and by introducing many new products into the capabilities.
This was to replace older machinery market.
Importantly, we did not implement our usual Technology, expectations and fashion change, but and warehouse capacity and give us the extra annual price increase at the start of 2018, which will our depot managers should never have to worry capability to match our growth plans for Howdens.
give us flexibility on pricing during 2018. about the suitability of the product they sell.
I am pleased that our investment programme was brought in on time and on budget.
We introduced 26 new kitchen ranges throughout the year, as we continue to develop the range of We also continue to invest in IT and we have products and services we offer, in order to broaden upgraded our systems to help the depots process the entry-level appeal of the Howdens proposition.
orders quicker than ever before.
The new ranges included eleven grey kitchens, as Our market is becoming more complex people the trend for this colour continues, more entry-level want more choice more colours, more designs, products, including a new Allendale family, as well at ever more affordable prices.
Those who can as an improved flat-pack offering.
In addition, we manage to deal with this increasingly complex world updated our own-brand Lamona range of appliances will prosper, and that is why it is imperative that we and introduced a number of new joinery products.
continue to invest in the business.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 22 23 KPIs and Review of Finance and Operations For 2017, Howdens reports 53 weeks of trading, FINANCIAL REVIEW including the week between Christmas and New FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Financial results for 2017 Year, when depots are closed while incurring We measure the Groups performance and progress Cash The information presented here relates to the ongoing costs.
The inclusion of a 53rd week in 2017 against four financial key performance indicators.
53 weeks to 30 December 2017 and the 52 weeks We are committed to generating cash flow increased operating costs by approximately 8.0m, to 24 December 2016, unless otherwise stated.
performance through the operating cycle.
Our but did not contribute to revenue.
Total sales growth aim is to retain at least one years requirement Total Group revenue increased by 96.5m to Growth in sales of the UK Howden Joinery depots is As a result, our operating profit declined slightly to for working capital after capital expenditure and 1,403.8m.
Howden Joinery UK depot revenue key to enhancing shareholder value.
after paying a dividend in line with our stated rose by 7.1% to 1,372.0m 2016: 1,281.7m.
UK there remain considerable opportunities to grow dividend policy, which is outlined in more detail on The net interest charge was 2.2m 2016: 0.2m, revenue increased by 5.2% on a same depot basis sales.
In addition, we believe there are economies page 24.
We ended 2017 with 241m of cash and reflecting a 2.4m finance expense in respect to 1,340.6m in 2017 2016: 1,274.6m, resulting of scale in the business which will allow us to grow cash equivalents, in line with this KPI.
Profit before tax was 232.2m from additional revenue from depots opened in long-term profitability as we grow sales.
We saw total a direct driver of Executive Committee and senior 2016:237.0m.
UK sales of 1,372m in 2017, representing a growth management bonuses.
Depot staff bonuses are The tax charge on profit before tax was 47.2m linked to this target at an individual depot level.
Depot openings Revenue m 2017 2016 2016: 51.4m, representing an effective rate of Our business model is based on individual depots tax of 20.3% 2016: 21.7%.
The change in 2017 is Group 1,403.8 1,307.3 Profit before tax providing kitchens to small builders in their local mainly due to a reduction in the statutory tax rate.
We target profit before tax as it captures how much comprising: community.
We believe that there is some way to profit we have generated after taking account of Reflecting the above and the reduced share count go before the UK market is saturated and therefore Howden Joinery UK depots 1,372.0 1,281.7 major expenditure items such as costs of sales, following share repurchases, basic earnings per the continuing drive to open new depots in new Howden Joinery continental selling and distribution costs, administrative share were 29.9p 2016: 29.5p.
localities is a key driver to the Groups prospects.
Europe depots 31.8 25.6 expenses and finance costs.
Profits before tax went We opened 19 new UK depots in 2017 and from 237.0m in 2016 to 232.2m in 2017, due to At 30 December 2017, the pension deficit shown continue take account of economic conditions in Revenue growth in the UK reflected the growth a range of factors as detailed on the opposite page.
on the balance sheet was 109.3m 24 December order to phase our growth taking account of the in maturing and new depots, in addition to sales This KPI is a direct driver of Executive Committee 2016: 106.0m.
The increase in the deficit was due economicenvironment.
We saw weakness and senior management bonuses.
to higher liabilities arising primarily from a decrease in the London area being offset by stronger in the discount rate of 79.0m, partly offset by both performance elsewhere during the first half of 2017, the Groups 41.4m contribution to fund the deficit while we saw stronger revenue growth in all areas and by positive asset returns.
during the second half of the year, in part reflecting NON-FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS the weaker comparatives from a period of slower In July 2015, we announced that agreement had trading that was seen in the second half of 2016.
Our non-financial key performance production waste recycling: and been reached with the Trustees in relation to the indicators are concerned with: schedule of payments towards the funding of the recycled packaging Sales in continental Europe rose by 6.2m to Groups defined benefit pension schemes deficit 31.8m, reflecting same depot growth, the benefits Health & Safety: and these are discussed in our Sustainability from April 2015.
It was agreed that the Group would of foreign exchange and the contribution of the new use of FSC certified materials in our Report which starts on page 35. continue to make deficit contributions equivalent outlets opened during 2015 and 2016.
In Euros, manufacturing processes: to 35m per annum until 30 June 2017.
It was also sales of the French depots increased 11.1% and by agreed that the Group would make an interim 6.4% on a same depot basis.
payment of 25m over the period July 2017 to June 2018, which resulted in a total deficit contribution Gross profit increased by 48.5m to 888.4m.
of 30m in the 2017 financial year.
The gross profit margin for the year was 63.3% 2016: 64.2% and reflected the impact of our The last completed triennial actuarial review of the sales initiatives, inflationary pressures and the defined benefit pension scheme was carried out as impact of adverse currency movements one third at April 2014 and the valuation as at April 2017 is in of our cost of goods sold being denominated in progress and expected to complete in 2018.
As part of the 80m share repurchase programme 241m Selling and distribution costs and administrative announced in February 2017, the Group acquired expenses were 654.0m 2016: 602.7m.
As Closing net cash 11.2m shares, to 30 December 2017, for a expected, costs increased due to new product consideration of 48m.
2016: 227m introductions and new services, our new distribution centre at Raunds, additional depreciation due to our There was a net cash inflow from operating investment programme, pension costs, and extra activities of 176.7m 2016: 207.2m, after the 19 operating costs due to a 53rd week of trading.
We cash contribution to the Groups defined benefit New UK depots also saw the impact of inflation in our cost base.
1,372m UK depot sales 2016: 1,282m 232m Profit before tax 2016: 237m Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 24 25 Review of finance and operations continued Working capital increased by 26.9m, mainly due As previously stated, the Board intends to target a integration and undertook tests to distribute Product and marketing to an increase in stock following the increased roll capital structure that is both prudent and recognises product from Raunds to a number of depots.
We continue to enhance our product offering and out of new ranges in 2017.
In addition, net tax paid the benefits of operational and financial leverage, The facility is currently being used for bulk storage introduced 26 new kitchen ranges during 2017. totalled 41.8m 2016: 28.8m.
and that, after considering our capital requirements, and was utilised during Period 11 in 2017.
These included 11 new grey kitchens across will return surplus cash to shareholders as four different shades of grey as the trend for this Payments to acquire fixed assets totalled 48.5m We expect to migrate the majority of distribution appropriate.
The Group has significant property colourway continues.
Fixed asset spending was less capabilities to this site during 2018 and will use our leases for the depot network and continues to have on offer in our depots at the end of February 2018. than anticipated during 2017 due to the timing of previous distribution facility at Northampton for bulk a material deficit in the Group pension fund.
Taking some projects which will now be undertaken in storage once the transfer has been completed.
into account this underlying level of gearing, the New product developments and launches in 2017 early 2018 and fewer than expected depot rollouts.
Board believes it is appropriate for the Group to be included: We have received full planning permission for able to operate through the annual working capital Reflecting the above, together with dividend a further two distribution facilities at Raunds cycle without incurring bank debt.
Clerkenwell ranges in gloss and matt colourways: payments referred to below, there was a net cash totaling 950,000 sq ft, which we expect to become a new Allendale family, a lower priced inflow of 14.5m in 2017, the Group having net cash operational during 2020.
This will enable us to The Board has reviewed the cash balances in light alternative to the successful Fairford textured of 241.1m at the end of the year 24 December exit the current national distribution centre at of the Groups future investment opportunities, shaker collection: 2016: 226.6m net cash.
Northampton during 2020 2021, while providing expected peak working capital requirements, trading an enhanced rigid cabinet platform and Technik Howdens with a strategic replacement asset.
We do outlook and increased dividend payment.
As a result, Dividend and return of surplus cash flat pack offering: not expect to incur any capital expenditure on the it has decided to complete the remaining 32m of new facilities until 2019. to shareholders an updated design of our Lamona appliancerange: the 80m share buyback programme announced in February 2017 and to implement a further share The Groups dividend policy is to target a dividend a continued roll-out of quartz worktops: Information systems buyback programme of 60m to be completed cover of between 2.5x and 3.0x, with one third of the an extended collection of pre-finished doors: We have continued to enhance our deployment during the next two years.
previous years dividend being paid as an interim of our SAP strategy and have upgraded our core improved quick fit hardware: dividend each year.
system to run on the latest SAP Hana technology.
Shares that were bought in the market by our brokers new vinyl flooring products: and during 2017 were cancelled.
Given the operational performance of the business filing 8 new patent applications.
Continental Europe in 2017 and taking account of the additional costs OPERATIONAL REVIEW We have 20 depots in France, one in each of due to the 53rd week, the Board has recommended We expect to bring 19 new ranges during 2018, Germany and The Netherlands, and two in Belgium.
to shareholders a final dividend of 7.5p 2016: 7.4p, The business model of Howden Joinery is: To supply including five new kitchen families across various Revenue growth in France increased by 6.4% in giving a total dividend for the year of 11.1p 2016: from local stock nationwide the small builders everprice points, finishes and colours, as well as a new Euros on a same depot basis and our nascent 10.7p, an increase of 3.7%, equating to a dividend changing, routine, integrated kitchen and joinery grey oak cabinet to complement these new ranges.
operations in the other regions are enabling us to cover of 2.7x.
requirements, assuring best local price, no-call-back gain a greater understanding of each local market.
quality and confidential trade terms and to provide Manufacturing and logistics The final dividend payment of 7.5p per share will, if the builders customer with enough choice, advice operations approved by shareholders, be paid on 22 June 2018 CEO retirement and succession and aftersales to make a home to be proud of.
Our UK-based manufacturing and logistics to shareholders on the register at close of business On 7 July 2017, it was announced that Howdens operations are vital in enabling us to supply our on 25 May 2018.
We continue to invest in all aspects of the growth and founder and CEO, Matthew Ingle, had decided to small builder customers from local stock nationwide performance of the business, including new depots retire in the first half of 2018 after 23 years with at all times.
This requires us to have the scale, and depot operations, new and existing employees, the Group, to be succeeded by Andrew Livingston, space and flexibility to respond to each depots product development, and manufacturing and previously CEO of Screwfix Direct Ltd, a division of individual needs, especially during our critical distribution.
We continue to see the opportunity to Kingfisher Plc.
Andrew Livingston joined Howdens as Period 11, when sales are more than double the increase the scale of the business and see scope for CEO Designate on 29 January 2018. level in other periods.
32 26 Following a successful transition period, the Board During 2017 a number of the investment projects 1,372 1,282 UK depot network and operations has agreed that Andrew Livingston will become progressed as follows.
At that date, Andrew will be During 2017, 19 new depots were opened, bringing appointed director of Howden Joinery Group Plc and Manufacturing operations the total number of depots trading at the end of the Matthew Ingle will retire from the Board.
Matthew 98% At our Howden site, our new cabinet production year to 661.
In addition, eight depots were relocated will remain involved with the business until his 2% facility and assembly lines were fully installed and and 14 were extended.
A number of other depots retirement on 1 August 2018, and beyond in his role commissioned, as was our new cabinet component 16 17 are at various stages of the acquisition shopfitting as Honorary Lifetime President.
We expect to complete the process and we expect to open up to 30 new depots production ramp-up at both sites during 2018.
Andrew Livingston is also an independent NonHowden Joinery UK depots Executive Director at LondonMetric Property Plc.
Logistics Howden Joinery continental Europe depots Our account base was flat on the year, standing at A 650,000 sq ft warehouse near Raunds, which approximately 464,000 at year end, while revenue Save as noted, there are no disclosures to be made is to the east of our current national distribution per account grew.
Our debt collection performance pursuant to Listing Rule 9.6.
13 R. centre in Northampton, was handed over to us continues to be robust.
During 2017, we completed IT systems Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 26 27 Review of finance and operations continued Principal exchange rates 2017 2017 2016 2016 versus UK pound Average Year-end Average Year-end CURRENT TRADING AND Outlook United States dollar US$ 1.29 1.34 1.35 1.23 OUTLOOK FOR 2018 The Group believes that the number of depots in Euro 1.14 1.13 1.22 1.18 the UK can be increased from the 661 operating Current trading at the end of 2017 to up to 800 depots.
During the Howden Joinery UK depots have seen a continuing course of 2018, we plan to open around 30 depots good sales performance in the first two periods of in the UK, one already having been opened.
our new financial year to 24 February.
We expect inflationary pressures on the costs of Given the material timing impact of the 53rd week goods sold.
in the 2017 financial year on this reporting period, In addition, our pension trustees, who carry a charge Foreign currency risk the pattern of trading year-on-year is not directly over the share capital of Howden Joinery Limited, In addition to ongoing operational costs including The most significant currencies for the Group are comparable, as there is an extra week of trading in have a separate covenant test around the EBITDA inflationary pressures, we expect further operating the US dollar and the Euro.
It is the Groups current the first period of 2018. of Howden Joinery Limited.
costs of around 20m from continued investments in policy that routine transactional conversion between areas across the business including digital upgrades, currencies is completed at the relevant spot exchange The Groups latest forecasts and projections have Howden Joinery UK depot sales in the first two the effects of moving from our older distribution rate.
This policy is reviewed on a regular basis.
been stress-tested for reasonably possible adverse periods of 2018 increased by 12.5% on the same centre to Raunds and additional depreciation.
variations in trading performance and show that the period last year, excluding the first two weeks of The net adverse impact of exchange rates on Group will operate within the terms of its borrowing trading.
The average annual revenue growth for the We note that we had fewer depot openings in 2017 currency transactions in the year was 11.3m, with facility and covenants for the foreseeable future.
same period of trading from 2016 to 2018 was 7.9%.
compared to 2016, which reduced costs year-ona further 4m of additional indirect currency-related year.
We expect the costs of new depots in 2018 to costs.
The principal exchange rates affecting the This sales growth has been driven by an increase in At the 2017 year end, the Group had 186m of increase compared to 2017. profits of the Group are set out in the table above.
volumes, as we did not implement an annual price cash, 55m of short-term investments, and 138m increase at the start of 2018, and by the weaker of funds available to borrow under the committed We manufacture in the UK around one third of Counterparty risk comparative from the prior year period.
the products that we sell, primarily cabinets and Group Treasury policy on investment restricts worktops, and provide warehousing and delivery counterparties to those with a short-term credit Interest rate risk to our depots of manufactured and bought-in rating at least equivalent to Standard and Poors products.
Investment in the resilience and capacity The Group has not had any borrowings during A-1 or Moodys P-1.
It also places limits on the of manufacturing and warehousing, new depots 2017 and does not consider interest rate risk to maximum amount which can be invested with a and digital upgrades, plus some expenditure initially be significant at present.
Investments mainly consist of planned for 2017, will result in expected capital bank deposits, UK Treasury bills and liquidity funds.
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS expenditure of around 60m in 2018.
The Group continuously reviews the credit quality of None of the new accounting standards that came counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit We believe that current market conditions into effect during 2017 had a material implication for exposures and categories of investments.
are stable although we remain watchful given the Group.
Funding and liquidity CAUTIONARY STATEMENT USE AND MANAGEMENT OF The Groups objective with respect to managing Certain statements in this Annual Report are FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, AND capital is to maintain a balance sheet structure forward-looking.
Although the Group believes that is both efficient in terms of providing longEXPOSURE TO FINANCIAL RISK that the expectations reflected in these forwardterm returns to shareholders and safeguards the looking statements are reasonable, we can give The Group holds financial instruments for one Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
no assurance that these expectations will prove principal purpose: to finance its operations.
The As appropriate, the Group can choose to adjust its to have been correct.
Because these statements Group does not currently use derivative financial capital structure by varying the amount of dividends contain risks and uncertainties, actual results may instruments to reduce its exposure to interest or paid to shareholders, the returns of capital to differ materially from those expressed or implied by exchange rate movements.
The Group finances its shareholders, the level of capital expenditure, these forward-looking statements.
We undertake no operations by using cash flows from operations, or by issuing new shares.
obligation to update any forward-looking statements and it has access to an asset-backed loan facility if whether as a result of new information, future events The Group has a committed, asset-backed, bank additional financing is required.
facility which allows borrowing of up to a maximum are managed within policies and procedures of 140m, dependent on the actual levels of stock approved by the Board.
The main potential risks By order of the Board and trade debtors held at any time.
The facility was arising from the Groups financial instruments are not used at any point during 2017 and is due to foreign currency risk, counterparty risk, funding expire in July 2019. and liquidity risk and interest rate risk, which are Mark Robson discussed below.
Deputy Chief Executive The Groups committed borrowing facility contains certain financial covenants which have been met and Chief Financial Officer No speculative use of derivatives, currency or throughout 2017.
The covenants are tested every other instruments is permitted.
The Treasury 28 February 2018 four weeks and are based around: i fixed charges: function does not operate as a profit centre and ii tangible net worth: and iii earnings before transacts only in relation to the underlying interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation business requirements.
EBITDA for Howden Joinery Limited.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 28 29 Principal risks and uncertainties RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS CONTINUED Our approach to risk is adaptive.
We aim to Divisional Management formally review their The Executive Committee then review the risks on a quarterly basis, to arrive at their Group Key Risk Register to assess any changes protect what we have while responding to Divisional Risk Register.
They consider the to the Divisional risk profiles.
They also identify opportunities to grow and create value.
inherent impact each risk they are managing the risks that they are managing at a Group level.
could have on the division if not controlled, as They then determine risk appetites and future We have a higher appetite for risks that present OUR APPROACH TO RISK well as the mitigating controls in place.
They then mitigation plans for the Board to review.
us with a clear opportunity for reward, and arrive at an assessment of the residual likelihood When we look at risks, we specifically consider the we actively seek out those that provide the The Board challenge and agree the Group key and impact of that risk to the division.
They do this effects they could have on our business model, our greatest opportunities.
risks, appetites and mitigation strategies twice on both a top-down and a bottom-up basis.
culture and our long-term strategic objectives.
These yearly and use this information to determine the are set out on pages 12 to 19, and we encourage We have some appetite for risks with a possible Risks with a residual risk level above our appetite Groups principal risks.
you to refer to them as you read this section.
With these risks, we are then consolidated into the Group Key Risk carefully balance our mitigation efforts with our The Group Risk Department facilitates the Register, together with selected risks which have We consider both short and long-term risks within view of the possible rewards.
identification and evaluation of risks, providing a high inherent level but which are managed to a timeframe of up to three years, and we consider independent appraisal and guidance across within a tolerable residual level.
The Group Key financial risks as well as environmental, social and We have a very low appetite or tolerance for risks theGroup.
Risk Register gives an overview of these main governance risks.
that only have negative consequences, particularly risks and how they are being managed.
when they could adversely impact health & safety, These principal risks are also taken into account RISK APPETITE our values, culture or business model.
We aim to in the Boards consideration of Long-Term Viability, Risk appetite describes the amount of risk we are eliminate these risks with our mitigation efforts.
as described in the Group Viability Statement on willing to tolerate, accept or seek.
Our risk appetite page 35. is determined by the nature of the risk and how that risk could affect us.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The main steps in the process are illustrated in the diagram below, and described on the following page: RISK HEAT MAP RISK DEPARTMENT: FACILITATE IDENTIFICATION & EVALUATION OF RISK To help visualise our principal risks, we have plotted them on the heat map below.
The individual risks are described in more detail on the following pages.
Divisional Management Executive Committee Board 1 F ailure to maximise growth potential 3 4 5 9 1 Top-down Assess Challenge risks, 2 6 7 8 D eterioration of business risk profile risk assessment agree appetite & model and culture Identify Group risks mitigation plans 3 Changes in market conditions 2 4 I nterruption to continuity of supply DIVISIONAL GROUP KEY RISK REGISTER 5 RISK REGISTERS Loss of key personnel 6 Health and Safety 7 Cyber security incident 8 Product design relevance DETERMINE Bottom-up Determine risk appetite PRINCIPAL RISKS risk assessment 9 C redit control failure & mitigation plans Likelihood RISK DEPARTMENT: PROVIDE INDEPENDENT APPRAISAL & GUIDANCE Impact Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 30 31 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The arrows alongside each risk show the year on year change INTERRUPTION TO CONTINUITY OF SUPPLY FAILURE TO MAXIMISE THE GROWTH POTENTIAL OF THE BUSINESS Risk and impact Mitigating factors Howdens is an in-stock business.
Our business model We build strong relationships with our suppliers, focused on Risk and impact Mitigating factors requires depots to be able to supply at once from local integrity, fairness and respect, and which are worthwhile for stock.
Our customers expect this, and rely on it.
We see a significant potential for growth.
This brings both The opportunities and challenges related to growth are a opportunities and challenges.
major area of focus throughout the business, and at all levels Any disruption to our relationship with key suppliers or Where appropriate we enter into long-term contracts to of the business.
interruption to manufacturing and distribution operations secure supply of key products, services and raw materials.
If we dont recognise, understand and exploit our growth could affect our ability to deliver our in-stock business model opportunities in line with our business model and risk appetite, We continue to invest in our people, our service and systems, Wherever possible we have multiple-sourcing strategies for and to service our customers needs.
If this happened, we or if we dont align current structures and skills to meet the and our manufacturing and distribution capabilities to equip our key products, to reduce the effect of a supply failure.
could lose customers and sales.
challenges of growth, we wont get maximum benefit from our them for growth.
We have invested heavily in our manufacturing operations growth potential.
In 2017 our assessment of this risk has increased, due to Growth activities are reviewed in the light of our business and this investment gives us an enhanced disaster the dispruption in the marketplace as a result of uncertainty model and risk framework.
We are also investing in new warehouse space to support our distribution capabilities and equip them for growth.
DETERIORATION OF BUSINESS MODEL AND CULTURE LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL Risk and impact Mitigating factors Our future success depends on continuing to successfully Our values, business model and culture are at the centre of implement our unique business model and our locally-enabled, our activities and decision-making processes, and they are Risk and impact Mitigating factors entrepreneurial culture see pages 12 to 13 and 16 to 17. led by the actions of the Board, Executive Committee and senior management.
The skills, experience and performance of key members of our We use the Remuneration Committee to ensure that key team If we lose sight of our model and culture we will not successfully management team make a major contribution to the success members are appropriately compensated for their contributions service the needs of the local small builder and their customers, The Board and Executive Committee regularly visit our of the business.
and incentivised to continue their careers with us.
and our long-term profitability may suffer.
depots and factories, our logistics and support locations and hold events to reinforce the importance of our values, The loss of a key member of the Groups management team We will continue to focus on leadership development and model and culture.
could adversely affect the Groups operations.
For an example, see our case study on CEO succession planning at page 68.
CHANGES IN MARKET CONDITIONS HEALTH AND SAFETY Risk and impact Mitigating factors Risk and impact Mitigating factors We buy a significant proportion of raw materials and finished We have proven expertise in managing both selling prices and products in euros and US dollars.
If sterling weakens, our input costs of production.
This continues to be a main area of focus.
Howdens is about people and relationships.
We have over Since the beginning of our business, we have invested in safe costs increase.
660 depots, 9,000 employees, more than 460,000 total ways of working.
We have developed dedicated health & safety We have a good track record of dealing with changes in market customer accounts, and suppliers all over the world.
teams and formalised systems that help us stay safe.
Our products are mostly sold to small builders and installed in conditions.
We monitor activity in our depots closely and we owner-occupied and private and public sector rented housing, have good relationships with our customers.
This can give us Care for the health & safety of employees, customers, We monitor, review and update our practices to take account of mainly in the repair, maintenance and improvement markets.
early warning of changing conditions, so we can take swift suppliers and everyone who comes into contact with changes in our environment or operations and in line with best If activity falls in these markets, it can affect our sales.
mitigating action, including managing costs.
Howdens is integral to our values and to our behaviour.
Over 2017 our assessment of this risk has increased due the If we dont ensure safe ways of working across the business, Most importantly, we make sure we keep talking about health continuing volatility of foreign currency.
this could compromise the safety and wellbeing of individuals & safety at every level of the business.
See page 40 for our and the reputation and viability of the business.
related KPI and discussion of our performance in recent years.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 32 33 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Going Concern, Viability Statement and other Statements of the The arrows alongside each risk show the year on year change Directors in connection with this CYBER SECURITY INCIDENT Annual Report and Accounts Risk and impact Mitigating factors The Directors also considered that the Companys GOING CONCERN We depend on a core set of critical IT systems which are We recognise that IT security risks are not always technical, strong cash position plus the availability of the The Group meets its day-to-day working capital fundamental to the day-to-day running of the business.
so our first point of control is staff awareness.
We place focus 140m committed banking facility, the operational These systems are at risk from increasingly sophisticated on training our people in cyber security.
requirements through cash generated from flexibility afforded by the depot opening programme security threats.
If required, the Group also has access We employ complex technical IT security controls to protect and the robust disaster recovery and business to an asset-backed lending facility of 140m which If we experienced a major security breach, this could result in a our information and our key systems.
We regularly engage continuity management frameworks supported expires in July 2019. key system being unavailable causing operational difficulties, external specialists to validate the effectiveness of our the prospect of long-term viability.
and or sensitive data to be unavailable or compromised.
controls against industry best practice.
The Groups forecasts and projections have been This could also lead to breach of customer data.
The Directors also undertook a robust assessment We have robust disaster recovery and business continuity stress-tested for reasonably possible adverse of the Companys principal risks and the potential plans, and we test them regularly.
variations in economic conditions and trading impacts these risks would have on the Groups performance.
The results of this testing show that We adopt a continuous improvement approach to IT security business model, future performance, solvency and the Group should be able to operate within the level and continue to invest in the security of our systems.
liquidity over the assessment period.
These risks of its current net cash balances and its committed are set out on pages 28 to 32. bank facility, and that it would not breach the facility covenants.
Having taken into account the Companys current PRODUCT DESIGN RELEVANCE position, strategic plans and principal risks in their After making due enquiries the Directors have a evaluation of the prospects of the business, the reasonable expectation that the Company and Directors concluded that they have a reasonable the Group have adequate resources to continue in expectation that the Company will continue to Risk and impact Mitigating factors operational existence for the foreseeable future.
operate and to meet its liabilities as they fall due Ensuring that we have products that meet the design, price Our dedicated product team regularly refresh our range of Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going during the three year period to December 2020. and quality needs of the small builder, and their customer, is a kitchens and appliances to meet builders and end-users concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
key focus of the business model and is a critical element of our expectations for design, price and quality.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS future success and growth aspirations.
Kitchen technology and VIABILITY STATEMENT We work with external design and brand specialists and attend design do not stand still, and our products must reflect that.
RESPONSIBILITIES product design fairs to monitor likely future trends.
In accordance with provision C2.2 of the UK The Directors are responsible for preparing the If we do not support the builder with new products that their Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have Our local depot staff have close relationships with their account Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report customers want, we could lose customers and sales.
assessed the viability of the Company over a period holders and end-users, and we actively gather feedback from and the financial statements in accordance with longer than the period of twelve months from the In 2017 our assessment of this risk has reduced, following a them about changes in trends.
date of the approval of the financial statements as significant refresh of our kitchen ranges and appliances.
We work with our suppliers, to develop new and improved provided in the Going Concern statement above.
The products for the future, some of which are unique to Howdens.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Directors have assessed whether the Company will A number of new products were introduced during the year financial statements for each financial year.
Under continue to operate and to meet its liabilities as they across all product categories, and more are already planned that law, the Directors are required to prepare fall due during the three year period to December for 2018.
Group financial statements in accordance with 2020.
A three year period was agreed to be the most International Financial Reporting Standards appropriate time period to ensure alignment with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Companys existing rolling three year strategic Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen to planning process, as detailed below.
prepare the parent company financial statements CREDIT CONTROL FAILURE in accordance with United Kingdom Generally The review of the Companys long-term viability was Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom undertaken with reference to the Companys work Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under Risk and impact Mitigating factors on strategic planning in 2017 which covered the company law, the Directors must not approve the three year period to December 2020.
This included When a builder comes into one of our depots for the first We have an effective trade account policy used to agree terms accounts unless they are satisfied that they give sensitivity analysis of the Companys strategic plans time, we offer them a trade account, so they can complete with our customers and efficient debt collection processes, a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and considered downside income, margin and the job before paying Howdens.
Many of our customers rely which we monitor closely and regularly.
Company and of the profit or loss of the Company cash flow scenarios.
This analysis was modelled on on our trade account facilities, as cash flow is often critical We have robust systems and tested business continuity plans.
In preparing the parent company to smallbusinesses.
the biggest downturn in sales and margin that the financial statements, the Directors are required to: We maintain good personal relationships with our customers, Company has experienced over a three-year period.
Failure to provide, or service these facilities could affect our both at depot level and within the credit control department.
ability to continue to support our customers, and potentially our ability to collect debt.
This could have a direct impact on Our concentration of debt is limited, as our exposure is both our revenue and our working capital.
spread across 400,000 customer trade accounts.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 34 Going Concern, Viability Statement and other Statements of the Directors in connection with this Annual Report and Accounts continued select suitable accounting policies and then AUDIT INFORMATION AND AUDITORS apply them consistently: Each of the persons who is a Director at the date make judgements and accounting estimates of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts that are reasonable and prudent: confirm that: state whether applicable UK Accounting so far as each of the Directors is aware, there Standards have been followed subject to any is no relevant audit information of which the material departures disclosed and explained in Companys auditors are unaware: and the financial statements: and the Directors have taken all the steps that they prepare the financial statements on the going ought to have taken as Directors in order to concern basis unless it is inappropriate to make themselves aware of any relevant audit presume that the Company will continue information and to establish that the Companys inbusiness.
auditors are aware of that information.
In preparing the Group financial statements, The confirmation is given and should be interpreted International Accounting Standard 1 requires in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the that directors: Companies Act 2006. properly select and apply accounting policies: DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY present information, including accounting policies, STATEMENT in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and : We confirm to the best of our knowledge: provide additional disclosures when compliance the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is with the relevant financial reporting framework, insufficient to enable users to understand the give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, impact of particular transactions, other events financial position and profit or loss of the Group and conditions on the entitys financial position and Company, and the undertakings including the and financial performance: and consolidation taken as a whole: make an assessment of the Companys ability the Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair to continue as a going concern.
review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate and Company and the undertakings including accounting records that are sufficient to show and the consolidation taken as a whole, together explain the Companys transactions and disclose with a description of the principal risks and with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial uncertainties they face: and position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for whole, is fair, balanced and understandable safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence and provides the information necessary for for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and shareholders to assess the Groups and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial This responsibility statement was approved by the information included on the Companys website.
Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in otherjurisdictions.
Matthew Ingle Mark Robson Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 28 February 2018
