88 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Going concern The Directors have pleasure in submitting their The Code can be viewed on the website of the The Directors consider that the Group has report and the audited financial statements for Financial Reporting Council www.
adequate financial resources to continue the 52 week period ended 30 December 2017.
The DTRs and the Listing Rules can be viewed Comparative figures relate to the 53 weeks on the website of the Financial Conduct operating for the next 12 months and that it ended 31 December 2016.
istherefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial In order to make our Annual Report and Corporate Governance Report statements.
The Directors have satisfied Accounts more accessible, a number of the Corporate Governance Statement pages themselves that the Group is in a sound financial sections usually included in this report can now 50 to 51. position and that it has access to sufficient be found in other areas of this document.
Directors during the year pages 52 to 53. cashfunds and borrowing facilities and can Directors indemnities and insurance Page references for the sections that can be reasonably expect those facilities to be available page 56. found elsewhere are detailed below: to meet the Groups foreseeable cash Corporate Governance Report pages 54 requirements.
Strategic Report Relationship agreements details of the The Viability Statement is set out in the Principal Business review and future developments agreements with KIRKBI are located on Risks section on page 39. this can be found on pages 6 to 49. page56.
Research and development details about Political donations Related parties and significant contracts Merlin Magic Making and New Openings are No political donations were made during information on contractual matters is on located on pages 24 to 25. theyear.
Employees employee and gender diversity Share capital, substantial holdings and related statistics can be found on pages 40 to 43.
Approval of Annual Report matters details about these are located on Employee engagement details of how we The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance page 56. engage and develop our employees are Statement and Report and the Directors Audit information page 57. detailed on pages 40 to 43.
Report were approved by the Board on Directors information with regard to the Disabled persons information regarding 28 February 2018. appointment and replacement of Directors visitor accessibility and employment practices can be found on page 58. is located on pages 44 to 45.
For and on behalf of the Board Internal controls and risk management Greenhouse gas reporting details of the systems in relation to the preparation of Groups carbon dioxide emissions can be Matthew Jowett accounts pages 61 to 65. found on page 47.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Financial statements 28 February 2018 Alignment with the UK Corporate Capitalised interest note 2.3 Governance Code Financial instruments note 4.3 Merlin Entertainments plc More detail on the Boards approach to Financial risk management note 4.3 Registered number 08700412 governance and the Groups alignment with the five core principles in the Code can be found The Directors Report itself contains the elsewhere in the Annual Report as follows: sections detailed below.
Leadership for more information on howclear divisions of responsibilities are Branches outside the UK maintained at the head of the Company Merlin Entertainments plc has no branches seepages 50 to 57. outside the UK.
Effectiveness for more information on howthe Board ensures it remains effective Dividend seepages 54 to 57.
An interim dividend of 2.4 pence per share was Accountability for more information on paid on 25 September 2017 to shareholders on how the Board presents a fair, balanced and the Register on 18 August 2017.
A final dividend understandable assessment of Merlins for the year ended 30 December 2017 of position and prospects see pages 61 to 65.
5.0 pence per share will be recommended for Remuneration for more information on payment to shareholders.
The final dividend will Directors remuneration and how it is be proposed to shareholders for approval at the designed to promote the long term success next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Relations with shareholders for more information on how the Board maintains a dialogue with its shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives see page57.
