72 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Directors report for the 52 week period ended 29 December 2017 The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on financial statements for Dignity plc and its subsidiaries for the pages 46 and 47 of the Annual Report, confirm that, to the best 52 week period ended 29 December 2017. of their knowledge and belief: The company registration number of Dignity plc is 4569346.
The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Statement of Directors responsibilities fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, of the Group: and the Report on Directors Remuneration and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Strategic Report on pages 4 to 43 of the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial of the business and the position of the Group, together with statements for each financial year.
Under that law the a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in it faces.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the parent Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect company financial statements in accordance with United of the Annual Report Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Framework FRS 101 United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must That the consolidated financial statements prepared in not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group position and profit of the Company and undertakings for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the included in the consolidation as a whole: Directors are required to: That the Annual Report, including the Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of the business and the position of the Company and consistently: undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole, Make judgements and accounting estimates that are together with a description of the principal risks and reasonable and prudent: and uncertainties that they face: and State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Having taken into account all matters considered by the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Board and brought to the attention of the Board during the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained year, the Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as in the Group and parent Company financial statements a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
believe that the disclosures set out in this Annual Report provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any Principal risks and uncertainties time the financial position of the Company and the Group Operational risks are considered on pages 34 and 35. and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Report on Directors Remuneration comply with the An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks and Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial a description of how these risks are managed are included in statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Share capital prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
During the period, 184,672 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence each were issued to satisfy Long-Term Incentive Plan The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and share awards vesting in the period and 9,079 Ordinary Shares integrity of the Groups websites and legislation in the United of 12 48 143 pence each were issued to satisfy options Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of exercised under the 2013 Save As You Earn Scheme which financial statements may differ from legislation in other matured on 1 December 2016. jurisdictions.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 73 The issued share capital of Dignity plc at 29 December 2017 Directors and their interests consisted of 49,931,901 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence Details of the Directors of the Company who were in each.
All the Ordinary Shares carry the same rights and office during the period and up to the date of signing the obligations.
There are no other class or type of share in issue.
financial statements are shown in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 68 and 70.
In accordance with the A special resolution passed at the last AGM on 8 June 2017 UK Corporate Governance Code, at the AGM, all Directors will gives Dignity plc the authority to purchase up to 4,992,553 retire as Directors of the Company and, being eligible, offer Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence each at not less than themselves for re-election at the AGM on 7 June 2018.
The nominal value and not more than five per cent above the Directors have agreed, as in previous years, that they should average middle market quotation for the preceding five all stand for re-election rather than relying on the Articles of business days.
At the same meeting the Company was also Association of the Company that prescribe that one third of given authority to allot Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate the Directors offer themselves for re-election each year.
nominal value of 4,105,764 of which up to 307,932 may be for cash.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the During the period, the Company maintained liability insurance next AGM on 7 June 2018.
It is the intention of the Directors for its Directors and Officers to a value of 100 million.
The to seek renewal of these authorities at that AGM.
There are Directors of each of the Companys subsidiaries have the no restrictions at the period end on the transfer of securities.
benefit of an indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of Association.
The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying Results third party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated the Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the period Income Statement on page 82.
The Groups profit before tax and is currently in force.
Health and safety policy Dividends The Groups operations are designed at all times in such a way An interim dividend of 8.64 pence per Ordinary Share was paid as to ensure, so far as reasonably practicable, the health, safety to shareholders on 27 October 2017.
The Board has proposed and welfare of all of our employees and all other persons who a final dividend of 15.74 pence 2016: 15.74 pence per share, may be attending our premises.
This is discussed in the which, subject to approval at the AGM, will be paid on 29 June Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 42.
2018 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 18 May 2018.
Corporate Social Responsibility Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live Employment policies is an important concern for the Group.
This is discussed in the During the period, the Group has maintained its obligations to Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 42 and 43 effectively communicate and involve employees in its affairs.
alongside other social and ethical considerations.
Methods of communication used include an in-house magazine, team talks, regular bulletins, both national and Going concern regional and management briefings.
This is discussed in more The Directors have conducted a rigorous and proportionate detail in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on assessment of the Groups ability to continue in existence pages 37 to 43. for the foreseeable future.
They receive and review regularly management accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the Employment policies are designed to provide equal annual budget together with covenant reporting.
After careful opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic consideration, and mindful of the current market conditions, or national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital status.
the Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has Full consideration is given to the employment, training and adequate resources to continue operating for that foreseeable career development of disabled persons, subject only to their future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going aptitudes and abilities.
The Group endeavours, as far as is concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
The practicable, to treat disabled persons equally with others and Directors formally considered this matter at the Board will also endeavour to help and accommodate persons who meeting held on 9 March 2018. become disabled whilst working for Dignity.
Post balance sheet events The Directors will be publishing gender pay data on the Please refer to note 32 of the Notes to the Consolidated corporate website www.
co. uk during 2018 Financial Statements for further details.
in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Regulations 2017 that came into force on 1 October 2016.
74 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Directors report continued for the 52 week period ended 29 December 2017 Independent Auditors and disclosure of information to Auditors A resolution for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at the time when the report is approved, the following applies: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Directors have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
The Takeover Directive The Group has one class of voting share capital, Ordinary Shares.
All of the shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Groups shares.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Board members and changes to the Articles of Association accord with usual English company law provisions.
The Board has authority to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
There are no significant agreements to which the Group is party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Group.
Corporate Governance Statement The information that fulfils the requirements of a corporate governance statement in accordance with rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in this Directors Report and in the Directors Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 49 to 52, which is incorporated by reference.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report on pages 4 to 43 has been approved by the Board.
By order of the Board Richard Portman Company Secretary 14 March 2018
