06 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 MARKET OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR CUSTOMERS We operate in an attractive, dynamic, global experiences while catering for different budgets.
Worldwide we see growth in In Midway we continue to develop our portfolio leisure spend, more time devoted to leisure of products to capture the growing city centre activities and an expansion of the middle visitor market.
Little BIG City is a great example, classesin emerging economies.
We believe targeted at both domestic and international international tourism will continue to grow, tourists, uniquely bringing to life the history of aswill the market for short break vacations.
the city in which it is located.
We see a growing trend of consumers desiring 3 Leisure time and consumer behaviour experiences rather than material goods.
They In many parts of the world, consumers are are increasingly seeking those experiences with looking to spend their increasing disposable trusted brands, supported by new technologies income on experiences, rather than goods.
Furthermore, while technology Webelieve that this is further reinforced as has become central to peoples lives, consumers the world becomes more digital, increasing have a greater desire to escape andspend the value many consumers will place on high more time with friends and family.
quality time shared with friends and family.
Set out below are some of the key trends and Why Merlin: Each of Merlins current 124 why Merlin is well placed to maximise the attractions are positioned to tap into this trend, benefits arising from them: whether that be a thrill-seeker visiting one of our theme parks, a family with young children 1 International tourism immersing themselves in a LEGOLAND park, or More affordable air travel, improved transport city centre tourists enjoying the ultimate viewing infrastructure, and emerging middle classes that experience at The London Eye.
Merlin Magic want to travel have all driven significant growth Making, our unique in-house creative team, in overall international tourism in recent years.
continues to develop new innovative concepts We believe this trend will continue and to broaden our demographic catchment and especially benefit our Midway attractions deliver unique, compelling experiences, both located in key gateway cities.
in our existing attractions and new formats.
Why Merlin: We are the only company to 4 Brand awareness successfully operate the Midway model on a In a competitive market, brand awareness global scale and have made significant progress and customer loyalty are key differentiators in recent years in expanding the portfolio.
for visitor attractions and increasingly a Wehave over 100 Midway attractions, many core element of the platform for growth.
ofwhich are clustered within city centre They provide a clear focus for a particular destinations offering a range of visitor target demographic as a vital part of the experiences in popular locations.
A strong premiumisation of the product and support pipeline of sites is continually reviewed as opportunities for geographical expansion.
welook to increase our presence in existing markets and move into new territories.
Why Merlin: Merlin is in an enviable position to leverage its incredible collection of brands 2 Short breaks and build market share.
Our portfolio has a In developed markets there is a continuing wide range of mature and iconic brands such shift towards shorter, more frequent breaks.
as LEGOLAND, where we have an exclusive In the UK there has been significant growth global licence to own and operate attractions.
in breaks lasting two to four nights as the Innovative use of IP allows us to develop traditional two week family holiday has product within our existing estate, providing declined.
This market dynamic benefits new experiences for relevant consumer groups, our theme parks which are predominantly for example CBeebies Land at Alton Towers domestic-focused and increasingly targeting or Star Wars within Madame Tussauds.
the short break market, as well as our Moreover we are collaborating with global Midway attractions located in city centres.
IP owners to participate in new markets.
Why Merlin: We are a global leader in During 2017, we announced exclusive global themed accommodation: a key driver of organic partnership agreements with international growth and a strong lever for improving guest brands Peppa Pig and Bear Grylls, to create satisfaction in our theme parks.
We continue to new concepts aimed at the pre-school and invest heavily in a wide range of accommodation adventure seeking markets respectively.
concepts providing immersive brand MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 07 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CUSTOMER EXAMPLES CITY CENTRE TOURISTS FAMILIES TEENAGERS & YOUNG ADULTS On a trip to New York, a group of three A family with two children aged five and eight College has finished for the summer and a friends want to make the most of what the who seek shared memories and value high group of thrill-seekers want to kick it off quality experiences and of course have a withan adrenaline fuelled trip to the Alton city has to offer a visit to the world famous shared love of LEGO!.
They live only an hour Towers Resort.
Needing a full weekend Madame Tussauds is first on their list of from LEGOLAND California, using their family offun, they decide to stay on-site in our things to do.
On arrival, they are delighted annual pass to visit many times each year.
themed Splash Landings Hotel, purchasing that there is a value ticket which not only tickets on their mobile phone in advance.
includes the MT but also the Big Bus Tour of Despite being familiar with the park, they use Not only does thisgive them easy access to the city, part owned by Merlin and one of its the free App to make the most of their visit, the park, but ashotel guests, allows them to strategic partners.
benefiting from dining and retail offers, as well get in one hour before day visitors.
asfinding special events on during the day.
Walking around the attraction there are Thisyear they are really excited to try out the Knowing how popular some of the rides plenty of opportunities to take selfies with NINJAGO ride and the other attractions in the are, they buy Fastrack tickets to reduce the amazing stars on display and share them NINJAGO World.
thewaiting time on their favourite rides.
online with #MTNYSelfie or maybe even Throughout their stay they keep themselves treat themselves to a unique professional In the afternoon the family love to upgrade their topped up with food and drink: all you can photo with Donald Trump.
To finish off tickets to visit the on-site themed waterpark, eat lunch at the Pizza Pasta Buffet and, for theday they take part in the full sensory, finishing the day off with a stop off at The Big dinner, Dine of Your Life at the UKs first immersive Ghostbusters: Dimension Shop to buy that essential souvenir of another Rollercoaster Restaurant.
And so as not to experience considered to be one of the great family day out.
forget the excitement, twists and turns, all best virtual reality experiences in the world.
of their pictures are captured on a DigiPass all their digital photos for one great price.
NEW BRANDS With the launch of The Bear Grylls Adventure and Peppa Pig attraction formats, Merlin is developing its portfolio offering for a broader range of customers.
