William Hill PLC 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Key trends in the market Key trends in our industry Regulation Sustainability Today, gambling legislation exists in As governments regulate, consumer practically every country, but most of protection is front of mind.
And it was written for land-based entities.
in a regulated market, striking the Very few governments just 16 at the right balance between commercial last count have so far updated their and regulatory goals is becoming legislation to take account of online increasingly important.
As a result, online only In the UK, for instance, We want relationships with accounts for 9% of global gambling regulation of gambling is our customers to last a focused on treating customers lifetime, which is already what revenues.
fairly and openly, protecting happens in many of our shops.
the vulnerable whether Its in our interest, as well as The UK was among the first More governments are problem gamblers or under customers and governments, to regulate online gambling moving towards legalising 18s and keeping crime out to enable customers to and it is by far the largest online, recognising its appeal of gambling.
Some regulated digital market, for customers, the importance positive steps have already In markets where gambling five times bigger in revenue of consumer protection and been taken, such as giving has grown rapidly such terms than the next nearest the potential to generate tax customers more ways to as the UK and Australia country.
Whilst many early restrict or even block their concerns have been raised countries have followed and movers are relatively small gambling, and training that gambling companies Europe has become the most markets, more significant colleagues to interact with advanced region, with 21% of areputting customers at risk.
ones are in the pipeline, customers that they are Media coverage and political gambling revenues coming including countries such as concerned about.
1 from digital sources Germany, Brazil, Russia and commentary on problem.
In the gambling and TV advertising is But this is just the start of UK, online is 43% of revenues, India.
This could open up meaningful new opportunities intense, and society is looking a long journey.
And we are which indicates its potential in to the companies to act.
continuously learning and a well-regulated, commercially for companies such as 1 WilliamHill, so having wellimproving what we do.
This is about our licence to as a company and as a strong developed digital and landoperate.
And it is vital that the based capabilities, experience voice in our industry.
largest operators including in regulated markets and the Find out more WilliamHill lead the way scale to invest internationally Page 32 towards a more sustainable can give significant approach to gambling.
H2GC Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 Personalisation Consolidation Gambling is a fun experience for In the UK, a large and sophisticated millions of people and over the last digital gambling industry has become decade the industry has delivered established over the last decade.
ever more exciting and engaging ways But with almost 800 licensees, it is to bet, from in-play to cash in and also fragmented in a way that is not tailored odds.
typical of or sustainable in a highly regulated digital market.
With more extensive product Were already delivering ranges, the need to make the personalised bets through Consolidation is a natural The benefits to be gained customer experience quick #YourOdds, our social trend for this industry and from consolidation are and easy became paramount, media-based route for has already been evident meaningful.
It creates scale and weve focused on customers to ask for odds in places.
The cost of for operators, spreading optimising customer journeys, on a bet theyve designed for building and maintaining their substantial cost base including learning from other themselves.
Were also giving ahighly competitive digital across wider revenue sources.
them the choice of enhanced business is substantial and Itgenerates cost synergies odds on a bet every day The personal experience increasing to keep pace thatdeliver meaningful through Bet Boost.
And our already exists in the shops and with technological change, near-term shareholder value.
communications are becoming has been enhanced further to invest in both digital and Andit diversifies a companys more personal through in 2017.
Now, technology is above-the-line marketing, revenue streams, reducing the programmatic marketing.
opening up the potential for and to pay gambling duties regulatory, macro-economic increasing personalisation.
But with the likes of inregulated markets.
And the and competitive risks that Taking it online is all about Netflix and Amazon using cost of regulation is increasing come from being overdata: managing and recommendation engines to as we move towards achieving exposed to a single market.
translating vastvolumes of anticipate customers needs, a more sustainable balance In ten years time, no one data into ways of anticipating expectations are getting for customers, governments would be surprised to see what customers want to do higher by the day.
a much more consolidated and then delivering it to them.
sector with a smaller And its about managing Find out more number of much larger scale that across channels too, for Page 18 companies leading the way.
customers gambling both Its not a matter of if but online and in the shops.
