DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN DEAR SHAREHOLDER, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for 2017.
We believe that the remuneration of the Executive Directors appropriately reflects the performance of the Group.
Overall total Director remuneration is down against prior periods and incentive based pay is in line with 2016, reflecting the Groups lower rates of growth compared to previous years.
While the Group achieved strong sales We are encouraged that and customer growth, lower average basket size for ocado.
com compared to 2016 impacted business Revenue.
A shareholder support for the An increase in head office headcount and fixed costs meant EBITDA remained in line with the prior year.
Hence Companys remuneration achievement against the revenue and profitability targets under the incentive plans was modest.
In 2017, the Groups A Revenue grew 15.2% to 1,463.8 million, average orders per week grew 14.8% to 264,000 and EBITDA for the Group arrangements has was flat at 84.3 million for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017.
Further, although steady progress was made in substantially increased in developing the Groups new Ocado Solutions platform, the delay to improvements in the capital and operating recent years.
efficiency of Andover meant achievement against these challenging incentive targets was moderate for the period.
Douglas McCallum RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PAY AND PERFORMANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE We have recommended a bonus payment to the Executive Directors based on 41.5% to 42% achievement against CHAIRMAN objectives under the bonus plan for the period.
During the period, we reviewed the performance against the 2015 LTIP award targets, which had a performance period ending on 3 December 2017.
The 2015 LTIP awards were subject to the achievement of targets for both the Groups retail business and platform business.
Based on the 2017 results, the Directors achieved 25% against the performance targets.
The 2015 LTIP awards are expected to vest in March 2018.
Base salaries, which underpin retention of the Executive Directors, were reviewed during the period.
An increase of 2.75% was approved, which is in line with the Groups employee salary percentage increase and business plans.
The Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 91 to 106 contains details of the remuneration paid to Executive Directors during the period.
KEY CHANGES TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION We believe that our remuneration framework helps support and drive our strategy, which is focused on growing the retail business through improvement in the customer proposition and on maximising operational and capital efficiency of the retail business.
Our objective is also to invest in the Groups IP and technology to drive growth, both in our retail business and solutions business.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the remuneration framework annually, to make sure that the AIP, the LTIP and the GIP contain specific performance measures that support this strategy.
During the financial year, we undertook a review of the Executive Director AIP structure and concluded that the A A financial measures of Group EBITDA and Gross Sales Retail remained aligned with the Companys strategy and should be retained for 2018 in order to encourage continued strong retail business growth.
However, with the progress in the development of the Solutions business it was agreed that a new Ocado Solutions business target should be introduced to align with the evolving Group strategy.
Further explanation of the changes can be found on page 107.
The financial performance measures for the 2018 LTIP awards reflect the same equal split in the 2017 awards, namely between the retail business and the Solutions business but with some changes to the retail profitability measure reflecting the Group's new segmental reporting.
The targets are intended to reward the delivery of an efficient platform solution and sales of that platform solution to new customers as well as rewarding growth of the retail business.
CHANGES TO NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The Non-Executive Directors annual fees were subject to annual review but the basic fees for Non-Executive Directors were left unchanged 2016: 50,000.
Fee levels have only increased once since April 2014.
EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION AND THE BROADER CONTEXT The Remuneration Committee is mindful of the proposed corporate governance reforms and changes in legislation concerning remuneration and its disclosure.
The Committee expects to conduct a full review of its remuneration arrangements in 2018 to coincide with the new requirements coming into force and will report more fully next year.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 196 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 70 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration policy and remuneration plans in the context of the growth of the Company but REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE while taking into account workforce pay across the Group.
Our overall Increase in base pay of 2.75% remuneration framework is designed to motivate key employees to Increase in variable pay of 0.8% achieve the Group's strategic objectives, deliver value for shareholders and to be competitive.
Overall pay for all directors decreased CHANGE OF ADVISER Share scheme targets changed for 2018 awards to align with evolving Following the appointment of Deloitte as the Companys external Group strategic objectives auditor, the Remuneration Committee conducted a tender for the role Shareholder support for policy and report of 93.75% and 93.16% of external remuneration adviser.
The result was the appointment of  as the Remuneration Committees external Directors hold about 16.3% of the total share capital remuneration adviser.
The Remuneration Committee would like to thank Nicki Demby at Deloitte for her advice and support to the Company.
Further details of the tender can be found on page 68.
SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK AND REMUNERATION DISCLOSURE Each year, we review how shareholders voted on the remuneration report, together with any feedback received.
We are aware of some shareholders ongoing concerns regarding transparency of performance-related remuneration.
We have enhanced our reporting of performance in recent years, which we believe provides shareholders with clear and understandable information about the operation of our performance-related incentive schemes.
We are encouraged that shareholder support for the Companys remuneration arrangements has substantially increased in recent years, with 93.16% support for the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report and 93.75% support for the Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2017 annual general meeting.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Remuneration Committee.
Douglas McCallum REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN 6 February 2018 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
