OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES: Driving Growth Future Focus We continue to support the significant GROCERY The flexibility of our centralised model growth of our first Solutions partner, The loyalty and retention of our customers is a priority within our Retail allows us to support range extension to Morrisons.
com, and this year launched business as it helps drive growth and capture market share.
We aim to other retail categories without significant the first instance of our store picking provide a best-in-class retail experience by analysing and constantly capital investment and we continue to functionality with them.
Throughout the improving every element of the consumer shop through the quality of review other retail segments to identify year we continued to scale operations at our service and our user interfaces, the freshness of our products, the further opportunities to capitalise on this.
our latest CFC in Andover.
This is the first breadth and availability of range, and the competitiveness of our prices.
instance where our proprietary physical Progress SOLUTIONS BUSINESS infrastructure solution is in use and In a very competitive grocery market we have seen another year of As we grow and continue to innovate provides a live example of the physical consistent growth within our Retail business of 12.4%, constrained by within our Retail business we incorporate equipment platform to which our capacity utilisation in our mature CFCs.
Combined with this we have our innovations to our Solutions business.
Solutions customers would have access.
continued to grow our order volumes by 14.3%, with double digit Technological advances are tested within order growth even in our most highly penetrated catchment areas.
a live retail environment on Ocado.
com Future Focus and naturally become part of the platform As the channel shift continues across We are constantly looking at ways to reduce friction within the capabilities which we are able to offer to the globe, we believe we are well customer experience and during the year we were the first UK grocery our current and future partners.
positioned to act as a market leader retailer to launch a voice-activated AI capability to allow customers an within online grocery.
The latest deals alternative method to add or amend their Ocado order.
Progress with Groupe Casino and Sobeys provide We are delighted to have signed three For more information on our Alexa skill major validation of our business model.
see the Case Study on page 29 international partnerships, with Groupe We expect to do multiple deals in the Casino, Sobeys signed in early 2018 medium term in a variety of geographies Future Focus and a regional European retailer, to with the momentum of new signings Powered by technology, our retail proposition is the heart of our utilise our Ocado Smart Platform to building over time.
We are committed to pushing the boundaries within online help launch and develop their online shopping and fulfilment to ensure we provide the best proposition to operations.
The grocery market is changing rapidly and we are constantly analysing and assessing new opportunities within the industry.
KPIS: Be this new food trends, speciality brands or interface features, the agile nature of our business means we are able to react quickly to provide the consumer with what is important and valuable to them.
263,000 107.2 Average orders per week Average order size GENERAL MERCHANDISE Our centralised operating model has enabled us to expand our offering beyond what would typically be found in a supermarket.
645,000 49,000 In conjunction to the general merchandise products sold on our Active customer base SKU count Hypermarket Ocado.
com hypermarket we operate three speciality destination sites.
These include Fetch, our speciality pet store: Sizzle, our kitchen and dining store: and Fabled, in partnership with Marie Claire, our 3 premium beauty offering.
Number of Ocado Solutions Partnerships signed Progress We have seen strong growth of our general merchandise division of over 34% over the year, driven by significant growth from our destination sites.
General merchandise continues to gain share within our customers A baskets and now accounts for over 7% of our retail revenue.
RISKS: During the year our general merchandise division also signed a Risk of decline in high service levels partnership agreement with Dobbies Garden Centres to provide online services to support the launch and growth of their online operations.
Failure to develop retail proposition to appeal to broader customer Powered by our technological and logistical know-how, it is an base and sustain growth rates agreement that demonstrates the transferable nature of our capabilities Failure to develop sufficient management and technology capability into other retail segments outside of grocery.
This agreement with or bandwidth to deliver on all our strategic priorities Dobbies adds to our partnership to wholesale general merchandise products for Morrisons.
Risk of not signing multiple Ocado Solutions deals in the medium term and not being able to execute effectively See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 196 Risk of negative implications caused by final Brexit terms such as increase in import costs or difficulty in hiring employees All numbers on this page are reported on a 52 week basis Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 24 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM Strategic Report PRIMARY STRATEGIC ACTIONS IMPROVE PROPOSITION CASE STUDY TO CUSTOMERS OUR PROPRIETARY BOTS A priority within our business is to offer a superior proposition to our customers, which we believe is key to driving growth for both our An essential part of our new proprietary infrastructure solution, Retail and Solutions businesses.
From a retail perspective, we focused which enables growth within our business, is the robotics required to on improving each of the core elements of our customer proposition transport products and orders around the hive infrastructure within providing excellent customer service, an extensive range of products, our new CFCs.
Designed and developed in-house, with the complexities of grocery in Our order accuracy and orders delivered on time or early remained mind, these bots are a crucial element within our solution that helps at what we believe to be industry-leading levels of 98.8% and 95.0% drive the efficiencies required to fulfil groceries online.
required to move across a densely packed grid at a speed of up to 4 We continue to utilise our technological leadership to enhance the metres per second, collaborating with each other to collect groceries ways in which customers can shop, integrating capabilities such as stored beneath them and then bring them to a human picker.
the Alexa voice-activated interface for Ocado.
com to provide our A vital element of their success is their ability to communicate with customers with the freedom and flexibility to easily navigate and each other so as to avoid collisions and ensure all fulfilment is complete their weekly shop through an even greater variety of devices.
Ocado worked with Cambridge Consultants to Any innovation developed within our retail business will in turn benefit help develop a proprietary solution that allowed thousands of bots our Solutions partners, who too will have access to these features for to communicate with each other 10 times a second within a 50 metre their own online operations.
radius, a solution believed to be the most densely packed mobile We have seen strong growth within our General Merchandise product network in the world.
sales, including those from our destination sites, which have grown The bots also have the capabilities to transmit information on at over 34% year on year, and now contribute over 7% of Ocado retail A how they are operating, and are able to self-diagnose if they are revenue.
overheating or not working properly.
This allows them to report back to maintenance to avoid damage and breakdowns upon the grid.
The bots are battery powered.
The average energy consumption per STRENGTHEN robot is only about 200 watts, which is bolstered by regenerative OUR BRANDS braking.
The power pack itself is about the size of a car battery and features a cell chemistry that lets it charge up in less than half an hour Our continued focus on providing a best-in-class proposition to our and run for several hours.
customers helps reinforce our retail brand.
The quality of our service Through our years of ongoing development and testing we have has been recognised across the industry and was evidenced by developed the robotics and infrastructure that can cope with quickly awards such as Best Organic Online Retailer at the Best of Organic picking and storing goods in a highly dense and scalable manner, Market Awards 2017. ensuring our solutions are flexible for our own as well as our retail We have seen robust growth in both our active customer base and partner's fulfilment needs.
total order volumes, which have continued to expand by 11.2% and At capacity we expect our Andover CFC 14.3% respectively, with the highest number of orders delivered in a to house around 1,100 bots of this week exceeding 296,000 during the period.
kind, and at Erith we would expect Our Ocado Solutions brand has gained significant traction throughout over 3,500 bots at full scale.
the year having signed our first three international partnerships.
The announcement of these agreements has not only provided validity to our model but has helped us build momentum to support the brand for future partnerships to come.
Although not specific business segments, we have been active in promoting the strength and values of our Ocado Technology and Engineering brands.
This focus ensures we are able to recruit the best talent to develop the most innovative technology for use within our business.
See Alternative Performance A All numbers on this page are reported on a 52 week basis Measures on page 196 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
