William Hill PLC 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Divisional overview Online Online generated 36% of Group net revenue in 2017 and employed around 1,700 people in Gibraltar, UK, Italy, Spain, Bulgaria, Poland, Israel and the Philippines.
Key Performance Indicators Sportsbook margin Revenue per unique active player Unique active players % 000 0.4 ppts 6% 6% 7.7% 258.3 2,692.2 7.6% 7.2% 242.6 2,388.4 2,245.9 204.6 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 This KPI gives an indication of how sporting This KPI reflects the average revenue This KPI reflects the number of individual results have affected our performance during generated from customers who have used our customers who have used Onlines products the year.
Our normalised range for Online is products during the year.
It demonstrates our during the year.
This demonstrates how 78% for gross win.
In 2017, the gross win margin effectiveness in growing the value of customers.
successful we have been in recruiting and was 0.4 percentage points higher year-on-year Total Online net revenue was 13% higher in 2017, retaining Online customers.
In 2017, the number at 7.6%, reflecting a reasonable year in terms with Sportsbook up 14% and gaming up 12%.
of unique active players was up 6% on the back of sporting results.
This comprised an in-play Within this, revenue per unique active player of our focus on player retention and improved margin of 5.8% 2016: 5.8% and a pre-match was stronger at 6%, reflecting the benefit acquisition.
This KPI is an ofwide-ranging improvements to our product industry term and is described in the glossary and user experience.
under gross win margin on page 163.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 In 2017, approximately 77% of Onlines net Growing UK market share Online net revenue split by product 1 revenues came from the UK 2016: 76%.
The UK has been a key focus for us in % And 11% came from Spain and Italy 2017given the continued growth of digital, 2016: 11%.
The remainder were spread which has become the single largest part across a large number of other countries, of the UK gambling market.
Following with none accounting for more than 2% aperiod of underperformance, our Online ofOnlines total revenues 2016: 2%.
business is now competing strongly again and gained momentum through the Performance review course of the year.
We have continued to improve the product and user experience Sportsbook amounts wagered was up for Online customers.
For Sportsbook, 10% following improvements to our we launched #YourOdds, a social mediamobile Sportsbook, our desktop site and based personalised odds service, which marketing over the last 18 months.
For gaming, is a particularly strong performance in a Sportsbook 50% we completed the redesign of the five year without a major international football Vegas 31% casino verticals for mobile and desktop.
Within this, core markets grew Wealso launched a single wallet, removing 12% with the UK up 12% and Italy and Spain Casino 15% a key friction point for customers and, as up 15%.
These markets accounted for 86% Bingo 3% a result, increased levels of cross-sell.
We of wagering in the period.
Wagering in other also increased our investment in marketing markets was flat.
Poker 1% in the second half of 2017, having optimised The gross win margin increased from 7.2% our marketing spend and increased to 7.6%.
Free bets over the year accounted Italy and Spain continue to perform well efficiency to attract and retain customers.
with Sportsbook net revenue up 4% and As a result, Sportsbook net revenue rose gaming net revenue up 9% in local currency Giving customers what 14% to 308.3m.
We launched new desktop and theywant from pre-match football in Q4, which were mobile casino sites in both countries and strong in their own right and benefited from We are focused on giving customers increased the number of regulated games what they want.
Were making our their comparison with a weak result inthe to over 200 new titles.
same period in 2016. product fast and easy making it quick Total Online cost of sales increased faster and simple to use when placing bets Gaming net revenue was up 12% to than net revenue because of the higher or enjoying gaming.
Were creating 308.6m, with core markets up 13% and proportion of growth coming from the UK, personalised experiences by tailoring non-core markets up 10%.
There were the introduction of the horseracing levy for what we do for each customer.
Were benefits from the launch of the single Online from April and the application of the giving customers rewarding experiences, walletin Q1, enabling a seamless movement Remote Gaming Duty Tax to gaming free relevant to them.
And were building a safe of funds between WilliamHill and Playtech bets from October.
environment that encourages customers products, significant work on cross-sell togamble responsibly.
Operating costs were 5% higher with product features and the introduction of a14%increase in marketing investment daily must drop jackpots with content from and an 11% increase in staff costs offset Expanding internationally a new third-party provider.
by savings in a number of external As new markets open up, well step in.
By Growth in active users was 6% for the year.
operating in more places, we reduce the New accounts grew by 3% and revenue 2 impact of regulatory changes in a particular As a result, adjusted operating profit per active user grew by 6% over the year market.
Were investing in markets that increased 32%.
with the focus of marketing activities have a strong gambling culture and a being on both acquisition and retention Read about the UK online market competitive regulatory and tax framework.
We want to be able to offer customers a broad range of sports betting and gaming Our mobile user experience improvements products, like in the UK and being a resulted in revenues from mobile devices market leader in the UK gives us some key increasing to 82% of Sportsbook net advantages when we invest elsewhere.
1 Net revenue is an industry term equivalent to revenue as defined in the notes to the financial statements.
2 Adjusted operating profit is defined as profit before interest and tax, excluding exceptional items and other defined adjustments.
Further detail on adjusted measures is provided innote 3 to the financial statements.
William Hill PLC 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Divisional overview continued Retail Retail is our largest division, generating 54% of Group net revenue in 2017.
Retail employs around 12,300 people in the UK.
Key Performance Indicators Sportsbook margin Average profit per LBO Average gross win per machine % per week 0.4 ppts -0% 3% 18.0% 72,548 1,028 17.8% 17.6% 998 68,299 68,120 949 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 This KPI gives an indication of how sporting This KPI reflects the average profitability of This KPI reflects the trends in the underlying 1 1 results have affected our performance during the shops.
Retail net revenue increased with growth in gaming machine net revenue.
At 18.0%, the gross win margin was Sportsbook net revenue up 1% and gaming on an average of 9,313 machines, the average 0.4 percentage points higher than the prior machine net revenue up 3%.
Cost of sales and gross win per machine per week net of free year and at the top of our normalised range of operating costs both increased by 3%.
Overall, bets was 3% higher at 1,028.
A maximum 2 1718%, reflecting positive sporting results.
This adjusted operating profit was 1% lower at offour machines are allowed per shop.
Gaming KPI is an industry term and is described in the 160.9m.
Average profit per LBO remained machine net revenue increased 3%, benefiting glossary under gross win margin on page 161. flatat 68,120.
The average number of shops from the regular release of new slots and casino was slightly down at 2,362 2016: 2,372, with games content.
eight new licences opened and 41 shops closed in theperiod.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25 Alive and kicking Our estate Retail net revenue split by product Retail is a powerful asset.
Customers Around 90% of the shops in our estate are % continue to want to be in betting shops leased.
The average remaining lease length, they love the convenience and also the including break clauses, is just over three social experience.
And you can bet in cash years.
The average lease cost per LBO is approximately 90% of Retails transactions c22,000 per annum.
It is also a great partner to We have 2,342 shops as at the end of 2017.
Online as customers increasingly want Our average number of shops during 2017 to be in the shops as well as to bet on was 2,362. their mobile.
We focus on the quality of our customer service, strong responsible We expect that the implementation of gambling measures and the fundamentals IFRS 16 Leases in 2019 will substantially that matter most to our customers.
alter the way that we record and present This includes the shop environment, our property costs in the Retail business.
Horseracing 19% product range and technology innovations Wewill finalise our assessment of the likely Football 12% to bring customers an attractive and impact in 2018 and communicate that in differentiated offering.
This new accounting standard Greyhounds 7% isexplained in more detail in the notes to Other 8% the financial statements.
The best of WilliamHill Gaming machines 54% joining up the customer Performance review experience Sportsbook wagering was down 1% with no Retail net revenue grew 2%, with Sportsbook We continue to extend our omni-channel benefit from a major international football up 1% and gaming up 3%.
offering, targeting UK customers who use tournament but supported by the roll-out both betting shops and digital services.
Operating costs were 3% higher, with of SSBTs to all shops and the increase in We estimate around 30% of our regular increases in the major cost areas of products offered on them.
SSBT Sportsbook customers bet in shops and online.
staff, property and content all in line wagering increased to over 12% of total Through our proprietary self-service with expectations.
As a result, adjusted Retail wagering by the end of the year.
We betting terminals SSBTs, we are now 2 operating profit fell by 1%.
have expanded the SSBT product range with bringing much more of our extensive the addition of popular football coupons and online product range to shop customers.
The average number of shops fell slightly horseracing.
Further products will be added Having successfully completed the SSBT to2,362 2016: 2,372 with eight new licences in 2018.
Total Sportsbook gross win margin roll-out in 2017, we now have at least one in opened and 41 shops closed in the period, was up 0.4 percentage points to 18.0%, every shop and have replaced all terminals including 25 as part of the transformation benefiting from strong football results in Q4.
previously provided by a third party.
The number of shops at the also bringing more of the digital experience year-end was 2,342.
In gaming, our regular programme of to our customers with the WilliamHill Plus product launches saw B3 content increase Read about the Retail market card and app.
This gives shop customers Page 19 to 36.5% of revenues 2016: 34.0% We are access to engaging products that have currently trialling a new gaming machine already proven popular with Onlines cabinet from Inspired Gaming Group in customers.
By the end of the year, we had 50 shops.
launched the first phase of an omni-wallet, making it even easier for existing Online customers to use their account funds in shop.
WilliamHill Plus The Retail app Our Retail restructure, implemented on The WilliamHill Plus card links a 1 January 2017, is encouraging even greater customers SSBTs transactions to their colleague support for our customers.
We account, which is identified by their mobile modernised the organisational structure phone number.
The app allows them to by creating 359 Business Performance track those bets and Cash In any time, Managers who now focus on enhancing anywhere.
As their account is linked to the customer experience.
This is bringing amobile phone number, we can also send management support closer to the shop offers to shop customers through push teams and has reduced the number of notifications for the first time.
More than middle management roles.
80,000 customers registered for aPlus account within the first six weeks of it being available in just over half of the estate.
Customer sign ups reached over 137,000 by the year-end.
William Hill PLC 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Divisional overview continued US We are well positioned to take advantage Building the leading Nevada ofthese emerging opportunities.
Through business our Nevada operations, we have built Nevada is one of only four states allowed astrong track record, relationships with tolicense land-based sports betting in casinos, recognition of our strengths the US and is the only one that currently in sports betting and awareness of the operates an open commercial market.
The Company and Sports books can only be operated inside individual licences awarded by the Nevada casinos.
While the major casinos operating Gaming Commission bring increased trust, on the Las Vegas Strip tend to manage their given the high level of probity checks own sports books, the majority of the other required to achieve those licences.
casinos outsource this specialist capability.
We have already invested in relevant WilliamHill is now the preferred outsource opportunities, such as the agreement with supplier, operating 108 of the 190 sports Monmouth Park racetrack in New Jersey books in Nevada.
where we have created a WilliamHill sports We have successfully grown WilliamHill US bar that could be converted into a sports by winning more sports book contracts and book should the law permit it.
This includes in-play betting, developing the mobile Performance review app and redeveloping the existing sports Numbers referenced in the following books, which are branded as WilliamHill.
WilliamHill US generated narrative are presented on a local Customers who have signed up to mobile 3% ofGroup net revenue currency basis.
accounts in the sports books can now deposit via kiosks provided in casino and in 2017 and employs Strong growth in amounts wagered bar locations, and via Sightline, a precontinued from H1 into H2, to deliver 22% around 400 people, paid card.
growth overall in the year.
In particular, mainly in casino-based growth in mobile was 36% and the We are also the exclusive risk manager percentage of amounts wagered via forthe State of Delawares sports lottery.
Thegross win margin increased slightly Potential opening up of the to 6.3% and net revenue was up 24%.
USsports betting market Operating costs rose 29% because of There has been a lot of discussion in the additional headcount and property costs US about the potential for overturning the to support growth.
As a result, adjusted federal ban on land-based sports betting.
Now, all eyes are focused on the Supreme During the year, we extended into two Court, who in December 2017 heard new territories, opening a race book for arguments in the state of New Jerseys Caesars Entertainment in Iowa and sports challenge to the Professional and Amateur book at the new Baha Mar casino in The Sports Protection Act 1992 PASPA, which Bahamas.
We opened two new sports bans state-sponsored sports betting.
books in Nevada and closed two, ending the Adecision is expected in 2018.
A number year with 108 Nevada sports books in total, ofstates, most recently Pennsylvania, have equivalent to 57% of the sports books in taken steps to prepare for legalised sports the state.
betting should the Supreme Court overturn the federal ban.
Read about the US market Page 20 Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 Australia Product-led offering Revenue diversification Only online sports betting is legal in While betting is our core product, there is Australia.
While there is not enough sport a strong gaming culture in Australia and for endless content for our customers gaming products account for 79% of that to bet on, there are 80 races every day.
In a market So we focused in 2017 on enhancing our that is facing some serious regulatory core racing product.
Were competing challenges, we are diversifying our product for customers attention by bringing range by experimenting with some new out exciting new products.
Product betting products, such as virtual racing.
development is our principal competitive advantage in this market.
We own our Performance review technology platform, and we focus on this Numbers referenced in the following to compete against companies of greater narrative are presented on a local scale with larger marketing budgets.
2017, we launched Price Pump, which gives customers daily personalised enhanced Amounts wagered was up 6%, with growth odds, and WilliamHill Rewards, redeemable of 28% in H1 but a decline of 15% in H2 as as bonus bets and Velocity frequent we prepared for implementation of the flyer points.
credit betting ban in February 2018.
Gross win margin improved from 8.0% in H1 to WilliamHill Australia 9.3% in the full year 2016: 9.9% as some The core business of the lower margin credit-related turnover the home of racing generated 7% ofGroup was removed in H2.
As in-play products were curtailed by net revenue in 2017 and changes to Northern Territory licensing We are continuing to bring through product employs around 300 innovations to attract and retain customers conditions in October 2016, we are focusing on enhancing our core racing and to diversify our sources of revenue.
people based in Sydney, The launch of OddsBoost helped grow core product to generate growth.
Racing is Darwin and Manila.
still the most popular product amongst horseracing turnover and over half of all active customers used our Price Pump offer Australian betters, accounting for 80% ofthe business.
To drive growth, we are focused on: Staff costs rose 11% while marketing costs fell 37% resulting in total expenses declining 1 providing the best customer experience 4%.
Marketing investment was reduced in the market, delivering on our fast and in H2 in response to the strategic review easy promise by resolving pain points and of our options for the Australian business.
introducing personalisation that simplifies In this market, a significant proportion of product usage: 2 delivering a competitive marketing is invested in areas with a return value proposition to customers to period of 24 months or longer, therefore, ensure we are competitive in the market we are focusing on near-term returns.
as customers can move from brand to Asaresult, profits have been protected brand very easily: and 3 rewarding loyalty 1 andadjusted operating profit rose by 11%.
through products like WilliamHill Rewards Read about the Australia market or Price Pump.
Page 21 1 Adjusted operating profit is defined as profit before interest and tax, excluding exceptional items and other defined adjustments.
