OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES: Utilising Proprietary Knowledge OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PATENTS Progress Making online grocery attractive to the customer and profitable for To ensure we protect the value of our We continue to file patent applications the retailer is very challenging.
Elements such as large basket sizes, solutions and maintain our competitive to protect our proprietary knowledge.
varying temperature requirements and narrow one-hour delivery slots advantage within the space we take Over the year some of our earlier filed add to the complexity of our solutions and heighten the barriers to careful measures to protect our applications have been granted and we entry within the sector.
Our years of learning and development have innovations and intellectual property.
expect many more to be granted over enabled us to build market leading solutions and valuable intellectual We operate a structured and thorough the next year.
As our OSP solution and property, which will enable our sustainable and long-term success patent filing and application process other technology evolves we expect to within the sector.
Our patent continue protecting our innovations in activities are intended to create a web of major markets in this way.
Our capabilities span our proprietary processes, physical protection for our intellectual property.
infrastructure solutions, systems and software to provide a complete Future Focus As of the year end we filed patent end-to-end solution to benefit both ourselves and our future Our aim is to continuously innovate applications covering 61 separate commercial partners.
ahead of the market and maintain our innovations.
There are now 13 granted industry leadership.
We will ensure this Progress patents across 8 innovation families.
by continuing to innovate and protect Within the year we launched the first live instance of our store picking our intellectual property through our solution with Morrisons.
Despite expected weaker economics at ongoing patent operations.
scale, this alternative picking solution can enable fuller geographic coverage to areas where centralised picking may not reach.
It is complementary to CFC fulfilment and enables retailers to utilise their existing store estate to build online sales volume that could later be transferred to more efficient CFCs.
It also enables us to provide a RISKS: quick to market and more flexible solution to our retail partners.
To maintain our technological leadership we have continued to build Technological innovation supersedes our own and offers improved capabilities within our technology teams, now constituting over 1,100 methods of food distribution to consumers employees across our technology hubs in the UK, Poland, Bulgaria and Spain.
We are able to attract and retain quality technology Protecting our IP expertise by continuously pushing the boundaries in online Infringing a third partys IP grocery and providing the team with the mandate to think beyond conventional grocery issues.
Our developments and innovation throughout the year have been considerable.
Our IP is core to our technological leadership and our progress illustrates our vision and determination in remaining ahead in an increasingly competitive market.
Our achievements have been recognised throughout the industry and we have won numerous awards such the Best Innovation in Cloud Services award during the Ovum On The Radar Awards 2017.
Read more about significant innovations over the year in the Innovation Developing solutions for all our customers on pages 11 to 13 Future Focus Our innovations within the grocery and wider e-commerce space drive growth and create long-term shareholder value.
We are confident in our ability to commercialise on this knowledge through our Solutions business and are progressing our conversations with retailers across the world on how we can enable and support the growth of their online operations.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 28 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM Strategic Report PRIMARY STRATEGIC ACTIONS ENHANCE END-TO-END CASE STUDY TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS DEVELOPING VOICE-ACTIVATED AI CAPABILITIES FOR OUR CONSUMERS Core to our business and competitive advantage is the proprietary IP, knowledge and technology that supports our market-leading Our technology teams are continuously pushing the boundaries proposition to customers and drives our operating efficiencies.
of software development in e-commerce by releasing the most We strive to continuously innovate ahead of the market to ensure comprehensive and intuitive grocery shopping apps for iOS, watchOS we maintain our competitive edge.
Throughout the year we have and Android.
continued to actively file and pursue patent applications to help create a web of protection around our innovation and ensure we can In August 2017, we extended our offering to include a new platform benefit from its value.
The majority of our patent applications relate to our line-up and became the first global grocer to release a skill for to our physical infrastructure solution which is operational within our Alexa, the AI-based personal assistant from Amazon.
Industry forecasts newest CFC in Andover and what will be used in our partnerships with indicate that by 2018, 30% of all web interactions will be through Groupe Casino and Sobeys.
This, alongside our own research, has shown that many Ocado customers would benefit from voice-controlled To enable us to innovate we ensure we invest in the right capabilities smart assistants for grocery shopping.
and resources within our business.
We have extensive and growing technology and engineering teams, which by the end of the period Among other things, the skill enables customers to add items to their comprised over 1,100 employees.
Our technology teams operate out Ocado orders, check items within a basket, receive delivery updates, of multiple technology centres in the UK, Poland, Spain and Bulgaria, find the price of the current basket and even ask whats currently in taking advantage of the significant technological expertise found in season.
This equips customers with the ability to maintain casual these regions.
conversation with the assistant centred around their order based on AI-based algorithms, which establish the most likely product for the customer they are interacting with.
Innovations like these reflect our desire to constantly improve our retail ENABLE CURRENT AND FUTURE proposition through technology so that our customers get the greatest value PARTNERS ONLINE BUSINESSES and convenience from their shopping experience.
They also show the ways in which we will further improve the customer experience in the future.
As we continue to develop and innovate in our retail business we embed any improvements into our platform for existing and future partners.
Since launching their online business in January 2014 using our broader platform offering, our first Solutions partner, Morrisons, has seen strong growth at Morrisons.
This year we have continued to enable their development through the provision of our store picking module, which allows them to service more of their customers and in catchment areas beyond the reach of their current CFC capacity.
Morrisons launched the first live installations of the store picking capabilities this year and are due to continue to roll this out throughout the next year.
The validation of our Solutions business was further enhanced through the signing of our first three international partnerships this year.
Groupe Casino, Sobeys and our regional European retail partner will benefit from our technology, know-how and support services required to create an efficient and intelligent online grocery business and we look forward to helping them grow their operations.
Looking ahead, we are confident that we will be able to do further deals with the momentum of new signings building over time.
