OCADO Solutions Ocado Solutions focuses on helping OUR SCALABLE, MODULAR SOLUTIONS retail clients grow their online businesses profitably.
Our objective is to understand the problems our clients are facing and Ocado powered Tablet and mobile apps Software powering the site content and webshop provide modular, scalable, customised algorithms for analysing solutions to meet their needs.
Leveraging customer data our proprietary best-in-class technology with the Ocado Smart Platform, and the knowledge and experience of Ocados retail business, we aim to be a long-term partner to our clients, vested in their success to become the e-commerce solutions partner of choice for leading Ocado powered Centralised Ocado powered store retailers globally.
supply chain warehouse with pick software Ocado fulfilment MHE The strategic priorities of retailers vary significantly across the world depending on their scale, maturity and appetite for change.
Ocado Solutions aims to provide bespoke, flexible capabilities to our partners depending on their requirements and the service they wish to offer their customers.
Ocado powered Potential for alternative Routing and in-van delivery methods such as delivery process technology Ocado Solutions will provide retailers courier and click and collect with the flexibility to customise the endto-end process to best fit their current assets and strategic vision.
Starting with the front end, our capabilities will allow retailers to build best-in-class functionality across a spectrum of interfaces from mobile platforms to Alexa voice-activated devices to ensure their customers Although offering weaker economics at scale, the store Our Solutions business allows partners to build and can shop in the most convenient way picking functionality allows retailers to fulfil orders scale their online operations at significantly lower for them.
through their existing store estate, providing retailers cost to alternative solutions.
Partners will benefit from From a fulfilment perspective, a quick to market and flexible fulfilment option t o using proprietary technology that has been trialled customers can chose to operate a service online customers.
The store picking solution and tested in our own Retail business, and that has centralised warehouse or via a store is beneficial as it provides retailers with the option to been designed with the complexities of grocery retail picking solution.
A centralised option fulfil customer orders in catchments where it may be in mind.
To further enhance the customer proposition would utilise our market-leading, uneconomical to have a centralised fulfilment centre, for retailers, other products, applications or features proprietary physical infrastructure but where it might be appropriate to move to more can be integrated alongside our Ocado Solutions solution and algorithms to enable efficient CFCs once sales volumes have scaled.
These capabilities such as general merchandise, promotional sustainable, operationally efficient fulfilment solutions are not mutually exclusive and can activities, or speciality range extensions.
We would fulfilment on a larger scale.
This solution be operated in conjunction with each other to enhance expect these additional features to help increase is modular in nature can be built the flexibility of our offering for different partners.
customer retention and drive growth.
to different sizes and scalable can Finally, our Solutions business will have the potential Our Ocado Solutions business offers significant value be increased in size over time, and to support alternative last mile operations such as creation opportunities in the UK and abroad and therefore can grow stage by stage as the delivery, click and collect and courier services.
All we are pleased with the progress of this business retailer scales their online operations.
Solutions will leverage our proprietary technology the segment in an exciting time for the industry.
ahead, we are confident that we will be able to do further deals with the momentum of new signings building over time.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 18 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM The Journey of Ocado Solutions Strategic Report MODULES CURRENTLY USED ACROSS OUR PARTNERS MORRISONS PARTNERSHIP WITH A REGIONAL EUROPEAN RETAILER customers.
The partner will initially now close to reaching its original operate from a manual warehouse, agreed capacity, we announced with the option to progress to a an extension to our partnership in full automation solution at a later June 2016 to allow them capacity date.
This agreement represents in our Erith CFC, enabling their a significant step in the evolution business to continue to scale of our business and delivery of alongside customer demand.
In our strategy, demonstrating the addition to this, we also agreed to flexibility of our solutions.
provide Morrisons with store picking The Morrisons partnership This partnership will utilise capabilities, where customer orders utilises all of our Ocado Solutions Ocado's software solutions are picked and packed directly capabilities from their existing stores.
Despite We announced our first expected weaker economics at Since launching our first international partner for our scale, this alternative picking commercial partnership in Solutions business earlier this solution enables full geographic 2014, Morrisons.
Under this agreement the coverage to areas where their grown significantly.
This further partner will have access to our current centralised picking capacity demonstrates the quality of our full software platform, know-how does not reach.
platform and its ability to provide and support services required to an attractive service for retail build an efficient online grocery GROUPE CASINO SOBEYS routing management and big data will include best-in-class front-end and real time implementation.
website functionality, supported Groupe Casino's banners will by Ocados proprietary web shop benefit from our market leading and mobile grocery ordering grocery e-commerce platform, firstly applications: construction of through Monoprix.
The agreement Ocados latest generation, statesets out plans for the immediate of-the-art automated warehouse initiation of the development designed specifically for grocery of a CFC using our proprietary e-commerce: and last mile routing mechanical handling equipment management technology to The Groupe Casino partnership The Sobeys partnership will to serve the Greater Paris area, the optimize delivery truck efficiency, will utilise our front end software utilise our front end software Normandie and Hauts fide France customer service excellence and and interfaces, our centralised and interfaces, our centralised Regions.
We expect this deal to punctuality.
Sobeys and Ocado will fulfilment, and our last mile fulfilment, and our last mile create significant long-term value to develop their first CFC in the Greater delivery solutions delivery solutions the business.
The build is expected to take approximately two years.
In At the end of the year we were At the beginning of 2018 we were The agreement provides exclusivity addition to this initial CFC, Sobeys delighted to announce our second pleased to announce the signing benefits to Groupe Casino in France and Ocado will consider developing international partnership, with of an agreement with Sobeys to as long as they continue to commit other CFCs in Canadas dense Groupe Casino in France.
Groupe partner with Ocado Solutions to grow their online operations urban areas.
Sobeys will pay Ocado Casino is one of the worlds largest to develop an online grocery over time.
As well as some upfront certain upfront fees upon signing and most respected multi format business in Canada using the fees, which will enable Groupe and during the development phase, and multi channel grocery retailers.
Sobeys Casinos systems and processes to then ongoing fees linked to installed Under the agreement Groupe is Canadas second largest food be integrated with the Ocado Smart capacity within the CFC and service Casino will gain access to the full retailer, operating more than 1,500 Platform, fees will be based on the criteria.
end-to-end Ocado Smart Platform stores across the country, and capacity utilisation within the CFC solution, including the construction generating sales of C$23.8 billion and will scale as Groupe Casino grows of our latest generation, state-ofin fiscal 2017.
Ocado will partner their online operations.
The deal with the-art automated warehouse, exclusively in Canada with Sobeys Groupe Casino is a major validation of Ocado's best-in-class front-end to launch their end-to-end solution our business model.
website functionality, last mile for online grocery services.
com 19 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM LAST MILE FULFILMENT FRONT END LAST MILE FULFILMENT FRONT END OPERATIONS INTERFACES OPERATIONS INTERFACES LAST MILE FULFILMENT FRONT END LAST MILE FULFILMENT FRONT END OPERATIONS INTERFACES OPERATIONS INTERFACES
