OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES: Maximising Efficiency As our customer base expands we to build into smaller spaces rather OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY will continually look to innovate than being restricted to larger, out of We ensure efficiency is optimised throughout our business by adhering to and improve our technology and town, warehouse facilities.
This makes our core design principles of automation, use of proprietary technology, infrastructure solutions to ensure our capabilities more flexible and and centralisation the culmination of these three elements being operational excellence in every aspect customisable to the varying capacity evident in our industry-leading CFCs.
of the fulfilment and delivery life cycle.
requirements of our Solutions partners.
We seek to drive efficiency throughout every process in our operations, from our easily navigable customer facing interfaces through to our CAPITAL EFFICIENCY Progress industry-leading routing software supporting the complexity of our As we grow and in turn develop new Since 2015 we have been developing delivery operations.
CFCs we have been able to improve the our fourth CFC in Erith, South London.
capital efficiency of our operations.
We This will be our largest and, we expect, Efficiency within our operations allows us to operate with what we have achieved this through continuous most capital efficient warehouse to believe to be the lowest product waste in the industry of 0.7% of retail improvement within our mature CFCs, date, capable of handling over 200,000 revenue across our mature CFCs which are working at scale, despite which has allowed us to extract additional orders per week which is equivalent over-indexing within fresh and chilled categories.
We are able to achieve capacity out of these facilities without to around 1.2 billion of sales at full this through removing several processes and consequently human significant investment.
At the same time capacity.
We expect first orders from this touch points you would typically find in grocery retailing and using we have been investing in technology and CFC to begin in 2018.
Utilising the same our extensive data volumes from being a digitally centred business to innovation, allowing us to build our own proprietary infrastructure and software operate complex stock management systems to enable perfect first-inproprietary infrastructure and software solutions as our Andover facility first-out stock rotation.
designed to deliver 65,000 orders per week at scale, or 350 million of sales Progress Our proprietary MHE solution, which at capacity, this demonstrates the We continually strive to improve efficiency within our business and is now operational in Andover, is scalability of our end-to-end solution.
achieve operational leverage as we grow.
The operational efficiency modular can be built to different sizes within our CFCs is quantified by units processed end-to-end per allowing for reduced upfront capital labour hour, and we are pleased to report our overall mature CFC commitment as the peripheries can be Units Per Hour UPH for the year has improved from 160 to 164, again added as volumes scale within each showing how we are able to improve efficiency year-on-year.
The modularity of our new improvements in UPH are now largely going to come from the MHE solution also means that we are able solution in our new CFCs when they become mature.
Throughout the year we have scaled our latest CFC in Andover, which houses the first utilisation of our proprietary physical infrastructure solution.
The fundamentally different solution design within Andover will drive further UPH progression and in turn capital efficiencies throughout our business once operating at scale.
KPIS: Alongside efficiencies achieved within our CFCs, we also seek to optimise efficiency in our last mile operations.
Increased demand within 95.0% 98.8% our catchment areas combined with improvements in our proprietary Delivery punctuality Order accuracy routing software and in our operational practices have allowed us to further optimise our delivery network enabling us to increase our DPV from 176 to 182 over the year.
Operational efficiencies achieved in 164 182 our retail business can be packaged and replicated for our Solutions Mature CFC efficiency Deliveries per van customers to enable sustainable and long-term e-commerce solutions.
UPH per week Future Focus 0.7% Our latest solutions currently housed in Andover, and being installed in our Erith CFC, were designed with the future in mind.
We have developed Product waste our physical infrastructure solution in such a way that any manual touch points within the densely packed fulfilment infrastructure are located on the periphery of the structure so that they can be retrofitted with robotics and automated technology as and when these are appropriately developed.
We will be installing the first robotic picking stations within RISKS: our Andover facility.
These robotic arms will be positioned at certain pick stations equipped with our proprietary systems which will enable them A risk of delays in the implementation of new capacity for both Ocado to see and feel a wide variety of products.
With these capabilities our and Morrisons robots can help pick customer orders much more efficiently, reducing burdensome work hitherto done by humans.
All numbers on this page are reported on a 52 week basis Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 26 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM Strategic Report Future Focus Due to the fundamentally different infrastructure within our latest CFCs we are in the process of improving the reliability and resiliency of this new CASE STUDY solution.
We expect future iterations to be faster to deploy shorter build and THE UK'S FIRST DRIVERLESS commissioning lead times allowing for reduced upfront capital commitment.
GROCERY DELIVERY As we develop and learn through the progression of CFCs we expect to be able In June this year we concluded a successful driverless grocery to further advance our capital efficiency increasing the benefits of operating delivery trial in partnership with the GATEway Project, an 8 million our centralised model in comparison to alternative methods.
Any benefits research project led by TRL in collaboration with Oxbotica, Digital realised in our own retail business will be naturally passed on to our Solutions Greenwich, Telefonica and others.
The two week trial involved the electric self-driving van, called CargoPod, which delivered free groceries to local residents in Greenwich, South East London.
The van itself is the first Oxbotica PRIMARY STRATEGIC ACTIONS self-driving electric vehicle capable of transporting cargo by using the companys state-of-the-art Caesium cloud-based fleet management software and their Selenium autonomous control system..
Representing Ocado in this trial was our 10x technology team.
The DEVELOP MORE CAPITAL AND OPERATIONALLY 10x team focuses on creating game-changing improvements that EFFICIENT INFRASTRUCTURE SOLUTIONS have the potential to revolutionize our business based on the ten times versus ten per cent principle.
This involves identifying and addressing the big technical challenges facing our business, the Our two mature Customer Fulfilment Centres in Hatfield and Dordon online grocery market, and beyond.
This ambitious goal demands continued to operate to high levels of accuracy and with improved that the 10x team stays at the cutting edge of technology, looking far efficiency we consider a CFC to be mature if it has been open for 12 into the future, and turning ambitious dreams into practical solutions.
months by the start of the half year reporting period.
"Using the units per labour hour efficiency measure ""UPH"", the average productivity The trial gave Ocado the ability to experiment with fresh ideas for for the period in these operations was 164 UPH 2016: 160 UPH."
We the last mile of online retail the stage that starts when the goods expect most of the future improvements in CFC efficiency to now come leave the facility for delivery and ends when they are placed securely from our newer CFCs once these are operating at scale.
in the hands of customers.
We were also able to learn more about the next steps needed before driverless deliveries could become an Throughout the year we continued to build reliability and efficient proposition for our own Retail business as well as our Ocado resiliency at our newest CFC in Andover, Hampshire, which houses Solutions partners.
the first installation of our new proprietary modular, scalable physical fulfilment solution.
At capacity our Andover CFC will add approximately 65,000 OPW of capacity at maturity.
We made excellent progress over the year in the development of our fourth CFC in Erith, south east London.
We continued to install the physical infrastructure and plan to commence operations in FY2018.
We expect the facility to, be our most capital efficient CFC to date, enabling us to efficiently expand our UK capacity and benefit future Ocado Solutions customers through attractive deal economics.
Similar to our Andover CFC, this CFC will also use our proprietary modular, scalable fulfilment solution which will enable us to phase our investment over time in line with our capacity requirements.
Approximately 30% of the Erith CFC capacity will be utilised for Morrisons.
com under an extension agreement that was signed in 2016.
Further enhancements to our routing system, increased availability of Sunday delivery slots and improved customer density enabled by growth led to an improvement in average deliveries achieved on a van route and has helped us increase deliveries per van per week across all shifts DPV to 182 2016: 176.
All numbers on this page are reported on a 52 week basis Stock Code: OCDO | www.
