EVIDENCING Efficiency Improvements We utilise technology and innovation to drive efficiencies and consequently reduce cost throughout our business.
The core design principles that drive efficiency are automation, use of proprietary technology, and aggregation of scale via the use of our large CFCs.
By combining these attributes we have been able to develop the most sophisticated and operationally efficient grocery shopping and delivery solutions in the world.
Mature CFCs Cash Generative New CFCs High Return on and Low Maintenance Investment from Better Capital and Operating Efficiencies Mature CFCs CFCs Utilising Proprietary Solutions Our two mature CFCs in Hatfield and Dordon continue to operate at high Our proprietary technology utilised in our newest CFCs enables us to achieve levels of accuracy and with improved efficiency we consider a CFC to be an attractive return on investment, estimated at over 50% for our Erith CFC, mature if it has been open for 12 months by the start of the half year reporting even before any further benefits that should come from other innovations period.
We have engineers constantly on site to ensure these CFCs are well such as robotic picking.
maintained and to improve the resiliency of our operations.
Relative to their sales capacity we therefore incur minimal maintenance capex, and we do not expect this to change over the coming years.
We calculate that the cash flow return from our mature CFCs each year is nearly 10% of revenue, illustrating the significant cash generation that can be generated once a CFC has scaled and has reached maturity.
Current Mature CFCs m Projected Erith CFC at full capacity m Revenue 1,350 Revenue 1,080 Operating contribution c. 10% 135 Operating contribution 11.6% 125 Annual capex 5 Invested capex 225 Annual cash generation 130 Projected ROI 50% Cash generation as a % of revenue 9.6% Assumes 100% utilised by Ocado.
Improved operating contribution due to higher expected CFC efficiencies and Represents Ocado only proportion of CFCs improved delivery efficiencies from increased scale.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 14 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM Strategic Report Wider Improvements to the Platform MATURE CFC UPH Improvements in Efficiencies across the Retail Operation Our proprietary technology and infrastructure have been developed in-house and continuously improved over many years to optimise the efficiency of our online businesses.
This technology and infrastructure spans the entire shopping and delivery life cycle from customer-facing interfaces, which power our webshop, mobile and tablet applications, to improvements in our UPH efficiency metrics within our CFCs to our optimised delivery routing for the final mile service.
Efficiencies within our operations enable us to constantly improve our customer proposition, achieving what we believe to be industryleading customer service metrics in on-time deliveries and order accuracy.
UPH is a four wall efficiency measure, relating to the average units processed per labour hour across all processes within our CFCs DROPS PER VAN PER WEEK Long-Term Improvement in Drops per Van DPVs All of our delivery routes are optimised in real time using our proprietary 200 software and algorithms.
These complex calculations have constantly moving variables based on our customers choice of delivery slot, house location and 180 current order volumes.
By carefully modelling these attributes, alongside the 160 benefit of our continued growth, which is primarily coming from increased demand in our existing catchments so increasing the density of customer 140 orders, we have been able to drive long-term improvements in our DPV, 120 meaning we are continuously improving the efficiency of our assets.
100 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Customer Loyalty CUSTOMER COHORT VALUE OVER TIME Providing a compelling proposition to consumers is critical to attracting new customers to Ocado and to encourage loyalty and retention for future shops.
We constantly analyse and review our offering against the wider market and focus on innovation in order to seek to stay ahead of our peers.
Once our customers have learnt to trust the Ocado proposition they become loyal.
We can see this in how our customers shop with us over time.
Although there is some natural shrink in customers acquired in any given year as people move or family circumstances change, sales per customer group in each year of acquisition are generally consistent or in some years even increasing.
This Time years since first delivery illustrates how much the value of our proposition means to our customers.
Ocado firsts Retail Brand We continuously strive to be a leader in the online grocery space, evidenced by As we have grown in scale so has the power of our retail brand to deliver a number of first to market skills and applications to support our proposition.
value to a wide range of stakeholders.
We are continuously analysing and Some significant examples of this are outlined below.
developing our Ocado own-label products, with our typical customer basket now including at least five of our Ocado own branded range.
The strength of First UK supermarket to launch voice-controlled grocery shopping through our brand has seen us winning a number of industry awards throughout the our Amazon Alexa skill 2017 year, on both an individual product scale and wider industry level.
Trialled the UKs first autonomous driverless grocery deliveries in partnership with Oxbotica 2017 More information on Strengthening Our Brands can be found on page 25 First online grocery application to be released on the Apple Watch 2015 First to launch a fully transactional application on the iPhone 2009 Read the Developing voice-activated AI capabilities for our consumers case study on page 29 Read the UK's first driverless grocery All numbers on this page are reported on a 52 week basis delivery case study on page 27 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
