William Hill PLC 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our business model The resources H ow we create value we need Non-financial What How customers People and knowledge we offer bet with us Our people are passionate about WilliamHill.
Our teams expertise allows us to innovate and bring new and improved products to our customers.
Find out more: Page 38 Brand and reputation Our 82-year-old brand is both highly recognised and trusted.
Our high street presence and marketing We provide exciting products investments both build brand across a range of betting awareness.
This, together with our andgaming opportunities.
reputation for delivering agreatbut responsible experience, helpsus Betting differentiate ourselves.
Our customers primarily come Find out more: Page 05 tous for sports betting.
Customers Relationships are offered a price for various We work closely with customers, sports outcomes which have a margin bodies and suppliers to help improve builtin.
Our Trading team sets the thebusiness we operate in.
Our customers can bet with pricing odds.
Customers can bet Find out more: Page 32 us wherever and whenever onthe outcome of key sporting they want, enhancing the events including in-play and preProprietary technology fun of watching a match and match sports betting or anything A key differentiator, driven by customer enjoying the thrill of gaming.
from political events to reality TV.
We are investing to ensure our technology platform delivers the best Retail Gaming customer experience.
It also underpins other keybusiness requirements.
We have 2,342 of the c8,500 shops Our customers can also enjoy inthe UK market.
In our shops Find out more: Page 10 awide range of gaming products, customers can enjoy sports betting which extend the opportunity for Regulatory licensing on football, horseracing and other customers to enjoy our products We operate in highly regulated sports as well as gaming on machines.
Gaming marketswhere we need to be licensed.
outcomes are randomly generated We work closely with governing Online and more frequent, operating at bodies to lead the way in delivering Our customers have access to more lower but more stable margins than aresponsible gambling experience.
than a million betting opportunities Find out more: Page 18 available online every week.
Financial Customers can gamble with us Access to capital wherever and whenever they want, including via mobile, tablet or PC.
In order to run the business and continue to invest in improving our operations, we need funds which we generate from profits or seek from our shareholders or debt providers.
Find out more: Page 28 Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 The results of what we do Operating profit Why customers How the Profits enable reinvestment into the bet with us financials work business and returns to shareholders and debt providers.
Find out more: Page 28 Shareholder returns The financial returns we generate for investors can be redistributed in the form of dividends or share buy backs.
Find out more: Page 28 Encouraging responsible Customer bets gambling on sports or other events Our approach to responsible gambling or spends on gaming is core to how we operate as a business and aims to protect our customers, our colleagues and the communities Customer Customer inwhich we operate.
wins loses Find out more: Page 34 Taxes to the Government Keeps Company We are a key contributor to the UK Omni-channel delivery Bets plays winnings pays cost again economy, paying 347.3m in 2017 to does not By providing customers the choice recycling of sales recycle Treasury through direct, indirect and ofbetting shops environments, employee taxes.
Betting shops also SSBTs, mobile apps or traditional contribute to local services paying more online access, we can leverage all than 21.9m in business rates each year.
Contribution channels to maximize our revenues.
to Group Find out more: Page 17 profit Employment Customer experience We employ around 16,000 people We aim to give customers an across our business.
Our UK betting unrivalled choice of products and the shops provide fulland part-time jobs best experience.
We are focused on for11,726 people.
giving customers what they want, Find out more: Page 40 ensuring our product is fast and easy to use, and creating personalised Social and community rewarding experiences.
While at the Through our community commitment same time, encouraging and helping Close to Home our colleagues customers to gamble responsibly.
volunteer their time and skills to support good causes in local areas.
We also partner with a number of charities, support community youth programmes, mental health initiatives and support sport.
