DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report 2018 LTIP Awards The Remuneration Committee approved the making of awards under the LTIP for the Executive Directors for the 2017 2018 financial year.
The amount of the LTIP awards is based on a percentage of salary, expected to be in line with the percentages agreed for the 2017 LTIP awards and in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Remuneration Committee proposes to make 2018 LTIP award grants subject to revenue and retail EBIT performance conditions in respect of the retail business for the 2019 2020 financial year.
The other two performance targets relate to the platform business.
The first of these is linked to the efficiency of the platform solution for the 2019 2020 financial year.
The second of the platform business targets will be focused on expanding the Ocado Solutions business and specifically generating sales revenue for the 2019 2020 financial year.
The 2018 LTIP award targets differ from the 2017 awards firstly, in that the new retail profitability measure will be aligned with the Group's new segmental reporting and secondly by including capital efficiency together with operational efficiency when measuring performance of the platform business.
These changes to the LTIP performance targets reflect the Boards focus on rewarding the delivery of sales of the platform solution to new customers and continuing to incentivise improvements in efficiency, while rewarding the profitable growth of the retail business.
Each performance condition will have a 25% weighting.
The actual performance targets are not disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity on the basis that if disclosed it would likely damage the Companys commercial interests.
The Company will disclose achievement against targets after the end of the performance period, provided such disclosure is not considered commercially sensitive at the time.
SIP The Executive Directors are expected to continue their participation in the SIP scheme in 2018.
Changes for Non-Executive Directors and Chairman The review of remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman will be finalised in line with the timing of pay reviews for all of the Groups employees.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 108 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Shareholder Approval and Votes at AGM The 2017 Directors Remuneration Report will be subject to a shareholder vote at the AGM.
Entitlement of a Director to remuneration is not made conditional on this resolution being passed.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue on Directors remuneration and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report, the Directors Remuneration Policy or a new share scheme, the Company would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would detail in the announcement of the results of voting any actions it intends to take to understand the reasons behind the vote result and also note this in the next annual report.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a vote against that exceeds 20% should be considered significant and requires explanation.
The table below sets out the actual voting in respect of resolutions regarding remuneration at the three previous annual general meetings.
Votes Resolution Text Votes For % For Votes Against % Against Total Votes Withheld 2017 AGM Approve the 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy 416,068,306 93.75 27,747,647 6.25 448,607,479 4,791,526 Approve the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report 413,472,812 93.16 30,342,020 6.84 448,607,479 4,792,647 2016 AGM Approve the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report 314,587,371 91.48 29,304,819 8.52 345,048,769 1,156,579 2015 AGM Approve the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report 377,215,710 80.61 90,709,506 19.39 476,384,487 8,459,271 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND AUDIT This report is a Directors Remuneration Report for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017, prepared for the purposes of satisfying section 420 1 and section 421 2A of the Companies Act.
It has been drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act and the Code, the Regulations, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
In accordance with section 497 of the Companies Act and the Regulations, certain parts of this Directors Remuneration Report where indicated have been audited by the Companys auditors, Deloitte LLP.
A copy of this Directors Remuneration Report will be available on the Companys corporate website.
This Directors Remuneration Report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Douglas McCallum REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Ocado Group plc 6 February 2018 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 109 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Report INTRODUCTION Amendment of the Articles 111 This section of this Annual Report is American Depositary Receipt ADR program 113 a Directors Report required by the Appointment and replacement of Directors 111 Companies Act to be prepared by the Board of Directors CG Statement 52, 116-117 Directors for the Company and the Change of control 114 Group.
Community Corporate Responsibility 42-45 INDEX OF DIRECTORS REPORT Directors insurance and indemnities 111 Directors inductions and training CG Statement 59 DISCLOSURES This Directors Report should be read Directors interests Directors Remuneration Report 98 in conjunction with the Strategic Directors responsibility statement 114-115 Report pages 06 to 47 which includes Disclosure of information to auditors 114 Corporate Responsibility pages 42 to Diversity Our People 46 45, and the Statement of Corporate Employee involvement Our People 47 Governance defined in the index below Employees with disabilities 114 as the CG Statement pages 54 to 61, Future developments of the business Strategic Report 06-47 which are incorporated by reference into Going concern and viability statements Strategic Report 39 this Directors Report.
Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate Responsibility 43 The information required to be disclosed Independent auditors 114 in the Directors Report can be found in Long-term incentive plans under Listing Rule 9.4.
3 Directors Remuneration Report 70-109 this Annual Report on the pages listed Political donations Corporate Responsibility 44 below.
4C, Post-balance sheet events 114 the information required to be disclosed Powers for the Company to issue or buy back its shares 112 in the Annual Report under Listing Rule Powers of the Directors CG Statement 54-55 9.8.
4R is marked with an asterisk.
Profit loss and dividends 114 Research and development activities Strategic Report 06-47 Restrictions on transfer of securities 112 Rights attaching to shares 111 Risk management and internal control How the business manages risk Strategic Report 38-41 Note 4.8 to the consolidated financial statements 161-163 Share capital 111 Significant agreements 114 Significant related party agreements 113 Significant shareholders 113 Statement of corporate governance CG Statement 54-61 Strategic Report 06-47, 111 Voting rights 112 110 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Removal of Directors by Special Resolution: The Company may by special THE STRATEGIC REPORT resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
The Directors are required under the Companies Act to prepare a strategic report for the Company and the Group.
The Strategic Report contains the Vacation of Office: The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns: Directors explanation of the basis on which the Group preserves and creates ii his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors not less than three value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the in number : iii he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health Group.
The Companies Act requires that the Strategic Report must: and the Board resolves that his office be vacated: iv he is absent without contain a fair review of the Groups business and contain a description of the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group: and alternate Director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt: vi he be a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and is prohibited by law from being a Director: vii he ceases to be a Director by performance of the Groups business during the financial year and the virtue of the Companies Act: or viii he is removed from office pursuant to position of the Groups business at the end of that year, consistent with the the Articles.
size and complexity of the business.
For a description of any changes of the Companys Directors during the period The information that fulfils the strategic report requirements is set out in the see the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 54 to 61.
Strategic Report on pages 06 to 47.
DIRECTORS INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES The Company has chosen to include some of the information required to be The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance cover for disclosed in the Directors Report within the Strategic Report pages 06 to 47, its Directors and officers as permitted under the Articles and the Companies as noted above.
Certain matters, including those of sufficient importance, that Act.
Such insurance policies were renewed during the period and remain would otherwise be required to be disclosed in the Directors Report, have in force as at the date of this Annual Report.
The Company also agrees to been set out in the Strategic Report and Statement of Corporate Governance, indemnify the Directors under an indemnity deed with each Director which as noted in the index on page 110. contains provisions that are permitted by the director liability provisions of the The Strategic Report and the Directors Report or parts thereof, together Companies Act and the Articles.
An indemnity deed is usually entered into by a with sections of this Annual Report incorporated by reference, are the Director at the time of his or her appointment to the Board.
Management Report for the purposes of the Disclosure Guidance and SHARE CAPITAL Transparency Rule 4.1.
The Companys authorised and issued ordinary share capital as at The Strategic Report and the Directors Report, together with the sections 3 December 2017 comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
The shares have of this Annual Report incorporated by reference, have been drawn up and a nominal value of 2 pence each.
The ISIN of the shares is GB00B3MBS747.
The presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English LEI of the Company is 213800LO8F61YB8MBC74.
company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report As at 22 January 2018, being the last practicable date prior to publication shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
of this report, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 631,298,705 For an explanation of how the Board satisfies itself that this Annual Report issued ordinary shares, compared with 629,270,054 issued ordinary shares per meets the disclosure requirements, refer to the Statement of Corporate the 2016 annual report.
Details of movements in the Companys issued share Governance on pages 54 to 61 and the Directors responsibility statement capital can be found in Note 4.9 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the period, shares in the Company were issued to satisfy options and awards under the Companys share and incentive schemes, as set out in Note AMENDMENT OF THE ARTICLES 4.9 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Companys Articles, which govern a number of constitutional aspects of the Companys management, may be amended by a special resolution of its RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES shareholders.
The Companys shares when issued are credited as fully paid and free from all liens, equities, charges, encumbrances and other interests.
All shares have APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS the same rights including voting and dividend rights and rights on a return of The appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company is governed capital and restrictions as set out in the Articles, described below.
Except in relation to dividends which have been declared and rights on a Appointment of Directors: A Director may be appointed by the Company liquidation of the Company, the shareholders have no rights to share in the by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the Board.
The Board or any profits of the Company.
committee authorised by the Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold any employment or executive office for such period The Companys shares are not redeemable.
However, the Company may and on such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate purchase or contract to purchase any of the shares on or off-market, any such appointment.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only subject to the Companies Act and the requirements of the Listing Rules, as until the next annual general meeting of the Company and is then eligible for described below.
Retirement of Directors: At every annual general meeting of the Company, each Director shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment by the members.
com 111 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Report No shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry special rights with Restriction on Transfer of JSOS Interests: Participants interests under regard to control of the Company.
There are no shares relating to an employee the JSOS are generally non-transferable during the period beginning on share scheme which have rights with regard to control of the Company that acquisition of the interest and ending at the expiry of the relevant restricted are not exercisable directly and solely by the employees, other than in the period as set out in the JSOS rules.
However, interests can be transferred to a case of the JSOS, where share interests can be transferred to a spouse, civil spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant of a participant: a trust under which partner or lineal descendant of a participant in the JSOS or certain trusts no person other than the participant or their spouse, civil partner or lineal under the rules of the JSOS as noted below.
descendant has a vested beneficial interest: or any other person approved by the EBT Trustee.
If a participant purports to transfer, assign or charge VOTING RIGHTS his interest other than as set out above, the EBT Trustee may acquire the Each ordinary share carries one right to vote at a general meeting of the participants interest for a total price of 1.
At any general meeting, a resolution put to the vote of the meeting Other than as described above and on page 98 with respect to agreements shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show concerning the Directors shareholdings, the Company is not aware of any of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general agreements existing at the end of the period between holders of securities meeting of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member who that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or that may result is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which in restrictions on voting rights.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of POWERS FOR THE COMPANY TO BUY BACK ITS SHARES the meeting or adjourned meeting.
No shareholder shall be entitled to vote in The Company was authorised by shareholders on 3 May 2017, at the annual respect of a share held by him if any call or sum then payable by him in respect general meeting, to purchase in the market up to 10% of its issued ordinary of such share remains unpaid or if a member has been served a restriction shares excluding any treasury shares, subject to certain conditions laid out notice, described below.
This standard authority is renewable annually: JSOS Voting Rights: Of the issued ordinary shares, as at 3 December 2017 the Directors will seek to renew this authority at the AGM.
The Directors did not 32,800,390 2016: 32,830,613 were held by Wealth Nominees Limited on exercise their authority to buy back any shares during the period.
behalf of Estera Trust Jersey Limited, the independent company which is the POWERS FOR THE COMPANY TO ISSUE ITS SHARES trustee of Ocados employee benefit trust the EBT Trustee.
The EBT Trustee The Directors were granted authority at the previous annual general meeting has waived its right to exercise its voting rights in respect of 32,724,358 of these on 3 May 2017, to allot shares in the Company under two separate resolutions: ordinary shares, although it may at the request of a participant vote in respect i up to one-third of the Companys issued share capital: and ii up to twoof 76,032 ordinary shares which have vested under the JSOS and remain in thirds of the Companys issued share capital in connection with a rights issue.
The total of 32,800,390 ordinary shares held by the EBT These authorities apply until the end of the AGM or, if earlier, until the close Trustee are treated as treasury shares in the Groups Consolidated Balance of business on 2 August 2018.
During the period, the Directors did not use Sheet in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
As their power to issue shares under the authorities, but did satisfy options and such, calculations of earnings per share for Ocado exclude the 32,800,390 awards under the Companys option and incentive schemes.
ordinary shares held by the EBT Trustee.
Note 4.9 to the consolidated financial statements provides more information on the Groups accounting treatment of The Directors were also granted authority at the previous annual general treasury shares.
meeting on 3 May 2017 to disapply pre-emption rights.
This resolution which is in accordance with the guidance issued by the Pre-Emption Group the PEG RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES Principles sought the authority to disapply pre-emption rights over 5% of The Companys shares are freely transferable, save as set out below.
the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder until the transferees A special resolution will be proposed at the 2018 AGM to renew the Directors name is entered in the register.
The Board can decline to register any transfer powers to disapply pre-emption rights.
The resolution will seek the authority of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Company does not currently to disapply pre-emption rights on up to 5% of the issued share capital.
have any partially paid shares.
The Board may also decline to register a A further authority will be sought to disapply pre-emption rights for an transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: A is duly additional 5% for certain acquisitions or specified capital investments as stamped or certified or otherwise shown to be exempt from stamp duty and allowed by the PEG Principles.
The Company will, consistent with the 2017 is accompanied by the relevant share certificate: B is in respect of only one annual general meeting, continue to seek authority to allot shares up to twoclass of share: and C if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four thirds of the Companys issued share capital in connection with a rights issue such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be only.
The Company believes such approach is appropriate given that it follows refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as guidance set by the Investment Association on the allotment of shares.
defined in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
112 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS During the period the Company has received notifications, in accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R, of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in the table below: Number of Ordinary Percentage of Shares Voting Issued Share Nature of Rights Capital Holding The London & Amsterdam Trust Company Limited 96,489,034 15.31 Direct Indirect Citigroup Global Markets Limited 63,765,764 10.11 Direct Indirect Tremblant Capital LP 31,334,931 4.97 Indirect Morgan Stanley 26,789,375 4.25 Indirect These figures represent the number of shares and percentage held as at the date of notification to the Company.
No changes have been disclosed in accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R in the period between 3 December 2017 and 22 January 2018 being not more than one month prior to the date of the Notice of Meeting, except as set out in the table below: Number of Ordinary Percentage of Shares Voting Issued Share Nature of Rights Capital Holding The London & Amsterdam Trust Company Limited 96,189,034 15.25 Direct Indirect Citigroup Global Markets Limited 55,701,686 8.83 Direct Indirect Morgan Stanley 28,779,747 4.56 Indirect These figures represent the number of shares and percentage held as at the date of notification to the Company.
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPT PROGRAM The Company has a sponsored level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR program with The Bank of New York Mellon as depositary bank.
Each ADR represents two ordinary shares of the Company.
The ADRs trade on the over-the-counter OTC market in the United States.
The CUSIP number for the ADRs is 674488101, the ISIN is US6744881011 and the symbol is OCDDY.
An ADR is a security that has been created to permit US investors to hold shares in non-US companies and, in a level 1 programme, to trade them on the OTC market in the United States.
In contrast to underlying ordinary shares, ADRs permit US investors to trade securities denominated in US dollars in the US OTC market with US securities dealers.
Were the Company to pay a dividend on its ordinary shares, ADR holders would receive dividend payments in respect of their ADRs in US dollars.
SENIOR SECURED NOTES DUE 2024 AND IRISH STOCK EXCHANGE On 19 June 2017 the Company priced an offering of 250 million Senior Secured Notes due 2024 the Notes at a coupon of 4% the Offering and an issue price of 100%.
The Notes are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange and trade on the Global Exchange Market which is the exchange regulated market of the Irish Stock Exchange.
The ISIN of the Notes is XS163400189.
Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually in arrears.
The Notes will mature on 15 June 2024.
The Company may redeem the Notes in whole or in part at any time on or after 15 June 2020, in each case, at the redemption prices set out as part of the Offering.
Prior to 15 June 2020, the Company will be entitled to redeem, at its option, all or a portion of the Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional amounts, if any, to the redemption date, plus a make-whole premium.
Prior to 15 June 2020, the Company may, at its option, and on one or more occasions, also redeem up to 40% of the original aggregate principal amount of the Notes with the net proceeds from certain equity offerings.
Prior to 15 June 2020, the Company may redeem during each twelve-month period commencing on the Issue Date up to 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes originally issued including the aggregate principal amount of any additional Notes at a redemption price equal to 103% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the applicable redemption date.
Additionally, the Company may redeem the Notes in whole, but not in part, at a price equal to their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional amounts, if any, upon the occurrence of certain changes in applicable tax law.
SIGNIFICANT RELATED PARTY AGREEMENTS There were no contracts of significance during the period between the Company or any Group company and: 1 a Director of the Company: 2 a close member of a Directors family: or 3 a controlling shareholder of the Company.
com 113 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Report CHANGE OF CONTROL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or employee The Group has dedicated in-house software, logistics and engineering design that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting and development teams with primary focus on IT and improvements to the from a takeover bid except that it should be noted that: i provisions of customer interfaces, the CFCs and the automation equipment used in them.
the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted Costs relating to the development of computer software are capitalised if it is to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover: and ii certain probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset members of senior management not including the Directors who were will accrue to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
The Company employed prior to 2010 are entitled to a payment contingent on a change is carrying out a number of IT and engineering design and build projects with of control of the Company or merger of the Company irrespective of loss of the intention of developing new and improved automation equipment and employment as set out in his or her respective employment contract.
For processes for its warehouses.
Further information is contained in the Strategic further information on the change of control provisions in the Companys Report on pages 06 to 47. share schemes refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on page 89.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS OF THE BUSINESS SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS The Groups likely future developments including its strategy are described in There are a number of agreements to which the Group is a party that take the Strategic Report on pages 06 to 47. effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES takeover bid.
Details of the significant agreements are summarised below.
Applications for employment by people with disability are always fully Morrisons Operating Agreement: The Group has a number of commercial considered, bearing in mind the respective aptitudes and abilities of the arrangements with Morrisons.
If certain competitors of Morrisons acquire more applicant concerned and our ability to make reasonable adjustments to than 50% of the voting rights in the Companys shares or take control of the the role and the work environment.
In the event of existing employees composition of the Companys Board, or acquire all or substantially all of the becoming disabled, all reasonable effort is made to ensure that their Groups business and undertakings, then Morrisons would be entitled to give employment within the Group continues.
Training, career development and notice to terminate the operating agreement by giving not less than four but promotion of a disabled person is, as far as possible, identical to that of an not more than four and a half years notice.
Following Morrisons giving such a notice, Morrisons would be entitled to PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS procure equivalent services from third parties, the Company ceasing to be The Groups results for the period are set out in the Consolidated Income Morrisons exclusive supplier of online grocery fulfilment services.
The Groups profit before tax for the period amounted all restrictions on the UK retail grocers to whom the Company is entitled to to 1.0 million 2016: 12.1 million.
provide certain services would fall away.
The Directors do not propose to pay a dividend for the period 2016: nil.
At the end of the four to four and a half years notice period, the Company POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS would be required to purchase Morrisons shares in MHE JVCo Limited the There have been no material events after the balance sheet date of owner of the mechanical handling equipment in Dordon CFC.
3 December 2017 to the date of this Annual Report.
Sourcing Agreement with Waitrose: The Companys primary operating INDEPENDENT AUDITOR subsidiary, Ocado Retail Limited ORL, is party to the Sourcing Agreement with The Companys auditor, Deloitte, have indicated their willingness to Waitrose and its parent company, John Lewis.
If certain competitors of Waitrose continue their role as the Companys auditor.
Resolutions concerning the or John Lewis acquire 50% or more of the shares or control of the Companys re-appointment of Deloitte as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Board, then each of ORL, Waitrose and John Lewis may terminate the Sourcing Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM and set Agreement.
In these circumstances, ORL is obliged to pay Waitrose the lower of out in the Notice of Meeting.
For further information on the re-appointment of 40 million and 4% of the market capitalisation of the Company.
This change of the auditors, refer to pages 68 to 69 of the Audit Committee report.
control provision will cease to bind the parties if, prior to the change of control, any party has already given a valid notice of termination.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2016, each Director Amended and Restated Credit Facility Agreement: The Group has an who held office at the date of the approval of this Directors Report whose unsecured 100 million credit facility with Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors section on pages 52 plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Cooperative Rabobank UA and Goldman and 53 of this Annual Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there Sachs Bank USA for general corporate and working capital purposes.
If is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware, there is a change of control of the Company, and agreeable terms cannot be and that each Director has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have negotiated between the parties within 30 days from the date of the change taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant of control, any lender may cancel their commitment under the facility and all audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that outstanding utilisations for that lender, together with accrued interest, shall be information.
Senior Secured Notes due 2024: In June 2017 the Company issued STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES 250,000,000 of senior secured notes which are listed on the Irish Stock The Directors are responsible for preparing this Annual Report, the Directors Exchange.
Following a change of control of the Company, holders of the notes Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with may require it to repurchase all or part of their holding at a purchase price in applicable law and regulations.
cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of their holding, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
114 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for The Directors consider that this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business Financial Reporting Standards the IFRSs as adopted by the European model and strategy.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Each of the Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this Annual statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view Report whose names and functions are listed on pages 116 and 117 of this of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the result of Annual Report but not including Alex Mahon confirms, to the best of his or her the Company and the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial knowledge, that: statements, the Directors are required to: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and prudent: the Management Report as defined in the Directors Report on page 111 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal in the financial statements: and risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Certain statements made in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose cause actual events or results to differ materially from any expected future with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company events or results expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and include and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act and, statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Directors concerning, amongst other things, the Groups results of operations, They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business.
the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Persons receiving this report should not place undue reliance on forwarddetection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for looking statements.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law, regulation the maintenance and integrity of the Groups corporate website.
Legislation in or accounting standard, the Group does not undertake to update or revise any the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
com 115 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Report DIRECTOR BIOGRAPHIES Lord Rose Mark Richardson Chairman, 68 Chief Operations Officer, 53 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 11 March 2013 3 February 2012 Committee Membership External Appointments Nomination Chairman Non-Executive Director of Paneltex Limited External Appointments Relevant Experience Chairman of Fat Face Group Limited: Chairman of Stylemania Limited, trading Mark was Head of Technology at Ocado from 2001 until he joined the Board as Dressipi: Non-Executive Director of RM2 International S. A. : Non-Executive in 2012.
He is responsible for the day-to-day running of the Ocado operation, Director of Woolworths Holdings Limited, listed in South Africa: Chairman of including CFCs, logistics developments, customer service, business planning, Majid Al Futtaim Retail based in Dubai: Non-Executive Director of Time Out engineering and technology.
Mark is a Director of Paneltex Limited, a company Group plc: Chairman of Zenith in which the Group holds a 25% shareholding.
Prior to joining Ocado, Mark held a number of IT positions at the John Lewis Partnership, including Head Relevant Experience of Selling Systems at Waitrose.
He graduated from University College, London Lord Rose has worked in retail for over 40 years.
He has held Chief Executive with a degree in Physics.
Officer positions at Argos plc, Booker plc, Arcadia Group plc and Marks and Spencer plc.
He was Chairman of Marks and Spencer plc from 2008 to Neill Abrams 2011.
Lord Rose was knighted in 2008 for services to the retail industry and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, 53 corporate social responsibility, and granted a life peerage in August 2014.
Appointment to the Board Tim Steiner, OBE 8 September 2000 Chief Executive Officer, 48 External Appointments Appointment to the Board Non-Executive Director of Mr Price Group Limited, listed in South Africa 13 April 2000 Relevant Experience Relevant Experience Neill was on the founding team of Ocado, joining the Board in 2000.
He has Tim is the founding Chief Executive Officer of Ocado, which he started in 2000.
Board responsibility for legal, insurance, risk management, human resources Prior to Ocado, he spent eight years at Goldman Sachs, during which time he and Corporate Responsibility.
Prior to Ocado, he was a barrister in practice was based in London, Hong Kong and New York in the Fixed Income division.
at One Essex Court and spent nine years at Goldman Sachs in London in Tim graduated from Manchester University in 1992 with an honours degree in the investment banking and legal divisions.
Neill holds degrees in industrial Economics, Finance and Accountancy.
psychology and law from the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg and a Masters in Law from Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge.
He is a member Duncan Tatton-Brown of the Bar of England and Wales, the New York Bar and a South Africa Chief Financial Officer, 52 Advocate.
Appointment to the Board Ruth Anderson 1 September 2012 Non-Executive Director, 64 External Appointments Appointment to the Board Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Chairman of Zoopla 9 March 2010 Property Group plc Committee Membership Relevant Experience Audit Chairman, Remuneration, Nomination Prior to joining Ocado, Duncan was Chief Financial Officer of Fitness First plc, and previously Group Finance Director of Kingfisher plc, one of the worlds External Appointments largest home improvement retailers.
He has also been Finance Director of B&Q Non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc: Non-Executive Director of Coats plc, Chief Financial Officer of Virgin Entertainment Group and held various Group plc: Trustee and Director of The Royal Parks: Trustee of The Duke of senior finance positions at Burton Group Plc.
Duncan holds a masters degree Edinburghs Award in Engineering from Kings College, Cambridge.
He is also a member of the Relevant Experience Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Since retiring from KPMG eight years ago Ruth has gained non-executive director experience at three UK listed companies and chairs the audit committee at all three.
Ruth will be retiring from the role of Non-Executive Director at Coats Group plc in May 2018.
She was a vice-chairman of the accounting and advisory firm KPMG in the UK from 2004 to 2009 and a member of the KPMG UK board from 1998 to 2004.
She is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
116 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Douglas McCallum Andrew Harrison Non-Executive Director, 51 Non-Executive Director, 47 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 3 October 2011 1 March 2016 Committee Membership Committee Membership Remuneration Chairman, Nomination Audit, Remuneration, Nomination External Appointments External Appointments Chairman of Trainline and PhotoBox Chairman of Carphone Warehouse Ltd: Trustee to the charity The Mix Relevant Experience Relevant Experience Douglas has been a pioneer of the Internet industry for a number of years, Andrew was appointed as Chairman of Carphone Warehouse Ltd in December having been at eBay Inc. from 2001 to 2014, where he led the UK business and 2017, having previously served as Deputy Group Chief Executive of Dixons then turned around the pan-European business.
Prior to joining eBay Inc. he Carphone Plc since August 2014 and prior to that as Chief Executive Officer of was founder and general manager of a number of businesses in the Internet, Carphone Warehouse Plc.
Having joined in 1995, Andrew was appointed UK CEO broadcasting, software and hardware industries.
Douglas read Politics, of Carphone Warehouse in 2001.
He led the growth of the UK business to become Philosophy and Economics at the University of Oxford, and has an MBA from the market leader in the mobile sector, and developed the fixed line strategy which Harvard Business School.
led to the creation of the TalkTalk division.
Andrew was responsible for taking Carphone Warehouse to the US in 2006, and instrumental in the creation of the Jrn Rausing highly successful Best Buy Mobile JV.
From 2009 Andrew was responsible for both Non-Executive Director, 57 Carphone Warehouse and Phone House operations, becoming Chief Executive Officer of the Best Buy JV in 2010.
Andrew graduated with a BA in Management Appointment to the Board Studies from the University of Leeds in 1992.
13 March 2003 Emma Lloyd Committee Membership Non-Executive Director, 48 Nomination Appointment to the Board External Appointments 1 December 2016 Group Board Member of Tetra Laval: Board Member of Alfa Laval AB: Board Member of DeLaval Holding AB: Member of the Board of Governors of the Museum of London Committee Membership Nomination Relevant Experience Jrn has over 25 years experience in corporate development and External Appointments international mergers and acquisitions.
Jrn holds a degree in Business Director of Corporate Development, Partnerships and Investments of Sky plc Administration from Lund University, Sweden.
Relevant Experience As Skys Group Director of Business Development and Strategic Partnerships Emma identifies and nurtures key strategic relationships with Skys technology partners.
Emma has overseen the creation of Skys start-up venture investment function and US presence, leading to the investment in over 20 technology start-ups.
Emma graduated with a BA Joint Hons in Management Studies and Geography from the University of Leeds in 1992.
The Directors Report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Neill Abrams GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY Ocado Group plc Registered in England and Wales Number 07098618 6 February 2018 The Board of Directors' are found on pages 52 and 53 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
