OCADO Retail We dont just deliver shopping, we liberate our customers time.
We Within the year we have extended our provide wider choice, save them money and free up their time to product range by adding new suppliers spend on the important things in life which are usually not found in and shop-in-shops such as Hotel a supermarket.
Powered by fresh thinking, we seek new and improved Chocolat and our vegan webshop ways to deliver exactly what customers order, exactly when they want allowing customers to further extend it, where they want it.
their shopping experience all on one website.
Our aim is to provide a market-leading proposition to our customers in terms of range, service and price and we are constantly reviewing our Our proprietary software and competitors to ensure we remain ahead of the game.
algorithms enable us to personalise the shopping experience to individual The Ocado Smart Pass helps drive customer loyalty by offering customers displaying product ranges customers free deliveries and specialised discounts on selected most relevant to them based on prior products.
This encourages customers to shop regularly at Ocado and shopping history and preferences.
therefore drives sales through our platform.
Over 70% of our sales are We work with all our suppliers on now conducted through Smart Pass.
how to best showcase their products We recognise that customers shop in different ways, and aim to to their target audience and enable provide flexibility within our proposition to ensure it is suitable and greater visibility and prioritisation convenient.
Our service is supported across a variety of interfaces, for suppliers who wish to have it from the Apple watch to mobile and tablet applications, to ensure through mechanisms such as banner customers can create and amend their orders on the go.
We offer the advertising, dedicated shop-inflexibility of one hour delivery slots, seven days a week from 5.30am to shops, and personalised coupons for 11.30pm, ensuring our customers can find a convenient delivery time our customers.
This helps target the to suit their schedules.
right customers and provides rich data insight into shopping habits for our To enable easy shopping we analyse our interfaces and tools on our suppliers.
webshops to support customers' shopping habits.
For example, during Alongside our traditional grocery the year we launched our Ocado Regulars feature on our webshop.
range we also have a growing general This enables shoppers to select any product within our range and merchandise business which now incorporate it into their Regulars list so that it is automatically added contributes over 7% of our retail at a given frequency of their choice e. g. weekly monthly to their A revenue.
This includes the kind of shopping list.
This means that when they start their weekly shop at traditional non-food categories you Ocado their basket will already be populated with the items they would typically find in supermarkets, regularly buy and they can focus on what is special to them this week.
which sit within our Ocado.
com This subscription-style trend and way of shopping is likely to continue hypermarket, as well as our specialist over time with more and more products delivered automatically to us destination sites: Fetch, our specialist based on what the ever more powerful AI engines around us working pet shop: Sizzle, our kitchen and dining out what we want and need.
ware store: and Fabled in partnership Supported by market-leading technology and our centralised with Marie Claire, our premium fulfilment model we are able to ensure a consistent and superior beauty store.
Hosting these dedicated customer service with 95.0% on-time deliveries and 98.8% order destination sites drives the range of accuracy.
Our outstanding customer service has been acknowledged products made available to us by throughout the industry, and we recently were shortlisted for the niche suppliers and brands, allowing European Customer Call Centre Award.
us to vastly extend our range beyond that of conventional supermarkets.
We aim to operate a competitive and transparent pricing policy for our customers.
We price match our products to equivalent baskets of the market leader, Tesco.
com, and communicate any price variances directly to the consumer with any negative variances refunded in the form of vouchers.
We have continued to offer a broader range than the market, and now offer over 49,000 SKUs on our Ocado.
This is far beyond what a typical supermarket, which is limited by space constraints, could provide.
Alongside national brands, we stock our own and Waitrose private-label products as well as niche and speciality brands which would not typically be found in traditional supermarkets.
See Alternative Performance A All numbers on this page are reported on a 52 week basis Measures on page 196 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 16 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM Strategic Report SUPPLIERS AND OPERATIONAL WHERE WE OPERATE OUR PARTNERS LOCATIONS AND COVERAGE Our suppliers range from large national We operate a hub and spoke delivery brands to smaller, niche and speciality network.
We fulfil our orders through our players as well as offering our private three CFC sites in Hatfield, Dordon and label selection to our customers.
We Andover and plan to open our fourth currently work with around 4,300 and largest CFC next year in Erith, South different suppliers to service our Ocado London.
Around a third of our orders hypermarket.
"are delivered directly from our CFCs, with the remaining being ""trunked"" to Since launching Ocado."
com we our spoke sites, where the orders are have enjoyed a long-term sourcing cross docked to local delivery vans and agreement with Waitrose part of the distributed to the surrounding areas.
Our current have 17 spoke sites within our network contract runs to 2020.
This combines and currently deliver to over 74% of our respective product volumes and UK households.
Around a third of our growth profiles to improve supply geography have same-day delivery slot terms for both parties, and enables availability.
us to sell Waitrose branded products on Ocado.
We pay Waitrose a sourcing fee under the agreement and deal directly with suppliers for the majority of the range.
CFC 4 Erith opening this year 2 3 GENERAL MERCHANDISE 4 DISTRIBUTION CENTRES A. GMDC 1 Welwyn Garden City B. GMDC 2 Erith opening this year 2 SPOKE SITES 7 1.
Crawley Stock Code: OCDO | www.
