OUR BUSINESS Model Our business was established to revolutionise the way the world shops.
Our commitment is to provide our retail and corporate customers with the best proposition in online shopping utilising our proprietary, market leading technologies and innovations.
OUR INPUTS Our model is monetised through two customer segments.
People Our business is built by colleagues OCADO RETAIL who innovate, find solutions, and deliver world class service.
Our technology and engineering development teams are crucial to our ability to innovate at a rapid pace, advance our intellectual property and maintain technological leadership.
Our growing retail business encompasses both our Ocado.
com webshop and our general merchandise destination sites Fetch, Fabled and Sizzle.
We also Technology have a small but growing wholesale operation currently for Morrisons and Our technology estate is very broad Dobbies.
Our compelling retail proposition allows customers to shop our and deep, covering real-time control extensive product range at competitive prices and receive what we believe systems and robotics, computer to be industry-leading customer service levels.
This helps drive customer vision systems, machine learning satisfaction and in turn growth within our business.
and AI, data science, forecasting and SIGNIFICANT PARTNERS routing systems, inference engines, Waitrose the cloud, Internet of Things, big Marie Claire data and more.
SIGNIFICANT ASSETS CFC and spoke network Intellectual Property End-to-end logistics platform In order to retain our competitive Compelling and market-leading customer proposition in terms of service, advantage from our technology range and price innovations we take careful Loyal and growing customer base measures to protect our intellectual Operationally efficient and profitable model property and inventions and file Trusted brand multiple patent applications to Strong relationships with a diverse range of suppliers safeguard this.
Our patent activities Experienced and trusted leadership are intended to create a web of protection for our intellectual property.
THE PLATFORM Financial We use our financial capital to proactively invest in our people, our technologies and infrastructure to ensure we remain a market leader.
We continuously develop our complete modular, automated and scalable online retail, fulfilment and delivery solution, called the Ocado Smart Platform, to support our current and future Solutions partners.
The Ocado Smart Platform gives us the opportunity to grow and continue to innovate to further disrupt our marketplace.
As a result, we are able to secure and sustain competitive advantage.
SIGNIFICANT ASSETS End-to-end e-commerce solution Flexibility within the platform to tailor to requirements of partners Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 08 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM Strategic Report CREATING VALUE FOR: Retail Customers We offer a compelling proposition to consumers OCADO SOLUTIONS including a highly attractive service, wider and fresher ranges, and competitive prices.
Read more about Ocado Retail on pages 16 and 17 Solutions Customers Ocado Smart Platform, our end-to-end offering Ocado Solutions is the business where of proprietary software and equipment solutions, we take our online know-how to retailers around the world.
Leveraging our built and maintained by us, offers retail partners proprietary best-in-class technology with the Ocado Smart Platform, and the a faster, flexible and more cost-efficient way of knowledge and experience of Ocados retail business, we aim to become the operating online.
e-commerce solutions partner of choice for leading retailers globally looking to launch and develop their online operations.
Read more about Ocado Solutions on pages 18 and 19 SIGNIFICANT PARTNERS Morrisons Shareholders Groupe Casino As revenues grow from both our Retail customer Regional European retailer base and new Solutions customers, we will be able Sobeys to improve our profitability and reinvest in growth and innovation, increasing shareholder value.
SIGNIFICANT ASSETS Proven track record for powering successful online grocery businesses Innovative and market-leading technology and IP Read more about Our Platform on page 10 Growing sales team to help nurture and drive analysis and strategic conversations with partners Our People Strong culture of innovation and out-of-the-box thinking We strive to make Ocado an employer of choice Insightful and continued dialogue with strategically aligned partners and invest a significant amount of time and resources in recruiting talented employees and developing their skills.
Read more about Our People on pages 46 and 47 THE PLATFORM Society The Ocado Foundation helps our customers and employees to make targeted actions at a local level across the UK.
INVESTMENT Read more in Corporate Responsibility on pages 42 to 45 GROWTH INNOVATION Environment EFFICIENCY We are focused on continually improving our carbon emissions and waste efficiencies.
The automation within our infrastructure enables these efficiencies.
Read more in Corporate Responsibility Our Platform creates value through a virtuous on pages 42 to 45 cycle.
Read more on page 10 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
