OCADO Within the Marketplace retailers have attempted to sustain UK GROCERY MARKET SIZE RETAIL profitability in growth by investing in, or The UK Grocery Market 250 merging with, companies in other retail Grocery is the largest of all retail segments.
segments and in the UK is forecast to 200 grow by 15% over the next five years Across the industry we are seeing 150 from 185 billion to 213 billion IGD.
shoppers lead increasingly digitally dependent lives.
It therefore becomes 100 Alongside this substantial growth, the more vital to harness technology to UK grocery market is going through 50 improve the customer experience in a a period of adaptation as the UK competitive market both online and Government negotiates Brexit.
We are seeing an increase in 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 has accelerated the need for grocery innovation, ranging from electronic inretailers to look to ways to maximise Market value bn store pricing to voice activated grocery efficiency and reduce costs within their Source: IGD ordering, to support this trend and it is operations to sustain profitability becoming an important differentiator in and further invest in their customer THE UK GROCERY MARKET GROWTH IN THE UK GROCERY managing costs and enhancing loyalty proposition.
IN 2017 MARKET BETWEEN 2017 AND across the industry.
2022 Price and Cost Dynamics Impact on Retailers 100 60.0 After several years of ongoing price 53.8 Given the low margins in the industry, deflation within the grocery market we 90 86.00 retailers need to be cost efficient and 49.8 have seen the return of inflation, driven 50.0 80 behave rationally when deciding by retailers adjusting pricing following 70 strategic priorities on price, proposition the fall in the value of sterling after the 40.0 and channel offering.
60 50 30.0 Regarding online, we have started to Opposing this, the market is 40.00 see changes as retailers re-examine experiencing labour cost inflation 40 their online propositions and focus on 20.0 17.7 driven by a rise in the national living 30 20.10 profit and sustainability over short-term wage combined with a tightening of the 16.20 20 growth.
11.80 labour market as some EU residents 10.0 10.40 5.9 3.6 10 return to their home countries in the The size of the grocery market results 1.0 wake of sterlings decline.
This will 0 0 in significant opportunities for impact retailers across the UK and is retailers and throughout the industry likely to put pressure on margins.
we are seeing a continued focus on the customer proposition through The Shape of UK Grocery differentiated formats, technology and The grocery landscape is changing Source: IGD Source: IGD service levels.
rapidly, most significantly through the online channel.
IGD forecast that over UK GROCERY 2017 TOTAL SALES GROWTH WHAT THIS MEANS FOR OCADO the next five years the online share of We continue to grow in excess of the 15 the market will rival hypermarkets at UK grocery market enabling operating close to 16 billion.
Its growth is being 12 leverage and stronger margins to fuelled both by innovation from existing reinvest into our proposition and 9 players and by new market entrants.
remain an innovator within the market.
This distinctive shift in consumer spend 6 Being a pure-play online retailer we are makes it essential for retailers to rethink well placed to take advantage of the 3 their format structures and priorities.
As other retailers step back to readdress their offer, we Alongside online, IGD predicts 0 continue to build capacity and capture continued significant growth from the -3 market share.
Our growth enables hard discount sector which attracts us to further invest in our industryand retains customers through deep -6 leading technology and IP to ensure we discounts on a limited range of maintain our competitive edge.
This places intense pressure on margins as established national chains adjust their pricing propositions Source: IGD, Company data in an attempt to differentiate and compete.
In addition, some food Read more about Ocado Retail on pages 16 and 17 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 20 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM Total Sales Growth % 2017 Value bn Grocery retail market size bn Hypermarkets Lidl Supermarkets Aldi Convenience Discount Morrisons Online Tesco Other Retailers Sainsburys Change in Value % 2017-2022 Asda Hypermarkets Ocado Supermarkets Convenience Discount Online Other Retailers Strategic Report SOLUTIONS Impact on Retailers WHAT THIS MEANS FOR OCADO As the online channel continues to grow Our Solutions team aims to leverage our industryThe Global Grocery Market this presents both a huge opportunity and leading capabilities within online grocery to capitalise on By 2021 IGD estimates that the global a significant challenge for grocery retailers opportunities arising from the ongoing channel shift across grocery retail market will expand by $2.4 who must now determine which channels to the world.
trillion driven by growth in population and invest in to best retain their customers and wealth, providing sustainable and attractive Through our years of experience within grocery e-commerce continue to grow profitably in an increasingly opportunities for retailers.
In some regions, we have developed modular, scalable and customisable competitive market.
most notably Asia and the Middle East, solutions to meet retailers e-commerce needs.
Utilising our we are seeing this growth also driven by flagship product, the Ocado Smart Platform, we believe The Market for Online Grocery Solutions significant inflation.
Europe and North we can help grocery retailers globally launch and develop There are several options for retailers looking America combined will account for 38% industry leading online propositions to their customers, to invest in their online proposition, and the of the share of total grocery sales by 2021, further accelerating channel shift.
route retailers choose will depend on their highlighting the continued importance of perception of potential market size, internal these regions globally.
To read more about our Ocado Solutions capabilities and strategic positioning.
business see pages 18 and 19 The Changing Shape of Global Grocery Some retailers have chosen to develop Outside of a few regions, online grocery is their capabilities in-house through a still too small to be disruptive.
However, as variety of options including store picking we see the continued adoption of technology ONLINE GROCERY PENETRATION capabilities, click and collect sites, and the on a global scale, as well as new competitors construction of dark stores.
This has been 10% entering the market, we are seeing 9% done either by purchasing or developing e-commerce strategies shift up retailers 8% a variety of software solutions including agendas.
7% front-end interfaces, supply chain forecasting, 6% warehouse management software and routing Online penetration in grocery has lagged 5% algorithms.
other retail segments due to the complexities 4% 3% of fulfilling food online given the number of Others have chosen to use one of the 2% products that typically make up an order and increasing number of e-commerce solutions 1% the variety of temperatures they require to 0% providers, hosting a variety of services to keep fresh.
Globally, we see online grocery enable retailers' online propositions.
penetration most pronounced in regions Popular solutions include Instacart and where overall online shopping is highest Shipt which provide a full solution to the such as South Korea and Japan, indicating Source: Citi Research, Korea Statistics Office, Kantar retailer by using crowdsourced labour to the direction of travel for other regions as we pick and deliver the retailers products to enter an increasingly digitalised era.
ECONOMIC INDICATORS POINT TOWARDS GROWTH the customer, although sometimes retaining During the year we saw significant moves the customer data.
The challenge with most by Amazon to grow its presence in grocery of these solutions is that they result in high Regional GDP US$ billions 300 Africa retailing, including the launch and rollBase year 2011100 processing costs per order and face service Constant $ rate 2011 out of Amazon Fresh into new regions, 250 challenges such as poor product availability.
Asia development of their Amazon Pantry and Middle East Latin America 200 Retailers looking to service a more significant Prime Now offerings, and, most importantly, World online market may migrate from a store the acquisition of Whole Foods Market Oceania 150 North America picking solution to larger, centralised sites, Europe with 471 supermarkets in the US and UK.
most commonly known in the industry as 100 This significant industry development 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 dark stores.
Dark stores are not open to the highlighted the companys strategic priorities Source: IGD Research, IMF public and range from being purely manual and provided the retailer with vital grocery facilities to utilising physical equipment credentials to complement and accelerate its provided by third party logistics firms in other ambitions in online grocery.
The global reach retail segments.
and technical prowess of Amazon has caused retailers globally to re-examine the strategic The complexity of online grocery makes importance of their own e-commerce profitable online fulfilment challenging, and propositions.
the development of sustainable solutions is essential to ensure continued long-term growth for retailers.
