William Hill PLC 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report The directors present their Annual Report The Company is not aware of any Strategic Report on the affairs of the Group, together with agreements between shareholders that The Board has prepared a Strategic the financial statements and auditors may result in restrictions on the transfer Report which provides an overview of the report, for the period ended 26 December of securities and voting rights.
There development and performance of the 2017.
The following also form part of are no restrictions on the transfer of Groups business for the period ended this report: ordinary shares in the Company other 26 December 2017 and which covers likely than certain restrictions imposed by pages 54 and 55, which show the names future developments in the Group.
This will include Chairmans overview, CEOs statement, of all persons who were directors of the the Market Abuse Regulation, insider Company during the period.
In addition, business overviews, the strategic priorities, trading laws and general requirements key performance indicators, regulation Ashley Highfield served as a director of relating to close periods.
Also included will and marketplace report, divisional and the Company until he retired from the be the requirements of the Companys performance overviews, corporate Board on 16 November 2017: Share Dealing policies, which follow responsibility report, financial review and the reports on corporate governance the requirements of the Market Abuse managing our risks sections together setout on pages 51 to 97: Regulation, and whereby directors and provide information which the directors certain employees of the Company require information relating to financial consider to be of strategic importance to the necessary approval to deal in the instruments, as provided in the notes the Group.
tothe financial statements: related party transactions as set out in Each ordinary share of the Company Results and dividends note 33 to the financial statements: and carries one vote.
Further information on The Groups loss on ordinary activities the rights and obligations attaching to the greenhouse gas emissions, set out on after taxation for the period was 83.2m Companys ordinary shares, in addition pages 33 and 43.
The directors recommend to those conferred on their holders by a final dividend of 8.94p per share to Details of Committee memberships for law, are set out in the Companys Articles be paid on 7 June 2018 to ordinary each director are set out on pages 54 of Association, a copy of which can be shareholders on the Register of Members and 55.
Details of the directors interests obtained from the Company Secretary, and on 27 April 2018 which, if approved, together are set out on page 93 of the directors is also available on the Companys website, with the interim dividend of 4.26p per share Remuneration Report.
paid on 30 November 2017, makes a total of 13.2p per share for the period.
Changes to the Articles of Association Management report must be approved by special resolution For the purposes of compliance with DTR of the Company.
The holders of ordinary Directors and officers liability 4.1.
8R, the required shares are entitled to receive the insurance content of the Management Report can Companys report and accounts, to attend Pursuant to Article 155 of the Articles of be found in the Strategic Report and this and speak at general meetings of the Association and subject to the provisions Directors Report, including the sections Company, to appoint proxies or corporate of the Companies Act 2006, the directors of the Annual Report and Accounts representatives and to exercise voting and officers of the Company shall be incorporated by reference.
rights, and to receive a dividend, as and indemnified out of the assets of the when declared.
Company, against liability in defending Annual Report and Accounts proceedings, whether civil or criminal, in The directors are aware of their Share Repurchase Programme which judgement is given in their favour or responsibilities in respect of the Annual in which they are acquitted or in connection The Board did not decide to extend Reports and Accounts.
The directors with any application in which relief is the Share Repurchase Programme consider that the Annual Report and granted to them by the court from liability which completed in December 2016 in Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced for negligence, default, breach of duty or accordance with a strategy outlined to and understandable and provides the breach of trust in relation to the affairs of investors with the announcement of the information necessary for shareholders the Company.
In addition the Group has 2015 full-year results, and accordingly to assess the Companys position and purchased and maintains directors and no shares were repurchased during the performance, business model and strategy.
officers insurance cover against certain year 2016: 29,573,675 ordinary shares of Further information regarding related legal liabilities and costs for claims incurred 10p each.
processes can be found in the Audit and in respect of any act or omission in the 726,027 of the acquired shares were Risk Management Committee Report on execution of their duties.
The Statement of Directors subsequently disposed of during the year tosatisfy existing awards under the Groups Responsibilities appears on page 101.
Share capital share and incentive schemes, and it is the As at 23 February 2018, the Company current intention of the directors that the had an allotted and fully paid-up share remaining treasury shareholding will either capital of 887,295,272 ordinary shares of continue to be held in treasury, or will be 10p each with an aggregate nominal value used to similarly satisfy existing and future of88,729,527, which included 28,412,588 share and incentive scheme awards.
There were therefore 858,882,684 ordinary shares in issue as at 23 February 2018 excluding treasury shares.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99 In the UK, the Company operates an HMRCSubstantial shareholdings Significant agreements approved UK Sharesave Plan which is open change of control As at 26 December 2017, the Company had to all eligible employees.
Options under been notified, in accordance with either the There are no significant agreements to the scheme are granted with an exercise Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the which the Company is party which take price up to 20% below the prevailing share Financial Conduct Authority and the EU effect, alter or terminate in the event of a price.
The maximum permissible monthly Market Abuse Directive, of the notifiable change of control in the Company following savings under the scheme is 500 for interests in the ordinary share capital of the a takeover bid.
Company set out in the table below.
This follows an increase in saving limits Name of holder Percentage shareholding Nevada and New Jersey from 250 per month, which continues to regulation Parvus Asset be the maximum amount which may be saved for savings contracts started before Management Europe Shareholders of WilliamHill are subject Limited I 11.94% 2014.
Employees in selected other countries toregulation by the Nevada State Gaming in which the Company operates may Control Board and the Nevada Gaming Capital Group participate in local share saving schemes, Commission as a result of the Companys Companies, Inc D 10.88% which for operational, tax or legislative ownership of licensed subsidiaries in Aberdeen Standard reasons may differ in operation compared Nevada and the Companys registration Life plc D 5.83% to the UK.
as a publicly traded company operating Schroders plc D 5.121% in Nevada.
Information regarding Nevada WilliamHill is committed to equal Silchester gaming regulatory requirements can be opportunities in the workplace.
In International Investors found and assessed by shareholders at all aspects of employment including LLP D 5.053% www.
recruitment, promotion, training and Morgan Stanley D 5.04% development and terms and conditions To support the conversion of redeemable of employment, all employees and Norges Bank D 3.05% preference shares in NYX Gaming Group applicants for employment are given Limited, prior to the disposal of the Groups equal opportunities regardless of gender, In the period 26 December 2017 to interests in NYX Gaming Group to Scientific marital or family status, race, nationality, 23 February 2018, the following changes Games Corporation, and in furtherance ethnic origin, religion, age, disability and were disclosed to the Company in of the potential for New Jersey sports sexual orientation.
WilliamHill endeavours accordance with Article 19 of the Market betting and online gaming, it was necessary to ensure that all employees are made Abuse Regulation: for the Group to apply for licensure with aware of the provisions of the policy the New Jersey State Division of Gaming Name of holder Percentage shareholding and of their responsibility to uphold and Enforcement.
Further information Parvus Asset promote it.
WilliamHill will not tolerate regarding the New Jersey regulators Management Europe harassment, discrimination or victimisation requirements can be found on the Division Limited I 9.99% in the workplace in any form.
Applications of Gaming Enforcements website at for employment by disabled persons Aberdeen Standard http: www.
are always fully and fairly considered, Life plc D 4.77% below 5% bearing in mind the aptitude and ability Morgan Stanley D Below 3% Employee policies of the applicant concerned.
In the event The Group places considerable value of employees becoming disabled, every Nature of holding D Direct I Indirect onthe involvement of its employees and effort is made to ensure that their has continued to keep them informed employment within the Group continues on matters affecting them as employees and that appropriate training is arranged.
and on the various factors affecting It continues to be the policy of the Group the performance of the Group.
This is that the training, career development and achieved through formal and informal promotion of disabled persons should meetings and through Go2 WilliamHill, as far as is feasible be identical to that the employee website which replaced the ofother employees.
Group magazine Will2win during the year.
An employee engagement survey, which was enhanced during the year, is also conducted annually, the results of which are communicated to employees for review and to managers for action.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly through colleague forums on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
William Hill PLC 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report continued Political donations Annual General Meeting There were no political donations made The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on 8 May or political expenditure incurred during 2018 at Radisson Blu Edwardian Hotel, 9-13 the period in respect of EU political Bloomsbury Street, WC1B 3QD.
The notice parties, candidates or organisations of the AGM and an explanation of the items 2016: nil.
The Board has, however, given of non-routine business are set out in the approval for certain subsidiaries in respect explanatory circular that accompanies this of WilliamHills US business to make Annual Report.
In the US, it is far more common for corporations to Auditor and disclosure of participate in the political process through information to auditor a variety of methods, including raising Each of the directors in office at the ordonating funds to political candidates.
date when this report was approved Theapproval from the Board will permit confirms that: theUS business to decide and agree on modest political contributions to candidates so far as the director is aware, there is no for political office in jurisdictions where the relevant audit information of which the Company is doing or seeks to do business.
Companys auditor is unaware: and Contributions to political candidates do not the director has taken all the steps that guarantee that elected officials will support they ought to have taken as a director a particular piece of legislation or otherwise in order to make themselves aware of act in their official capacity to benefit the any relevant audit information and to Company, rather, they assist in electing establish that the Companys auditor is individuals whom the Company believes aware of that information.
are likely to support its business goals and in establishing productive working Deloitte LLP have expressed their relationships with elected representatives.
willingness to be re-appointed as auditor of the Company.
A resolution to re-appoint The Board therefore continues to believe Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor will that giving approval for the US business to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
make such political contributions is essential for the Company to fully participate in the Other information required to American political process.
In respect of be incorporated by reference the US, political expenditure of $32,000 was incurred in 2017 2016: $55,200 For the purposes of compliance with Listing and included contributions to both the Rule 9.8.
4, the following information is American Gaming Association and individual hereby incorporated by reference within campaigns exclusively in Nevada state.
this Directors Report: Listing Rule Location within Requirement LR the Annual Report Authority to purchase own shares LR 9.8.
6R 1 Directors An authority for the Company to purchase Directors interests Remuneration Report its own shares remains valid until the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, By order of the Board when it is intended that a resolution will Luke Thomas be put forward to shareholders to renew Company Secretary, WilliamHill PLC such authority.
23 February 2018 Issue of new ordinary shares Registered Office: Greenside House, During the financial period ended 50 Station Road, Wood Green, 26 December 2017, no new ordinary shares London N22 7TP of the Company were issued on account ofthe Remuneration Committee approving a revised policy whereby either the treasury shares acquired by the Company under the 2016 Share Repurchase Programme, or where required market purchase shares would be used via the Companys Employee Benefit Trust, to satisfy all existing and future share and incentive scheme awards.
