William Hill PLC 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our marketplace Our markets The UK WilliamHills core strategy is The UK is WilliamHills to invest inregulated markets primary market, generating where we can take a licence and 82% of Group net revenue operate sustainably.
We have 28% ofthe betting shops and Approximately 96% of the Groups revenues around 11% of the digital were generated from such markets in 2017. betting and gaming We also take revenues from regulating markets revenues.
where we have formed a risk-assessed legal Around 48% of the UK adult population view on each market.
participates in gambling a month, including the National Lottery.
The UK generated 13.7bn of gross 1 gambling yield GGY in the last year.
Market overview Within this, digital has become the largest Land-based activities remain part of the UK market, accounting for 34% Gambling takes many forms and the format of choice for most of GGY and growing 10% in the last year.
varies from country to country.
gambling customers, generating Betting revenues licensed betting offices The industry consists of 89% of the 395bn gross LBOs and on-course bookmakers remain 1 government-run operations, gambling yield.
Online gambling resilient in spite of the rapid digital growth, licensed monopolies or open first started in earnest in 1998 up 1% in the same period.
In some while mobile gambling became countries there is an outright more prominent from 2010 ban on gambling.
In many countries, UK market share by number of products are available, from gambling regulations were of LBOs lotteries to sports betting, casino originally designed with land- % games, poker and bingo.
And based operations in mind.
With theyre accessed in many different digital gambling overcoming formats, from land-based clubs, physical borders, governments pubs, casinos, betting shops and aregradually moving to update race tracks to online gambling.
their regulations to take account of online and mobile gambling.
This is creating opportunities for companies such as WilliamHill who have built a substantial digital business.
Technology has become a key enabler of differentiation Ladbrokes Coral 40% and innovation, opening up both WilliamHill 28% new products such as in-play betting and new channels such Betfred 20% asmobile gambling.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 Online was regulated by the Gambling Commission on a point of transaction basis from 2007.
In November 2014, the regulations changed to a point of consumption basis and from December 2014 all licensed operators have been taxed on that same basis, paying 15% General Betting Duty and 15% Remote Gaming Duty.
Online GGY in the last year was 4.7bn, 41%from betting and 59% from gaming, up10% year-on-year.
As the market matures, this is expected to slow to 7%CAGR between 2017 and 2022.
Years of low barriers to entry encouraged the proliferation of gambling companies.
Although the barriers are now higher and increasing the market remains fragmented, with the Gambling Commission reporting 788 remote gambling activities The UK LBO industry is a key contributor UK retail 2 licensed by them.
We support around LBOs were first legalised in 1961 when the 43,000 full-time equivalent jobs and Sports betting is a key product for driving Government recognised that significant ourtotal economic contribution is around customer acquisition, benefiting from a levels of gambling were happening illegally.
3.2bn towards GDP, including around relatively lower cost per acquisition, longer The number of betting shops reached 1bna year to Treasury through direct, customer lifespans and good cross-selling apeak of c16,000 in the 1970s and then 3 indirect and employee taxes.
It also offers the greatest has declined to the current level of c8,500.
opportunity for competitive differentiation Overthe last five years, the number of As a well-regulated industry, we also and controlling sports betting technology LBOs has declined 7%.
provide a safe environment for gambling iskey to both driving innovation and rapidly activities, with colleagues regularly trained The LBO market has consolidated over the responding to changes in the market.
to identify potentially harmful gambling decades and three major operators now behaviour and to engage with customers 2 account for 88% of shops.
WilliamHill is toencourage responsible gambling.
the second largest operator, but the leading brand by number of shops.
UK online 2 LBO GGY in the last year was 3.2bn, Online, including mobile, is the 43%from betting and 57% from gaming.
fastest growing segment of the UK Over the last five years, GGY from the LBOs gambling industry.
has increased at 1% CAGR in spite of the rapid growth of digital gambling.
Customer First established in 1998, in the early experience is a key reason for the LBOs years the market was led by the major continuing popularity with customers.
land-based brands notably WilliamHill and Ladbrokes as the most recognised The regulatory environment for LBOs last and trusted operators.
The entrance changed significantly with the Gambling ofmore technology-led, specialist online Act 2005 and the regulation of gaming operators eroded the leaders market share.
We pay 15% for General Betting However, the established brands fought Duty and 25% for Machine Games Duty.
back, addressing their technology gaps and investing in marketing to re-establish competitive positions.
Gambling Commission Industry Statistics, April 2016 to March 2017, published November 2017.
William Hill PLC 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our marketplace continued Our markets International markets Changing regulations are opening up opportunities in international markets, primarily in digital but also in the US in landbased sports betting.
Thisenables us to diversify our sources of revenue.
In addition to the UK and Gibraltar, WilliamHill is currently licensed in other territories including In Delaware, sports betting is run by the US Nevada, Australia, Italy, Delaware State Lottery and WilliamHill US The US market is dominated by landSpain and the Republic is the exclusive bookmaker for that service, based casinos and lotteries.
Online in partnership with Scientific Games.
gaming is largely illegal with only Delaware, New Jersey and Nevada having licensed A number of states have been exploring operators to provide certain gaming ways to challenge PASPA and enable products.
Online sports betting is illegal land-based or intra-state mobile sports under the Interstate Wire Act 1961.
The most advanced legal challenge sponsored sports betting land-based and has been progressed by New Jersey, which online is banned under the Professional sought to decriminalise sports betting in and Amateur Sports Protection Act 1992 the state within casinos and race tracks.
PASPA in all but four states Nevada, In December 2017, the Supreme Court Delaware, Montana and Oregon.
heard arguments in the state of New Jerseys challenge.
In Nevada, sports books have to be sited within casinos and are typically either To date, 13 states have progressed or run by the casino operator themselves passed legislation that would enable sports or outsourced to a specialist end-to-end betting in those states should PASPA operator.
WilliamHill US is the largest such be overturned by the Supreme Court.
operator, having been created through the Adecision is expected in 2018. acquisition and consolidation of three small operators.
Nevada also permits mobile betting for customers who create their accounts through the casino sports books.
The Nevada sports betting market generated $5.2bn of amounts wagered 1 and $293m of revenues.
WilliamHill US has57% market share by number of outlets, operating 108ofthe 190 sports books in the state.
WilliamHill US has a 57% market share by number of outlets 1.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21 Australia Australia has the highest per capita spend among the ten largest gambling countries, and is seeing double-digit growth in online gambling.
It has a narrow regulatory regime with only pre-match betting allowed online.
Sports betting or wagering as it is known locally accounts for 17% of the Australian gambling market at A$3.1bn of GGY a year.
Between 2012 and 2016, total betting grew at around 9% CAGR, within which online grew at 21%.
Online betting is projected to grow at12% CAGR between 2017 and 2022.
Under the Interactive Gambling Act 2001, pre-match betting is permitted online but in-play betting and gaming are prohibited.
Australias online betting market is more consolidated than in the UK and a number of European operators have moved into Italy and Spain Rest of World the market in recent years, including A number of European countries have WilliamHill also generates revenues in WilliamHill, Paddy Power, Ladbrokes followed the UK in amending or establishing other countries via williamhill.
licensing regimes for online gambling.
markets make up c4% of Group revenue.
These markets are often described as While the revenue potential is attractive, Italy generated 1.2bn of GGY from grey or regulating.
This is because the regulatory changes and increasing costs 1 online gambling.
It is still dominated by governments have not yet updated or are are making this a challenging market.
In July gaming, which accounts for almost two in the process of updating their gambling 2017, South Australia introduced a Point of thirds of revenue.
However, sports betting legislation to take account of online or Consumption Tax.
In February 2018, a ban is becoming more established as the to create online-specific regulations.
on credit betting came into effect.
Now regulatory framework has been gradually Companies rely on legal interpretations anumber of states are also implementing widened and new developments have ofthe existing law to determine whether or considering a Point of Consumption been permitted, such as Cash In.
The online they can operate in that country.
Should this be introduced across all market is expected to grow at 7% CAGR states as an increment to existing gambling 1 over the next four years.
We have taken legal assessments of the duties and levies, the cost of sale will be countries from which we accept customers Spain generated 0.6bn of GGY from unsustainably high at more than 40% and have processes in place to monitor and online gambling.
Sports betting features of revenue.
more strongly in Spain and is the largest Therefore, further consolidation is expected single product, representing just under There are a number of countries from in the market.
Gaming revenues are which we will not accept customers.
This growing rapidly following the regulation varies from countries such as the US and ofslots games in 2015.
With no prominent Turkey where we believe online gambling land-based sports betting incumbent, is explicitly illegal, to France where online the market is led by the major European gambling is regulated, but we have chosen operators.
The online market is expected not to take a licence because the tax regime to grow at 18% CAGR over the next is prohibitive.
