STRATEGY IN ACTION ACCELERATE OUR COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY We see long-term structural growth in the industrial and logistics sector, which will significantly improve the returns we generate for the business, and we are well positioned to meet the needs of occupiers.
We have continued with our speculative unit build programme, in response to market demand for good quality commercial space in the South West.
There is particular demand from online retailers for regional fulfilment centres and last mile units, which we anticipate will grow.
We offer a range of size and specification of units to reflect this.
Gateway 12, Gloucestershire At our 16 acre Gateway 12 development, we completed build on two speculative units of 39,000 and 41,000 sq ft respectively in October and discussions are progressing with a number of interested parties.
We are also underway with the build of a further two speculative units of 24,000 and 34,000 sq ft which will be completed for occupation in 2018 with interest already being shown.
Following planning permission in December, we have started on site with a final speculative 66,000 sq ft unit which will extend our offering.
The completion of this final phase in September 2018 will mark the conclusion of the 22m Gateway 12 development.
This activity follows the sale of the sites first two 40,000 sq ft speculative buildings in 2016.
Rupert Joseland Property Director West and Wales Proximity to junction 12 of the M5 makes Gateway 12 a clear choice for businesses looking for prime quality industrial and warehousing space and our speculative building on site seeks to meet this demand.
Being close to a number of major residential areas, Gateway 12 is also an ideal place for last mile units.
Our momentum continues in the region with the start of our programme of commercial development activity at our site in Quedgeley East, just over one mile from Gateway 12.
We have continued to focus on securing design and build solutions for occupiers for sale or rent: our expertise in nurturing Speculative commercial build in 2017 existing and cultivating new relationships with potential occupiers positions us well for growth.
The proportion of our committed industrial and logistics pipeline being developed pre-let or 800,000 sq ft pre-sold has grown to 41% May 2017: 27%.
A key deal secured and started on site this financial year has been the new manufacturing facility for Spanish Company Construcciones y Auxiliar fide Ferrocarriles CAF at Celtic Business Park in Newport, South Wales.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 30 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Celtic Business Park, Newport, South Wales Following the lease to Amazon and the subsequent sale to Tilstone Industrial Warehouse Ltd of the speculatively built 48,255 sq ft warehouse in early 2017 at Celtic Business Park, construction started on the new 165,000 sq ft train assembly facility for CAF in August 2017.
Due for completion in July 2018, this bespoke facility will be used to produce a wide range of rail transport vehicles, including trams and high speed trains.
Richard Powell Construction Director This is one of a number of exciting and unique projects for St. Modwen.
We have worked closely with CAF to create an intelligent and simple design whilst dealing with complex sub-structure solutions housing an intricate production facility.
We are connecting into an existing rail line on the adjacent site so are working closely with our neighbours, Tata Steel.
In addition, we are installing substantial cranes with the capacity to lift 25 tonnes into the infrastructure of CAFs building and tracks to ensure their new facility is fit for purpose.
Ultimately we are delivering a product which offers longevity and is of the highest possible standard whilst working to the clients tight production schedule.
Jointly funded by the Welsh Government, CAF expects the plant to employ around 200 staff when it opens in 2018, rising to 300 by 2019, as well as running training and apprenticeship schemes.
Committed development pipeline of industrial logistics space Over 1m sq ft St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 31 STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED GROW OUR RESIDENTIAL AND HOUSEBUILDING BUSINESS This financial year St. Modwen Homes has experienced continued demand for new homes with sales volumes for the year growing by 43% to 694 homes.
The business continues its unique offering of delivering high quality homes which stand out from the competition.
Our architects ensure the layout of each development is sensitive to its surroundings and each home is designed with large windows and higher than average ceilings to allow light to flood through.
In its sixth year of trading, St. Modwen Homes is now selling homes on 16 sites and building on 20 across the UK.
On the back of this continued success, the recent identification of 7,500 plots from our existing land bank for St. Modwen Homes to draw down and utilise means that our residential business has a significant and strong foundation for further growth.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 32 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Trentham Manor, Stoke-on-Trent At Trentham Manor we have accelerated sales with 95 homes completed and six exchanged for the first phase of 132 units.
To encourage a sense of community, St. Modwen Homes has built a new childrens play area at the development and also provides free membership to all home owners for access to our 725 acre leisure scheme, Trentham Estate and Gardens, just a short distance from Trentham Manor.
We have been successful in attracting local buyers to the development, with a recent homebuyer survey showing 95% of buyers at Trentham Manor previously lived in Stoke-on-Trent, with the remaining 5% coming from the wider Staffordshire region.
St. Modwen Homes will soon be launching its new development of an additional 130 homes in Stoke-on-Trent at Victoria Park, the former Victoria Ground football stadium site.
Dave Smith Managing Director, St. Modwen Homes Trentham Manor won the top accolade at this years Housebuilder Awards which looks to celebrate the best residential developments in the country.
St. Modwen Homes was celebrated for its commitment to the local community, its house designs and quality of build, all of which have helped transform the former site of Hem Heath Colliery into a desirable place to live.
This is the second year in a row that St. Modwen Homes has won the Best Regeneration Initiative category, having taken home the top award for Branston Leas in Burton-upon-Trent in 2016.
We are now looking forward to continuing this success in the region with the St. Modwen Homes are currently rated 5-star by the Home launch of Victoria Park later in 2018.
Builders Federation 5-star rating HBF St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 33 STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED CEMENTING AND GROWING OUR REGENERATION REPUTATION We have been successful with a number of large-scale acquisition opportunities.
These projects reflect the Governments agenda for developing more housing and employment spaces which complement our skills in delivering complex, mixed-use communities and infrastructure.
Meanwhile, we aim to deliver brilliantly our existing portfolio of large-scale regeneration projects.
These projects exemplify our commitment to fulfil our core business purpose.
We are building new communities and creating lasting legacies of which we can be proud.
Longbridge, South Birmingham At Longbridge, we are paving the way for the delivery of more new family homes with the recent land sale to housebuilder Taylor Wimpey.
The seven acre site already has detailed planning consent for 95 homes and work began in November.
This follows the launch of St. Modwen Homes second phase of its new residential development at Longbridge, named Crofton Grange where the Company is building 226 homes, of which 38 are already completed with a further 10 reserved.
Guy Gusterson Property Director Midlands and North Longbridge is changing day by day and is increasingly becoming a destination for people to live, work and enjoy their leisure time.
We have continued to foster a strong local community across the existing Town Centre and have hosted 14 community led events in this financial year alone.
In addition, this financial year saw us hand over a six storey, purpose built, 180 bed building for the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine, delivered on behalf of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation.
The recent activity on site is further confirmation of the fundamental transformation that is taking place to create an innovative community space and breathe new life into a former industrial site.
Our large-scale regeneration projects also include Bay Campus at Swansea University and New Covent Garden Market.
These, too, demonstrate the positive difference we can make socially, environmentally and economically.
All three projects have contributed significantly to their local environments, not just by Community events hosted at Longbridge this year protecting jobs, but also by increasing employment opportunities and providing much needed housing and education facilities.
Each showcases the depth and range of our skills across our 14 portfolio.
Most significantly they also create opportunities for growth, encouraging investment and promoting business which helps to drive the wider economy with clear benefits for everyone invested in the scheme.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 34 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information New Covent Garden Market, Nine Elms, London At New Covent Garden Market, we have this year completed and opened the new 89,000 sq ft interim flower market for the Covent Garden Market Authority which supplies 75% of Londons florists.
This complements the completed work on site, including the refurbishment of the existing multi-storey car park, the provision of a new recycling and waste facility featuring rooftop 5-a-side football pitches for use by the local resident population, a welfare block and a new vehicular entrance plaza.
The completion of the Food Exchange, around 50,000 sq ft, is the next step in the exciting evolution of the market.
Following the vacation of the former Flower Market at Nine Elms Square, in August 2017, we successfully completed on the sale of this 10-acre parcel of land for 470m.
This was held in joint venture with VINCI plc and St. Modwens share of the proceeds was 190m.
Tim Seddon Property Director South East At New Covent Garden Market, we have continued momentum to deliver modern new space for the flower market so that it can continue its long and proud wholesale tradition within London.
The sale of Nine Elms Square has released capital for further development across the remaining 47 acres at New Covent Garden Market, including the development over the next seven years of over 500,000 sq ft of wholesale market facilities and residential, commercial and community amenities at Nine Elms Gardens and Nine Elms Grove.
In line with our strategy, the London florists using interim flower market proceeds from the transaction have also been used to reduce Group borrowings.
75% St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 35 STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED PORTFOLIO FOCUS AND CAPITAL DISCIPLINE Following the Groups strategic review, it was decided to centralise our Asset Management function to drive performance and the operational efficiency through the retained income portfolio.
Whilst we have continued to pro-actively manage our assets to drive rental and capital growth we have, over the last year, begun to recycle assets out of the retained income portfolio as planned, allowing us to start to rebalance our portfolio towards the industrial and logistic sector where we see greater long-term structural growth.
This will be delivered through our commercial development activity.
The Asset Management team is working closely with the Commercial Development teams to identify the industrial and logistics developments that we should retain for the retained income portfolio.
An example of this is the retention of BG87 at our Burton Gateway development.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 36 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Burton Gateway, Burton-on-Trent In August 2017, at Burton Gateway we successfully let the speculatively built 87,000 sq ft unit to global logistics experts Hellman Worldwide Logistics on a 10-year lease, which we have subsequently kept as part of our retained income portfolio.
Burton Gateway has outline consent for 1m sq ft of industrial space and we have recently received planning consent for the next phase of development of more than 100,000 sq ft of speculative industrial space over three units.
This demonstrates our focus in delivering our key objective of retaining new industrial and logistics developments that will allow us to reshape our retained income portfolio as we recycle out of some of our existing assets.
Rupert Wood Property Director Asset Management The retention of developments such as Burton Gateway allows us to drive forward with our asset recycling strategy and build a quality industrial and logistics portfolio.
Planned industrial development space to be retained for income in 2018 Over 700,000 sq ft St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 37
