OUR MARKETS WE USE OUR INSIGHT TO IDENTIFY MARKET TRENDS AND ENSURE WE DELIVER GREAT OUTCOMES FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS.
THIS IN TURN INFORMS OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND THE RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS WE HAVE WITH THE WIDER WORLD.
Remco Simon Director of Strategy and Research Remco joined the business in September 2017 to strengthen our strategic and capital markets capability and insight, to identify and exploit trends and opportunities.
UK economy Commercial property market The relative strength in the UK economy moderated in 2017, Despite the uncertain macro backdrop, UK commercial property as GDP growth slowed slightly compared to 2016 in the wake of continued to benefit from strong investor interest, driven partly by continued political uncertainty.
This uncertainty is likely to persist the relatively high income yield it offers compared to other asset in 2018 pending further clarity about our future trading relationship classes and the favourable exchange rate for overseas investors.
with the rest of the world.
Businesses and consumers continue to According to Savills, the total investment volume in UK commercial invest, but the latest Deloitte survey of UK CFOs showed corporate property in 2017 was 61bn, marking an increase of 19% on the risk appetite remains low and consumer confidence drifted lower previous year.
As a result, commercial property values remained in the second half of 2017.
As such, the outlook remains mixed and more resilient than expected at the start of the year and increased GDP growth is generally expected to remain below its long-term on average 5.4% compared to the end of 2016 according to historical trend for the near term.
On the flipside, unemployment data from IPD.
is at a four-decade low and the effects on CPI inflation of higher Diverging growth prospects continue to drive marked differences import prices due to the fall in sterling following the EU referendum in sector performance.
Continued growth in e-commerce and should subside in 2018, relieving part of the pressure on real wages.
growth in manufacturing meant logistics and industrial take-up Moreover, interest rates are likely to remain low by any historic was just above the long-term average at 24.5m sq ft in 2017, albeit standard despite the first increase in base rates in a decade in 2017 down from the record year in 2016 which was boosted by a surge and the expectation of further increases in 2018, whilst real interest in design and build activity.
As speculative supply remains modest, rates remain firmly negative.
healthy occupier demand continues to drive growth in rents.
Physical retail remains more challenging however, as occupiers continue to deal with changes in consumer behaviour and spending, with most of the growth in retail sales going online.
This divergence is being reflected in investor interest, with retail yields showing some signs of softening during 2017, but industrial yields firming.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 12 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Our substantial commercial development pipeline is focused primarily on industrial logistics space, leaving us well-placed to capitalise on occupier demand for good quality space, whilst our plan to retain the majority of this allows us to benefit from further medium-term growth.
Retail values are likely to see some further pressure in 2018 as upside in rents is limited, but relative to the overall market our convenience-oriented, local retail assets provide a relatively high, stable income return.
Residential property market The UK housing market remained resilient during 2017, in particular in the regions.
Prime Central London house prices and transaction volumes remain under pressure, as affordability is stretched and increases in stamp duty and uncertainty around the impact of Brexit have a much bigger impact than in regional markets.
Although UK house price inflation is expected to moderate slightly in 2018, it is expected to remain positive in the regions, where customer demand for new-built housing remains robust.
Support to grow housebuilding is now well-established across the political spectrum, with the Government recently announcing a target to grow the number of new houses being built from 217,000 last year to 300,000 per year by the mid 2020s.
At the same time, changes in consumer demand and demographic developments continue to drive growth in alternative tenures.
We have little exposure to prime Central London left following the sale of 10 acres at Nine Elms Square, as our residential pipeline is predominantly focused on the regions.
Our ambition to grow volumes at St. Modwen Homes by up to 25% per year over the next few years and accelerate the pace of selling land to third party housebuilders means we are well placed to help address the ongoing shortage of relatively affordable housing in the UK across different tenures.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 13
