OUR BUSINESS MODEL St. Modwen has a rich, 30-year heritage and a strong track record Our core business purpose is: of creating and capturing value by managing schemes through the Changing places.
planning process, remediation, infrastructure and active asset We lead the way in delivering quality places to live and work that management and development.
enhance communities and create opportunities for growth and We seek to build success for our key stakeholders: our own people, shared returns.
Working together with our partners, we deliver our land and assets, shareholders, our partners, our customers and shared value, aim to build a lasting legacy and contribute to better our communities.
WHAT WE NEED TO WHAT WE DO TO CREATE VALUE CREATE VALUE People We have unparalleled skills in planning, infrastructure, asset management, development and delivery.
Our experience and expertise give us an unmatched ability to bring complex, strategic sites forward to create value.
Invest in new assets and opportunities that Strategic insight complement our We have the strategic insight and local market knowledge to strategic objectives and exploit market demands and pursue those opportunities that where our specialist skills generate the greatest value at any one time.
can unlock potential Financial strength Strong cash flow and rigorous portfolio and capital discipline, together with a flexible debt structure, provide us with a robust financial platform for business growth.
Land We are accelerating activity on the 6,000 developable acres we own to secure maximum value, with opportunity split broadly Apply our considerable 50 50 between commercial and residential.
development and asset management expertise Assets to generate Our income producing portfolio currently has a value of opportunities for growth, 844m, representing 60m of annualised gross rental income investment and from over 3,800 tenants.
We intend to focus on the high momentum, creating quality industrial and logistics sector where we see long-term inspirational and thriving structural growth.
new residential spaces and businesses.
Partners We develop strong, sustained relationships with our business partners and work collaboratively to deliver lasting, successful outcomes and a positive legacy.
Communities Retain identified We invest and are invested in the communities we help industrial logistics assets to build and consider carefully the economic, social and and sell those assets environmental impact of our work to ensure that we are where there is little locally appropriate.
Reinvest the proceeds from these sales to accelerate our commercial development activity or bring forward residential land for development.
Inputs St. Modwen Properties PLC 14 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information WHAT WE DO TO CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATE VALUE FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS We create vibrant new places where people can live, work and thrive.
In doing so, we are helping to satisfy housing demand, create new jobs, improve the environment and provide a boost to the immediate regional and national economy.
We aim to improve returns on capital by Shareholders concentrating our activities on sectors that Consistent delivery against our strategy has generated have long-term sustainable growth attractive financial returns for investors.
The compound Annual characteristics while also enhancing our Growth Rate of our total accounting return NAV growth plus flexibility through tightly controlling dividends was 14% over the past five years and we are leverage and reducing the proportion of actively reducing borrowings.
our portfolio invested in land.
Our pipeline of activities is focused on two Communities of the most attractive sectors in the UK We are committed to the care and stewardship of the property market industrial and logistics communities and environments we regenerate and build.
strong regional teams are embedded in their local areas and we work hard to build and maintain positive relationships with our partners, customers and local authorities.
We deliver new employment and training opportunities, working with local experts and suppliers.
We provide the catalyst for further economic growth and inward investment.
People Our people are skilled, responsive and passionate, and they take great pride in what they do.
Our teams across the company collaborate, share expertise and ideas to ensure that were delivering the best possible outcomes, for the benefit of Celtic Business Park, South Wales all our stakeholders.
The 48,255 sq ft speculatively built unit let to Amazon was sold to Tilstone Industrial Warehouse Ltd We are committed to the continuous professional in early 2017. development of our people and have comprehensive training and apprenticeship programmes to equip them with the right skills and expertise.
We are making significant investment in growing our talent for the future as well as in our workplace systems and environments.
Locking Parklands, Weston-super-Mare St. Modwen Homes has thus far delivered 330 new homes at the award-winning development.
Outputs St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 15
