DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report for the year ended Any voting or other similar decisions relating to shares held by the 30 November 2017.
Trust would be taken by the Trustee, who may take account of any recommendations of the Company.
There were no purchases of As permitted by legislation, some of the matters historically shares by the Trust during the financial year.
included in this report have instead been included in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 61 as the Board considers them to be of Further details regarding the Trust and of shares issued pursuant to strategic importance.
Specifically these relate to the Companys the Companys share-based incentive arrangements are set out in business model and strategy, future business developments and note 18 to the Group financial statements.
The corporate governance statement as required Rights and obligations attaching to shares by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct The holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled to Authority FCA is set out on pages 68 to 82 and is incorporated receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys annual into this report by reference.
report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Full details of the Annual General Meeting deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 28 March 2018 in the be considered at the 2018 AGM are set out in the notice of meeting Evolution Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge on pages 180 to 185.
Technology Park, Birmingham B31 2TS, commencing at 12.00 noon.
The notice of meeting, which includes the special business to be Restrictions on the transfer of shares transacted and an explanation of all the resolutions to be considered As at 30 November 2017 and the date of this report, except as at the meeting, is set out on pages 180 to 185. referred to below: there were no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares Dividend in the Company: An interim dividend of 2.02 pence per ordinary share 2017: 1.94 pence was paid on 5 September 2017. there were no limitations on the holding of ordinary shares: The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.26 pence per there were no requirements to obtain the approval of the ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30 November 2017 Company, or of other holders of ordinary shares in the Company, 2016: 4.06 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 6.28 for a transfer of shares: and pence per share 2016: 6.00 pence, payable on 4 April 2018 to no person held shares in the Company carrying any special shareholders on the register on 9 March 2018. rights with regard to control of the Company.
Other than as referred to under the heading Share capital The directors may refuse to register the transfer of a share in below, during the year there were no arrangements under which certificated form which is not fully paid or on which the Company a shareholder had waived or agreed to waive any dividends nor has a lien, where the instrument of transfer does not comply with any agreement by a shareholder to waive future dividends.
the requirements of the Companys Articles of Association Articles, or if the transfer is in respect of more than one class of share or is Share capital in favour of more than four joint holders.
The directors may also Capital structure refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share, which represents The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided an interest of at least 0.25% in a class of shares, following the failure into ordinary shares of 10p each, all ranking pari passu.
Each share by the member or any other person appearing to be interested in carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
the shares to provide the Company with information requested At 30 November 2017, there were 222,376,988 ordinary shares under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 Act.
Further details relating to share capital, Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST including movements during the year, are set out in note 18 to and the directors can refuse to register the transfer of an the Group financial statements.
uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing Share allotments the operation of CREST.
During the year, and in accordance with the authority granted The Company is not aware of any agreements between by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, 500,000 ordinary shares were shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares allotted at par value to the Companys Employee Share Trust to or on voting rights.
enable it to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the Companys share-based incentive Interests in voting rights arrangements.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 is published on a Purchase by the Company of its own shares Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As At the 2017 AGM, shareholders renewed the Companys authority at 30 November 2017, the information overleaf had been received to make market purchases of up to 22,187,698 ordinary shares, in accordance with DTR 5 from holders of notifiable interests in the representing 10% of the issued share capital at that time.
No shares Companys issued share capital.
were repurchased during the year and the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
This standard authority will expire at the The information provided was correct at the date of notification: 2018 AGM and a resolution to renew it will be proposed.
however, the date the notification received may not have been within the current financial year.
It should be noted that these Employee Share Trust Trust holdings are likely to have changed since the Company was As at 30 November 2017, the Trust held 519,906 shares 2016: notified.
Notification of any change is not required until a notifiable 269,334 shares, representing 0.23% 2016: 0.12% of the Companys threshold is crossed.
The Trust deed contains a dividend waiver provision in respect of shares held by the Trust, such that dividends are waived with the exception of a hundredth of a penny per share.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 110 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Shareholder Date of notification Nature of holding Total voting rights % of total voting rights Simon Clarke and connected parties 28 September 2017 Direct interest 15,175,196 6.82% 1 J. D. Leavesley and connected parties 10 August 2017 Direct interest 13,317,130 5.99% Aviva plc 29 September 2017 Direct interest 14,024,013 6.31% Indirect interest 2,210,461 0.99% Aviva total 16,234,474 7.30% Royal London Asset Management Ltd 21 November 2017 Direct interest 15,579,630 7.01% TR Property Investment Trust plc 12 July 2012 Direct interest 6,802,638 3.40% 1 Further to the announcement on 22 December 2017 and with effect from that date, the Company no longer intends to present the shareholdings of J. D. Leavesley and connected parties in aggregate.
The Shareholdings of each member of the Leavesley family will be treated and presented individually.
There were no changes to the interests in the voting rights notified to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 between 30 November 2017 and 5 February 2018.
Directors Appointment and replacement of directors The Board The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by The following served as directors during the year ended the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, the Act 30 November 2017: and related legislation.
Under the Articles: Mark Allan the number of directors is not subject to any maximum but must not be less than three, unless otherwise determined by Ian Bull the Company in general meeting: Steve Burke passed away on 13 March 2017 directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the Kay Chaldecott Company or by resolution of the directors, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director: and Simon Clarke all directors must retire at each AGM and shall, subject to his or Jenefer Greenwood appointed on 1 June 2017 her terms of appointment, be eligible for election or re-election.
Rob Hudson At the 2018 AGM Jenefer Greenwood, who was appointed by the Lesley James directors in June 2017, and Jamie Hopkins who as announced, will join the Board on 1 March 2018, will retire and offer themselves for Richard Mully election: Richard Mully and Kay Chaldecott will not be standing for Bill Shannon re-election: all other directors will offer themselves for re-election.
The biographical details of all the directors serving at 30 November A director may be removed by a special resolution of the Company.
2017, including details of their relevant experience and other In addition, a director must automatically cease to be a director if significant commitments, are shown on pages 66 and 67. he or she: The Directors remuneration report, which includes details of resigns from his or her office by notice in writing to the Company directors service agreements and their interests and their or, in the case of an executive director, the appointment is connected persons interests in the Companys shares, is set out on terminated or expires and the directors resolve that his or her pages 86 to 109.
Copies of the service agreements of the executive office be vacated: directors and the letters of appointment for the non-executive becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or composition directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered with his or her creditors generally: office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
a registered medical practitioner who is treating the director gives a written opinion to the Company stating that he or she has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director and may remain so for more than three months: is absent from meetings of the directors for more than six consecutive months without permission of the directors and the directors resolve that his or her office be vacated: or becomes prohibited by law from acting as a director.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 111 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Powers of the directors Financial instruments The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject The Groups exposure to and management of capital risk, market to the Articles, UK legislation including the Act and any directions risk, credit risk and liquidity risk is set out in note 17 to the Group given by the Company in general meeting.
The directors have been authorised by the Articles to allot ordinary Employee involvement shares and to make market purchases of the Companys own St. Modwen is committed to regular communication and shares.
These powers are referred to shareholders for renewal at consultation with its employees and encourages employee each AGM.
Further information is set out under the heading Share understanding of and involvement in its performance.
News capital on page 110. concerning St. Modwen, its activities and performance is published Conflicts of interest on the Companys intranet.
Regular management meetings are With the exception of service agreements no director had a material held to inform senior staff about matters affecting them as interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its employees, at which their feedback is sought on decisions likely operating companies at any time during the year.
to affect their interest, and where a common awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys Under the Act, directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts performance is developed: this information is then cascaded to of interest with the Company.
As permitted by the Act, the Articles all employees.
A performance-related annual bonus scheme and enable non-conflicted directors to authorise actual or potential share option arrangements are designed to encourage and conflicts of interest, either with or without limits or conditions.
Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such conflicts are in place.
Any potential conflicts of interest in relation See Our commitment to our people page 19. to newly appointed directors are considered by the Board prior to Employment of disabled persons appointment.
All directors have a continuing duty to update any It is the policy of the Company to give full and fair consideration changes to conflicts.
to applications for employment received from disabled persons, Indemnities and insurance having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, The Company has granted indemnities to each of its directors and where practicable, the continued employment of those who may the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law in respect become disabled during their employment with the Company and of costs of defending claims against them and third-party liabilities.
the provision of appropriate training.
St. Modwen provides the same These provisions, deemed to be qualifying third-party indemnity opportunities for training, career development and promotion for provisions pursuant to section 234 of the Act, were in force during disabled as for other employees.
the year ended 30 November 2017 and remain in force as at the Greenhouse gas emissions date of this report.
The disclosures required by law relating to the Groups greenhouse A copy of the indemnity is available for inspection at the Companys gas emissions GHG are set out in the table overleaf.
GHG from registered office during normal business hours and will be available those sources for which the Company is deemed to be directly for inspection at the Companys AGM.
responsible are monitored for reporting purposes, namely gas and electricity purchased for consumption at properties under the The Company also maintains directors and officers liability Companys operational control such as Head Office, certain insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action taken regional offices, St. Modwen Homes sales offices and vacant space, against its directors.
and petrol and diesel used in Company cars.
Articles of Association For information on our energy initiatives, please see our CSR report The Articles can only be amended, or new Articles adopted, by and www.
a special resolution passed at a general meeting of the Company.
The Companys current Articles are available on its website www.
Change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
These include committed bank facilities, which would be terminable at the banks discretion, and the Companys retail and convertible bonds, holders of which would have an option to require the Company to redeem the bonds.
The Companys share-based incentive arrangements contain provisions that take effect in the event of a change of control but do not entitle participants to a greater interest in the shares of the Company than created by the initial grant or award under the relevant plan.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs specifically as a result of a takeover bid.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 112 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 2017 intensity ratio 2016 intensity ratio tCO emissions tCO emissions tCO emissions tCO emissions 2 2 2 2 CO emissions full-time m property CO emissions full-time m property 2 2 1 2 1 2 GHG tonnes employees portfolio tonnes employees portfolio Scope 1: Total purchased gas 107 129 Petrol and diesel 781 955 Total Scope 1 888 2.1 0.5 1,084 3.1 0.5 Scope 2: Total purchased electricity 658 788 Total Scope 2 658 1.5 0.4 788 2.3 0.4 Total Scope 1 & 2 1,546 3.6 0.9 1,872 5.4 0.9 1 Equivalent CO emissions per full-time employee.
2 2 Equivalent CO per m of property portfolio held by the Company.
2 Methodology Emissions from gas and electricity consumption have been calculated using the main requirements of the GHG Protocol Standard revised edition and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The measurement of emissions from Company cars is based on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance June 2013 issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra.
Defras 2013 conversion factors have also been used within the reporting methodology.
Organisation boundary and responsibility The Company does not have responsibility for GHG that are beyond the boundary of the Companys operational control.
As such, gas and electricity purchased and consumed by tenants is not included within the Scope 1 and 2 data above.
Data also excludes the purchase for and consumption by those sites which fall within the Persimmon joint venture as Persimmon controls the procurement of utilities to these sites.
GHG for all other joint ventures has been included as the Company is deemed to be wholly responsible for such GHG.
Political donations Disclosure required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R In accordance with the Companys policy, no political donations were The information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R of the made and no political expenditure was incurred during the year.
FCAs Listing Rules can be found on the following pages of this Annual Report: Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Section Topic Page reference affect its future development, performance and position, are set 1 Interest capitalised N A out in the Strategic report.
The directors have considered these factors and reviewed the financial position of the Group, including Publication of unaudited its joint ventures and associates.
The review included an assessment 2 information N A of future funding requirements based on cash flow forecasts Details of long-term incentive extending for 18 months from the balance sheet date, valuation plans established specifically to projections and the ability of the Group to meet covenants on 4 recruit or retain a director 100 existing borrowing facilities.
The directors are satisfied that the forecasts and projections are based on realistic assumptions Waiver of emoluments by and that the sensitivities applied in reviewing downside scenarios 5 & 6 a director N A are appropriate.
Non-pre-emptive issues of equity As described in the financial review on pages 46 to 49, having 7 & 8 for cash 161 recently refinanced all of our bank debt facilities, the only mediumParent company participation term refinancing actions relating to our Group facilities are to 9 in placing by a listed subsidiary N A replace some, but not all, of the liquidity provided by our Bonds ahead of their 2019 maturities.
As a result, the directors are satisfied 10 Contracts of significance N A that the Group will have sufficient ongoing facilities available to Provision of services by a meet its financing requirements.
Based on their assessment, the 11 controlling shareholder N A directors are of the opinion that the Group has adequate available 12 & 13 Shareholder waiver of dividends 110 resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future and so determine that it remains appropriate for the financial statements Agreements with controlling to be prepared on a going concern basis.
14 shareholders N A St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 113 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Important events since 30 November 2017 The directors are responsible for preparing a strategic report, Important events affecting the Group are set out in note 23 to the corporate governance statement, directors remuneration report Group financial statements.
There were no other particulars of any and directors report that complies with applicable law and other important events affecting the company as required by regulations.
Schedule 7 7 1 a of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Auditor governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company and statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Management report the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the The strategic report and the directors report together comprise the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view management report for the purposes of the FCAs Disclosure and of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and and financial statements in accordance with applicable law performance of the business and the position of the Company and regulations.
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and uncertainties that they face.
Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under the law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting considers the annual report and financial statements, taken as Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Company information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally position and performance, business model and strategy.
Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom accounting Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report also standards and applicable law, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure confirms that: Framework.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any the directors are required to: relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Act.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable, relevant, reliable and prudent: The directors report, prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Act and the FCAs Listing and Disclosure and Transparency for the Group financial statements state whether they have been Rules and comprising pages 110 to 114, was approved by the Board prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU: and signed on its behalf by for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any Andrew Eames material departures disclosed and explained in the Company General Counsel & Company Secretary Interim financial statements: 5 February 2018 assess the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going St. Modwen Properties PLC concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either Company No: 00349201 intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 114 Annual report and financial statements 2017
