DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report for the year ended Any voting or other similar decisions relating to shares held by the 30 November 2017.
Trust would be taken by the Trustee, who may take account of any recommendations of the Company.
There were no purchases of As permitted by legislation, some of the matters historically shares by the Trust during the financial year.
included in this report have instead been included in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 61 as the Board considers them to be of Further details regarding the Trust and of shares issued pursuant to strategic importance.
Specifically these relate to the Companys the Companys share-based incentive arrangements are set out in business model and strategy, future business developments and note 18 to the Group financial statements.
The corporate governance statement as required Rights and obligations attaching to shares by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct The holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled to Authority FCA is set out on pages 68 to 82 and is incorporated receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys annual into this report by reference.
report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Full details of the Annual General Meeting deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 28 March 2018 in the be considered at the 2018 AGM are set out in the notice of meeting Evolution Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge on pages 180 to 185.
Technology Park, Birmingham B31 2TS, commencing at 12.00 noon.
The notice of meeting, which includes the special business to be Restrictions on the transfer of shares transacted and an explanation of all the resolutions to be considered As at 30 November 2017 and the date of this report, except as at the meeting, is set out on pages 180 to 185. referred to below: there were no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares Dividend in the Company: An interim dividend of 2.02 pence per ordinary share 2017: 1.94 pence was paid on 5 September 2017. there were no limitations on the holding of ordinary shares: The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.26 pence per there were no requirements to obtain the approval of the ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30 November 2017 Company, or of other holders of ordinary shares in the Company, 2016: 4.06 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 6.28 for a transfer of shares: and pence per share 2016: 6.00 pence, payable on 4 April 2018 to no person held shares in the Company carrying any special shareholders on the register on 9 March 2018. rights with regard to control of the Company.
Other than as referred to under the heading Share capital The directors may refuse to register the transfer of a share in below, during the year there were no arrangements under which certificated form which is not fully paid or on which the Company a shareholder had waived or agreed to waive any dividends nor has a lien, where the instrument of transfer does not comply with any agreement by a shareholder to waive future dividends.
the requirements of the Companys Articles of Association Articles, or if the transfer is in respect of more than one class of share or is Share capital in favour of more than four joint holders.
The directors may also Capital structure refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share, which represents The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided an interest of at least 0.25% in a class of shares, following the failure into ordinary shares of 10p each, all ranking pari passu.
Each share by the member or any other person appearing to be interested in carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
the shares to provide the Company with information requested At 30 November 2017, there were 222,376,988 ordinary shares under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 Act.
Further details relating to share capital, Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST including movements during the year, are set out in note 18 to and the directors can refuse to register the transfer of an the Group financial statements.
uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing Share allotments the operation of CREST.
During the year, and in accordance with the authority granted The Company is not aware of any agreements between by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, 500,000 ordinary shares were shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares allotted at par value to the Companys Employee Share Trust to or on voting rights.
enable it to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the Companys share-based incentive Interests in voting rights arrangements.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 is published on a Purchase by the Company of its own shares Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As At the 2017 AGM, shareholders renewed the Companys authority at 30 November 2017, the information overleaf had been received to make market purchases of up to 22,187,698 ordinary shares, in accordance with DTR 5 from holders of notifiable interests in the representing 10% of the issued share capital at that time.
No shares Companys issued share capital.
were repurchased during the year and the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
This standard authority will expire at the The information provided was correct at the date of notification: 2018 AGM and a resolution to renew it will be proposed.
however, the date the notification received may not have been within the current financial year.
It should be noted that these Employee Share Trust Trust holdings are likely to have changed since the Company was As at 30 November 2017, the Trust held 519,906 shares 2016: notified.
Notification of any change is not required until a notifiable 269,334 shares, representing 0.23% 2016: 0.12% of the Companys threshold is crossed.
The Trust deed contains a dividend waiver provision in respect of shares held by the Trust, such that dividends are waived with the exception of a hundredth of a penny per share.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 110 Annual report and financial statements 2017
