| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 09 Managers Review endeavour in a suboptimal manner, it was safer to remain Our contrarian approach part of the group.
Shareholders who have read my previous Managers Reviews will be aware that a simple philosophy Society as we know it today, which has built a great underpins our approach to investment.
At the core of this civilisation, continues to depend on this cohesive group philosophy is a recognition that investors, in aggregate, approach.
Most individuals subconsciously understand are not dispassionate calculating machines but, in fact, that they need to recognise the written and unwritten retain human emotions.
rules of society and therefore feel uncomfortable outwith the mainstream.
While this may not seem a particularly radical observation, it nonetheless flies in the face of a large However, we believe that this crowding instinct does not body of scholarly research into finance and economics.
usefully translate into financial markets.
This is because Theory would argue that, while any individual can the view of the crowd naturally gravitates towards what behave irrationally this is averaged out within a group so has recently been successful and shuns what has recently that a rational decision is reached.
In contrast, we do not been unsuccessful.
The challenge posed by financial think that groups always make rational investment markets is that, by the time an investment has performed decisions and, to evidence this, would merely point to sufficiently well or badly for it to become an accepted the numerous bubbles which have bedevilled markets wisdom, conditions are ripe for the trend to change.
Over the last 20 years, we have witnessed Business and investment cycles have operated bubbles in emerging markets, euro convergence throughout recorded human history.
The specifics are beneficiaries, dotcom stocks, house builders, property always different but the principles remain the same.
stocks, oil stocks, miners and emerging markets again.
Initially, a conducive environment and opportunity The reason for this difference of opinion perhaps arises attracts investment to a good thing and initial and because, in many human endeavours, the group does subsequent success attracts further and further indeed reach a rational solution.
In more arduous times, investment, with later investors increasingly willing to our very survival depended on working as a group and suspend disbelief about the durability of future the crucial skill to develop as an individual was prospects.
The upcycle is hypnotic but it always ends.
cooperation as part of this group.
An isolated individual Excess investment destroys the scarcity of the good was vulnerable and, even if the group was pursuing an thing while those propagating it become heady on their Categorisation of Investments more to come underappreciated prospects change is afoot overlooked progress ugly ducklings positive potential Challenged Overlooked Underestimated OPERATING PERFORMANCE MARKET SENTIMENT Pessimistic Reluctant Improving | 10 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Managers Review continued stockmarket is to invest when others are reluctant to do success and throw caution to the winds.
The downcycle occurs when the bubble bursts and this process goes so.
We actively seek unpopular areas because this is where the balance between risk and reward can be most into reverse, eventually creating an opportunity again.
We believe in cycles rather than perpetual We think that to profit, an investor has to take a different trends and wish to purchase at depressed prices to stance and that the biggest challenge for an investor is to improve our margin of safety.
recognise when the voice of the crowd no longer suggests a sensible balance between risk and reward.
Our style is distinct and we would expect other investors to ebb and flow in their support for the types of stocks We seek to avoid speculation, which we define as we favour.
We aim to achieve above-average long-term investing largely on the basis that somebody else will pay performance, although we do not expect this to be more for an already fully priced, popular asset.
We are less likely to We are, of course, stockmarket investors and even if we participate in the exhilarating latter stages of a bull are very skilful with our stock picking, we are likely to be market because we think it is vitally important to survive affected by wider market movements.
However, we think the down leg of an investment cycle.
that one of the most prudent ways to make money in the NAV Absolute Performance Attribution Year to 31 October 2017 Contribution % Equity portfolio ungeared 9.5 Gearing 0.8 Total equities 10.3 Other income and currency -0.2 Buybacks 1.7 Expenses -0.5 Interest charges -0.6 Change in market value of borrowings 0.0 Change in pension liability 0.3 NAV with borrowings at market value total return 11.0 Gains and Losses Year to 31 October 2017 Performance Gains Performance Losses % m % m Treasury Wine Estates 39.6 15.4 General Electric -34.3 -4.6 Rentokil Initial 49.1 14.7 Tesco -13.5 -3.7 Nintendo 51.5 8.3 GlaxoSmithKline -12.1 -3.1 ING 34.4 7.8 BT -27.3 -2.9 KDDI -17.2 -2.7 Royal Dutch Shell 22.7 4.6 Baker Hughes -26.1 -2.5 BNP Paribas 29.4 4.4 Macy's -22.3 -2.2 Citigroup 38.8 4.1 Cemex -13.6 -2.1 Microsoft 25.6 3.6 Kingfisher -13.2 -2.0 SAP 20.6 3.6 Tourmaline Oil -35.8 -1.7 Comcast 20.4 3.5 Sold during the year.
| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 11 Managers Review continued To apply our approach, we divide the stocks in which we We have concerns because, although the core invest into three categories.
technology has potential, there appears an unlimited supply of these currencies and governance appears very First, we have those that we describe as ugly ducklings poor.
Likewise, it is noteworthy that some of the largest unloved shares that most investors shun.
These US stocks have gained the moniker FANG an acronym companies have endured an extended period of poor of Facebook, Amazon Apple, Netflix, Google.
It is operating performance and, for the majority, the nearprobably fair to say that by the time an investment theme term outlook continues to appear uninspiring.
However, gains an acronym it is so well established that a we see their out-of-favour status as an opportunity and reasonable opportunity for a risk-adjusted return may no can foresee the circumstances in which these longer exist.
The last acronym investment theme you investments will surprise on the upside.
may recall was the BRICs Brazil, Russia, India, China, The second category consists of companies where which did very well for the early entrants but less so for change is afoot.
These companies have also endured a later participants who probably lost money.
long period of poor operating performance but have recently demonstrated that their prospects have The Portfolio significantly improved.
However, other investors continue Portfolio turnover was elevated by the need to raise funds to overlook this change for historical reasons.
for the buyback transaction with Aviva.
Rather than apply a pro-rata reduction across the portfolio, we took the In our third category, more to come, we have investments opportunity to selectively reduce the number of holdings.
that are more generally recognised as good businesses with decent prospects.
However, we see an opportunity Given our focus on individual stock ideas, I thought it as we believe there is scope for further improvement that most useful to discuss the notable gains and losses, in is not yet fully recognised.
total return terms, over the year.
Treasury Wine Estates 15.4m, the Australian wine The Financial Year producer continued to refocus on premium brands to Investment returns were again strong during the year.
In drive higher profit margins.
Having delivered outstanding contrast with last year, markets showed less favour performance since it was bought as an ugly duckling in towards a margin of safety based investment approach 2015, the company has now graduated through each of such as our own.
We now see Treasury Wine Estates as one with more to come.
The election of President Trump represented a blow to the establishment but investors interpreted this Rentokil Initial 14.7m also moved into the more to positively, as it provided the theoretical basis for a new come category after another year of excellent round of stimulatory policies.
The slight conundrum is performance.
Its transformation from an unloved and that Donald Trump was elected to improve the living underperforming conglomerate to a business focused standards of the mass of population, rather than boost chiefly on the attractive market for pest control helped asset prices.
There is a risk that investors may discover the group to deliver strong results.
that populist policies do not necessarily coincide with We added to our holding in Nintendo 8.3m, as we their interests.
were surprised by the muted investor reaction towards Investors in general seem enthusiastic about the the new Switch games console.
The Switch is an prospects for asset markets and exhibit a low level of excellent product but, later in the year, as other investors scepticism about some of the most popular investment became more enthusiastic and as expectations of future themes.
Confidence has returned and there is now a lot success increased, we reduced our holding.
We have also of money seeking a return driven by low cash interest moved this company into the more to come category.
rates and the commensurate low cost of debt.
Our bank holdings performed strongly, as they had Central banks, led by the US Federal Reserve, have taken previously been inexpensively valued and stood to the first steps to unwind this era of ultra cheap money.
benefit from the prospect of higher interest rates and Central banks clearly do not wish to unduly upset stimulus policies designed to help the mainstream investors but this assumes that they have perfect control economy.
Our biggest gain was from Dutch lender ING and, as suggested above, the political backdrop is 7.8m, while we also saw strong gains from BNP shifting.
Paribas 4.4m, Citigroup 4.1m, Intesa Sanpaolo 2.6m, Bank of Kyoto 2.1m, Citizens Financial The most obvious sign of overly confident cheap money 2.1m, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 1.7m is the current boom in cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin.
| 12 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Managers Review continued The continued rebound in commodities prices helped a Outlook number of our investments, with energy holdings a The late Andy Grove, founder and former CEO of Intel, notable beneficiary later in the period.
Royal Dutch Shell distilled his thoughts about management into a book 4.6m, produced the biggest gain, as well as BHP called Only the Paranoid Survive.
However, Ive always Billiton 2.6m, BASF 1.8m, Total 1.7m, Suncor thought this would make a good title for a book about Energy 1.5m and Diamond Offshore Drilling investing.
However, we lost money in Hess -1.1m and The reason for this is that a successful investor has to Tourmaline Oil -1.7m.
continually question their every assumption because German software provider, SAP 3.6m gained credit things can, and do, change.
The political environment is for an encouraging transition to a recurring subscriptionnever static, new competition can emerge, advances in based model.
Vinci 2.7m did well on an improved technology can drive structural change, management outlook for the European construction market.
RSA can remove their focus on the core business and Insurance 2.3m, was buoyed by the continued apparently successful business models can mask hidden progress of a turnaround strategy.
Good results from flaws while apparently unsuccessful business models can Johnson & Johnsons 2.2m pharmaceuticals business evolve positively.
helped the business to deliver a solid performance, while The views of the crowd are a particularly poor predictor Adecco 2.0m gained on the prospect of better of future investment performance because the crowd conditions in the temporary staffing market.
extrapolates recent history and assumes it is a constant.
We consider Tesco -3.7m, one of our ugly ducklings, We could debate whether particular asset classes are an excellent turnaround opportunity but this was overly elevated but perhaps less in question is that there obscured by the proposed acquisition of wholesaler have been a number of years of good returns and there Booker.
However, we think that other investors will pay more attention now that this transaction has been are now signs of complacency in investors attitude to risk.
To some extent this is understandable as the world is approved.
Our holding in Marks & Spencer 1.2m awash with cheap money and the curators of this capital endured fluctuating fortunes but showed some signs of are desperate for a return.
Symptoms of this excess are progress and has a senior management team committed to change.
We sold our entire holding in Kingfisher the appearance of get-rich-quick schemes such as cryptocurrency investments and the fact that an acronym -2.0m, prompted by a need to raise funds for the Aviva FANG has been attributed to a narrow group of stocks transaction but also because we preferred the outlook which are all viewed as sure-fire winners.
This is not to say that the wider market will fall but more General Electric -4.6m performed poorly in to observe that the risks currently being taken in some anticipation of a strategy review update at which new areas may not be justified by the future returns.
The leadership reset profit and dividend expectations.
GlaxoSmithKline -3.1m, also delivered a negative spread of valuations across the market is wide and, accordingly, we continue to identify opportunities which return as the new CEO unnerved investors as to where we believe will generate good long-term returns for the dividend lay on her list of priorities.
Our telecom holdings in BT -2.9m, KDDI -2.7m and We are contrarian investors and, as such, we seek China Mobile -1.1m did not prove fruitful over the unfashionable and unpopular investments that we think year.
BT depressed investors with a disappointing trading can recover.
We invest, but with our guard up, as hot update but, in general, we think that these telecom stocks have suffered from a rotation away from the more money has less tendency to inhabit the areas we favour.
As I have noted in previous Managers Reviews, our defensive areas of the market.
investment approach is designed to anticipate and We sold our entire holding in Microsoft 3.6m as we benefit from change and we will continue to seek out thought that the turnaround in the companys fortunes opportunities with potential to profit the long-term was adequately reflected in the share price.
completely sold Comcast 3.5m as, although the company is likely to continue to benefit from greater demand for high-speed internet we judged that the Alasdair McKinnon valuation already reflected this.
