| 14 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report The Company has the ability to enter into contracts Status to hedge against currency risks on both capital and The Company is a self-managed global growth income.
investment trust and is an investment company within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006.
HM The Companys investment activities are subject to the Revenue & Customs has approved the Company as an following limitations and restrictions: investment trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company continues to under the Companys articles of association, up to satisfy the conditions for such approval.
The Company 40% of the Companys total assets on the last audited is registered in Scotland and its registered office is 6 balance sheet may be used to make investments of Albyn Place, Edinburgh EH2 4NL.
up to a maximum of 8% of the value of total assets in any one company, at the time the investment is made.
Thereafter, individual investments may not exceed 3% Investment objective and policy of the value of total assets, at the time the investment The Companys objective is to provide investors, over is made: the longer term, with above-average returns through the levels of gearing and gross gearing are monitored a diversified portfolio of international equities and to closely by the Board and the Manager.
The Board achieve dividend growth ahead of UK inflation.
While gearing will be In order to achieve this objective, the Company invests employed in a typical range of 0% to 20%, the in an integrated global portfolio constructed through Company retains the ability to lower equity exposure an investment process whereby assets are primarily to a net cash position if deemed appropriate: allocated on the basis of the investment merits of the Company has a policy not to invest more than individual stocks rather than those of regions, sectors 15% of total assets in other listed closed-ended or themes.
investment funds: and The Companys portfolio is actively managed and the Company may not make investments in respect of typically will contain 50 to 100 listed international which there is unlimited liability except that the equity investments.
The portfolio is widely diversified Company may sell index futures for efficient portfolio both by industrial sector and geographic location of management purposes.
investments in order to spread investment risk.
Whilst performance is compared against major global Investment policy implementation and UK indices, the composition of indices has no During the year under review, the assets of the influence on investment decisions or the construction Company were invested in accordance with the of the portfolio.
As a result, it is expected that the Companys investment policy.
Companys investment portfolio and performance may A full list of holdings is disclosed on pages 20 and 21 deviate from the comparator indices.
and detailed analysis of the spread of investments Since the Companys assets are invested globally and by geographic region and industry sector is shown without regard to the composition of any index, there on page 22.
A further analysis of changes in asset are no restrictions on maximum or minimum exposures distribution by industry sector over the year, including to specific geographic regions, industry sectors or the sources of appreciation depreciation, is shown on unlisted investments.
However, such exposures are page 23.
Attribution of NAV performance is shown on reported in detail to, and monitored by, the Board at page 10. each board meeting in order to ensure that adequate At the year end, the number of listed holdings was 54. diversification is maintained.
The top ten holdings comprised 35.1% of total assets Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed 2016: 31.0%.
with the aim of improving returns to shareholders.
In pursuing its investment objective, from time to time Details of the extent to which the Companys objective the Company will hold certain financial instruments has been achieved and how the investment policy comprising equity and non-equity shares, fixed income was implemented are provided in the Chairmans securities, interests in limited partnerships, structured Statement on pages 3 to 6 and the Managers Review products and cash and liquid resources.
The Company on pages 9 to 12. may use derivatives, other than in relation to the sale of index futures, for hedging or tactical investment Additional limitations on borrowings purposes.
The Company may only sell index futures Under the Companys Articles of Association, the for efficient portfolio management purposes.
For the Directors control the borrowings of the Company and avoidance of doubt, any derivative instrument may only its subsidiaries to ensure that the aggregate amount of be used with the prior authorisation of the Board.
borrowings does not, unless approved by an ordinary | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 15 Strategic Report continued resolution of shareholders, exceed the aggregate of excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
the reserves excluding unrealised capital profits of the Neither unrealised appreciation of capital assets nor Company and its subsidiaries, as published in the latest realised profits arising from the sale of capital assets accounts.
In addition, the Directors are authorised to are available for the dividend.
incur temporary borrowings in the ordinary course of The Directors recommend a final dividend of 14.5p business of up to 10% of the Companys issued share and a special dividend of 5.0p per share, payable on capital.
Such temporary borrowings are to be for no 9 February 2018.
With the interim dividend of 5.50p longer than six months.
already paid in July 2017, this makes a total of 20.0p for the year.
Based on 79,468,458 shares in issue at Principal risks and uncertainties 31 October 2017, the final and special dividend will The principal risks and uncertainties facing the cost 15.496m.
The total dividend for the year will cost business are as follows: 20.039m.
strategic the ongoing attractiveness and sustainability of the Companys corporate objective: Share capital investment portfolio and performance investment General approach, stock selection and overall investment The Company had 79,468,458 shares of 25p each in performance: issue on 31 October 2017 2016: 96,342,683.
Since financial covering market risk, liquidity risk, credit the year end, the Company has bought back 845,389 risk and counterparty risk: shares for cancellation.
The rights attaching to shares operational specific focus on potential failure of the in the Company are set out in the Companys articles Companys or third party service providers systems, of association which may be amended by the passing including vulnerability to cyber attack: and of a special resolution of shareholders, that is, by the approval of a majority of not less than 75% of votes cast.
tax, legal and regulatory compliance with existing requirements and the ability to identify and respond The Financial Conduct Authority rules in relation to to change.
non-mainstream investment products do not apply to These and other risks facing the Company are reviewed the Company.
regularly by the Audit Committee and the Board.
A Rights to the capital of the Company on winding up detailed risk map, which identifies significant risks Shareholders would be entitled to the assets of the relevant to the Company, is assessed twice per year.
Company in the event of a winding up after the Further information on risks is detailed in the Corporate Companys other liabilities had been satisfied.
Governance Report on pages 30 to 31 and in note 17 to the accounts on pages 59 to 64 and on internal controls Voting in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 34.
On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote and on a poll every Performance member present in person or by proxy has one vote for Management provides the Board with detailed each share.
information on the Companys performance at every Board meeting.
Performance is measured in Transfer comparison with the Companys peers and comparator There are no restrictions concerning the holding indices.
or transfer of shares in the Company and there are no special rights attaching to any of the shares.
The Key Performance Indicators are: Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which might result in any restriction on NAV total return: the transfer of shares or their voting rights.
NAV total return against comparators: NAV and share price total return against peers: Deadlines for exercising voting rights discount with debt at market value: If a shareholder wishes to appoint a proxy to attend, dividend growth against UK inflation: and speak and vote at a meeting on their behalf, a valid ongoing charges figure.
appointment is made when the form of proxy together, where relevant, with a notarially certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority under which the Dividends form of proxy is signed is received by the Companys The Board may declare dividends, including interim registrar not less than 48 hours before the start of the dividends, but no dividend is payable except out of the meeting or the adjourned meeting at which the proxy Companys revenue return and revenue reserves, or in | 16 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report continued Unlisted portfolio is appointed to vote or, in the case of a poll taken The Companys unlisted holdings were valued at 1.4m more than 48 hours after it is demanded, no later than 0.2% of shareholders funds.
These comprise our office 24 hours before the time appointed for taking the poll.
property, subsidiary and Apax Europe V-B partnership.
No In calculating these time periods, no account is taken of new partnerships were entered into during the year.
any day or part thereof that is not a working day.
Viability statement Discount control policy The Directors have assessed the prospects of the The Companys policy aims, in normal market Company for a period of five years.
The Board believes conditions, to maintain the discount to cum-income this time period is appropriate having consideration NAV at or below 9%.
In calculating the NAV for the for the Companys principal risks and uncertainties purposes of this policy, the Companys borrowings outlined on page 15 : its portfolio of liquid listed are taken at their market value so as to ensure that international equity investments and cash balances: future repurchases of shares will take into account and its ability to achieve the stated dividend policy and changes in the value of the borrowings brought about to cover interest payments on the Companys debt.
by movements in long-term interest rates.
During the year ended 31 October 2017, the Company bought In making this assessment, the Directors have back for cancellation a total of 16,874,225 shares considered detailed information provided at Board of 25p each representing 17.5% of shares in issue meetings which includes the Companys balance sheet, at 31 October 2016, at a cost of 135,188,000.
This gearing level, share price discount, asset allocation, included 11,402,090 shares bought from Aviva.
Based on the above, the Board confirms it has a At the AGM on 3 February 2017, authority was granted reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to repurchase up to 14.99% of shares in issue on that to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they date.
The number of shares authorised for repurchase fall due over the five year period of this assessment.
Share buybacks from the date of the AGM to the Companys year end, excluding the Aviva buyback, amounted to 4,919,135 shares or 5.14 Investment risk percentage points of the 14.99% authority.
The investment portfolio is diversified over a range of industries and regions in order to spread risk.
The Discount to NAV Company has a long-term policy of borrowing money % % 5 Years to 31 October 2017 to invest in equities in the expectation that this will 0 0 improve returns but, should stockmarkets fall, such borrowings would magnify losses.
The Company can 3 3 buy back and cancel its own shares.
All other things 6 6 being equal, this would have the effect of increasing gearing.
Investment risk is considered in more detail in 9 9 the Corporate Governance Report on page 30 and in note 17 on page 60.
12 12 15 15 Performance comparators The Company does not have a formal benchmark.
18 18 Performance is reviewed in the context of returns Oct 12 Oct 13 Oct 14 Oct 15 Oct 16 Oct 17 achieved by a broad basket of UK equities through the with borrowings at market value Discount to Cum-Income NAV Discount to Ex-Income NAV MSCI UK All Cap Index and of international equities through the MSCI All Country World Index ACWI.
The portfolio is not modelled on any index.
Holding in listed closed-ended investment fund Management Company holdings include one investment in a listed The Board has appointed the Companys whollyclosed-ended investment fund of 12.7m: 1.5% of total owned subsidiary, S. I. T. Savings Limited, as its assets 2016: 9.8m: 1.0%.
This comprised solely of Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
Dayan investment in British Land, a UK property fund.
The to-day management of the Company is delegated to Company has a policy not to invest more than 15% of the Companys executive management which reports total assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 17 Strategic Report continued The Board has also appointed Maitland Administration Socially responsible investing Services Scotland Limited Maitland to provide When investments are made, the primary objective is company secretarial, administration and accounting to achieve the best investment return while allowing services to the Company.
Maitland purchased the for an acceptable degree of risk.
In pursuing this previous administrators, R&H Fund Sevices Limited, in objective, various factors that may impact on the May 2017. performance are considered and these may include socially responsible investment issues.
Investor Disclosure Document In accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority rules Companys directors and employees implementing the EU Alternative Investment Fund The table below shows the breakdown of directors Managers Directive AIFMD, certain information must and employees.
be made available to investors before they invest.
The 31 October 2017 31 October 2016 Companys Investor Disclosure Document can be found Male Female Male Female on the Companys website, www.
co. uk Directors 4 2 5 1 Manager 1 0 1 0 Key Information Document Employees 6 2 4 2 With effect from 3 January 2018, in accordance with the EU Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products PRIIP Regulation, the Companys Key Information Document will also be available on the website.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC The Company is a member of the AIC, the trade James Will organisation for the closed-ended investment company Chairman industry.
8 December 2017 Substantial shareholdings At 8 December 2017, the Company had been notified of the following holdings in excess of 3% of its shares.
% Shares held Wells Capital Management Inc. 4,924,826 6.3 AXA Investment Managers SA 3,450,050 4.4 Analysis of share register at 31 October 2017 Share capital Category of holder Number % Individuals 17,566 77.8 Insurance companies 12 2.4 Investment companies 52 7.9 Pension funds 22 8.3 Other 66 3.6 Total 17,718 100.0 | 18 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017
