DIRECTORS REPORT Articles of association The companys articles may only be amended by a special Jonathan Adelman resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No Acting General Counsel and amendments to the articles are being proposed at the AGM.
Company Secretary Directors The following were Directors of the company during the year: Gerald Corbett resigned on 1 September 2017, Joanne Averiss resigned 1 September 2017, Sue Clark, Mathew Dunn, John Daly, Ben Gordon, Simon Litherland, Ian McHoul and Euan Sutherland.
Subject to company law and the companys articles, the Directors report Directors may exercise all of the powers of the company and The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
The financial statements of the company and the Group for the executive team is responsible for the day-to-day management 52 weeks ended 1 October 2017. of the group.
The articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Additional disclosures Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended Other information that is relevant to this report and which is by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board.
The also incorporated by reference, including information required articles also require Directors to retire and submit themselves in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 and Listing for election to the first AGM following appointment and to retire Rule 9.8.
4R, can be located as follows: at the AGM held in the third calendar year after election or last re-election, but to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Business model Pages 6-7 Code the Code all of the directors will submit themselves for Strategy for delivering objectives Pages 16-17 election or re-election at the AGM, as appropriate.
As a result of ongoing refreshment of the Board and as indicated on page 56, Results Pages 40-43 Ben Gordon will not be seeking re-election at the AGM.
The Financial assets and liabilities Page 98 biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 46 and47 of this report and in the Notice of Meeting which is Principal risks Pages 29-32 available on the companys website.
The service contracts Corporate responsibility Pages 34-39 ofthe Executive Directors and letters of appointment of the Greenhouse gas emissions Page 39 Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
Our people Pages 37-38 Going concern Page 88 Directors interests The Directors interests in ordinary shares of the company Viability statement Page 33 are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on Long term incentive plans Pages 134-136 page 82.
No Director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
No Director was or Dividend waiver Page 87 is materially interested in any contract, other than under their service contract or letter of appointment, which was as required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R subsisting during or existing at the end of year and which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
There Business review and future development are procedures in place to deal with any conflicts of interest A review of the groups operations during the year and its plans and these have operated effectively during the year.
for the future is given in the Chairmans introduction, the Chief Executive Officers Review and the Chief Financial Officers Directors liabilities Review between pages 8 to 43.
Details of the Groups business As at the date of this report, customary indemnities are in model and strategy are summarised on pages 6, 7, 16 and 17. place under which the company has agreed, to the extent permitted by law and the companys articles, to indemnify: Results and dividends The Groups profit before taxation attributable to the equity The Directors, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in shareholders amounted to 138.8m 2016: 151.9m and the connection with, the execution of their powers, duties profit after taxation amounted to 111.6m 2016: 114.5m.
and responsibilities as Directors of the company or any An interim dividend of 7.2 pence 2016: 7.0 pence per ordinary of its subsidiaries: and share was paid on 14July 2017.
Directors of companies which are corporate trustees of Subject to shareholder approval, the Directors have proposed the groups pension schemes against liability incurred in a final dividend of 19.3 pence 2016: 17.5 pence per ordinary connection with those companies activities as trustees share payable on 5 February 2018 to shareholders on the of such schemes.
register at the close of business on 8 December 2017, giving a total dividend in respect of 2017 of 26.5 pence 2016: 24.5 pence, Directors remuneration an increase of 8.2% over the previous year.
The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors needed to run the group effectively.
The policy which will be presented to shareholders at the AGM and is subject to shareholder approval is contained within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 74.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Employees There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares Full information on our employees, including the areas in the company other than: of learning and development, employee communication Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed and engagement, health, safety and wellbeing and equal by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and opportunities are included in our Sustainable business Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct review on pages 34 to 39.
Authority and the Groups share dealing code whereby certain employees of the Group require the approval of the Human rights company to deal in its ordinary shares.
The Groups Ethical Business Policy sets out guidelines on ethical standards and human rights, and applies to employees The company is not aware of any agreements between and all third parties acting on the Groups behalf.
It provides shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer for the protection of human rights by mandating that wherever of securities and or voting rights.
the Group and its suppliers work in the world, there is a clean and safe environment, proper standards of employment Dividend waiver and compliance with local laws.
The Group only works with The trustees of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan have elected to suppliers who adopt the standards required under the Ethical waive dividends on shares held under trust relating to dividends Business Policy.
Political donations Shares held in employee benefit trusts No political donations were made by the Group and its Under the rules of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan the Plan subsidiaries 2016: nil.
eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Greenhouse gas emissions Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting Details of the greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants carbon dioxide equivalent CO e for our office and 2 instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to manufacturing locations are set out in the Sustainable the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees business review on pages 38 and 39. do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 28 November 2017, the Trustees held Major shareholders 1.31% 2016: 1.24% of the issued share capital of the company.
At 1 October 2017, the company had been notified, in Similarly, if First Names Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of Britvic Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee, holds ordinary the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting shares on trust for the benefit of the executive directors, senior rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the company: executives and managers of the Group, a dividend waiver is in place.
The Trustee is not permitted to vote on any unvested Number of ordinary Percentage of Nature of shares held in the trust unless expressly directed to do so by shares voting rights holding the company.
The Trustees held 0.21% of the issued share capital as at 28 November 2017 2016: 0.19%.
FMR LLC 18,432,163 7.00% Indirect Prudential plc Change of control provisions group of There are no agreements between the company and its companies 16,549,600 6.27% Indirect directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported APG Asset redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover Management N. V. 16,080,643 6.12% Direct bid.
The companys banking arrangements are terminable upon Standard Life a change of control of the company.
Certain other indebtedness Investments Ltd Below 5% Below 5% Direct Indirect becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade BlackRock, Inc Below 5% Below 5% Indirect in the credit rating of the company.
The companys agreements with PepsiCo are terminable upon a change of control.
Share capital The companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares divided into ordinary shares of 20 pence each referred to as ordinary shares.
As at 1 October 2017, the companys issued share capital comprised 263,797,000 ordinary shares.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company, every holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote, and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Any notice of general meeting issued by the company will specify deadlines for exercising voting rights and in appointing a proxy or proxies in relation to resolutions to be proposed at the general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the general meeting and published on the companys website after the meeting.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Financial risk management Disclaimer It is the groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on to the members of the company and it has been prepared for, the groups reported profitability and cash flows.
The policies and only for, the members of the company as a body, and for managing each of the groups main financial risk areas are no other persons.
The company, its Directors and employees, referred to in the Treasury management section of the Chief agents and advisors do not accept or assume responsibility Financial Officers review on page 42 and in more detail within to any other person to whom this document is shown or into note 24 of the consolidated financial statements.
whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
A cautionary statement in respect of Research and development forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report The Group carries out research and development necessary appears on the inside front cover of this document.
to support its principal activities as a manufacturer and The Directors report was approved by the Board on distributor of soft drinks.
Branches On behalf of the Board As a global Group, our interests and activities are held or operated through subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements or associates which are established in, and subject to the laws and regulations of, many different jurisdictions.
Jonathan Adelman Going concern and viability Acting General Counsel and Company Secretary The Directors consider that the Group and the company have Britvic plc adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern Company No.
5604923 basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Code requires the Directors to assess and report on the prospects of the Group over a longer period.
This longer term viability statement is set out on page33.
Events since the balance sheet date Following a detailed review of our manufacturing sites and distribution network Britvic announced on 3 October 2017 a proposal to transfer production of Robinsons and Fruit Shoot from our Norwich site to our manufacturing sites in East London, Leeds and Rugby.
The proposal is being made to improve the efficiency and productivity of our manufacturing operations and, as a result, Britvic is proposing to close the Norwich manufacturing site.
The proposal has been approved by the Board for consultation with impacted employees and, subject to full and proper consultation, it is proposed that the site will close towards the end of 2019.
Annual general meeting The AGM will be held at 11.00am on 31 January 2018 at the offices of Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in a separate circular which has been sent to all shareholders and is available on the Britvic website at http: www.
