We use these key performance indicators to measure our performance in financial and KEY PERFORMANCE non-financial terms, as described below.
INDICATORS ADJUSTED EBITA ADJUSTED FREE REVENUE MARGIN ADJUSTED EPS CASH FLOW 7.7% 12.7% 52.9p 54.5m Alignment to strategy Alignment to strategy Alignment to strategy Alignment to strategy Why do we measure this?
Revenue growth measures Adjusted EBITA margin Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted free cash flow our ability to increase prices measures the underlying measures the profit per share measures the ability of the and volume sold.
profitability of the company, of the company and is used company to convert profits excluding any one-off costs.
by investors to compare the into cash to enable returns performance of a company to shareholders or future against peers.
Performance Performance Performance Performance Revenue increased by 7.7%, Adjusted EBITA margin Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted free cash flow including the impact of the decreased by 30 bps as a result increased 7.3% due to the generated was 54.5m, Bela Ischia acquisition, foreign of the Bela Ischia acquisition, growth of adjusted EBITA, net a 43.6m improvement on exchange movements and the foreign exchange movements of interest and corporation tax.
As well as the impact impact of an additional week in and the impact of an additional of improved adjusted EBITA the prior year.
Excluding these week in the prior year.
Excluding the company benefited from an factors revenue increased 2.5%.
these factors, adjusted EBITA additional week in the prior year.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information ALIGNMENT TO STRATEGY KEY Continue to step-change ourbusiness capability Generate pro table growth inourcore markets Realise global opportunities in kids, family and Build trust and respect inourcommunities adult categories BUSINESS IN THE COMMUNITY GREAT PLACE TO AVERAGE CALORIES CORPORATE WORK TRUST INDEX PER 250ML ADVANTAGE SURVEY RESPONSIBILITY INDEX 36.5kcal 2.5 Stars 75% Alignment to strategy Alignment to strategy Alignment to strategy Alignment to strategy Why do we measure this?
The Great Place to Work We are committed to helping The Advantage Survey is an This index measure reflects survey allows all our people consumers make healthier independent report providing the progress of our Sustainable to anonymously feedback choices, and use average insight into customer service Business programme and their views.
calories per 250ml as our key direct from retailers, and provides an indication of our performance measure to track benchmarking against our peers.
contribution towards society development of our portfolio.
through our responsible business practices.
Performance Performance Performance Performance We have continued to make Average calories per 250ml In 2017 Britvic were ranked Britvic continued to achieve progress in making Britvic a is 36.5kcal across our global 6th in GB Wholesale and 2.5 stars in 2017. great place to work.
This year portfolio, a 1.4% increase on Convenience, 11th in GB we achieved a Trust Index 2016 due to growth in juice Grocery and 4th in Ireland.
score of 75% with an 89% in Brazil.
Excluding Brazil, our response rate.
average calories per 250ml reduced by 0.8% from 2016 to 35.1kcal.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27
