The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Fund Managers Review levels of volatility and central government control, which means we should not be overly exposed.
Thedeployment of gearing within the Company has been conservative all year and ended the period at 2%.
We felt more comfortable retaining cash to take advantage of a market setback, asthere have been troubling political and macro events that could easilyhave resulted in investors withdrawing from markets.
In the end, no meaningful fall occurred but we continue to cautiously recycle investments from stocks we feel are expensive into those which offer better value.
We have made a change to the manager line-up with David Smith taking over the management of the UK portfolio from me.
David and Ihave worked together for the last five years on another UK portfolio and I feel his clear focus on companies listed in the UK will deliver The Fund Manager of the portfolio, Alex Crooke, reports on returns as the future ramifications of Brexit become clearer.
The theyear to 31 October 2017 roster of fund managers working for Bankers features the best talent within Janus Henderson and the merger over the summer with Janus Stock markets have continued to dance to the tune being played has created more resources.
Easy money and low interest rates provided a supportive back drop for assets of all types to appreciate, effectively The significant fall in the value of sterling following the 2016 European debasing the value of cash by comparison.
While certain politicians in referendum had a greater impact in the translation of overseas the US and Europe have been distracting the attention of dividends during this reported year than the previous year.
The commentators and news services, their relevance to economic growth Companys earnings rose 17% year-on-year but, as the year has been limited.
The unexpected outturn was the US Federal progressed, sterling started to strengthen against the US dollar and Reserve increasing interest rates at a lower rate than expected next year we could see the positive effect on earnings reverse.
A key maintaining the goldilocks era that has persisted for a few years.
focus of stock selection in all regions is dividend growth from our Investors were said to be exhibiting rational exuberance by market investments and this been most noticeable in the lower yielding regions strategists, although in recent months this seems to be swinging to a such as the US and Japan.
Dividend growth is gently accelerating in less rational form of speculation in cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin.
both regions and could surprise positively next year helped by tax Our strategy has changed little through the year, preferring to stay reforms in the US and a move to higher pay outs in Japan.
invested and concentrate on businesses that produce strong cash There are plenty of future trends like Brexit, fading Chinese growth generation which can support a return of profits through dividends.
and shrinking liquidity that may make investors cautious.
A negative This has resulted in another solid year of relative performance, outturn from any one could result in a sharp fall in stock markets.
particularly at the stock picking level with every region, bar the UK, However, the seeds of a global recession or prolonged market outperforming their regional indices.
The stand-out performers were collapse are not yet obvious and so share prices may continue to rise.
the US and once again the mainland China portfolio of A shares.
Seeking out fundamental or intrinsic value has long been a sound The US portfolio has been the largest contributor to overall investment strategy but, in recent years, they have been forgotten in performance in recent years, rising to over 30% of the portfolio value favour of growth and momentum.
It seems clear tous that inflationary earlier this year, at which point we decided to take some profits.
pressures exist in labour markets and higher wage growth will favour Valuations in the US are at an elevated level, justifiable to some a market shift towards more careful analysis of value and the price extent by better growth, but as economic activity improved in other paid for growth.
These trends should favour our portfolio.
parts of the world we felt better value could be obtained elsewhere.
These reductions proved to be well timed.
The proceeds from US Alex Crooke sales were reinvested into Europe and China and, later in the year, 15 January 2018 Japan.
At a stock level, we are beginning to find that better levels of growth globally and the slow normalisation of interest rates is benefitting cyclicals: those stocks that are more attuned to economic Corporate Revenue Exposure at growth such as financials and industrials.
We have benefitted from 31October 2017 the share price appreciation of US technology shares but, towards Emerging Other 11.3% the middle of the year, started to rotate these holdings into more diversified areas, reducing the potential impact should they start to North America underperform.
Our managers have not had it all their way: smaller 28.1% companies have performed far better than large and this dynamic Emerging Asia 19.6% impacted performance in the UK and to some extent Europe where we have limited exposure to small companies.
Europe and Asia, including China, have delivered the best absolute Developed Asia Pacific level of returns during the year.
We continue to believe that these ex Japan 3.5% Japan 8.7% markets can make further progress but the exposure to China, through both mainland and Hong Kong, is getting towards the maximum level Europe ex UK 14.9% that we are able to tolerate.
The region can be susceptible to higher UK 13.9% 7
