The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Alternative Performance Measures Gearing Total Return Performance Gearing means borrowing money to buy assets with the expectation This is the return on the share price see page 3 or NAV per share that the return on investments bought will exceed the interest cost see NAV per Ordinary Share taking into account both the rise and ofthe borrowings.
The gearing percentage reflects the amount of fall of the share price or NAV respectively and the dividends and borrowings eg bank loans, overdrafts and debt securities the interest paid to shareholders during a given period.
Any dividends Company has used to invest in the market and is calculated by taking received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in the difference between non-current asset investments see note 11 and either additional shares for share price total return or the equity shareholders funds see Statement of Financial Position Companys assets for NAV per share total return.
dividing by equity shareholders funds and multiplying by 100.
The Company can use synthetic gearing through derivatives.
None were See page 26 for details of the Companys key performance used inthe year under review.
indicators KPIs and how the Directors assess some of these Alternative Performance Measures.
Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share The value of the Companys assets ie investments see note 11 and cash held see Statement of Financial Position less any liabilities ie bank borrowings and debt securities see notes 14 and 15 for which the Company is responsible divided by the number of shares in issue.
The aggregate NAV is also referred to as shareholders funds in the Statement of Financial Position.
The NAV per share ispublished daily.
Ongoing Charge The ongoing charge reflects those expenses of a type which are likelyto recur in the foreseeable future, whether charged to capital orrevenue, and which relate to the operation of the Company as acollective fund, excluding the costs of acquisition or disposal of investments, finance costs and gains or losses arising on investments.
The ongoing charge is based on actual costs incurred inthe year see notes 5 and 6 as being the best estimate of future costs, in accordance with methodology prescribed by the AIC and is the annualised ongoing charge divided by the average net asset value in the period.
Premium Discount The amount by which the market price per share see page 3 ofaninvestment company is either higher premium or lower discount than the NAV per share, expressed as a percentage oftheNAV per share.
Revenue Return Per Share The revenue return per share is the revenue return for the year seeStatement of Comprehensive Income divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
