The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Corporate Information Directors The Directors appointed to the Board at the date of this report and the dates of their appointment are: Richard Killingbeck David Wild Position: Chairman of the Board and of the Nominations, Position: Director Management Engagement and Insider Committees Date of appointment: 26 February 2014 Date of appointment: 19 December 2003 David is currently Chief Executive Officer of Dominos Pizza plc.
Chairman25September 2013 Hewas formerly Chief Executive at Halfords Plc and President of Richard is currently Chief Executive Officer of W. H. Ireland Group plc.
theGerman division of Wal-Mart Stores Inc, and also the Senior Hewas previously a Managing Director of Credit Suisse UK Private Independent Director for Premier Foods plc.
He has been involved in the financial services industry for 29years, initially as a fund manager and latterly in a number of senior Julian Chillingworth management roles, at Singer & Friedlander Investment Management Position: Director andClose Brothers.
During his career he has been based primarily in London but has also spent part of this time in New York.
Date of appointment: 25 February 2015 Julian is currently Chief Investment Officer for Rathbone Brothers plc.
He was formerly Head of Gross Funds which incorporated Pension Matthew Thorne Funds and Charities at Investec and was Head of Equities at Position: Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Hambros.
Date of appointment: 27 November 2008  26 February 2010 Isobel Sharp, CBE Matthew is a non-executive Director of Custodian Reit Plc and is Position: Director anadviser to the Consensus Business Group.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was Group Finance Director of McCarthy & Date of appointment: 1 November 2017 Stoneplc and also Investment Director of Beazer plc.
He has Isobel is currently a non-executive director, and Audit Committee Chair, significant experience as a Finance Director, predominantly in at IMI plc and Winton Group Ltd and was formerly on the board, and theproperty sector.
Remco Chair, at the UK Green Investment Bank plc.
She is also a member of the Edinburgh Universitys Business School International Advisory Board and, as an Honorary Professor there, lectures on Susan Inglis corporate governance and auditing matters.
Isobel has extensive Position: Senior Independent Director SID accounting, auditing and corporate governance experience.
Most Date of appointment: 1 November 2012 SID since February 2015 recently she was with Deloitte LLP as the firms Senior Technical Susan is currently Managing Director Corporate Finance at Cantor Partner until 2012.
She has served as President of The Institute of Fitzgerald Europe, having held the same position at Canaccord Chartered Accountants of Scotland and on the UK Accounting Genuity until 2012.
Ms Inglis is a qualified lawyer, and was a partner, Standards Board and the Financial Reporting Review Panel and was and head of the funds and financial services group, at Shepherd & awarded the CBE in 2009.
Wedderburn, a leading Scottish law firm.
In 1999 she was a founding partner of Intelli Corporate Finance, an advisory boutique firm focusing on the asset management and investment company sectors which was acquired by Canaccord Genuity in 2009.
All Directors are independent of Janus Henderson and are members of the Audit Committee except the Chairman, Management Engagement Committee and Insider Committee.
The Chairman, Susan Inglis, Matthew Thorne and David Wild are members of the Nominations Committee.
23 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Registered Office Financial Calendar 201 Bishopsgate Annual results announced January 2018 London EC2M 3AE Ex dividend date 25 January 2018 Dividend record date 26 January 2018 1 Annual General Meeting 21 February 2018 Service Providers Final dividend payable on 28 February 2018 Alternative Investment Fund Manager 1st interim dividend payable on 31 May 2018 Henderson Investment Funds Limited Half year results announced July 2018 201 Bishopsgate 2nd interim dividend payable on 31 August 2018 London EC2M 3AE 3rd interim dividend payable on 30 November 2018 1 At Trinity House, London EC3N 4DH at 12 noon Corporate Secretary Henderson Secretarial Services Limited 201 Bishopsgate Information Sources London EC2M 3AE For more information about The Bankers Investment Trust PLC, visit Telephone: 020 7818 1818 the website at www.
com Depositary and Custodian HGi BNP Paribas Securities Services HGi is a content platform provided by Janus Henderson that offers 10 Harewood Avenue online personalisation where you can follow investment experts, London NW1 6AA topics and the trusts that are of interest to you.
By creating your HGi profile you will be updated regularly on the topics that interest you Stockbrokers most, bringing you closer to Janus Hendersons investment expertise.
UK JP Morgan Cazenove Scan the QR code or use this short URL 25 Bank Street to register for HGi: http: HGi.
co rb Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP New Zealand Follow Janus Henderson Investment Trusts First NZ Capital Securities on Twitter, YouTube and Facebook Level 20 For alternative access to Janus Hendersons insight you can now ANZ Centre follow on Twitter, YouTube and Facebook 23-29 Albert Street PO Box 5333 Auckland, New Zealand Registrar Investing UK Shares can be purchased in the market via a stockbroker or through Equiniti Limited share dealing platforms.
They can also be held through share plans, ISAs Aspect House or pensions and links to various providers are included on the website.
Spencer Road Individuals holding shares through HalifaxShare Dealing Limited can write Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA to them at Lovell Park Road, Leeds LS1 1NS or contact them via Telephone: 0371 384 2471 or 44 121 415 7049 if calling from telephone: 03457 225525, email: customercare.
Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, UK time Monday to or visit their website: www.
co. uk sharedealing Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the New Zealand income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not Computershare Investor Services Limited Private Bag 92119 receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may vary as a result of statutory changes and their value will depend on individual circumstances.
Victoria Street West Auckland 1142, New Zealand Telephone: New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 Nominee Share Code Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company will Independent Auditor arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided to the Ernst & Young LLP operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at them when invited to do so by the Chairman.
25 Churchill Place London E14 5EY Investors in Halifax Share Dealing receive all shareholder communications.
A voting instruction form is provided tofacilitate 24 voting at general meetings ofthe Company.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Status The Company is registered as a public limited company and is an investment trust as defined under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act.
It has been approved as an investment company under Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158, as amended, and is a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company continues to conduct its affairs as an Approved Investment Trust under the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
The Company maintains a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and is subject to the Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules published by the UK Listing Authority.
The Company is governed by its Articles of Association, amendments to which must be approved by shareholders by way of a special resolution.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board, with the assistance of Janus Henderson, has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
In carrying out this assessment, the Board has considered the market uncertainty arising from the result of the UK referendum to leave the European Union.
The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment objectives and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified, and the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these as far as practicable, and whether the Board considers the impact of such risks has changed over the past year, are as follows: Risk Controls and mitigation Investment Activity and Performance Risks An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms of asset The Board monitors investment performance at each Board meeting allocation or the level of gearing may result in underperformance and regularly reviews the extent of the Companys borrowings.
against the Companys various indices and the companies in its peer group.
Portfolio and Market Risks Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities that The Fund Manager seeks to maintain a diversified portfolio to arelisted on recognised markets, share prices may move rapidly.
The Board regularly reviews the portfolio, Thecompanies in which investments are made may operate investment activity and performance.
A fall in the market value of the Companys portfolio would have an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
Tax, Legal and Regulatory Risks A breach of Section 1158 could lead to a loss of investment trust Janus Henderson has been contracted to provide investment, status, resulting in capital gains realised within the portfolio being company secretarial, administration and accounting services through subject to corporation tax.
A breach of the UK Listing Authoritys qualified professionals.
The Board receives internal control reports Rules could result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a produced by Janus Henderson on a quarterly basis, which confirm breach of the Companies Act could lead to criminal proceedings.
All tax, legal and regulatory compliance both in the UK and New breaches could result in financial or reputational damage.
Company must also ensure compliance with the Listing Rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
Financial Risks By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys business The Company has a diversified portfolio which comprises mainly activities are exposed to market risk including market price risk, investments in large and medium-sized companies and mitigates the currency risk and interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit and Companys exposure to liquidity risk.
The Company minimises the counterparty risk.
risk of a counterparty failing to deliver securities or cash by dealing through organisations that have undergone rigorous due diligence byJanus Henderson.
Further information on the mitigation of financial risks is included in note 16.
Operational Risks Disruption to, or failure of, Janus Hendersons accounting, dealing or The Board monitors the services provided by Janus Henderson and payment systems or the Depositarys records could prevent the its other suppliers and receives reports on the key elements in place accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial to provide effective internal control.
The Company is also exposed to the operational risk that one or more of its service providers may not provide the required level of service.
The Board considers these risks to have remained unchanged throughout the year under review.
25 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Performance measured against various indices Viability Statement The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset value and three year period, taking account of the Companys current position share price for the Company and various indices.
and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties documented in this Strategic Report.
Performance against the Companys peer group The Directors conducted the assessment based on a period of three In addition to comparison against the various indices, theBoard years because they consider this to be an appropriate period over considers the performance of its AIC peer group at each Board which they do not expect there to be any significant change in the meeting and its open-ended equivalent, the IMA Global Sector on current principal risks and adequacy of the mitigating controls in place.
Also the Directors do not envisage any change in strategy or objectives or any events that would prevent the Company from Discount premium to net asset value NAV continuing to operate over that period as the Companys assets are The Company publishes a NAV per share figure on a daily basis liquid, its commitments are limited and the Company intends to through the official newswire of the London Stock Exchange.
This continue to operate as an investment trust.
figure is calculated in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies AIC formula.
At each Board meeting, the The assessment has considered the impact of the likelihood of the Board monitors the level of the Companys discount premium to principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, in particular NAV and reviews the average discount premium for the Companys Investment Activity and Performance, Portfolio and Market and relevant AIC sector.
Financial risks, in severe but plausible scenarios, and the effectiveness of any mitigating controls in place.
The Board considers the use of share buy-backs and share issues to enhance shareholder value.
During the financial year the The Directors also took into account the liquidity of the portfolio, the Company did not buy-back any shares 2016:1,338,509 shares gearing and the income stream from the portfolio in considering the bought back and held in treasury and did not issue any shares viability of the Company over the next three years and its ability to 2016:10,863,453 shares.
meet liabilities as they fall due.
This included, consideration of the duration of the Companys long term borrowings, how a breach of the gearing covenants could impact on the Companys net asset value Future Developments and shareprice and how the forecast income stream, expenditure and While the future performance of the Company is mainly dependent levels of reserves could impact on the Companys ability to pay on the performance of global financial markets which are subject to dividends to shareholders over that period in line with its current various external factors, the Boards intention is that the Company dividend policy.
Whilst detailed forecasts are only made over a shorter will continue to pursue its stated investment objectives and policy time frame, the nature of the Companys business as an investment explained on page 4.
The Chairmans Statement, the Fund trust means that such forecasts are equally valid to be considered over Managers Review and Fund Manager Reports provide commentary the longer three year period as a means of assessing whether the on the outlook for the Company.
Company can continue in operation.
Based on their assessment, the Directors have a reasonable Responsible Investment, Voting and the UK expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation StewardshipCode and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three year period.
Only a substantial financial crisis affecting the global The Board delegates the Companys investment economy could have an impact on this assessment.
managementactivities, including corporate governance and corporate responsibility in respect of investee companies, to JanusHenderson.
Borrowing The Company does not currently have any short term borrowings.
The Board retains oversight as to how duties in this area are discharged by reviewing Janus Hendersons Responsible The Company has an 8% 15 million 2023 debenture and Investment Policy and receiving regular reporting on how the 50million of private placement fixed rate 2035 loan notes at an Responsible Investment Policy has been applied in respect of the annualised coupon rate of 3.68%.
The Managers Responsible Investment Policy Actual gearing at 31 October 2017 was 2.3% 2016:2.6% of sets out its approach to corporate governance and corporate netasset value.
responsibility for all the companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients.
This includes environmental, social and ethical issues, itsapproach to proxy voting and the application of the UK Performance Measurement and Key Stewardship Code.
Performance Indicators KPIs The Board believes that voting at general meetings is an important In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the Manager the aspect of corporate stewardship and a means of signalling Directors take into account the following KPIs: shareholder views on Board policy, practices and performance.
26 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Voting recommendations are guided by the best interests of the Board Diversity and Experience investee companies shareholders and, depending on the nature The Companys affairs are overseen by a Board comprising six ofthe resolution, the Fund Managers may give specific instructions non-executive Directors two female and four male.
The Directors on voting on non-routine and unusual or controversial resolutions.
are diverse in their experience bringing knowledge of investment TheResponsible Investment Policy can be found on the Managers markets, banking and accounting and auditing expertise to website at www.
discussions regarding the Companys business.
The Directors regularly consider the leadership needs and specific skills required Employees, Social, Community, Human to achieve the Companys investment objectives, and are cognisant of diversity when making appointments to the Board.
The Company Rights and Environmental Matters has no employees and therefore has no further disclosures to make As an investment trust, the Companys own direct environmental in respect of gender representation within the Company.
The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any By order of the Board other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
The Companys core activities are undertaken by Janus Henderson, which has implemented environmental management practices.
Janus Hendersons corporate responsibility statement is included on its website.
In 2012 it was granted CarbonNeutral company Richard Killingbeck status which it has committed to maintain at least until the end Chairman of2018.
15 January 2018 The Companys Annual Report is printed on paper produced using 50% recycled post-consumer waste and 50% wood fibre from fully sustainable forests with certification by the Forest Stewardship Council: the printing company used is certified as CarbonNeutral.
Bribery Act The Company has no employees.
The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act 2010 and confirmed its zero tolerance to bribery and corruption in its business activities.
It has received assurances from the Companys main contractors and suppliers, listed on page 24, that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect against any potentially illegal behaviour by their employees and agents.
Criminal Finances Act 2017 The Board has considered the recent changes made by the Criminal Finances Act 2017 which introduced a new corporate criminal offence of failing to take reasonable steps to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
The Company maintains a zero tolerance policy towards the provision of illegal services, including the facilitation of tax evasion.
Modern Slavery As an investment vehicle the Company does not provide goods or services in the normal course of business, and does not have customers.
Accordingly, the Directors consider that the Company is not required to make any slavery or human trafficking statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
