Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information VIABILITY STATEMENT Assessment During the year, the Directors assessed the viability of the company, taking into account the companys current financial position and the principal risks, particularly those that could threaten the business model.
These risks and the actions being taken to manage or mitigate them are set out on pages 29-32.
The Directors have determined that a three year period is an appropriate timeframe for the assessment given the dynamic nature of the FMCG sector and this is in line with the companys strategic planning period.
The starting point for the viability assessment is the strategic and financial plan, which makes assumptions relating to the economic climate in each of our markets, the growth of the soft drinks category, input cost inflation and growth from the companys value drivers.
The process for assessing the viability of the company involved input from a number of functions across the business to model a series of theoretical stress test scenarios based on the materialisation of principal risks: Firstly, the Directors considered the impact of severe but plausible scenarios for each principal risk.
For example, the trend towards health and the introduction of the Soft Drinks Industry Levy in the UK and Ireland results in a reduction in the soft drinks category size, further depreciation of sterling increases the cost of Britvics goods, or a major IT breach results in an outage in key systems, resulting in the temporary inability to selling goods.
Secondly, the Directors assessed diff erent scenarios that group together principal risks.
As part of this the Directors considered the interconnectivity between principal risks but also scenarios where unconnected risks occur at the same time.
The stress test scenarios were reviewed against the companys current and projected debt and liquidity position.
Finally, a reverse stress test was performed which allowed the Directors to assess the circumstances that would render the business model unviable.
To support the final conclusion on viability, the assessment also took into account the mitigations available to the company to protect against these downside scenarios.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to September 2020.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33
