OUR BUSINESS MODEL CREATING AND DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE OUR PURPOSE: MAKING LIFES EVERYDAY MOMENTS MORE ENJOYABLE OUR COMPANY VALUES 3 1 2 BE PROUD BE BOLD BE DISCIPLINED OVERVIEW We manufacture, market and sell a range of SOURCING We take a global approach to sourcing market-leading brands in GB, France, Ireland the raw materials needed to produce and Brazil.
In addition, we are the sole bottler for our range of drinks.
Each year, we PepsiCo in GB and Ireland, enabling us to sell their spend hundreds of millions of pounds range of soft drinks alongside our owned-brands.
on packaging, raw materials and other costs to produce our products.
We organise our teams based on skills and knowledge of materials and they MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTION work closely with suppliers to ensure In the majority of our markets we consistent quality, a fair price and the have our own factories where we sustainability of supply.
manufacture the vast majority of Our responsible approach our brands.
We utilise a range of We have a diverse supply chain, pack types including PET, glass sourcing materials from across the and aluminium steel cans, and our world to produce soft drinks.
We have main ingredients are concentrates, manufacturing sites across the UK, fruit, water, sugar and alternate CUSTOMER INSIGHTS Ireland, France and Brazil.
In addition, we also use The starting point of our business is to understand operate franchise partnerships in third-party partners to manufacture the needs of our consumers and how best to the United States.
We directly employ for us, mostly for new packaging support our retail partners in maximising their over 4,500 people and have a supply innovations and where we require soft drinks sales.
We have invested in insight chain of over 2,500 supplier additional volume at peak times.
over the years to ensure we are well-placed to organisations.
We are committed to We work with specialist companies understand what people drink, why they drink producing high quality soft drinks to distribute our products rather and how diff erent categories are likely to perform which are sourced and manufactured than own or operate our own in the future.
In parallel our commercial team in a fair, ethical and environmentally fleet of vehicles.
work closely with our retail partners to deliver responsible way.
Our responsible approach a great shopping experience in-store.
We aim to operate our factories to the Our responsible approach highest standards with the health and We take a category approach to insight and safety of our employees paramount.
try to understand the bigger picture of the All of our factories comply with the soft drinks category and not just the speci c relevant standards of safety and we impact on the Britvic portfolio.
This enables report to the board on a regular basis us to present ourselves as category experts how we are performing and how we who can be relied upon to be both balanced are achieving this.
and fair in our assessment.
Creating value from international franchises Under our International franchise we work primarily in partnership with local companies through franchise, distribution or licensing arrangements to realise the global potential of our kids, family and adult brands.
In the United States, we have agreements with a number of Pepsi bottlers.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Read more HEALTHIER COMMUNITIES see pages 34-39 WHAT WE DO Britvic is the largest supplier of branded still soft drinks and the number two supplier of branded carbonated soft drinks in GB, and it is an industry leader in Brazil, Ireland and France.
Through franchising, export and licensing, Britvic has also been growing its reach into other territories, particularly the United States.
Read more HEALTHIER PEOPLE see pages 34-39 THE VALUE WE 4 5 6 CREATE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS ACT WITH PACE BE OPEN WIN TOGETHER Shareholders 64.9 million paid as dividends to shareholders during the year.
Suppliers By manufacturing regionally, using local and national suppliers, the bene ciaries of our value creation are geographically widespread.
CONSUMER Employees We believe that any of our drinks We provide jobs and salaries can be enjoyed as part of a balanced creating local purchasing power.
However, In 2017, 153.2 million was paid we aim to encourage positive in wages and salaries.
behaviour change and recognise that our brands can play a powerful MARKETING Consumers role in supporting this ambition.
We market our brands to consumers Obesity and other health issues We will not encourage excessive through diff erent channels including, consumption of any of our drinks.
such as diabetes are a growing television, print, digital and outdoor concern within our markets and advertising.
Our responsible approach we are committed to helping our We do not run promotions requiring Our responsible approach consumers make informed choices repeat or multiple purchases.
Where We follow relevant applicable national and to live healthier and more active lives.
both regular and reduced sugar local legislation and regulation.
We also variants of a brand exist, we include support voluntary industry codes of the reduced sugar variants in marketing.
In accordance 67,000 donated to good causes with our Responsible Marketing Code, all through our employee community marketing activity must be in keeping with both the letter and the spirit of legislation, support programmes.
Our communities regulation and such codes.
Our marketing also indirectly bene t from the value also complies with all other relevant Britvic that we create for all our stakeholders, policies, such as the ethical business policy.
Governments Through paying taxes in the jurisdictions where we operate, we support the development of public infrastructure, healthcare and educational provision.
Customers Maintaining strong relationships with customers is critical for our brands to be available and well presented to our consumers.
Creating value from exports Under International, we export Britvic products around the world and are a signi cant player in the travel sector.
Read more HEALTHIER PLANET see pages 34-39 Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 07
