The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Business Model Strategy Management The Companys strategy is to meet its investment objectives.
This is The Company qualifies as an Alternative Investment Fund AIF achieved through the appointment of external management which inaccordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Manager operates in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
The Company has appointed Henderson Investment Funds Limited Investment Objectives HIFL to act as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM The Company aims over the long term to achieve capital growth in inaccordance with an agreement which was effective from 22 July excess of the FTSE World Index and annual dividend growth greater 2014 and is terminable on six months notice.
HIFL delegates than inflation, as defined by the UK Retail Prices Index RPI, by investment management services to Henderson Global Investors investing in companies listed throughout the world.
Limited, which acts as Manager.
Both entities are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
References toJanus Henderson and the Manager within this report refer to the Investment Policy services provided by bothentities.
The following investment ranges apply: The fund management team is led by Alex Crooke, who has been in Equities: 80% to 100% place since 2003.
He is assisted by David Smith, Tim Stevenson, Ian Debt securities and cash investments: 0% to 20% Warmerdam, Junichi Inoue, Michael Kerley, Charlie Awdry and Investments trusts, collective funds and derivatives: 0% to 15% Nicholas Cowley.
To achieve an appropriate spread of investment risk the portfolio is Janus Henderson and its subsidiaries provide accounting, company broadly diversified by geography, sector and company.
The Manager secretarial and general administrative services.
Some of the Janus Henderson has the flexibility to invest in any geographic administration and accounting services are carried out, on behalf of region and any sector with no set limits on individual country or Janus Henderson, by BNP Paribas Securities Services.
Wendy King sector exposures and, therefore, the make-up and weighting of the FCIS acts as Company Secretary on behalf of the Corporate portfolio may differ materially from the FTSE World Index.
Secretary, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom-up, value-based investment process to identify suitable opportunities and pays particular regard Management Fee to cash generation and dividends.
The Board regularly monitors the From 1 July 2016 the management fee was amended to take into Companys investments and the Managers investment activity.
account the increase in the assets following the Henderson Global Trust plc transaction in 2016 in which the Company was the global The Company can, but normally does not, invest up to 15% of its growth roll-over option in the transaction to liquidate Henderson gross assets in any other investment companies including listed Global Trust plc and to simplify the calculation.
It is now equal tothe investment trusts.
aggregate of 0.45% per annum of the first 750 million and 0.40% per annum on the excess over 750 million of the value of the net Derivatives assets on the last day of the quarter immediately preceding the The Company may use financial instruments known as derivatives quarter in respect of which the calculation is made.
Notwithstanding for the purpose of efficient portfolio management while maintaining the foregoing, the management fee calculated for the final two alevel of risk consistent with the risk profile of the Company.
calendar quarters of 2016 and the four quarters of 2017 were subject to a cap of 843,685 per quarter.
Prior to this change the management fee was calculated using the average net assets on the Gearing last day of October in each of the two preceding years at the rate of The Company can borrow to make additional investments with the 0.45% on average net assets up to 750 million and 0.40% of aim of achieving a return that is greater than the cost of the average net assets over 750 million.
The Company can borrow up to 20% of net assets at thetime of draw down.
Position at the year end At 31 October 2017, the portfolio contained 195 2016: 194 individual investments, with the largest single investment accounting for 1.81% 2016: 2.48% of total investments and the top 25 holdings totalling 30.20% 2016: 29.25% of total investments.
There were no holdings of investment companies in the portfolio 2016: nil.
There were no derivatives held in the portfolio 2016: nil.
