MARKET REVIEW 62% RESPONDING TO UK adults are concerned about sugar in food and non-alcoholic THE TRENDS SHAPING drink products, up from 55% in 2015.
OUR MARKETS Introduction FRANCE GROCERY CHANNEL In each of our markets we track the volume and value 1.7bn Syrups pure juice kids retail sales value performance of the soft drinks category by channel and In France, we participate in a limited number of categories sub-category.
The data is compiled by independent suppliers syrups, pure juice and kids drinks.
The market analysis is and is sourced from retailers electronic point of sale EPOS for these categories and does not represent the total value data.
Typically, it is available for different channels through of the category.
different suppliers and will cover a large part of the market but does not provide 100% coverage of all soft drinks sales as France Off-Trade some retailers do not participate in the data collection exercise.
millions However, it is consistent in its analysis and helps us understand Syrups Pure juice Kids how channels, categories and brands are performing.
3.0 GB 2.0 2.6 2.6 2.0 1.9 In GB, we have a broad portfolio of brands and our products 1.0 are available in all channels.
The analysis provided here is a 0.6 0.0 snapshot of the soft drinks category in the off-trade Grocery -1.0 supermarkets and Impulse outlets.
A full review of the GB soft drinks category can be found in the Soft Drinks Category -2.0 -2.4 Review available online at www.
com sustainable- -3.0 business resources , which is published annually on a calendar basis.
Value % Versus LY Volume % Versus LY GB GROCERY & IMPULSE CHANNELS REPUBLIC OF IRELAND OFF-TRADE 7.7bn total retail sales value CARBONATESANDSTILLS 315m carbonates value, 208m stills value GB Off-Trade millions We offer a broad portfolio in Ireland.
Below is a snap shot ofcarbonates and stills.
Carbonates includes cola, fruit Total Off-Trade Grocery Multiples Total Impulse carbonates and energy and Stills includes squash, kids, 3.0 water, pure juice and juice drinks.
2.7 2.0 ROI Off-Trade 2.0 millions 1.0 1.1 Total Carbonates Total Stills Total Soft Drinks 0.8 0.3 10.0 0.0 -0.5 8.0 8.7 -1.0 7.8 6.0 Value % Versus LY Volume % Versus LY 5.5 4.0 4.4 4.2 2.0 GB OFF-TRADE CARBONATES AND STILLS 0.1 0.0 3.7bn Carbonates value, 4.0bn Stills value Value % Versus LY Volume % Versus LY We offer a broad portfolio in GB.
Carbonates includes cola, fruit carbonates and energy and Stills includes squash, kids, water, pure juice and juice drinks.
GB Off-Trade millions Total Carbonates Total Stills Total Soft Drinks 3.0 3.0 2.0 2.0 1.8 1.0 1.1 0.8 -0.3 0.0 -1.0 Value % Versus LY Volume % Versus LY 14 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information By April 2018, 72% of our full GB portfolio 94% of our owned brands will be below or exempt from the Soft Drinks Industry Levy.
56% See page 36 for more detailed information.
of people saying that they are actively taking steps to limit or reduce the amount of 2 sugar in their diet.
Premiumisation: A drive towards premium options Although there are pressures on consumer spending in the grocery trade, its clear that many consumers are willing to trade up for brands worth paying more for.
Premium brands are BRAZIL GROCERY CHANNEL outperforming mainstream and value brands in every segment.
R$4.6bn Concentrates juices nectars How is Britvic driving premiumisation?
In Brazil, we participate in a limited number of categories Robinsons, the market leader in dilutes is leading the concentrates and ready-to-drink juices and nectars.
re-invention of the dilutes category through premiumising The market analysis is for these categories and does the Robinsons range with exciting new product launches: not represent the total value of the category.
Brazil Off-Trade Macro trends around socialising and declining alcohol R$ millions consumption are also driving greater demand for premium Concentrates Juices & Nectars soft drinks options, with one in five people now tee-total, 0.0 and one in three limiting or reducing their alcohol consumption.
-2.0 In response, Britvic has developed an adult premium drinks 8.7 -4.0 -4.0 portfolio which includes both mainstream and super premium 7.8 -5.7 -6.0 brands such as London Essence Company.
-8.0 -10.0 3 -12.0 -11.9 -14.0 Convenience: more choices of soft drinks -13.8 -16.0 available in more places Convenience continues to be a growing trend across Value % Versus LY Volume % Versus LY both consumers and the retail landscape with soft drinks overtaking bread as the number three reason driving shoppers into convenience stores.
The growing demand for product solutions which meet peoples needs while on the go during Key macro trends in soft drinks & how Britvic are busy lifestyles is accelerating.
Retailers are aware that having reacting to them a great soft drinks offer is critical to succeed and their offers The trends driving the soft drinks industry are rooted in are adapting to meet changing consumer needs.
evolving consumer lifestyles, societal challenges around health and the environment, and increased government How is Britvic capitalising on this trend?
Collectively, these trends have The strength and breadth of our portfolio positions us well to driven reformulation and innovation in the soft drinks market meet a diverse range of consumer needs, whoever they are, on a significant scale.
The three major outcomes of these wherever they are.
We have a brand for every occasion.
Our trends dominating the market include: innovation pipeline is heavily weighted to deliver more choice on more occasions to even more people.
Greater demand for healthier choices 2.
A drive towards premium options Robinsons is a great example of how were constantly moving 3.
Convenience: more choices of soft into new occasions and innovating to meet new consumer drinks available in more places trends: a journey which started in 2015 with the launch of Squashd to target consumers on the go.
In 2016 the brand 1 launched into dispense in a number of foodservice customers, and in 2017, we launched Refreshd, a ready to drink product Healthier choices made from 100% natural ingredients.
These recent innovations For several years, consumers have been embracing healthier mean Robinsons is now enjoyed by more people, on more lifestyles and they are actively choosing better for you soft occasions, more often whilst maintaining the quality and drinks options, as well as drinking less alcohol.
At the same heritage that consumers expect from the brand.
time, obesity levels globally are rising putting significant strains on public health services and prompting calls for governments Another interesting example is Purdeys which meets to take action.
As a result, both the UK and Irish governments increasing consumer demand for natural energy solutions.
will be introducing a Soft Drinks Industry Levy SDIL on drinks Purdeys can now be bought in two flavours, in both glass with more than 5g 100ml of added sugar in April 2018. bottles and cans.
How is Britvic helping consumers make healthier choices?
Our purpose is to make lifes everyday moments more enjoyable and part of doing that is by helping consumers make healthier choices through making drinks that taste great and are better for you.
Since 2013, we embarked on a bold, 3-pronged strategy of reformulation, innovation and using the power of our brands responsibly to help consumers make healthier choices.
As a result of our actions, we have removed over 20bn calories from our portfolio since 2013 on an annualised basis.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15
