STRATEGIC REPORT PROGR ESS AGAINST STRATEGY CA RE We believe that the biggest opportunity we have to differentiate a Thomas Cook holiday from the competition is in the level of care and reassurance that we provide to our customers.
That principle of customer care informs the approach NET PROMOTER SCORE thatwe take across the business: our colleagues who offer advice and customer service before, during and after their holidays: the quality assurance that our teams in resort provide through the formation of deep, long- 3pts lasting relationships with our hotel partners: and the assistance we offer if something goes wrong from Group Airline NPS measure individual incidents of hotel snags right through to 2017: 26.6 2015: 23.9 emergency evacuations in crisis situations.
In a sign of our commitment to drive meaningful 9pts changein customer satisfaction across the business, we created a Group Customer Experience Team in 2015.
Overall Group NPS measure Bringing expertise from across our source markets and 2017: 45.2 2015: 36.7 in-resort teams, the team drew up a structured fouryear plan with the objective of delivering outstanding customer experience and differentiating Thomas Cook 7pts asthe most loved holiday company.
Own-Brand Hotels and In year one, their focus was on fixing the basics by ResortsNPS measure identifying the key drivers of customer satisfaction 2017: 38.7 2015: 31.5 and implementing NPS as the single KPI for customer Increase from 2015. satisfaction and one of the key metrics of business performance across the Group.
Our Academy of Excellence, established to work with our Year two involved delivering the priority improvements hotel partners to help them maintain the highest standards identified, and introducing the voice of the customer of customer service and quality at our hotels, is now in viacustomer feedback into our plans for the future.
In 2017, it helped implement over 650 quality We are now in year three of our plan, which is all about improvement plans with hoteliers, contributing to a rise in leveraging customer care as a genuine differentiator for NPS across our core hotel portfolio this year.
We have introduced new organisational For summer 2017 we extended our 24-Hotel Satisfaction Promise values across the Group which properly reflect our to cover 2,000 hotels in our core portfolio of own-brand and priorities as a holiday company: We put our heart into selected partner hotels, giving 80 per cent of our core sun & it, Wear their flip flops and Were one Thomas Cook.
beach holiday customers additional reassurance of quality and These are directly linked to our Customer Promises of service.
We plan to increase the roll out to cover 100 per cent of Quality, Service and Reliability respectively.
See overleaf customers on holiday in our core portfolio of 3,170 hotels in 2018. formore details.
We have also succeeded in increasing the proportion of OUR PROGRESS IN 2017 complaints that we have been able to resolve in resort We are now seeing evidence of the direct link between before customers come home.
The result is that customers NPSuplift and rebooking rate.
Our data demonstrates come home happier, while we spend less on customer that the hotels which score highest in NPS achieve relations in our source markets.
not only a higher rebooking rate, but also attract There is more to come as we introduce new ways to more newcustomers to Thomas Cook, showing that increase loyalty and attract new customers to Thomas Cook.
customeradvocacy is playing an increasingly important New innovations for summer 2018 include the ability to role in the growth of our business.
pre-book a specific hotel room based on detailed floor plans and imagery.
18 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY PAUL HUTCHINGS GAMBIA MANAGING DIRECTOR OPERATIONS THOMAS COOK AIRLINES UK AND GROUP EVACUATION DIRECTOR OF FLIGHT OPERATIONS January is a popular time for holidays Before the UK Government changed the We provided all of our package to the Gambia, which offers reliable travel advice, we had already drawn up holidaymakers and our seat-only airline winter sun in a beautiful African setting.
a logistics plan in anticipation of the customers with a seat on a rescue flight Unfortunately, political instability following situation escalating.
Aircraft capacity and home, in total repatriating 3,500 customers a disputed election caused the UK Foreign crew availability were earmarked for a in three days with 16 rescue flights.
Office in January 2017 to change its potential full evacuation, as were Special Our Airline gives us the responsiveness travel advice for this small West-African Assistance Team members willing to travel to evacuate our customers when they nation, recommending against all but to the Gambia in support of a potential most need us, while our world-class Inessential travel.
That meant that when Destination Management teams, supported the change in advice came, we were ready, We had been monitoring the situation for by our trained Special Assistance Team, sending extra flights directly from the UK, some weeks and maintaining close contact offer support to our customers on the on top of the existing scheduled flights with the Foreign Office to understand what ground.
We believe that it is this ability which we sent in empty.
We also operated impact the escalating tension could have on to offer our customers the reassurance reserve aircraft based in the Canary Islands civil stability.
With just one airport and an that we will be there when things go and used Las Palmas in Gran Canaria as a unfavourable mountainous geography, we wrong which differentiates us from bridgehead, switching crew and refueling knew that we had to act early to position the competition.
This shorter flight time from aircraft and crew in the region so we had Banjul to the Canary Islands allowed for the operational flexibility to evacuate our an increased number of rotations and an customers at short notice should the accelerated evacuation process.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGR ESS AGAINST STRATEGY CONTACT Putting our customers at the heart of the business means building a closer relationship throughout the year, wherever and whenever ourcustomers want to engage with us.
From the way we persuade our customers to come to us OUR PROGRESS IN 2017 first, how we sell them our flights and holidays, through Over the course of the year, we added more than 112,000 to how we retain and strengthen that relationship, images to our website, 1,200 room plans and 520 hotel we are building seamless contact with our customers and destination videos to further enrich our websites throughout their holiday journey.
This includes developing rich, inspirational content that We also created a single content hub to better distribute stands out in a crowded online marketplace and will our content across all of our online channels and leverage grab customers attention to drive higher conversion.
the Groups marketing assets on a larger scale.
By investing in our websites, we can grow our online These investments in our websites have led to strong presence and reshape our retail estate to create a growth in online bookings for our major markets.
Overall, true omni-channel approach to how we sell our holidays.
the share of sales generated through the web increased To stay close to our customers, we are building worldby another 3 per cent across the Group, meaning we now class customer relationship management, including take 46 per cent of bookings online.
improving our personalised interaction with customers in In Germany we grew web bookings by 21 per cent, in the UK the period running up to their holiday through a holiday by 27 per cent and in Scandinavia, by a further 7 per cent companion app.
so that 81 per cent of sales are now made online.
We have This direct contact with customers through the channel also made progress in mobile with 45 per cent of online of their choice, be that in-store, through our customer bookings in the UK accounted for by mobile devices, split contact centres or online, means we can drive loyalty and equally between mobile and tablet.
increase sales of tailor-made services which add value As online grows we have further reshaped our retail to our customers holidays and increase satisfaction network in the UK, introducing nine Discovery stores, scores, while at the same time lowering cost of sale larger stores in higher footfall areas, to broaden our reach andachieving higher margins.
as we continue to reduce the number of stores, which this year fell from 790 to 692 outlets.
INSPIRING OUR CUSTOMERS Our mobile companion app, now live in Germany, Northern Europe and the UK, has been downloaded 1.7 million times, strengthening the direct relationships with our customers, improving their holiday experience and generating increased sales of added services.
This focus on improved customer contact has increased 112,000 direct distribution across the Group by one percentage & 8 : point to 68 per cent.
20 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY KA KATHRYN DARBANDI RESHAPING OUR CONTACT DIRE DIR CTOR OF RETAIL AND CUSTOMER E E X XP PERIENCE ATTHOMAS COOK UK & I WITH CUSTOMERS IN THE UK This year weve seen a big increase in Its clear that our shops remain an larger stores in higher footfall areas like mobile bookings from our UK customers, important channel through which we can shopping centres and retail parks, and which now account for 45 per cent of showcase the best of our holiday offering, smaller stores in traditional high street online bookings, up from 40 per cent last as well as provide the expertise and locations.
Over the past 12 months, weve year.
Its part of a clear shift in the way our reassurance that many customers value refurbished or rebranded 51 stores and customers research and book their holidays as part of their largest annual purchase.
closed 101 stores meaning weve now cut which has helped increase online bookings Our 2017 UK Holiday Report showed that the size of our network by 45 per cent in from 43 per cent of our Group sales to two-thirds of customers still come into the past five years to 692 stores, with 46per cent this year.
stores to speak to our experts before many of the closures in areas where there booking their holiday, while 47 per cent of was a geographic overlap between the We are adapting to this changing behaviour our holidays are still booked in our shops.
ThomasCook-branded shops and by investing in our websites and the way Co-operative Travel branded shops.
we attract customers online, and this At the start of this financial year we year UK digital sales overall increased by a took two important steps to meet those In this financial year weve increased further 27 per cent on top of the 9 per cent changing customer needs.
First, we took revenue in the UK by three per cent, thanks growth we achieved in 2016.
While were full control of our all our UK stores after in large part to the work weve done online.
pleased with the progress were making, announcing that we would buy the Co-op Despite closing 101 stores at a cost saving we also need to make sure were giving out of our retail joint venture, allowing us of 12 million, our retail sales have remained customers a seamless experience of tomove to one single Thomas Cook brand.
Crucially, weve increased the Thomas Cook wherever they choose proportion of the holidays we sold through Second, we took the decision to refocus to interact with us be that in person our own channels by a further 1.5 per cent our store network into two key formats or online.
to 83.5 per cent evidence that weve tomake sure were offering our customers improved contact with our customers the best of a 21st Century travel company: whenever and wherever they need us.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGR ESS AGAINST STRATEGY OUR HOLIDAYS Of course, it is the quality and range of our holidays that determine the success of our business.
We want Thomas Cook customers to trust us to provide a range of consistently high-quality hotels which provide excellent value for money.
Our strategy is increasingly to focus our attention on a We rigorously track the performance of every one of more streamlined portfolio of around 3,000 hotels by 2019. these hotels using customer feedback.
If they fall short, By focusing on a smaller number of properties, we can we take them out of the portfolio.
have a greater influence over the customer experience, enabling us to offer holidays that are unique to Thomas OUR PROGRESS IN 2017 Cook with a level of care and quality that stands out from We continued to innovate to improve the customer the competition.
experience in our core portfolio of hotels in the past 12 months.
We expanded our 24-hour hotel satisfaction By focusing the majority of our business on a more promise to cover 2,000 hotels, accounting for more than streamlined portfolio, we are also selling more of the 80 per cent of our sun & beach customers.
rooms in those hotels across more of our source markets.
This means we are able to better leverage our scale and We further reduced the portfolio of directly-contracted develop deeper relationships with the hoteliers, with hotels by 310 to 3,170 for summer 2018, marking good holidays to these select partner hotels delivering higher progress towards our target of 2,900 by FY19.
At the than average selling prices and margin.
same time, we increased sales to our own brand and selected partner hotels by eight per cent in the summer At the heart of this portfolio of hotels sit our own-brand compared with 2016, reflecting the strong demand for hotels and resorts, which are franchised, managed or ourdifferentiated holiday offer.
directly owned by Thomas Cook.
These are complemented by our selected partner hotels, contracted directly and We now share 42 per cent of our hotels across more developed in partnership with hoteliers.
thanone of our source markets, compared with just seven per cent three years ago, improving the scale In these hotels we seek to give customers elements benefits we get in these hotels.
of their holiday that are unique to Thomas Cook.
These include our 24-hour hotel satisfaction promise: our on-the-ground resort teams and our connected services helplines: as well as a raft of measures that customers dont see from more frequent auditing for health and safety, to the work done by our team of quality managers to ensure that we are providing a standard of accommodation and service of which we can be proud.
"4:, "", : ""8 5 8 &% 4 7 %& 5 22 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY JRGEN HEISS IN-DESTINATION SERVICES GROUP HEAD OF QUALITY, CONNECTED SERVICE & LOGISTICS HOTEL QUALITY TRACKING As part of our strategy to rigorously Our portfolio of services, which includes This gives us a comprehensive set of manage the quality of our select partner hotel training and consulting services, qualitative and quantitative measurements hotels, we track NPS scores at all stages the Sunny Heart Academy of Excellence that help us to put the right plans in place of the holiday."
This year we stepped up the and online reputation management to support underperforming hotels that resources and tools available to our hotel advice, means that the team is able to want to improve, or make the difficult quality managers in destinations to help offer valuable support for hoteliers to but necessary decision to terminate the improve this process.
improve overall standards for the benefit contracts of those hotels that do not.
We want our quality managers to operate The results have been clear NPS has risen at the heart of the feedback loop between In 2017, the team undertook close to across the hotel portfolio and was a full five customers, our source markets and 10,000 hotel visits, implemented more points above target in summer 2017 with a our hotels, to make sure were doing all than 650 quality improvement plans and particular improvement in underperforming that we can to continually improve our monitored over 800 hotel construction and hotels.
It has also made more clear where holiday offering.
we need to terminate hotel contracts as we did with 100 hotels from our UK The remit of our team of 49 quality We also saw the benefits of a new system portfolio at the start of the year in order managers is simple: to ensure all of the introduced last summer to bring a more to maintain the quality and service that hotels in our core portfolio offer the data-driven approach to the quality our customers expect from a Thomas best possible quality to our customers.
The Quality Tracking Tool is Cook holiday.
This means working closely with our hotel a web-based programme that compiles into partners to identify areas of improvement, one place all relevant hotel KPIs, including based on customer feedback and our NPS, customer service questionnaires and quality managers rich experience in the online performance, as well as construction holiday industry.
reports, quality manager visits and quality improvement plans.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGR ESS AGAINST STRATEGY O WN-BRAND HOTELS & RESORTS The development of a strong portfolio of own-brand hotels and resorts is critical to the success of our strategy for profitable growth.
They enable us to provide customers with a consistent, high-quality and unique holiday, whatever their needs, and earn us higher returns than the portfolio average.
Our aim is to build a hotel company within Thomas Cook In addition, the two companies have agreed to work with a community of hoteliers who want to work with together to create a joint hotel investment platform, our brands and loyal customers who follow the brands in order to accelerate the growth of Thomas Cooks round the world.
By building deeper and longer-lasting own-brand hotels portfolio.
The partners will contribute relationships with our own-brand hoteliers and taking a minimum of five owned and directly-managed hotel more capacity at the hotels, we have greater influence properties between them, which will be used to develop over the service levels and quality standards.
As a result, the platform into a fund focused on acquiring a pipeline these hotels achieve higher customer satisfaction scores of further hotel and resort assets across Thomas Cooks and higher loyalty than the portfolio average.
earn additional revenues through management, incentive In total, we closed the year with 190 own-brand hotels and franchise fees.
Together with the brand value which in the portfolio, including the eight Aldiana resorts these hotels command, we earn a higher margin for these which will come as part of the agreement we signed hotels than others in our holiday offering.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2017 We made further progress in 2017 in strengthening our STRENGTHENING OUR PORTFOLIO existing portfolio of own-brand hotels and developing a pipeline of new hotels.
We continued to rigorously manage the quality in our hotels, taking a total of 19 properties from the portfolio which did not meet the quality expectations we set.
We opened 11 new hotels for summer 2017, including a new Sunprime hotel in Tenerife, our first Italian own-brand property, in Sicily, and the successful launch of our second Casa Cook in Kos.
We have a further 20 hotels in the pipeline to open between winter 2017 and summer 2019.
This includes at least another two Casa Cooks.
As the quality of our own-brand hotels improved, so we continued to drive a higher number of bookings to the portfolio.
Sales to our own-brand hotels increased eight per cent in 2017.
The arrival in the spring of our new Chief Hotels Officer, Ingo Burmester, formerly head of TUIs Robinson hotel brand, brought welcome experience at the head of the team and provided an opportunity to reboot our approach 20 11 in this part of the business.
"In September we took a significant step forward by C, : ""8 5, : ""8 agreeing a new strategic partnership with Swiss-based 7 %& 5 :, 5 # hotel property development company LMEY Investments."
Under the terms of the agreement, Thomas Cook has acquired a seventh brand in the popular club-based sector with a 42 per cent stake in Aldiana, a premium club and activity-focused tour operator and hotel management company based in Germany.
24 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY REMO MASALA CASA COOK GROUP CREATIVE DIRECTOR KOS We introduced Casa Cook as a hotel brand The feedback has been overwhelmingly houses, designed to harmonise with the in 2016 to fill a niche in the travel industry: positive and 90 per cent of our guests were surrounding landscapes.
boutique resorts that tick all the boxes new to Thomas Cook, proving that we have At the close of our first summer, were for a growing generation of independent achieved our aim of attracting travellers who veryhappy with what weve achieved in travellers, many of whom would not think thought a holiday package wasnt for them.
The hotel ran at 95 per cent occupancy, tobook a package holiday.
Our second Casa Cook in Kos posed a showinghow well our new brand has landed We wanted Casa Cook to be an eclectic challenge how to replicate the success of since we opened in Rhodes in May2016, collection of stylish modern resorts with a Rhodes and maintain consistency of brand again with almost 75 per cent of customers low-key vibe, each with its own personality while at the same time forging a unique new to Thomas Cook.
Guests from across inspired as much by the local surroundings identity at the new hotel.
With a beautiful all of our source markets were attracted as our interpretations of global travel trends location on the north coast of Kos, nestled to our new Casa Cook, and we achieved and tastes.
The pool, bar and restaurant form between the countryside and the soft, a customer satisfaction score of 87 a the social hub at each hotel, informed by the dune-backed beach, we knew we had the fantastic resultfor any hotel, let alone onein Greek concept of Parea roughly translated backdrop for a stunning addition to the Casa its firstmonths of operation.
as a get-together with friends to nourish Cook hotel, and the greenfield site allowed Next year we open our third Casa Cook the body and mind.
The staff are attentive us to be even bolder in our design to embed inChania, Crete a pure family concept yet discreet, guided by a service culture that the Casa Cook ethos from the ground up.
that is very different to what people encourages guests to determine their own Like Rhodes, the hotels pool, beach bar and mightexpect.
In 2019 we go to Croatia where holiday rhythm.
This extends to the dining restaurant are designed to bring guests were putting the Casa Cook visioninto experience: healthy and made with regional together.
The rooms themselves were all a sixties-era hotel our most exciting products, food is served any time of day and created as private sanctuaries, focusing on challenge yet.
Theres no doubt weve got well into the evening.
stylish simplicity, many with their own or a big task to balance local individualism We opened our first Casa Cook in May 2016 in shared pools.
The result is a perfect balance with our house style whenwegrow to four Rhodes, Greece.
In just one season we knew of private and shared areas, akin to historic hotels, but if CasaCook Kos is anything to we were spot-on with our concept.
Greek villages and their labyrinth of cubist goby, wereonthe right track.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGR ESS AGAINST STRATEGY OUR AIRLINE The other key element of our holiday offering which is increasingly important to our strategy for profitable growth is our airline.
Over the last four years, we have transformed our airline from four separate national airlines into one Group Airline under one management team, with shared maintenance, IT systems and infrastructure.
In parallel, we have expanded the proportion of business that We have improved our distribution channels by working the Airline does independent of the tour operator, building a more closely with third-party tour operators, and online and world-class leisure airline which benefits from a dependable, traditional travel agents.
Weve also increased seat-only and sizeable, base of Tour Operator customers, while also sales by improving our website and increasing the number increasingly competitive with airlines across Europe on a of interline agreements we hold with other long-haul airlines.
Thomas Cook Group Airline is now Europes This, together with our expanded route capacity, has meant third largest airline to sun & beach destinations, and its sixth we have grown seat-only sales by 16 per cent versus 2016. largest long-haul carrier following strong profitable growth We are now benefiting from our new, Group-wide commercial in our long-haul and seat-only programme.
IT system, which for the first time enables us to sell all Our strategy for the Airline is clear: to profitably build on our ancillaries through industry global distribution systems and position in the European leisure airlines market, focused on to take code-share bookings from third-party airline partners four areas.
with the aim of driving significant revenue growth.
First: we will invest in the customer experience to build on As part of our drive for greater efficiencies while opening up the progress weve made in the last few years, targeting new opportunities for growth, in May we agreed to extend the areas which we know matter most to our customers.
an existing partnership with Brussels Airlines to make them Second: we will continue to open new routes, particularly the leading carrier for Thomas Cook in Belgium.
Third: we are leveraging the support that our terms of the agreement, we transferred all 160 pilots and tour operating business provides the Airline, whilst actively cabin crew, all flight slots and two aircraft from Thomas Cook developing new distribution channels.
This model helps us Airlines Belgium to Brussels Airlines.
We also sold our ground to flex capacity between the Tour Operator and Airline in operations and Airline Operating Certificate to SHS Aviation.
And finally, we will continue The agreement gives Thomas Cooks customers a wider to review our cost structure to ensure that we are operating choice of destinations, flights and departure days while at the as competitively as we can in a tough market environment, same time enabling us to manage our aircraft and personnel without compromising on safety.
We have measures in place more efficiently and effectively.
to further improve reliability and operational performance, We followed the partnership in Belgium by agreeing a as well as ensuring we have the right cost structure in the partnership in September with Canadian airline Air Transat, right locations.
under which the two companies will exchange aircraft on a seasonal basis.
This takes advantage of the different OUR PROGRESS IN 2017 seasonality of the leisure market in each country, and is a Overall, 2017 been a positive year for our Group Airline in further step in our strategy to work with partners in order to whathas been a very competitive market, and we have manage our fleet more efficiently.
made good progress against all four of our strategic aims.
Finally, in October 2017 we launched a new airline based in We have added 15 new destinations across our three Majorca which will give us a greater degree of operational markets, including San Francisco, New Orleans and, closer flexibility in how we share aircraft across our Group Airline.
Next year, we will begin flying Our plan is to focus any future growth in our fleet through from a new base in the UK Leeds Bradford expanding this operating unit, allowing us to deploy aircraft to our three our reach in the North of England for our tour operator airlines in the UK, Germany and Scandinavia at a competitive customers where previously we used third-party airlines.
cost, based upon seasonal andoperational requirements.
In total, we have grown the number of long haul routes we offer by 30 per cent in the last three years, supported by a good long-haul cost base and our strong distribution channels.
26 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY JENS BOYD US DIRECTOR, LONG HAUL & REVENUE MANAGEMENT THOMAS COOK LONG-HAUL GROWTH GROUP AIRLINE Weve transformed the choice we offer In the same period, we introduced 11 new That is particularly evident to us on our customers over long haul in recent US destinations and we have more routes successful nonstop route from Frankfurt years, expanding the fleet and opening planned, including flights to Phoenix from to Seattle, where the frequency of our up new routes.
In Germany for example Germany and Seattle from the UK which flights provide the flexibility that business we expanded our long-haul fleet from start in early 2018. travellers need.
eight to 18 aircraft in the last three With a total of 18 US destinations on offer These customers consistently tell us years and more than doubled the fleet across the Group three of which we how great the quality and value is on our in the UK to eight long-haul aircraft plus now fly year-round and five in Canada, business class offer which is reaching load incremental peak capacity transferred were making excellent progress with our factors clearly above 80 per cent across our from Scandinavia.
Weve had a particular strategy to grow our long-haul network.
focus on transatlantic routes, reflected in the fact that more than one million As a carrier that generally focuses on Offering a wide range of quality options passengers flew across the North Atlantic leisure destinations, we, of course, look for to our customers allows them to make with Thomas Cook during last years winter cities that might have interest from within the smart choices whenever they fly, and andsummer season.
the German, UK and greater European allows us to further develop and grow our outbound tourist market.
However, we also long-haul business.
are winning business in corporate markets.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGR ESS AGAINST STRATEGY SE RVICES The additional services we offer our customers as part of their holiday, through our direct sales channels, our Airline and our in-destination teams, are a big part of what makes usdifferent from travel agents and other tour operators.
By offering more choice to our customers in all aspects INCREASING SALES of their holiday, we can provide a unique holiday experience that is tailored specifically to our customers OFHOLIDAYEXTRAS individual needs.
This more personalised experience increases customer satisfaction and loyalty at the same time as delivering additional revenue and margin from the services that arepurchased.
The more personalised approach also enables us to combine some of the flexibility of independent travel with the hassle-free reassurance of a package holiday, thus modernising our offer and broadening our appeal to those who may not previously have considered a Thomas Cook holiday.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2017 This year we have further increased revenues from our core ancillary services, as well as broadening the range of value-add holiday extras that we offer customers.
Overall, we grew sales of ancillary services, such as seat reservations, extra luggage, meals on board, travel insurance and in-resort transfers and excursions, by 10 per cent, a total increase of 20 per cent in the two years since wecreated the Group Ancillaries Team in 2015.
"20% 10% The improvements we made to our websites this year in 5 7 8 5 7 7"" 7 providing richer content have helped improve conversion of sales."
As we optimise how and when we offer these C 4 : : # J F:47 services to customers, from the point of booking to 5.
"""#5 7 in-resort, we help to build customers excitement as they plan their perfect holiday, while increasing penetration : & ofour services and gaining a greater share of wallet."
This year also saw the launch of a new division which builds on our heritage in financial services to offer customers across our source markets new ways to plan, save, borrow, spend and protect their holiday money.
Led by Anth Mooney, the former head of financial services at Virgin Money, Thomas Cook Money will combine the trust that consumers have in the Thomas Cook brands with the best of new technology in order to offer a genuinely innovative set of new products and services.
28 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGR ESS AGAINST STRATEGY P ARTNERSHIPS As we focus on our holiday offer, we are putting our energy and attention into a number of key areas where we can create the most value for our customers.
This strategy is complemented by a series of partnerships We will also integrate Expedias market-leading booking which enable us to expand our offer to customers platform into Thomas Cook sales channels for all hotelwhile at the same time streamlining our operations.
This agreement completes Our partnerships also enable us to leverage our brand the outsourcing of the production of our non-core asaway to tap into new opportunities for growth.
hotel offer to customers, following the signing of our strategicpartnership with Webjet in 2016 to outsource our non-core sun and beach hotels.
PROGRESS IN 2017 In September, we agreed a ground-breaking strategic Another partnership where we have made good progress alliance with Expedia which will transform the way in in 2017 is Thomas Cook China, our joint venture with which we produce and sell our complementary hotels Fosun.
This has got off to a great start, tapping into which sit outside of our core portfolio.
the growing demand from Chinese consumers for personalised holiday packages to destinations around the Under the terms of the agreement, Expedia will world.
Its early days, but we took 20,000 customers on become the preferred provider of hotels for our city holiday in our first year of operations.
Our aim is to grow and domesticbusiness, offering customers more than this more than 10 times in2017 18.
60,000additional hotels in city and domestic locations than currently on sale.
CASE STUDY ALESSANDRO DASSI THOMAS COOK MANAGING DIRECTOR, THOMASCOOK CHINA CHINA We officially launched Thomas Cook China While large and fast growing, the China Both Thomas Cook and Fosun remain in September 2016, less than a year after travel market is also very competitive fully committed to supporting the future we announced our joint venture with and fragmented.
The biggest opportunity growth of our joint venture business in Fosun.
Since then, the business has lies in the rapidly evolving behaviours of China.
The ambition is to make China a developed into a one-stop, full service travel Chinese travellers.
The traditional group sizeable source market for Thomas Cook company operating inbound, domestic and tour travel is gradually giving way to a Group, comparable, over time, with our outbound tourism from offices in Shanghai more independent and higher quality type more mature markets in Europe.
of travel, and the industry is not keeping tourism sector continues to grow strongly, up with the pace of this change.
At Thomas our expertise in travel and our unique, Our plan has always been simple combine Cook China, we have focused on developing personalised offer means we are wellour brand heritage and travel expertise products that are truly unique and positioned to take full advantage of with Fosuns local market access and differentiated, leveraging Thomas Cook and the opportunity.
knowledge to tap in to the huge growth Fosuns resources across destinations.
opportunity offered by the worlds largest source market for leisure travel.
In our first year of operations we served over 20,000 customers.
Recent improvements in technology and newly established local distribution partnerships have made the business more scalable.
Over the next financial year, we aim to grow by more than10 times.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGR ESS AGAINST STRATEGY E FFICIENCIES Underpinning every element of our strategy for profitable growth is a continual drive for greater operational efficiency, removing duplication and aligning processes sothat they fit the new shape of Thomas Cook.
In our airline, we have now saved 35 million against By reducing the number of hotels in our core holiday a 2015 baseline through rationalisation of our ground offering, and outsourcing the production of our non-core handling and maintenance set-ups across our destination hotels and the technology platform to sell them, we and source markets airports.
will be able to take considerable cost and complexity out ofour business first, in terms of the contracting, In March we announced that we would be extending pricingand other support that we need, and then our partnership with Brussel Airlines to make them throughour IT systems which will support the sale the leading carrier for our Belgian tour operator, with ofasmaller number of hotels.
Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium TCAB no longer operating.
The agreement reduces our operating costs in our Belgian These efficiencies also flow through into our marketing market while increasing choice for customers.
In addition, and digital activities where we are able to focus three of our TCAB aircraft will operate under our new investment building content to support one streamlined airline in Palma from summer 2018. portfolio of hotels across the Group.
And this is key reducing duplication and complexity in our systems See Our Airline section on page 26 Group-wide will enable us to increase investment in those areas where we know we can make greatest impact on customers and how they buy from us.
The result is a business which is much simpler, with a GREATER OPERATIONAL leaner organisational structure that is more focused on EFFICIENCIES the activities which matter to our customers.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2017 Continuing our efficiencies drive in Continental Europe, we consolidated our tour operator activities into three hubs for the segment: in Oberursel, Ghent and Hamburg.
"35m We accelerated our UK store closure programme following 7@, 5 5"" our announcement at the start of the financial year that our retail joint venture with the Cooperative Group would @8 8 # end."
In all we closed 101 stores this financial year, taking our retail network to 692, down from more than 1,200 in 2012.
See case study in Contact on page 21 We have made good progress through procurement 101 activities to reduce our spend by rationalising the number of suppliers we use across the Group to better leverage 8:, 4 7 # 8 our scale.
: 8 J 4 Our financial shared service centre has made good progress this year and now houses financial functions from across the Group.
See case study on page 31 30 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY PAUL HEMINGWAY FINANCIAL SHARED BUSINESS CHANGE DIRECTOR SERVICE CENTRE IN PALMA We knew there was an opportunity to In 2014 we started to move finance To accommodate this growth were bring our finance shared service centres functions from across our Continental movinginto a new building andby together from across the Group in a way business source markets into Palma.
September 2018 we expect to have one which would not only significantly reduce By September this year the Palma Finance Shared Service Centre in Palma cost but would also mean we can provide centre was providing finance services to providing services to all segments in a greater consistency of quality to all Germany, France, Belgium, The Netherlands theGroup, staffed by Thomas Cook partsofthe business.
colleagues, with our shared vision and values, working to put the customer More importantly, one central financial Phase two of the shared service centre attheheart of everything we do.
shared service centre would also allow is now well underway.
We are in-sourcing us to create a working environment those of the UKs finance functions which that encourages the simplification and are currently run from Mumbai and Pune, standardisation of processes so critical India, to give us greater control over the toour vision of One Thomas Cook.
We also have further plans to expand the existing services by We chose Palma as a target location when moving further functions from within we first set up the finance transformation Continental Europe, the UK, our Northern project because of its central location Europe business and Group Airline into within Europe and an abundance of skilled Palma.
Our aim is that these measures will professionals from universities in Palma foster a culture of greater collaboration and and mainland Spain.
It is also the Groups best practice across the Group, meaning it most popular holiday destination, meaning will become more efficient as it grows.
we had a sizeable existing presence andinfrastructure on which to build.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31
