GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES SHARE CAPITAL POWERS OF DIRECTORS The Company has the following three classes of shares in issue: The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles.
The Directors were authorised at the 2017 Annual General Meeting to allot shares Number of shares equal to approximately one-third of the Companys issued share in issue at 30 September capital as at 7 December 2016 or two-thirds in respect of a rights Name 2017 issue.
The Directors were also given the power to allot Ordinary Shares for cash up to a limit representing approximately 10% of the Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each 1,535,851,316 Companys issued share capital at 7 December 2016 without first Deferred Shares of 0.09 each 934,981,938 offering them to existing Shareholders in proportion to their existing Deferred Shares of 1 each 50,000 holdings however more than 5% can only be used in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
Ordinary Shares In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted third-party The Ordinary Shares carry the right to the profits of the Company indemnities, to the extent permitted by law, to each Director and the available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up Group Company Secretary, which were in force during the financial of the Company.
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to attend and year and up to the date of signing this report.
The Company also speak at general meetings of the Company, each share holds the maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Ordinary Shares are admitted to the premium segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock SHARE TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS Exchanges Main Market.
The Articles are designed to ensure that the number of the Employees who hold shares under the Thomas Cook BAYE or vested Companys shares held by non-EEA nationals does not reach a level shares under any of the Companys executive share plans, are sent a which could jeopardise the Companys entitlement to continue to Form of Instruction by the relevant trustee in respect of any general hold or enjoy the benefit of any authority, permission, licence or meetings of the Company, so that they may instruct the Trustee to privilege which it, or any of its subsidiaries, holds or enjoys and vote on their behalf.
which enables an air service to be operated each an Operating Deferred Shares Right.
In particular, EC Council Regulation 1008 2008 on the licensing of air carriers requires that an air carrier must be majority-owned Both classes of Deferred Shares carry no right to the profits of the and effectively controlled by EEA nationals.
On a winding up, the holders of the Sterling-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the The Articles allow the Directors, from time to time, to set a capital paid up on each Sterling-denominated Deferred Share and the Permitted Maximum on the number of the Companys shares holders of the Euro-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled which may be owned by non-EEA nationals at such level as they to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each Eurobelieve is in compliance with the Operating Rights, provided that the denominated Deferred Share only after the holders of the Ordinary Permitted Maximum shall not be less than 40% of the total number Shares and Sterling-denominated Deferred Shares have received, of issued shares.
in aggregate, the amounts paid up thereon.
The holders of both The Company maintains a separate register the Separate Register classes of Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, of shares in which non-EEA nationals, whether individuals, bodies speak or vote whether on a show of hands or on a poll at general corporate or other entities have an interest such shares are meetings of the Company.
referred to as Relevant Shares in the Articles.
An interest in this context is widely defined see below.
The Directors may ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION require relevant members or other persons to provide them with The Companys Articles of Association the Articles may only information to enable them to determine whether shares are, or are be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of to be treated as, Relevant Shares.
If such information is not provided, Shareholders.
The Articles are available on the Companys website then the Directors will be able, at their discretion, to determine that atwww.
shares to which their enquiries relate be treated as Relevant Shares.
Registered Shareholders will also be obliged to notify the Company if they are aware either a that any share they hold ought to be treated as a Relevant Share for this purpose or b that any share they hold which is treated as a Relevant Share should no longer be so treated.
In this case, the Directors shall request such information and evidence as they require to satisfy themselves that the share should not be treated as a Relevant Share and, on receipt of such evidence, shall remove particulars of the share from the Separate Register.
If the Directors determine that such action is necessary to protect any Operating Right due to the fact that an Intervening Act an Intervening Act being the refusal, withholding, suspension or revocation of any Operating Right or the imposition of materially THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED inhibiting conditions or limitations on any Operating Right in either The Permitted Maximum is currently set at 45%.
This Permitted case, by any state or regulatory authority has taken place or is Maximum may be varied by the Directors.
If the Directors resolve contemplated, threatened or intended, or the aggregate number of to vary the Permitted Maximum to deal with shares as Affected Relevant Shares is such that an Intervening Act may occur or the Shares or relax the ownership limitations, they shall publish in at ownership or control of the Company is such that an Intervening Act least one national newspaper in the UK and in any other country in may occur, the Directors may, among other things: which the shares are listed notice of the determination and of any Permitted Maximum.
identify those shares that give rise to the need to take action and treat such shares as affected shares Affected Shares see The Directors shall publish, from time to time: below : or information as to the number of shares particulars of which have set a Permitted Maximum on the number of Relevant Shares that been entered on the Separate Register: and may subsist at any time which may not, save in the circumstances any Permitted Maximum that has been specified.
referred to below, be lower than 40% of the total number of issued shares and treat any Relevant Shares in excess of this Permitted The Directors may not register any person as a holder of shares Maximum as Affected Shares see below.
The Directors may serve unless such person has furnished to the Directors a declaration, a notice an Affected Share Notice in respect of any Affected together with such evidence as the Directors may require, stating Share.
An Affected Share Notice can, if it so specifies, have the a the name and nationality of any person who has an interest in effect of depriving the registered holder of the right to attend, vote any such share and, if the Directors require, the nature and extent and speak at general meetings which they would otherwise have of such interest or b such other information as the Directors may had as a consequence of holding such shares.
Such an Affected from time to time determine.
Share Notice can, if it so specifies, also require the recipient to The Directors may decline to register any person as a Shareholder dispose of the Affected Shares so that the Relevant Shares will if satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming.
then cease to be Affected Shares within 21 days or such longer Existing holders of shares will be recorded on the Special Register period as the Directors may determine.
The Directors are also unless and until they have certified, to the satisfaction of the given the power to sell such Affected Shares themselves where Company, that they are EEA nationals.
there is non-compliance with an Affected Share Notice at the best price reasonably obtainable at the relevant time on behalf of A person shall be deemed to have an interest in relation to Thomas the Shareholder.
Cook Group plc shares if: In deciding which shares are to be dealt with as Affected Shares, such person has an interest that would subject as provided below the Directors, in their sole opinion, will determine which Relevant be taken into account, or which they would be taken as having, in Shares may give rise to the fact of risk of an Intervening Act determining for the purposes of Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 occurring and, subject to any such determination, will have regard to whether a person has a notifiable interest: or they have any such interest as is referred to in Part 22 of the the chronological order in which particulars of Relevant Shares have Companies Act 2006, but shall not be deemed to have an interest been, or are to be, entered in the Separate Register unless to do so in any shares in which their spouse or any infant, child or stepchild would, in the sole opinion of the Directors, be inequitable.
If there or, in Scotland, pupil or minor of theirs is interested by virtue of is a change in any applicable law or the Company or any subsidiary that relationship or which they hold as a bare or custodian trustee receives any direction, notice or requirement from any state or under the laws of England, or as a simple trustee under the laws regulatory authority, which, in either case, necessitates such action of Scotland, and interest shall be construed accordingly.
to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act, then the Directors may either: As at 30 September 2017, 527,456,364 Ordinary Shares 34.34% were held on the Separate Register.
lower the Permitted Maximum to the minimum extent that they consider necessary to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act: or resolve that any Relevant Shares shall be treated as Affected Shares.
The rights of the Directors referred to above apply until such time as the Directors resolve that grounds for the making of a determination have ceased to exist, whereupon the Directors must withdraw such determination.
82 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE PROVISIONS OF CHANGE OF CONTROL DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 The Company has in place a facilities agreement the Agreement which consists of a 500 million revolving credit facility There is no information to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
4. and 300 million bilateral bonding and guarantee facilities.
The Agreement provides that, on any change of control of the GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Company, the lenders under the Agreement are obligated to Information in respect of greenhouse gas emissions have been negotiate for a period not exceeding 30 days, unless extended by included in the Sustainability section of the Strategic Report on agreement for a further period not exceeding 30 days terms for pages 33 to 39. continuing the facilities but, where agreement on new terms cannot be reached, any such lender is entitled to: i receive a repayment EMPLOYEE DISCLOSURES of amounts owing to such lender: ii cancel all of its commitments under the Agreement, and or iii under certain conditions demand Disclosures in respect of employee involvement can be found on immediate credit support.
pages 37 and 39 of the Strategic Report.
The Company also has outstanding 750 million 6.25% guaranteed As described on page 39, we are committed to creating an notes due 2022.
On the occurrence of certain change of control environment in which employees from all backgrounds can reach events relating to the Company, each holder has the option to their full potential.
This commitment is supported by recruitment, require the Company to repurchase all or any part of the holders career development and reward policies and practices which are notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal free from discrimination and ensure equal opportunities for all amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
employees, irrespective of their personal characteristics.
The Companys subsidiary, Thomas Cook Finance plc, has Full and fair consideration is given to applications received by those outstanding 400 million 6.75% guaranteed notes due 2021.
On the with disabilities with regard to their skills and experience for the occurrence of certain change of control events relating to the role.
Those with disabilities within our organisation are provided Company, each holder has the option to require Thomas Cook with appropriate learning and development, training courses, career Finance plc the issuer of these notes to repurchase all or any development and promotion opportunities, with care taken to partof the holders notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% ensure that these are made fully available.
If there were to be any ofthe principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
instance of an employee becoming disabled during their employment with us, reasonable adjustments would be made to support that particular individual to ensure that they are retained within the POLITICAL DONATIONS business with the appropriate training provided for them to continue The Company did not make any political donations during the in their role, or if appropriate an alternative role within the business.
The Strategic Report and Directors Report comprising pages 4 to 83 have been approved and are signed by order of the Board by: MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS The table below shows notifications of major shareholdings ALICE MARSDEN received by the Company in accordance with rule 5 of the GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY DisclosureGuidance and Transparency Rules: Percentage Percentage 21 November 2017 Voting of issued Voting of issued rights reported capital % rights capital % Registered office as at 21 as at 21 as at 30 as at 30 September September November November 3rd Floor, South Building 2017 2017 2017 Name 2017 200 Aldersgate London EC1A 4HD Invesco Ltd 321,948,268 20.96 307,031,986 19.99 Registered number Standard Life 6091951 Aberdeen 183,196,317 11.93 183,196,317 11.93 FPI UK Limited Fosun 169,059,734 11.01 169,059,734 11.01 Marathon Asset Management LLP 77,257,909 5.03 77,257,909 5.03 The Capital Group 77,168,099 5.02 74,336,279 4.84 BlackRock, Inc. 77,148,585 5.02 137,697,983 8.96 Orbis Holdings Limited 76,633,091 4.99 76,633,091 4.99 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83
