STRATEGIC REPORT OU R MARKETS TODAY Overseas visitors to Turkey and Egypt With regards to maintaining access to ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT increased by 25 per cent and 51 per the Single Aviation Market, we continue For six consecutive years, the Travel & cent respectively compared with 2016. to make the case for the extension of Tourism sector has outperformed the global The UK Governments decision to lift its existing aviation arrangements through economy.
The 10-year forecast from the recommendation against travel to Tunisia a transitional agreement that retains the World Travel and Tourism Council anticipates in July 2017 is a further sign of positive current framework.
This would provide this trend to continue, with average growth development in the region.
Overall, countries welcome certainty for customers and of 3.9 per cent per year, versus a forecast within Europe saw an eight per cent rise businesses alike.
Having already begun the ofGDP growth of 3.8 per cent.
ininternational tourism arrivals in the first sale of flights and holidays in the post-Brexit In addition, package holiday bookings are six months of the year.
era, we now require urgent clarity from forecast to outgrow independent travel the UK Government and EU institutions on Within our source markets, the OECD over the next four years as consumers a transitionary agreement.
We continue to estimates that the Eurozone will grow by look for ways to make their leisure spend make the case for a comprehensive EUUK 1.9 per cent over 2018, with Germany, our go further.
Mintel estimates that package airtransport agreement in the longer-term.
largest Eurozone source market, just ahead travel in the UK will grow by 28.5 per cent at 2.1 per cent.
UK GDP is expected to rise We are working with UK and EU by 2021, compared with independent travel governments to highlight the benefits of the byone per cent, while Sweden, Denmark which is forecast to grow by 17 per cent.
Posted Workers Directive and to advocate and Norway are forecast at 2.3, 2.1 and International tourist arrivals increased that these benefits are replicated in a future 1.5per cent respectively.
by six per cent in the first half of 2017 trade agreement, or bilateral arrangements compared with the same period in 2016 between the UK and EU Member States.
POLITICAL AND REGULATORY and significantly above the four per cent ENVIRONMENT annual growth since 2010.
According to Within the UK, the issue of fraudulent the UNWTO, Mediterranean destinations holiday sickness compensation claims We expect Brexit to impact the regulatory reported particularly strong growth in threatens both the cost and availability of framework in which we operate for both international tourist arrivals in the first half all inclusive holidays for our UK customers.
our UK business and our wider Group of 2017.
This trend is driven by the continued We have worked with the government to operations, and we are actively planning strength of many destinations in the area, highlight the prevalence of fraud within the and preparing for this.
Most importantly, the combined with a significant rebound in sickness claims industry, both directly and UKs current membership of Europes Single destinations that suffered decreases in through the media, as well as pressing the Aviation Market will change upon the UKs previous years, such as Turkey, Egypt and case for effective regulation of the claims withdrawal from the EU, as will the UKs Tunisia.
The rebound is thanks in part to management companies which encourage access to EU employment markets, including a more stable geopolitical environment customers to make claims and in many the countrys ability to place temporary in these countries in 2017 versus the cases encourage fraudulent activity.
workers in EU Member States without disruption of 2016. additional barriers.
Source: Office of National Statistics.
14 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT We welcome the UK governments call We are working with the EU to make Since current data protection legislation forevidence on the topic in October 2017 sure that the measures are implemented was introduced, our use of technology and the passage of the Financial Guidance consistently across our markets and that has changed the way we use and process and Claims Bill, both of which we are customers have clarity on the protections personal data.
In May 2018, the General Data monitoring closely and contributing to that the Directive brings.
Protection Regulation GDPR will come into where appropriate.
This will bring legislation up to date In February 2017, the European Union with the new, previously unforeseen ways The European Package Travel Directive Competition Commission launched an that data is now used and will harmonise will be implemented across the EU investigation into the travel industry data protection rules and requirements from1 January 2018, with full compliance regarding hotel accommodation agreements across the EU.
We welcome that the with a focus on the availability of hotel changes to ensure that the personal data of implementation of the Directive will bookings and pricing between member our customers and employees is protected help to bring a level playing field for states.
Thomas Cook is committed to fair effectively and consistently across the travel businesses selling linked trips and open competition and will cooperate business and that both our customers incorporating a flight and a hotel booking.
fully with the Commission through andemployees have transparency on how the process.
their data may be used by Thomas Cook andthe protections that the GDPR brings.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15
