Board of Directors An experienced and balanced Board JOHN BARTON WHSmith plc and Hammerson plc.
He was also the Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive of insurance broker JIB Group plc.
After JIBs merger with Lloyd Thompson he became Appointed Chairman of the combined Group, Jardine Lloyd May2013 Thompson Group plc.
Key areas of prior experience Current External Appointments Finance, Governance Senior Independent Director of SSP Group plc, Chair Skills & Experience of its Nomination and Remuneration Committees and John has also servedasChairman ofNext plc, member of its Audit Committee.
Senior Independent CatlinGroup Limited, Cable and Wireless Worldwide N Director of Luceco plc and member of its Audit, plc, BritHoldings plc and Wellington Underwritingplc.
NonJohn was previously Senior Independent Director of Executive Director of Matheson & Co Ltd. CHARLES GURASSA Housing Association, LOVEFiLM International Limited, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Phones4U Limited, Virgin Mobile plc, Alamo National Independent Director Rent a Car, 7Days Ltd and Non-Executive Director at Whitbread plc.
Appointed Current External Appointments June 2011 Non-Executive Chairman of Channel 4 and member Key areas of prior experience of its Remuneration, Ethics and Audit Committees.
Airline Industry Senior Independent Director of Merlin Entertainments Skills & Experience plc and Chairman of its Remuneration Committee Charles career has been primarily in the travel, F N R and member of its Audit and Health and Safety tourism and leisure industries in a number of senior Committees.
Member of the Board of Trustees at positions including Chief Executive of Thomson English Heritage and Chairman of its Remuneration Travel Group plc, Executive Chairman of TUI Northern and Appointments Committee.
Member of the Board Europe Limited and Director of Passenger and Cargo of Trustees at the Migration Museum Project and at British Airways plc.
Charles retired from full time member of its Development Committee.
work in June 2003 to pursue a portfolio career.
He was previously Non-Executive Chairman of Genesis CAROLYN MCCALL DBE Tesco plc and New Look plc.
Carolyn was Chair Chief Executive ofOpportunity Now and former President of Women inAdvertising and Communications London WACL.
Appointed Current External Appointments July 2010 Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc Key areas of prior experience andmember of its Auditand Nominations Media Committees.
Director ofFrench Chamber Skills & Experience ofCommerce.
Director of the Corporate Board of Prior to joining easyJet, Carolyn was Chief Royal Academy of Arts.
Non-Executive Director of Executive of Guardian Media Group plc.
She was the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial also Non-Executive Director of Lloyds TSB Limited, Strategy.
Prior to this, Andrew was Director of Chief Financial Officer Finance, Tax and Treasury at Marks and Spencer Group plc.
He has also held senior finance roles at the Appointed London Stock Exchange and at Cable and Wireless October 2015 both in theUK and US.
Key areas of prior experience Current External Appointments Finance Non-Executive Director at Rightmove plc and Skills & Experience member of its Audit and Nominations Committees.
Andrew was previously Chief Financial Officer at ADLE ANDERSON Current External Appointments Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director of Intu Properties plc and Chair of its Audit Committee and member of its Appointed Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Director of September 2011 Spire Healthcare Group plc and Chair of its Audit and Key areas of prior experience Risk Committee and member of its Remuneration Finance Committee.
Member of the Board of Trustees and its Skills & Experience Audit Committee at Save the Children UK.
Member of Until July 2011, Adle was a Partner in KPMG and held the Audit Committee of the Wellcome Trust.
R A S I roles including Chief Financial Officer of KPMG UK, Chief Executive Officer of KPMGs captive insurer and Chief Financial Officer of KPMG Europe.
48 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Board Committee Membership as at 20 November 2017 S A F Safety Committee Audit Committee Finance Committee R N I Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee IT Governance and Oversight Committee Lufthansa AGin Frankfurt.
Prior to this, Andreas was DR ANDREAS BIERWIRTH Independent Non-Executive Director Deputy Managing Director and later Managing Director atGermanwings.
Appointed Current External Appointments July 2014 Chief Executive Officer, T-Mobile Austria GmbH.
Key areas of prior experience Member of the Supervisory Board ofDo&Co AG, Airline Industry, European perspective Casinos Austria AG on behalf of the Austrian Skills & Experience Government Lindner Hotels AG and Telekom Andreas previously served as Chief Commercial Officer Deutschland GmbH.
and a Member of the Board at Austrian Airlines AG.
S F Healso served as Vice President Marketing ofDeutsche Non-Executive Director roles included Max Property KEITH HAMILL OBE Independent Non-Executive Director Group plc, Electrocomponents plcandCadmus Communications Corporation.
Keith was Finance Appointed Director of WHSmith, of Forte plc and of United March 2009 Distillers, Director of Financial Control at Guinness plc Key areas of prior experience and a Partner in Price Waterhouse.
Finance Current External Appointments Skills & Experience Chairman, Premier Foods plc and a member of its Keith was Chairman of Travelodge and Go, the latter Nominations Commitee.
Chairman of Horsforth prior to its acquisition by easyJet in 2002.
Non-Executive Director, Samsonite previous Chairman roles included Tullett Prebon plc, InternationalSA.
Member of the Board of Trustees, Collins Stewart plc, Avant Homes Limited, Heath StGeorge, the English International School, Rome.
Lambert Limited and MossBros Group plc.
His ANDY MARTIN theCompass Group, hewas Group Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director at First Choice Holidays plc now TUI Group which had an airline as part of a wider tour operator business.
Appointed Andy has also held senior financial positions, including September 2011 Partner, with Granada Group plc, Forte plc and Arthur Key areas of prior experience Andersen now part ofDeloitte.
Finance, Airline Industry Current External Appointments Skills & Experience Non-Executive Director of Intertek Group plc, From 2012 to 2015, Andywas the Group Chief Chairman of its Audit Committee and member of its Operating Officer for Europe and Japan for Compass R A N F I Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Director of Group plc and prior to that served as their Group Hays plc and member of its Audit, Remuneration and Finance Director from 2004 to 2012.
Before he joined Nomination Committees.
sector background, developed over a 17-year period MOYA GREENE Independent Non-Executive Director when she assumed progressively more senior roles in seven different Ministries of the Canadian Federal Appointed Public Service.
She has previously been a NonJuly 2017 Executive Director on the Board of Great-West Lifeco Key areas of prior experience and Tim Hortons Inc, both publicly quoted inCanada.
Logistics and Transport Current External Appointments Skills & Experience Chief Executive of Royal Mail Group plc.
Member of Moya has been Chief Executive of Royal Mail Group theBoard of Trustees, the Tate Gallery.
Prior to joining Royal Mail, Moya was R S CEO of Canada Post.
She also has a strong public DIVERSITY IN THE BOARD The Board recognises the benefits of having diversity across the Board to ensure effective engagement with key stakeholders and effective delivery of the business strategy.
