E s s e n t i a l S o l u s t t i c o u n d s o r P STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GENERATE VALUE Our Business Model Making us essential to our customers What we put in What we get out How we have made progress Essential Products Our businesses focus on supplying essential products Recurring income and stable revenue growth Performance is measured by the underlying growth in and services funded by customers operating rather Our focus on essential products and services revenue, after adjusting for currency and acquisitions: than capital budgets and supplied across a range of contributes to the Groups record of stable revenue specialised industry segments.
growth over the business cycle.
This year, the underlying growth has been 7%.
Over five years, the average has been 5% p. a..
The majority of the Groups revenues are generated Our businesses target GDP plus levels of underlying from consumable products.
In many cases, the revenue growth, over the economic cycle, with higher For more information products will be used in repair and maintenance growth rates achieved at the Group level through See page 15 applications and refurbishment and upgrade carefully selected value enhancing acquisitions.
programmes, rather than supplied to original equipment manufacturers.
Essential Solutions Our businesses design their individual business Sustainable and attractive margins Performance is measured by the level and stability over modelsto provide solutions which closely meet By supplying solutions, not just products, we build time of gross and operating margins: therequirements of their customers: strong long term relationships with our customers and suppliers, supporting sustainable and attractive margins.
Gross margins have remained broadly stable over many Highly responsive customer service, such as the years, excluding shorter term currency effects.
next day delivery from stock of essential, but low Our businesses achieve sustainable and attractive This year, adjusted operating margin improved 10bps value items.
gross margins by offering strongly differentiated to17.3%.
Deep technical support, where we work closely with products and customer focused solutions within Over five years, the average adjusted operating margin our customers in designing our products into their specialised market segments.
By running efficient has been 18%.
operations, these gross margins are converted into Added value services which, if we did not provide healthy operating margins.
For more information these services, customers would have to pay others See page 15 Our Business Model is built on the three to provide them or would require them to invest in Essentials essential Products, Solutions additional resources of their own.
Essential Values We encourage an entrepreneurial culture Agility and responsiveness Performance is more difficult to measure directly, but across our businesses, through a decentralised Our decentralised organisational model ensures that non-financial KPIs can give an indication of organisational management structure.
decisions are made close to the customer and that the stability and health.
Over the last five years: businesses are agile and responsive to changes in the We want the managers to feel that they have the market and the competitive environment.
Average length of service for all employees has been freedom to run their own businesses, while being ca.
11 years for the senior management cadre.
ableto draw upon the support and resources of Agility and responsiveness in the businesses ensure Number of working days lost to sickness has consistently alarger group where this is beneficial.
close management of operating costs and working been only ca.
capital and deliver strong free cash flow.
Within our businesses we have strong, self-standing For more information management teams who are committed to and See page 15 rewarded according to the success of their businesses.
10 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 l a i t n e E s s s s E e n t i a l V a l u e s What we put in What we get out How we have made progress Essential Products Our businesses focus on supplying essential products Recurring income and stable revenue growth Performance is measured by the underlying growth in and services funded by customers operating rather Our focus on essential products and services revenue, after adjusting for currency and acquisitions: than capital budgets and supplied across a range of contributes to the Groups record of stable revenue specialised industry segments.
For more information these services, customers would have to pay others See page 15 to provide them or would require them to invest in additional resources of their own.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 11
