GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 1,3 1,2, 3 John Nicholas Bruce Thompson Charles Packshaw Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: Appointed: Joined the Board on 1 June 2013 and Joined the Board in 1994 as a Group Appointed: appointed Chairman on 21 January 2015.
Director and appointed Chief Executive Joined the Board on 1 June 2013 Officer in 1996. and appointed Senior Independent Skills and experience: Director on 27 February 2015.
A Chartered Certified Accountant with a Will retire from the Board before Masters degree in Business Administration 30 September 2018.
Skills and experience: from Kingston University, London.
John Charles has over 30 years of City has a wealth of business and commercial Skills and experience: experience, including 15 years at HSBC experience and spent much of his early Bruce started his career in the automotive where he was Head of UK Advisory and career in technology-focused international industry, first as a design engineer and Managing Director in HSBCs global manufacturing and service companies then in product marketing.
He then spent banking business.
Prior to that, he was involved in analytical instruments, fire three years in international marketing Head of Corporate Finance at Lazard protection and food processing.
with a construction materials company, in London.
Charles has been a nondeveloping new markets in Europe, the Executive Director of two listed companies He has been Group Finance Director of Middle East and North Africa.
Prior to and he is also a Chartered Engineer.
Kidde plc on its demerger from Williams joining Diploma, he was a Director with Holdings and of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Arthur D Little Inc. the technology and External appointments: management consulting firm, initially Charles is a non-Executive Director External appointments: in the UK and then as Director of the of BMT Group Limited.
John is currently non-Executive Director firms Technology Management Practice and Chairman designate of Porvair plc based in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
and non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Hunting External appointments: PLC until April 2018.
Independent Director of Mondi plc.
Executive Management Group Bruce Thompson Chief Executive Officer Nigel Lingwood Group Finance Director Dan Brown Darin Clause Joined the Group in October 2015 to Joined the Group in November 2015 take responsibility for the Groups to take responsibility for the Seals Healthcare businesses across all businesses in North America and more international markets.
broadly to develop new opportunities in US Industrial Distribution.
38 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 Nigel Lingwood Anne Thorburn Andy Smith Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Joined the Company in June 2001 and Joined the Board on 7 September 2015 Joined the Board and appointed Chairman appointed Group Finance Director in and appointed Chairman of the Audit of the Remuneration Committee on July2001.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Prior to joining the Company, Nigel Anne was Chief Financial Officer of Exova Andy is Managing Director, Severn Trent was the Group Financial Controller at Group plc until 30 November 2015 and Business Services with responsibility for Unigate PLC where he gained experience has many years of experience at Board the companys non-regulated businesses.
of working in a large multinational level in listed international groups.
Anne He has many years of plc Board level environment and on a number of was previously Group Finance Director experience having previously served on large corporate transactions.
Nigel at British Polythene Industries PLC.
the Boards of The Boots Company PLC qualified as a Chartered Accountant Anne is a member of the Institute of as Group HR Director and Severn Trent with Price Waterhouse, London.
PLC as Water Services Director.
Andy is a Mechanical Engineering graduate External appointments: External appointments: and has significant operational and HR None.
He has worked in the UK and overseas previously with global businesses including BP, Mars and Pepsi.
Committee membership: 1 Remuneration Committee 2 Audit Committee 3 Nomination Committee Gustav Rber James Routh Stuart Bell Joined the Group in September 2004 Joined the Group in September 2012 Joined the Group in May 2013 in the Group initially as Finance Controller and then as initially as Business Development Director Finance department and appointed as Corporate Development Director.
Now and now responsible for the Groups Group Financial Controller in June 2015. responsible for the Groups Controls and International Seals businesses outside Environmental businesses.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 39
