FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors Report This section contains information which the Directors are require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: required by law and regulation to include within the Annual ii in respect of only one class of shares: iii in favour of a person Report & Accounts.
who is not a minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound mind: or iv in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
Shareholders Incorporation and principal activity Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using Diploma PLC is domiciled in England and registered in England CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an and Wales under Company Number 3899848.
At the date of this uncertified share in accordance with the regulations governing Report there were 113,239,555 ordinary shares of 5p each in the operation of CREST.
issue, all of which are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Participants in the Companys Performance Share Plan the PSP, who have yet to meet shareholding guidelines, have The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialised vested PSP shares held in trust until the earlier occurrence of technical products and services.
A description and review of the them meeting their required shareholder guideline or for a activities of the Group during the financial year and an indication period of two years, during which period these shares cannot be of future developments is set out on pages 4 to 37: the Strategic transferred to them.
There are no other restrictions on the Report on pages 1 to 37 incorporates the requirements of the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company except certain Companies Act 2006 the Act.
restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : or where a Annual General Meeting shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at midday on certified shares has been served with a disclosure notice and Wednesday, 17 January 2018 in the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury has failed to provide the Company with information concerning Square, London EC2V 7HR.
The Notice of the AGM, which is a interests in those shares.
separate document, will be sent to all shareholders and will be published on the Diploma PLC website.
Shares held by the Diploma PLC Employee Benefit Trust While ordinary shares are held within the Diploma PLC Employee Substantial shareholdings Benefit Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are At 17 November 2017, the Company had been notified of the exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their fiduciary following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights duties.
The Trustees of the Diploma PLC Employee Benefit Trust in its ordinary share capital: also waive dividends on all shares held for the purposes of the Percentage Companys long term incentive arrangements.
of ordinary share capital Share allotment Fidelity Management & Research Co. 9.26 A general allotment power and a limited power to allot shares in Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 7.26 specific circumstances for cash, otherwise than pro rata to Mawer Investment Management Limited 6.49 existing shareholders, were given to the Directors by resolutions Standard Life Aberdeen plc 6.41 approved at the AGM of the Company held on 18 January 2017.
Royal London Asset Management Limited 4.95 In the year ended 30 September 2017, the Company has not BlackRock, Inc. 3.30 allotted any shares.
These powers will expire at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM and resolutions to renew the Directors powers Norges Bank Investment Management 3.03 are therefore included within the Notice of the AGM in 2018.
As far as the Directors are aware, - there were no other interests Authority to make market purchases of own shares above 3% of the issued ordinary share capital.
An authority to make market purchases of shares was given to the Directors by a special resolution at the AGM of the Company Share capital held on 18 January 2017.
In the year to 30 September 2017 the The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well Company has not acquired any of its own shares.
This authority as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the will expire at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM and a resolution to Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be renew the authority is therefore included within the Notice of obtained from the Group Company Secretary and are available the AGM in 2018. on the Companys website.
Financial The Company is not aware of any agreements between Results and dividends shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of The profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders securities and or voting rights.
No person holds securities in the was47.5m 2016: 38.3m.
The Directors recommend a final Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the dividend of 16.0p per ordinary share 2016: 13.8p, to be paid, if Company.
The Companys Articles of Association may be approved, on 24 January 2018.
This, together with the interim amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
dividend of 7.0p 2016: 6.2p per ordinary share paid on 14 June 2017 amounts to 23.0p for the year 2016: 20.0p.
Restrictions on transfer of shares The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated The results are shown more fully in the consolidated financial share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not statements on pages 66 to 94 and summarised in the Finance prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on Review on pages 28 to 31. an open and proper basis, or where the Company has lien over that share.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer Independent auditor ofa certificated share, unless the instrument of transfer is: The Company held a competitive tender process during 2017 for i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered office its statutory audit contract, which was overseen by the Audit ofthe Company or any other place as the Board may decide Committee.
On completion of this process the Board, on the accompanied by the certificate for the share s to be transferred recommendation of the Audit Committee, proposed that and or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably  LLP PwC shall be appointed 64 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 auditor.
The appointment of PwC is subject to approval of In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 17 January 2018. statements, the Directors are required to: Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the current external auditor, have undertaken the audit of the Group and Company for the financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply year ended 30 September 2017. them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Directors assessment of going concern and prudent: The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely for the Group financial statements, state whether they have to affect its future development, performance and position are been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU: set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37.
The financial for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Review on subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in pages 28 to 31.
In addition, pages 79 to 81 of the Annual Report the Parent Company financial statements: and & Accounts include the Groups objectives, policies and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging Parent Company will continue in business.
activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The Group has considerable financial resources, together records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent with a broad spread of customers and suppliers across different Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy geographic areas and sectors, often secured with longer term at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and agreements.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully as the Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of described further on pages 32 to 35. the Parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Group also has a committed multi-currency revolving bank facility of 30.0m with an accordion option to increase the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity committed facility by a further 30.0m up to a maximum of of the corporate and financial information included on the 60.0m.
This facility expires on 31 May 2020, with an option Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the to extend the facility to 31 May 2022.
At 30 September 2017, preparation and dissemination of financial statements may the Group had cash funds of 22.3m and had no borrowings.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Directors Responsibility Statement expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the the Groups consolidated financial statements, prepared in going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report & Accounts.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and the Parent Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with Statement of disclosure UK Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the Each of the Directors has reviewed this Annual Report & assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group Accounts and confirmed that so far as he is aware, there is no and Parent Company and the undertakings included in the relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is consolidation taken as a whole: unaware and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to the Annual Report & Accounts includes a fair review of the have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any development and performance of the business and the relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys position of the Group and the undertakings included in the auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group: and the Companies Act 2006. the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing the necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys financial statements performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts, including the Group and Parent Company financial This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Directors on 20 November 2017 and is signed on its behalf by: Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and BM Thompson NP Lingwood Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Registered office: the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations 12 Charterhouse Square and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial London statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally EC1M 6AX Accepted Accounting Standards UK Accounting Standards including FRS101 Reduced Disclosures Framework.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the Group: the Act provides in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 65
