Executive Management Team An experienced team to deliver CHRIS BROCKLESBY Change Management, Supplier Management and Chief Information Officer Procurement.
Chris also spent 18 years at Accenture in their Financial Services and Technology practices.
Appointed Hebecame a Partner in2000 and led theUK March 2015 Financial ServicesSystems Integration practice, as Key areas of prior experience well as leading work at clients such as AXA Life, IT Zurich Financial Services, Standard Life and Prudential.
Skills & Experience Before joining easyJet, Chris was Chief Information Officer at Tesco Bank and was a member of the Executive Committee with responsibility for IT, Chief Operating Officer, Aviation, of TUI Travel CHRIS BROWNE Chief Operating Officer plc, Managing Director, Thomson Airways and Managing Director, First Choice Airways.
She also has Appointed commercial and general management experience October 2016 in consumer-facing industries with previous roles at Key areas of prior experience Carlson Worldwide and IberiaAirways.
Airline industry Current External Appointments Skills & Experience Non-Executive Director of Bovis Homes plc Chris was appointed to the Board of easyJet plc andmember of its Nominations, Remuneration and on 1 January 2016 as a Non-Executive Director, AuditCommittees.
before stepping down on 30 September 2016 to join the Executive Management Team as Chief Operating Officer.
Chris has previously held several senior leadership positions within aviation including PETER DUFFY Skills & Experience Chief Commercial Officer Before joining easyJet, Peter was Marketing Director for Audi in theUK.
Priortothat, he was Marketing Appointed Services Director at Barclays.
February 2011 Key areas of prior experience Marketing, Digital and Commercial ANDREW FINDLAY Chief Financial Officer See Board of Directors Profiles on page 48 and operational issues.
ROBERT CAREY Group Director of Strategy and Network Robert has authored multiple articles and spoken widely about the airline industry.
He has also been a Appointed keynote speaker at a number of travel forums and September 2017 conferences.
Prior to McKinsey, Robert worked for Key areas of prior experience Delta Air Lines and America West Airlines in a variety Airline industry, Strategy of roles across revenue .
Skills & Experience Robert joined from McKinsey & Company where he was a leader in the Airline practice.
Over the last 11 years, Robert has assisted airline clients aroundthe world on a range of strategic, revenue, commercial CAROLYN MCCALL Chief Executive See Board of Directors Profiles on page 48 50 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE PAUL MOORE Communications Director Appointed November 2010 Key areas of prior experience Communications Skills & Experience Before joining easyJet, Paul was Group PublicAffairs and Communications Director for FirstGroup.
Prior to that Paul worked for Virgin Atlantic Airways for 10 years as its Director of Corporate Affairs.
KYLA MULLINS Company Secretary and Group General Counsel Appointed February 2015 Key areas of prior experience Legal, Company Secretarial, Regulation Skills & Experience Kyla is a qualified solicitor, having spent four years with Clifford Chance before moving in-house.
Over the past 20 years she has held senior legal positions in the media, entertainment and strategic outsourcing sectors.
Before joining easyJet, Kyla was General Counsel and Company Secretary at Mitie Group plc, Global General Counsel of EMI Music, and Group Legal Director at ITV plc and Granada Media.
JACKY SIMMONDS Group People Director Appointed January 2016 Key areas of prior experience Airline industry, travel and tourism, Human Resources Skills & Experience Before joining easyJet, Jacky was Group Human ResourcesDirector at TUI and previously held a number of senior positions within that group, including Human Resources Director for TUI UK & Ireland and First Choice plc before the merger with TUI.
Current External Appointments Non-Executive Director, Ferguson plc formerly Wolseley plc, and Chair of its Remuneration Committee and a member of its Audit and .
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM CHANGES DURING THE 2017 YEAR AND UP TO 20 NOVEMBER 2017: Cath Lynn stepped down from her role as Group Director of Strategy and Network on 29 September 2017.
Robert Carey took over from Cath and was appointed as Group Director of Strategy and Network on 30 September 2017.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHANGES DURING THE 2017 YEAR AND UP TO 20 NOVEMBER 2017: It was announced on 10 November 2017 that Johan Lundgren would be appointed as Chief Executive from 1 December 2017.
Carolyn McCall will be stepping down as Chief Executive on 30 November 2017.
Franois Rubichon stepped down from the Board on 22 July 2017.
Moya Greene was appointed to the Board on 19 July 2017.
