Build STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GENERATE VALUE Growth Strategy Compounding growth through acquisitions What we put in What we get out How we have made progress Acquire Clear business criteria have been established to guide Acquisitions give entry into new but related markets and thereby Abacus the Groups acquisition programme: extend the reach of the existing businesses and bring new In April 2017, the DHG group acquired Abacus, growth opportunities.
alongestablished supplier of specialised diagnostic fit with the Groups business model: instrumentation and consumables in Australia and marketing led with strong customer relationships: The Group applies a consistent level of effort and resources to NewZealand.
Abacus has a good fit with our existing secure supply of high quality, differentiated identifying and developing acquisition opportunities.
However, DS business, adds attractive product lines, critical products: and the output in terms of acquisitions completed, ebbs and flows mass and economies of scale in Clinical Diagnostics capable management.
depending on the acquisition environment.
and gives entry to new segments within the broader Healthcare and Life Sciences sectors.
The principal financial criteria are: To achieve the Groups objective of strong double-digit growth, acquisition spend of at least 30m p. a. is targeted.
For more information Track record of stable, profitable growth and See pages 1819 cash generation.
Exceed post-tax IRR threshold of 13% to ensure 20% pre-tax return on investment.
Grow Build The acquisitions we make are of businesses which Except in the case of smaller bolt-on acquisitions, the acquired US Industrial OEM Seals are already successful and with a good track record.
companies maintain their distinct sales and marketing identity In the second half of this year, a senior leadership team However, these businesses have typically reached the and strong independent management teams.
was established to manage the cluster of Industrial OEM point where additional resources are needed to take Seals businesses in the US.
While maintaining the distinct Growth is accelerated by investing in value them to the next level of growth.
Where there are opportunities for synergies with other Group identities of the businesses and close local contact with businesses, these are managed in larger business clusters.
enhancing acquisitions the customers, key functions including Sales, Supply Working with the management, we provide the Synergies typically include: chain, Technical and Finance will be managed centrally by investment required to build a solid foundation to this team.
Investment will also be made in implementing allow the business to move to a new level of growth.
Cross-selling between the businesses anew ERP system to replace the disparate legacy The investment we make in new acquisitions will ITsystems.
normally be in new facilities and IT systems, increased Joint purchasing between the businesses but better managed working capital and additional For more information management resource.
Shared operational infrastructure and shared back-office See pages 2223 functions Grow Once the acquisition is integrated into the Group, with By the third year post-acquisition, underlying revenue growth Cablecraft a solid platform established, the focus is on delivering for the acquired businesses is typically higher than the Group Cablecraft, in only its second year as part of the Group, stable, profitable growth.
average and operating margins have improved by 200300bps isalready showing the benefits of investments made on average.
post-acquisition in increasing management and sales The results of the Acquire, Build, Grow strategy can be resources, expanding e-commerce capabilities and seen in the improving revenue growth and operating These improvements in financial performance ensure that the refurbishing facilities.
Group creates value through its acquisition programme and maintains ROATCE above the 20% threshold.
Under the continued strong leadership of one of the former owners, Cablecraft has increased revenues in 2017 by 7% on a like-for-like basis and has improved operating margins by ca.
For more information See pages 2627 12 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Acquire What we put in What we get out How we have made progress Acquire Clear business criteria have been established to guide Acquisitions give entry into new but related markets and thereby Abacus the Groups acquisition programme: extend the reach of the existing businesses and bring new In April 2017, the DHG group acquired Abacus, growth opportunities.
Build The acquisitions we make are of businesses which Except in the case of smaller bolt-on acquisitions, the acquired US Industrial OEM Seals are already successful and with a good track record.
While maintaining the distinct them to the next level of growth.
the customers, key functions including Sales, Supply Working with the management, we provide the Synergies typically include: chain, Technical and Finance will be managed centrally by investment required to build a solid foundation to this team.
For more information See pages 2627 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 13
