Strategic report Strategy in action 1.
Grow rents Creating sustainable income Strategy in action We are growing the number of homes wehave to rent, with an aim of investing 850minto the UK PRS.
We have secured 651m of investment since setting outour strategy in January 2016, and we have afurther 243m of investment opportunities in the planning or legalprocess, for which we have goodvisibility andexpectahigh level of conversion.
Our 2020 targets Secure 850m of PRS investments in order to grow net rental income More than half of our portfolio comprising PRS assets Reduced reliance on sales cost coverage Net rental income to exceed profit from sales Property details Situated close to the City of London in up-and-coming Haggerston, Ability Plaza offers 79 live-work apartments.
W e have the right people, processes and expertise in place to enable us to secure attractive investments in great locations.
This will deliver our shareholders superior returns.
Andrew Saunderson Director of Investment Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 16 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Customer profile Name: Alfie Profile: Alfie has been living in his building for ten years and enjoys the flexibility that renting has to offer.
As a product strategist, he can sometimes workat home.
With floor to ceiling windows, he has excellent natural light and a lovely space to work.
I five established a great relationship with my property manager, she understands my needs.
Working from home is ideal theres limited noise here, as well as a great little ramen place down the road to enjoy lunch.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 Strategic report Strategy in action continued 2.
Simplify and focus Proactively managing our portfolio Strategy in action By restructuring our teams, we are spending more time out on the road, meeting our customers and ensuring they are happily enjoying their homes.
At the same time, we are able to appraise every asset within our portfolio and determine the best course of action.
In this way, we can ensure our assets are performing well across our portfolio.
Our 2020 targets Continue to improve operational efficiency and scalability, thereby enhancing rental margins Reduced reliance on sales cost covered by income Customer services Customers have a named, dedicated Grainger property manager on hand for all enquiries.
W e are working to professionalise the rental market and give renters a better deal.
We are focused on each customer and each property.
This enables us to provide great homes and service, as well as generating good returns.
John Kenny Chief Operating Officer Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Customer profile Name: Clare Profile: Single mum Clare and her five-year-old daughter havebeen living in one of our Grainger properties for a year.
As a holistic therapist, it is important for Clare to have a calm space where she can practise.
She loves her allotment in the communal garden, where she grows potatoes and other vegetablesto share with her neighbours.
I f eel blessed to live here its my sanctuary.
Its wonderful being so close to my daughters school, only five minutes down the road and were only a short bike ride from a lovely park.
We have a special community vibe here and I love that my daughter can play safely in the garden with the other children.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 Strategic report Strategy in action continued 3.
Build on our experience Using our position for growth Strategy in action We are gaining market share in the UK PRS growthmarket, both through improving ourwell-established operational platform and by reinvesting cash flows from ourregulated tenancy portfolio.
Our 2020 targets Net rental income to exceed profit from sales PRS assets to exceed regulated tenancy assets Property details Rosa and her husband, Zoltan, live and work as caretakers at Churston Close, providing 24-hour customer service.
T aking care of other peoples homes is a serious business.
Weve been doing it for 105 years.
Anish Thobhani Customer Operations Director Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 20 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Customer profile Name: Nicola Profile: Nicola has been living in her Grainger flat for two months, with her dog, Ronnie.
She is currently doing a Masters inLinguistics and English Language, and loves how quiet the flatis for studying at home.
Everything she needs is within walking distance andshe loves visiting family who live nearby.
M y flat is in a great spot really near the local shopping and nightlife, but far enough away for it to be a peaceful at-home environment.
I love the safety of our on-site car park, and its always good to know I can call on our caretakers if ever I need any help.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21
