Strategic report Business model and strategy Our inputs How we create value Driving shareholder returns Our people We have a competitive advantage due to Growing income returns The people in our team, with their depth KPI: Net rental ourability to originate, invest and operate of knowledge, ensure we outperform the income dividend successfully in this growth market.
market by investing in the right assets and Through new investments and proactive providing a great service to our customers.
and efficient management of our This three-part operating model helps us ensure properties, we are growing our net rental income, which underpins dividend growth we are investing in the best possible assets and Our assets for our shareholders.
Having great homes, in high demand, is providing great service.
This enables us to deliver critical to achieving strong shareholder market-leading total returns for our shareholders.
We focus on acquiring the assets that will do this.
We also ensure we optimise the value of our existing assets, and reposition our portfolio where required.
Enhancing capital returns Capital allocation KPI: EPRA NNNAV Capital discipline Geographical targeting Planning process Our targeted development and We allocate capital to the right assets, in Acquisitions Design investment activity, along with our the right locations and at the right price.
Investment management Layout well-located assets, help deliver strong We have a strong capital structure, which Asset recycling Specications capitalgrowth, underpinning growth enables us to deploy capital efficiently.
Valuation Delivery management in the net asset value of our business.
Relationships Building and maintaining strong Originate Invest relationships with our customers, partners, suppliers, shareholders, localcommunities, government and Grow rents withinour industry is an important Strong total returns ingredient to enabling our success.
for shareholders KPI: ROSE Simplify Growth in rental income, linked to Intellectual property and focus dividend, and growth in the capital In an emerging market such as the PRS, value of our assets deliver attractive risk where we are market leader, we focus adjusted total returns for shareholders, onprotecting our intellectual property which we believe is sustainable over the and internal market intelligence, to Build on our experience long term.
ensurewe continue to maintain our leadand grow our market share.
Technology We continue to enhance our use of technology to improve service, knowledge and operational efficiency.
It is enabling scalable growth, while ensuring we continue to improve our service to Lettings Customer expectations On boarding Management eciencies ourcustomers.
Operate Customer experience Repairs and maintenance On the following page we discuss our long-term value stream Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information How we create value Driving shareholder returns Our clear strategic priorities Sharing the value we create We have a competitive advantage due to Growing income returns Customers KPI: Net rental We are offering an increasing number ourability to originate, invest and operate income dividend ofhigh-quality homes for rent to a wide Priority 1 successfully in this growth market.
Through new investments and proactive range of customers, while focusing on Grow rents and efficient management of our providing a great service and ensuring Our strategy is expected to double our This three-part operating model helps us ensure properties, we are growing our net rental our customers get good value for money.
net rental income from 2015 levels after income, which underpins dividend growth we are investing in the best possible assets and our investment programme has been for our shareholders.
This enables us to deliver fully deployed.
As the value of our assets grows, and market-leading total returns for our shareholders.
we create more homes to rent, our EPRA Through origination and investment, NNNAV and dividend grow too, delivering we are developing and acquiring new attractive returns to our shareholders.
assets, which will deliver income growth.
We operate our assets directly to ensure we maximise long-term rental income Enhancing capital returns Local communities forshareholders.
KPI: EPRA NNNAV We are ensuring our investments in Our targeted development and local communities have a positive impact investment activity, along with our on those living nearby.
This might include well-located assets, help deliver strong improving local infrastructure, providing capitalgrowth, underpinning growth new jobs for local people, enhancing Priority 2 in the net asset value of our business.
the public realm or supporting local communities, businesses, charities Simplify and focus and schools.
Since 2015, we have simplified our business and focused on growing the UK PRS, positioning us for growth.
Suppliers This involved a significant cost reduction The opportunity to grow in the UK PRS programme overheads and capital is substantial, and our growth will benefit Strong total returns structure and sale of our non-core our supply chain partners.
This will for shareholders businesses.
We have repositioned our multiply the positive impact we have KPI: ROSE business and our priority now is to control on local communities and people.
Growth in rental income, linked to costs and improve efficiency, which will dividend, and growth in the capital enable us to grow, andenhance our returns.
value of our assets deliver attractive risk Our employees adjusted total returns for shareholders, Through successfully creating value, which we believe is sustainable over the we are able to be a great employer, long term.
providing a positive and rewarding Priority 3 work environment and a wide-ranging benefits package.
This will ensure we Build on our experience attract and retain the best possible talent In the emerging PRS market, our in the market.
Employees are provided 105-year history as a leading, responsible opportunities to be shareholders and professional landlord sets us apart throughvarious share schemes.
and underpins our growth plans.
We are focused on further improving the service we provide to our customers, particularly through technology.
On the following page we discuss our long-term value stream See our strategy in action Our people, assets and page 16 environmental impact page 29 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5
