Governance Accountability: Audit Committee report The Audit Committee currently comprises five independent Non-Executive Directors.
Dear shareholders, This is my second year of chairing Graingers Audit Committee, and I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the year ended 30 September 2017.
During the year, the Committee has continued to carry out a key role within the Companys governance framework, supporting the Board in risk management, Andrew Carr-Locke internal control and financial reporting.
This report provides an Committee Chairman overview of the significant issues the Committee considered, and its assessment of the Annual Report andAccounts as a whole, including how we have reviewed thenarrative reporting to ensure Attendance table it accurately reflects the financial statements.
Meetings Meetings eligible to Committee member Member since attended attend There is substantial change occurring in Grainger.
Implementing the PRS strategy has meant introducing new processes and Andrew Carr-Locke Committee Chairman March 2015 4 4 refining existing systems.
Therefore, the Committee has focused on assessing the risks and controls regarding these changes.
Belinda Richards April 2011 3 4 Wehave also carefully considered the risk management Tony Wray November 2011 4 4 framework to assess its continued relevance for a PRS-focused Rob Wilkinson February 2016 3 3 business undergoing the implementation of its strategy.
We Justin Read March 2017 2 2 havealso supported the Board in considering the principal risks and appetite of the Company.
We provide details of the risk management framework, principal risks and key mitigants How the Committee spent its time onpages 36 to 40.
As a matter of course, the Committee considers its terms of reference each year, taking into account changes to Grainger Financial reporting 40% andto external governance requirements.
In addition, we develop Internal control and audit 25% Risk management and a clear work plan through the year to ensure we fulfil all our compliance 25% responsibilities.
At the heart of those responsibilities is ensuring Governance 10% that the Company operates an effective risk assessment and management process, and has an appropriate control framework in place.
We are helped by the Internal Audit team at Deloitte, which reports directly to us, and which works to an agreed plan to ensure controls are effective.
One of the Committees other key responsibilities is ensuring theGroups published accounts are true and consistent with accounting and governance requirements.
In achieving this we have considered the viability statement closely, having regard to the progress of the implementation of the PRS strategy and the overall strategic horizon.
This included interrogating the financial models and related sensitivity analyses of various economic scenarios.
In addition, we have concentrated on the fair, balanced and understandable requirements for the Annual Report.
In this regard, we are helped by receiving a number of appropriate papers from the Chief Financial Officer and her team, and by theindependent work of our internal and external auditors.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 54 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information In addition to our planned work programme, we respond to key I believe the regular challenge and engagement with matters arising during the year as required.
An example of this management, the external auditor and the internal audit team, during the year was to consider closely the appropriate accounting together with the timely receipt of high-quality reports and treatment ofour development partnerships with the Royal information from them, has enabled the Committee to Borough of Kensington and Chelsea RBKC, and the changes dischargeits duties and responsibilities efficiently.
to the contractual arrangements that occurred in summer 2017.
I would like to record my thanks for the support of the other Wealso supported the Board in its 2016 review of the Groups members of the Committee, to Graingers Finance and Legal key performance indicators.
Being aware of the developing teams, to Deloitte, and to KPMG for its thorough approach.
practice for assessing and reporting alternative performance measures, we plan to carry out a further review in 2018.
As part of the FRCs work programme, we received a report on Andrew Carr-Locke the quality of the Big 4 audit firms, including Graingers external Chairman of the Audit Committee auditor, KPMG.
We discussed the findings of the report with 30 November 2017 KPMG and what it has done to implement the recommendations.
We found this independent review constructive, and it will help in our annual evaluation of externalauditor effectiveness.
Significant matters relating to the Groups 2017 financial statements The most significant matters considered by the Committee and discussed with the external auditor in relation to the Groups 2017 financial statements were as follows: Property valuations 1 We received reports from management on the assumptions to be used in valuing the Groups property assets, the suggested discount rates for reversionary assets and the valuations.
We considered the proposed process changes to the valuation of the reversionary portfolio, which involved increasing the level of external review and a reduction in tolerance differential between external and internal valuations.
We also considered that the external valuers were sufficiently independent and report directly tothe Committee.
We were content, after close scrutiny and debate, with the change in valuation approach, and the assumptions andjudgements applied to the valuations.
The results of the valuations form the basis of managements assessment to support the carrying value of investments in subsidiary companies by the parent company.
Fraud risk from revenue recognition and management override of controls 2 In respect of the presumed risk of fraud in revenue recognition by overstatement and management override of controls, theCommittee considered the presumed risk of fraud as defined by auditing standards, and was content that there were no issuesarising.
During the year, the Committee considered the accounting implications in respect of the Groups contractual arrangements with the RBKC, along with the treatment of significant land sales.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Governance Accountability: Audit Committee report continued Fair, balanced and understandable Role, responsibilities and experience The Committee has undertaken a detailed review in assessing The Committees role and responsibilities are concerned whether the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced withfinancial reporting, narrative reporting, whistleblowing and understandable, and whether it provides the necessary andfraud, internal control and risk management systems, information to shareholders to assess the Groups performance, internal audit and external audit.
The Committee reviewed and made Andrew Carr-Locke, Belinda Richards, Rob Wilkinson and Justin suggestions about the processes put in place by management Read have recent and relevant financial experience as required toprovide the necessary assurance that they have made the bythe Code.
The Committee as a whole has the competence appropriate disclosures.
The Committee considered relevant to the sector in which it operates.
Please refer to pages managements assessment of items included in the financial 46 and 47 for skills and experience of the Directors and pages statements and theprominence given to those items.
This review 51 to 53 for the Nominations Committee report.
also included receiving a near final draft of the Annual Report inadvance of theNovember 2017 Committee meeting.
This Terms of reference wasaccompanied by a reminder of the areas the Committee The Committees terms of reference are approved by the Board.
should focus on having regard to the Audit Committee Institute We review them at least annually and last reviewed them at the guidance, and how it canbe applied to the draft Annual Report.
The Committees terms The Committee, and subsequently the Board, were satisfied that, of reference comply with the Code.
They can be found on the taken as a whole, the2017 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, Groups website.
Objectives Going concern The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to oversee The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of adopting and review the Groups financial reporting process, system of the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the full internal control and management of business risks, the internal year financial statements and assessed whether the business audit process, the external audit process and relationship with was viable in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
the external auditor, and the Companys process for monitoring The assessment included a review of the principal risks facing compliance with applicable laws and external regulations.
For the the Group, their financial impact and how they were managed, statutory audit, the Committee provides the Board with a report together with a discussion as to the appropriate period for on the outcome and the Committees role.
The Groups viability statement is on page 41. financial reporting, compliance with laws and regulations and risk management rests with the Board, to which the Committee Invitations to attend meetings reports regularly.
There is a standing invitation to the Chairman of the Board andthe Executive Directors, who in turn attended all of the Meetings Committees meetings during the year.
The Group Financial The Committees main work follows a structured programme of Controller and representatives ofthe internal and external activity agreed at the start of the year between the Committee auditors also attended all meetings of the Committee, and both Chairman, management and the external auditor.
As well as its sets of auditors met privately with the Committee during the year.
main work, the Committee undertakes additional work in response to the evolving audit landscape.
The following nonexhaustive list provides highlights of the Committees work during the year under review.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 56 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Key activities Received a presentation from the independent external valuer Considered KPMGs performance and November ofGraingers reversionary assets.
independence and recommended to the 2016 Considered and received matters relating to 2016 full BoardKPMGs re-appointment.
year, including: Received an Internal Audit report on mortality screening regarding the regulated portfolio, managements summary of the accounting position: andreviewed the Internal Audit plan.
KPMGs Audit Highlights Memorandum: and the draft Annual Report and Accounts.
Noted the tax impact and treatment of full year results and alsothat the Company maintained its HMRC low risk status.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Committees performance.
Considered the Groups risk management framework, principal Received a paper on the new structure and February risks and mitigants.
composition of Graingers Finance team, 2017 Considered KPMGs plan for its review of the 2017 half yearresults.
anddetails of its roles and responsibilities.
Evaluated KPMGs performance and considered it to be Reviewed the Audit Committee terms effectiveand of high quality.
Considered the five-year core assurance Internal Audit plan.
Reviewed and approved revisions to the delegated authority policy.
Considered issues regarding the 2017 interim results, including: Received an internal audit report on payroll May andthe businesss operational risk and the draft interim financial statements and announcement: 2017 controlmatrices RACMs.
managements judgements and assessment: and Considered a report on the financial control KPMGs half year report.
Considered proposed process changes to the Groups annual Considered the FRC Audit Quality Review report September valuation of its regulated portfolio.
2017 Considered the accounting impact of changes to the contractual Reviewed reports on: arrangements with RBKC.
internal controls: Noted a paper regarding forthcoming changes to International the risk management framework and the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
application of the three lines of defence Considered the 2017 draft viability statement and related analysis.
model: Considered KPMGs Audit Strategy Memorandum and the process and RACMs project: and engagement regarding the audit for the full year 2017. principal risks and risk appetites.
Received an update on compliance with anti-bribery and financial crime legislation.
The Committees assessment of KPMGs independence is External auditor objectivity and independence underpinned by the Groups policy on not using the external The objectivity and independence of the external auditor are auditor for non-audit services, which we applied during the year.
critical to the integrity of the Groups audit.
During the year, the We may disapply the policy and engage KPMG for non-audit Committee reviewed the external auditors own policies and services only if those services are permitted and where we can procedures for safeguarding its objectivity and independence.
demonstrate they are best suited to undertake those services.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Group appointing The Audit Committee Chairman must also approve this.
The audit engagement partner provided his annual representation to the Committee as to the external Services the external auditor is prohibited from providing to auditors independence, and confirmed that KPMGs reward theGroup include, amongst others: and remuneration structure includes no incentives for him to cross-sell non-audit services to audit clients.
KPMG duly applies bookkeeping and preparing financial information: the requirement to rotate audit partners every five years, and the design, supply or implementation of financial this rotation will be due for the 2020 audit.
informationsystems: appraisal or valuation services: internal audit services: and actuarial services.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Governance Accountability: Audit Committee report continued Fees paid to KPMG during the year are set out in the table below: Internal controls The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, is responsible for Year ended reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal 30 September 2017 controls.
This internal control system is designed to manage risks Schedule of fees as far as possible, acknowledging that no system can eliminate Statutory audit of Grainger Group 210,000 the risk of failure to achieve business objectives entirely.
The Board Total audit fees 210,000 did not identify any significant failings or weaknesses in the year.
Half year review 31,000 1 Subsidiary liquidations and Group simplification 41,000 The Board is also responsible for ensuring that appropriate Non-statutory certificate on Berewood systems are in place to enable it to identify, assess and manage 2 development site 8,500 key risks.
The preparation of financial statements and the wider Total non-audit fees 80,500 financial reporting process and control system are monitored by the adoption of an internal control framework to address principal 1 Commissioned in July 2014, prior to KPMGs appointment as external auditor.
This includes risks emerging as a result 2 Commissioned in May 2016. of changes to the business or accounting standards.
The effectiveness ofthe controls is evaluated by a combination of In addition, a further 8,200 for audit services was billed by review by the Grainger Finance team, and the internal and KPMG to Walworth Investment Properties Limited, the joint external auditors.
venture in which Grainger has a 50% shareholding.
A key project in the year was the review of the businesss core The Committee was satisfied that the overall levels of audit operational processes and the development of RACMs for each related and non-audit fees were not material relative to the process.
This involved Deloitte providing training to staff on the income of the external auditor firm as a whole.
It was satisfied preparation of effective RACMs, carrying out a review of the that the external auditor maintained objectivity and matrices and reporting to the Committee.
External auditor tenure Internal Audit The Company confirms that it has complied with the Competition Deloitte is appointed by the Company as Internal Auditor.
Internal and Markets Authoritys Order for the year.
Due to the relatively Audit focuses on the areas of greatest risk to the Company.
recent appointment of KPMG in 2015, the Committee was Audits are identified during an annual audit planning cycle.
This satisfied that it was not optimal to tender external audit services is informed by the results of current and previous audit testing, in the current year.
The Committeenoted that a competitive the Companys strategy, performance and the risk management tender for the external auditor must be held no later than 2025. process.
Additional audits may be identified during the year in response to changing priorities and requirements.
The Committee The Committee monitors the performance of the external approves the plan and monitors progress accordingly.
All Internal auditor, providing an in-depth evaluation of its performance Audit findings are graded, appropriate remedial actions agreed, following the external audit, and then makes a recommendation and progress monitored and reported to the Committee.
When considering the appropriateness of the re-appointment of KPMG, we considered our review, the ratio Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of ofaudit to non-audit fees and the effectiveness of the audit theAudit Committee.
We assess the effectiveness of Internal process, together with other relevant review processes.
Audit by reviewing its reports, feedback from the Chief Financial Wealsoconsidered the findings of the FRC Audit Quality Officer, and through meetings with the Chairman of the Audit Reviewof the Big 4 audit firms.
We were satisfied that we Committee without management being present.
shouldrecommend the re-appointment of KPMG.
The Internal Audit programme for 2017 gave attention to the Groups core operational processes and the risk and controls inthat regard.
The plan for 2018 and thereafter has been designed to align with the implementation programme for the new strategy.
This approach will focus on providing assurance, process improvement and insights for Graingers core processes, complemented by an appropriate number of targeted risk reviews on principal risks or areas of management concern.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 58
