Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Advisers statement Summary of 2017 performance Observations and recommendations This year, Grainger reformed its Sustainability and CSR The refresh of Graingers Sustainability and CSR Committee Committee which decided to take stock and review the businesss placesGrainger in a strong position to continue embedding sustainability priorities and approach up to 2020.
A robust sustainability throughout its business.
The Committee materiality review was undertaken which included: membership includes representation from all key business units and has already proved effective in identifying opportunities to internal engagement with Committee members and measure and enhance sustainability outcomes.
employees: external stakeholder engagement with investors, suppliers Graingers performance in sustainability benchmarks continues and potential tenants: to demonstrate leadership, with GRIP REIT being awarded competitor review: and European listed residential Sector Leader award in the Global political and legislation risk assessment.
Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB and Grainger retaining its listing on the FTSE4Good Index and its gold award The findings provided a clear direction for the businesss in the EPRA sBPRs.
Its long-standing commitment to disclosure sustainability approach.
The subsequent development of a places Grainger in a strong position to report to the new social newsustainability strategy reported on page 29 provides and governance indicators set out in the updated version 3 of Grainger with clear focus areas to set new long-term objectives the sBPRs and we encourage Grainger to report in alignment for 2018 and beyond.
with these guidelines in its 2017 disclosure.
In the meantime, over the past 12 months Grainger completed Over the next year, we recommend Grainger sets new long-term two long-term sustainability projects: sustainability targets aligned to its business model and the sustainability priorities identified in the recently-completed 1 T o design, define and agree a consistent process to measure materiality review.
Grainger should also continue its efforts customer satisfaction across portfolios and geographies to respond to feedback gathered in new employee and tenant andcreate a baseline for customer satisfaction.
satisfaction surveys, such as formalising its approach to 2 F rom a property inspection, to identify Grainger properties supporting employee and customer health and wellbeing.
thatare not on track to meet required Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards and develop a strategy to ensure Grainger has engaged Upstream Sustainability Services, JLL, as compliance by 2018. advisers on its sustainability strategy and implementation since 2005.
Due to JLLs long-standing relationship with Grainger plc, The conclusion of these projects places Grainger in a strong our assessment of Graingers performance and this statement position to respond to customer expectations and continue its itself cannot be considered entirely independent.
impressive record of customer retention, and to enhance the energy efficiency of its existing stock, whilst eliminating risk JLLs observations and recommendations are based on analysis of associated with Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards legislation documents, interviews and or other secondary evidence provided that will come into force in 2018 and 2020. by Grainger plc and relevant third parties.
All reasonable efforts were made to check the quality, accuracy and credibility of the A further two sustainability objectives relating to the production available information but this did not include site visits or audits of a sustainable procurement policy and a community on primary data e. g. meter readings and invoices.
Consequently, engagement best practice guide were not pursued.
Examples this statement does not represent formal assurance or ofbest practice in both of these areas were collated from verification of the sustainability content of Grainger plcs 2017 acrossthe business and it was felt that formal documentation Annual Report and Accounts.
would not enhance the good practice already taking place.
Darren Berman Lead Director, Upstream Sustainability Services, JLL 30 November 2017 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35
