In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to filla vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the The Directors present the Directors report, together with individual retires at the next Annual General Meeting.
A the audited accounts for the year ended 30 September Director may be removed by the Company as provided for by 2017.
The Directors report comprises pages 85 to 88, applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in the and the sections of the Annual report incorporated by Companys Articles of Association for example bankruptcy or reference are set out below: resignation, or by anordinary resolution of the Company in a Membership of Board during general meeting.
AllDirectors stand for election at the Annual 2017 financial year See pages 48 to 49 General Meeting following their appointment, and stand for Financial instruments and re-election on an annual basis.
financial risk management See pages 118 to 123 POWERS CONFERRED ON THE DIRECTORS IN Greenhouse gas emissions See page 45 RELATION TO ISSUING OR BUYING BACK SHARES Corporate governance report See pages 47 to 64 Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Future developments of the Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the business of the Group See page 17 Company, including the power to authorise the issue and or Employee equality and diversity See page 44 market purchase of the Companys shares subject to an Employee involvement See page 43 appropriate authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in a general meeting and any conditions In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys attaching to such authority.
The shareholders delegated the Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included following powers in relation to the issuing or market purchase in the Annual report and accounts, where applicable, by the Company of its shares at the Companys 2017 Annual under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors report, with the General Meeting: exception of details of transactions with controlling i. authority to allot equity securities with a nominal value of shareholders which are set out on page 125 note 27to upto approximately 10% of its issued share capital: theaccounts.
authority to allot equity securities, without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their The Annual report and accounts have been drawn up and holdings, with a nominal value of up to approximately 5% presented in accordance with UK company law and the of its issued share capital: and liabilities of the Directors in connection with the report shall be iii.
authority to make market purchases of its own shares, up subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
to a maximum of approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
easyJet plc is incorporated as a public limited company and isregistered in England with the registered number 3959649.
These standard authorities will expire on 9 May 2018, or at the easyJet plcs registered office is Hangar 89, London Luton conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2018, whichever is Airport, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9PF.
The Directors will seek to renew the authorities at registrars are Equiniti Limited who are situated at Aspect the Annual General Meeting in 2018.
As at 20 November 2017, House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
none of these authorities had been exercised.
POLITICAL DONATIONS AND EXPENDITURE During the 2017 financial year, no ordinary shares in the easyJet works constructively with all levels of government Company were issued.
across its network, regardless of political affiliation.
easyJet believes in the rights of individuals to engage in the DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES democraticprocess, however it is easyJets policy not Directors and officers insurance cover has been established tomakepolitical donations.
for all Directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of the Company.
A deed was executed in There were no political donations made or political expenditure 2007 indemnifying each of the Directors of the Company and incurred during the 2017 financial year 2016: 2,056.
The or its subsidiaries as a supplement to the Directors and expenditure incurred in 2016 was in relation to a visit by David officers insurance cover.
The indemnities, which constitute a Cameron to easyJets headquarters.
This constituted political qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by section expenditure under the Companies Act 2006, as it involved the 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force during the 2017 prime minister campaigning for the EU referendum.
financial year and remain in force for all current and past DIVIDEND Directors of the Company.
The Directors are recommending an ordinary dividend, with a DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST pay-out ratio of 50% of headline profit after tax, resulting in a Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which dividend of 162 million or40.9 pence per share.
The ordinary they have, or may have, interests that conflict with those of dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the Companys easyJet, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 February 2018.
The Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS of interest.
The Companys Articles of Association also contain Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts anordinary resolution of shareholders in a general meeting of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his her duty following nomination by the Board or a member or members under company law.
Should a Director become aware that he entitled to vote at such meeting, or following retirement by she has an interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing or rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a general proposed transaction with easyJet, he she should notify the 85 www.
com Directors report continued Board in line with the Companys Articles of Association.
including the Annual General Meeting, invite participants to Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights their conflicts of interest.
attaching to the ordinary shares held by the trustee on their behalf and or direct how the trustee shall act in relation to SHARE CAPITAL AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO those ordinary shares.
The trustee shall take no action in SHARES respect of ordinary shares for which it has received no Details of the authorised and issued share capital during the direction to vote, or ordinary shares which are unallocated.
On year are provided in note 18 to the accounts on page 115. a poll, the trustee shall vote inaccordance with directions given by participants.
In the absence of directions, or on a On 30 September 2017, there was a single class of 397,208,133 show of hands, the trustee shallnot vote.
ordinary shares of 27 2 7 pence in issue, each with one vote.
There were no shares held in treasury at that date.
The trustee of the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Trust, which is used to acquire and hold shares in the Company for the benefit of employees, including in connection shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled, subject to any applicable law and with the easyJet Long Term Incentive Plan, the International Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave plans, has the power to the Companys Articles of Association, to: vote or not vote, at its absolute discretion, in respect of any have shareholder documents made available to them, shares in the Company held unallocated in the Trust.
However, including notice of any general meeting: in accordance with good practice, the trustee adopts a policy attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general of not voting in respect of such shares.
meetings, either in person or by proxy: and Both the trustees of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan and participate in any distribution of income or capital.
the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property VOTING RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIONS ON of each of the trusts.
TRANSFER OF SHARES None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with AMENDMENT OF THE ARTICLES OF regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions ASSOCIATION on transfers of shares other than: The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws or regulations such as those relating to CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS insider dealing: The following significant agreements which were in force at pursuant to the Companys Share Dealing Code, whereby 20 November 2017 take effect, alter or terminate on a change the Directors and designated employees require approval of control of the Company.
todeal in the Companys shares: The Company does not have agreements with any Director or where a person with an interest in the Companys shares employee that would provide compensation for loss of office has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to or employment resulting from a change of control on takeover, provide the Company with information concerning interests except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and in those shares: plans may cause options and awards granted to employees where a proposed transferee of the Companys shares has under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
failed to furnish to the Directors a declaration of nationality Revolving Credit Facility together with such evidence as the Directors may require The Company is party to a Revolving Credit Facility RCF as required by the Companys Articles of Association: and which contains change of control provisions.
The effect of a the powers given to the Directors by the Companys change of control would be that unless otherwise agreed by Articles of Association to limit the ownership of the the Company and the agent of the lenders: Companys shares by non-UK nationals and powers to a lender would not be obliged to fund a utilisation of enforce this limitation including the right to force a sale the facility: of any affected shares.
the commitment of the lenders would be cancelled: and There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights save in all amounts accrued would become immediately due situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose andpayable.
such a restriction for example under the Articles of Association where amounts remain unpaid in the shares after As at 20 November 2017 no amounts had been drawn down request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to under the RCF.
The Company is not aware of any EMTN Programme and Eurobond issue arrangements between shareholders that may result in On 7 January 2016, the Group established a Euro Medium Term restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Note Programme the EMTN Programme which provides the EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES RIGHTS OF Group with a standardised documentation platform to allow for CONTROL senior unsecured debt issuance in the Eurobond markets.
The The trustee of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan the Plan maximum potential issuance under the EMTN Programme is will, on receipt of any offer, compromise, arrangement or 3billion.
Under the EMTN Programme, in February 2016, the scheme which affects ordinary shares held in the Plan, or in Company issued Eurobonds consisting of 500 million relation to any resolutions proposed at a general meeting guaranteed notes paying 1.75% interest and maturing in 86 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE 2023, and in October 2016 Eurobonds consisting of 500 b. neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates million guaranteed notes paying 1.125% interest and maturing will take any action that would have the effect of inOctober 2023 were also issued the Notes.
Pursuant to preventing the listed company from complying with thefinal terms attaching to the Notes, the Company will be itsobligations under the Listing Rules: and required to make an offer to redeem or purchase its Notes at c. neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates its principal amount plus interest up to the date of redemption will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder or repurchase if there is a change of control of the Company resolution which is intended or appears to be intended which results in a downgrade of the credit rating of the notes tocircumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the rating The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Rules, by both Moodys and Standard & Poors.
on 14 November 2014, the Company entered into such an SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS agreement with Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou easyJets founder and In accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency easyGroup Holdings Limited, an entity in which Sir Stelios holds Rules DTR 5, the Company, as at 30 September 2017, has a beneficial interest and which holds shares in the Company on been notified of the following disclosable interests in its issued behalf of Sir Stelios the Relationship Agreement.
Under the ordinary shares: terms of the Relationship Agreement, Sir Stelios and % of easyGroup Holdings Limited have agreed to procure the Number of issued share compliance of Polys and Clelia Haji-Ioannou with the shares as capital as at notified to the 30 September independence obligations contained in the Relationship Company 2017 Agreement.
Sir Stelios, easyGroup, Polys and Clelia HajiThe Haji-Ioannou family 133,977,772 33.73% Ioannou together comprise controlling shareholders of the concertparty shareholding, Company who have a combined total holding of approximately consisting of easyGroup 33% of the Companys voting rights.
Holdings Limited holding The Board confirms that, since the entry into the Relationship vehicle for Sir Stelios HajiAgreement on 14 November 2014 until 20 November 2017, Ioannou and Clelia Haji-Ioannou being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this and Polys Haji-Ioannou through Annual report and accounts: his holding vehicle Polys HoldingsLimited i. the Company has complied with the independence Invesco Ltd 39,814,678 10.02% provisions included in the Relationship Agreement: BlackRock, Inc. 25,206,537 6.34% ii.
so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have Note: Since 30 September 2017, Blackrock, Inc. has made further been complied with by Sir Stelios, easyGroup, and Clelia notifications to the Company, the latest being a disclosure of a andPolys Haji-Ioannou and their associates: and decrease in holding to 6.27% 24,933,610 ordinary shares.
No other changes to the above have been disclosed to the Company in iii.
so far as the Company is aware, the procurement accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR obligation included in the Relationship Agreement has 5, between 30 September 2017 and 20 November 2017.
All interests disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 that have occurred been complied with by Sir Stelios and easyGroup since 30 September 2017 can be found at easyJets corporate website: HoldingsLimited.
IMPORTANT EVENTS AFFECTING THE GROUP INDEPENDENT AUDITORS SINCE 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 A resolution to reappoint  LLP as On 27 October easyJet signed an agreement with Air Berlins auditors of the Company will be put to shareholders at the administrators, as part of which it will enter into leases for up forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
to 25 A320 aircraft at Berlin Tegel airport, offer employment RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT WITH to former Air Berlin flying crews and take over other assets CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDERS including slots for a purchase consideration of 40 million.
Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together Completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% approvals and the transaction is expected to close in or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially December 2017.
For more information on the transaction all matters at general meetings of a Company are known as please refer to page 17. controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys On 10 November 2017 the Board announced the appointment Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders of Johan Lundgren as its new Chief Executive as replacement to enter into a written and legally binding agreement which is to Carolyn McCall.
Johan was previously Group Deputy Chief intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies Executive of TUI Group.
He will be joining the Company on with certain independence provisions.
The agreement must 1 December 2017, with Carolyn stepping down as Chief contain undertakings that: Executive on 30 November.
Carolyn will remain with the a. transactions and arrangements with the controlling Company to assist with the transition until 31 December 2017. shareholder and or any of its associates will be conducted at arms length and on normal commercialterms: 87 www.
com Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, The Directors consider that the Annual report and accounts, the Directors remuneration report and the accounts in taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and accordance with applicable law and regulations.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and the Companys position and performance, Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for business model and strategy.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Company accounts in accordance with Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted on pages 48and 49, confirm that, to the best of their by the European Union EU.
Under company law the Directors knowledge: must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that the Group and Company accounts, which have been they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial and the Company for that period.
In preparing these accounts, position and profit of the Group and Company: and the Directors are required to: the Strategic report, included in the Annual report, includes select suitable accounting policies and then apply a fair review of the development and performance of the themconsistently: business and the position of the Group, together with a make judgements and accounting estimates that are description of the principal risks and uncertainties that reasonable and prudent: itfaces.
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed each Director in office at the date the Directors report is and explained in the accounts: and approved, confirms that: prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: in business.
and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable of any relevant audit information and to establish that the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Companys auditors are aware of that information.
the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts and the Directors remuneration report comply with the The Annual report on pages 1 to 88 was approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 20 November Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for 2017 and signed on its behalf by: safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of, amongst other things, the financial and corporate CAROLYN MCCALL DBE ANDREW FINDLAY governance information provided on the easyJet website Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer http: corporate.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
88 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc Basis for opinion REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with International Opinion Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
In our opinion, easyJet plcs consolidated Group financial Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in statements and Company financial statements the the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial financial statements : statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2017 and of the provide a basis for our opinion.
Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash Independence flows for the year then ended: We remained independent of the Group in accordance with have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the adopted by the European Union and, as regards the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance have been prepared in accordance with the requirements with these requirements.
of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard What we have audited were not provided to the Group or the Company.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Other than those disclosed in the Corporate governance Annual report, which comprise: the Group and Company report, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group statements of financial position as at 30 September 2017: the or the Company in the period from 1 October 2016 to Groupincome statement and statement of comprehensive 30 September 2017. income, the Group and Company statements of cash flows, and the Group and Company statements of changes in equity Our audit approach for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial The Group operates through the Company and its nine statements, which include a description of thesignificant subsidiary undertakings, of which six are trading, as set out accounting policies.
on page 129 and the Group financial statements are a consolidation of these entities.
The accounting for these Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the entities is largely centralised in the UK and our audit scope Audit Committee.
comprises an audit of the financial information for four of the trading subsidiaries.
These procedures gave us the evidence that we needed for our opinion on the Groups financial statements as a whole.
Materiality Overview Overall Group materiality: 19.3 million 2016: 24.7 million, based on 5% of profit before tax.
Overall Company materiality: Would amount to 25 million 2016: 21 million, based on 1% of total assets, however, this has been capped at 19.3 million in line with the Group materiality level above.
Materiality Audit scope The Group operates through the Company and its nine subsidiaries: and the Group financial statements are a consolidation of these entities.
The accounting for these entities, along with the Group Audit scope consolidation, is largely centralised in the UK.
Our audit scope comprises an audit of the financial information of four of the trading subsidiaries and the Company.
Key audit matters Aircraft maintenance provision Group.
Areas of focus Fair value of derivative instruments Group and Company.
Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment Group.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Key audit matters As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors of the financial statements of the current period and include made subjective judgements, for example in respect of the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement significant accounting estimates that involved making whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including assumptions and considering future events that are inherently those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing management override of internal controls, including evaluating the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
com Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Aircraft maintenance provision Group The Group operates aircraft which are owned or held under We evaluated the maintenance provision model and tested finance or operating lease arrangements and incurs liabilities for calculations therein.
This included assessing the process by which maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating the variable factors within the provision are estimated, evaluating leases during the term of the lease.
These arise from legal and the reasonableness of the assumptions, testing the input data contractual obligations relating to the required condition of the and re-performing calculations.
aircraft when it is returned to the lessor.
In particular, we challenged the key assumptions using the Maintenance provisions of 284 million for aircraft maintenance Groups internal data, such as business plans and maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases were contract terms and previously settled invoices.
We also recorded in the accounts at 30 September 2017. performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the model.
We found no material exceptions from these assessments At each balance sheet date, the calculation of the maintenance and comparisons.
provision includes a number of variable factors and assumptions including: likely utilisation of the aircraft: the expected cost of the Having ascertained the magnitude of movements in those key heavy maintenance check at the time it is expected to occur: the assumptions, that either individually or collectively would be condition of the aircraft: and the lifespan of life-limited parts.
required for the provision to be misstated, we considered the likelihood of such movements arising and any impact on the We focus on this area because of the inherent level of overall level of aircraft maintenance provisions recorded in the management judgement required in calculating the amount accounts.
Our assessment as to likelihood and magnitude did of provision needed as a result of the complex and subjective not identify any material exceptions.
elements around these variable factors and assumptions.
Fair value of derivative instruments Group and Company Given the nature of the business, the Group and the Company We evaluated and assessed the processes, procedures and make use of derivative financial instruments.
Forward contracts controls in respect of treasury and other management functions are used to hedge transaction currency risk comprising fuel, which directly impact the relevant account balances and leasing and maintenance US dollar payments, jet fuel price risk, transactions.
We tested managements year end account and Euro and Swiss franc revenue receipts.
The results of this work allowed us to focus on substantiating the year end positions recorded in the financial At 30 September 2017, the Groups derivative financial assets statements.
We did not identify any material exceptions.
amounted to 218 million and derivative financial liabilities were 126 million.
We independently obtained third party confirmations from counterparties of the year end positions.
We assessed the We focus on these balances because of their materiality to the appropriateness of hedge accounting for the derivative financial financial position of the Group and the Company, the volume of instruments and tested, using independent data-feeds, the fair transactions passing through the respective accounts and the values being ascribed to those instruments at the year end.
These number of counterparties involved.
procedures did not identify any material exceptions.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures in the financial statements in respect of both non-derivative and derivative financial instruments.
Based on our work, we considered the disclosures to be appropriate.
EU 261 provision Group The Group records a provision for EU 261 compensation payable We tested and challenged the reasonableness of the key in respect of flight delays and cancellations.
At 30 September assumptions underlying the EU 261 provision which included: 2017 this provision was 25.9 million.
passenger claim history: We focus on this area because of the inherent level of judgement current levels of passenger claims: required estimating this provision.
flight disruptions: and time periods over which the assessment is made.
We tested the input data of the EU 261 provision, reperformed the underlying calculations, traced settled claims to cash payments and performed sensitivity analysis over the key drivers of the provision.
We found no material exceptions from these procedures.
Having ascertained the magnitude of movements in those key assumptions that, either individually or collectively, would be required for the provision to be materially misstated, we considered the likelihood of such movements arising and any impact on the overall level of judgemental provisions recorded in the financial statements.
Our assessment as to likelihood and magnitude did not identify any material exceptions.
90 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment Group Goodwill arises from acquisitions in previous years and has an We evaluated and challenged the future cash flow forecasts of indefinite expected useful life.
Landing rights which are an the CGU, and the process by which they were drawn up, and intangible asset are considered by management to have an tested the underlying value in use calculations.
In doing this, we indefinite useful life as they will remain available for use for the compared the forecast to the latest Board approved plans.
Goodwill and landing rights are tested for We also challenged the key assumptions for fuel prices, exchange impairment at least annually at the cash-generating unit CGU rates and long-term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing level.
The Group has one CGU, being its route network.
As at 30 them to economic and industry forecasts: and the discount rate September 2017, they amounted, in aggregate, to 459 million by assessing the Groups cost of capital.
We found no material refer to notes 1 and 9 to the accounts.
We focus on this assessment as the impairment test involves a We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions number of subjective judgements and estimates by management, above to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions many of which are forward-looking.
These estimates include key that, either individually or collectively, would be required for the assumptions surrounding the strategic plan, fuel prices, exchange goodwill and landing rights to be impaired.
rates, long-term economic growth rates and discount rates.
We found no material exceptions from this analysis.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 19.3 million 2016: 24.7 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
1% of total assets, capped at group materiality.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this benchmark, We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the absence of indicators that in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would an alternative benchmark would be appropriate.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 930,000 and 19,250,000.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.96 million 2016: 1.2 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
com Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc continued Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the However, because not all future events or conditions can be financial statements about whether the Directors considered it predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
going concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 CA06 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the year ended 30 September 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements CA06.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report CA06.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 47 to 64 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements CA06.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information CA06.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 47 to 64 with respect to the Companys Corporate Governance Code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company CA06.
THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 88 of the Annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
92 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE The disclosures in the Annual report that describe those risks Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about The Directors explanation on page 31 of the Annual report as to whether the financial statements as a whole are free from how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to period they have done so and why they consider that period to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken We have nothing to report having performed a review of the on the basis of these financial statements.
Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted www.
This description forms of making inquiries and considering the Directors process part of our auditors report.
supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Use of this report Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and statements are consistent with the knowledge and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance understanding of the Group and the Company and their with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for environment obtained in the course of the audit Listing Rules.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other OTHER CODE PROVISIONS person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent report when: in writing.
The statement given by the Directors, on page 88, that they OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced Companies Act 2006 exception reporting and understandable, and provides the information necessary for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the members to assess the Groups and the Companys position you if, in our opinion: and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and the Company we have not received all the information and explanations obtained in the course of performing our audit.
we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the The section of the Annual report on pages 59 to 62 describing Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately received from branches not visited by us: or address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance by law are not made: or with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a the Companys financial statements and the part of the relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in Rules, for review by the auditors.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Appointment the Companies Act 2006 CA06.
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 22 February 2006 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL to audit the financial statements for the year ended STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT 30 September 2006 and subsequent financial periods.
The Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements period of total uninterrupted engagement is 12 years, covering As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the years ended 30 September 2006 to 30 September 2017.
Responsibilities set out on page 88, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from Andrew Kemp material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Senior Statutory Auditor In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are for and on behalf of  LLP responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, London matters related to going concern and using the going concern 20 November 2017 basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
