STRATEGIC REPORT Net assets increased by 108 million, due to the profit generated in the period and favourable movements on the hedging reserve, which were partially offset by the payment of the ordinary dividend.
The movement on the hedging reserve was predominantly due to the favourable mark-to-market movement on both jet fuel and US dollar forward contracts.
The net book value of property, plant and equipment increased by 273 million, driven principally by the acquisition of 23 A320 family aircraft, and pre-delivery payments relating to aircraft purchases.
ANDREW FINDLAY Chief Financial Officer GOING CONCERN VIABILITY STATEMENT easyJets business activities, together with factors likely The Directors have assessed easyJets viability over a toaffect its future development and performance, are three-year period to September 2020.
This is based on a described in the Strategic reporton pages 2 to 46.
Principal three year strategic plan, which gives greater certainty over risks and uncertainties are described on pages 33 to 40. the forecasting assumptions used.
Note 23 to the accounts sets out the Groups objectives, In making their assessment, the Directors took account of policies and procedures for managing its capital and gives easyJets current financial and operational positions and details of the risks related to financial instruments held by contracted capital expenditure.
They also assessed the the Group.
potential financial and operational impacts of the principal At 30 September 2017, the Group held cash and cash risks and uncertainties set out on pages 33 to 40 in severe equivalents of 711 million and money market deposits of but plausible scenarios, including the impact of a sustained 617 million.
Total debt of 971 million is free from financial significant adverse movement in foreign currency exchange covenants, with 8 million due for repayment in the year rates or jet fuel prices and the likely degree of effectiveness to30 September 2018. of current and available mitigating actions.
Net current assets at 30 September 2017 were 64 million Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable and included unearned revenue payments made by expectation that the Company and the Group will be able customers for flights scheduled post year end of to continue in operation and meet all liabilities as they fall 727million.
The business is exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices and In making this statement, the Directors have also made the USdollar and Euro exchange rates.
The Groups policy is following key assumptions: tohedge between 65% and 85% of estimated exposures funding for capital expenditure in the form of capital 12months in advance, and between 45% and 65% of markets debt, bank debt or aircraft leases will be estimated exposures from 13 up to 24 months in advance.
available in all plausible market conditions: Specific decisions may require consideration of a longerthere will not be a prolonged grounding of a substantial term approach.
Treasury strategies and actions will be portion of the fleet: and driven bythe need to meet treasury, financial and corporate objectives.
The Group was compliant with this policy at the terms on which the United Kingdom leaves the EU thedate of this Annual report and accounts.
are such that easyJet will be able to continue to operate over broadly the same network as at present.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able tooperate within the level of available facilities and cash anddeposits for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing theAnnual report and accounts.
