Strategic report How we create value Originate, invest and operate We compete successfully in the market and generate enhanced returns through our ability to originate, invest and operate in the UK PRS.
Collaboration in these three areas, and a culture of continuous improvement, allows us to grow in a disciplined yet efficient manner, while generating attractive returns for shareholders and value for our customers.
Originate Invest Planning, design and delivery Capital allocation, geographical targeting, acquisitions, asset and portfolio management Creating, designing and developing new PRS homes provides Our investment process is efficient and rigorous.
It is designed us with control over the delivery of new buildings.
to empower the entire organisation to introduce new investment This is important because in this emerging sector there is an opportunities, while ensuring our appraisal process is highly undersupply of high-quality investment assets available in disciplined and controlled, yet also efficient.
the market and this enables us to enhance returns.
We have a twice-weekly Investment Committee chaired by our Chief Executive, Helen Gordon.
Our investment process is supported by our on-the-ground experience, and by our market research function, which undertakes detailed economic and market analysis for each investment opportunity.
Creating 104 new homes Encouraging our staff to for rent support our investment pipeline In Hampshire, at our Berewood In the past year, one of our project, we are creating 104 new apprentices brought a PRS high-quality homes for rent.
investment opportunity to Our development team, working our sourcing meeting, and alongside our operations team, has we successfully acquired it.
created thoughtfully considered, It was a stabilised PRS asset well-designed homes, perfectly worth 12.1m, comprising positioned for the local market.
The first release of homes has been in high demand, with initial lettings exceeding expectations, and positive customer feedback.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 6 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Finzels Reach, Bristol Creating 5,000 Operate new homes for rent Lettings, management and customer service We believe in the importance of having a direct relationship Operational units with our customers.
This gives us the ability to focus on providing a better service to our customers and greater control over the 8,931 performance of our portfolio.
We seek to continually improve homes our service based on customer feedback.
PRS new lets in the year including co-investments 1,089 PRS renewed tenancies in the year Using first-hand knowledge and including co-investments customer research to inform the design of our buildings 1,744 At one of our new PRS developments, Argo Apartments in Canning Town, we have applied some new features, including a guest suite, and made a number of adjustments to our operational approach, using customer feedback and market research, including consumer focus groups.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 Strategic report Market drivers Driver What has happened The impact on Grainger How we are responding UK population projected to grow by over Rising population growth will continue Targeting investment opportunities Growing population 12%by 2039. to underpin the need for more housing inlocations with the greatest growth 1 underpins housing Greater urbanisation, with 42% of the UK of all tenures.
prospectsusing our in-house market population living in 11 major city regions.
Demand for homes in major cities will knowledge and research expertise.
demand Renting in cities is more prevalent, with continue to grow.
86% of renters being in urban areas.
Renting will continue to be more popular inurban areas and commuter zones.
House price growth continued nationally The continued rise in house prices supports Actively managing our portfolio to House price throughout 2017, albeit at a weaker level.
our valuations and sales performance.
ensureour geographical exposure, at 2 growth Nationally, average house price for first-time Affordability challenges underpin demand bothregional and local level, mitigates buyers is now 5.4 times income Nationwide.
Recently, Northern regions have seen Investing in the PRS to grow our net fasterhouse price growth than London rentalincome and reduce our reliance andthe South.
37% of renters rent through choice, rather Increasing demand for rental homes Designing products attractive to a wide Lifestyle drivers than issues of affordability, in accessing supports growth in our net rental income.
3 increasing the home ownership Knight Frank.
Positioning our brand and offering to Renting is on the rise across all over-25 age appeal to a broad range of customers.
demand for renting groups ONS.
Undertaking research to ensure we know Renting among 35-44 year olds has increased ourcustomers and their preferences.
189,000 new homes were built last year, Undersupply supports high levels Creating new homes for rent, to help Continued compared with an increase in new household ofdemand, supporting our strategy support new supply and meet 4 undersupply demand of c. 250,000 per annum ONS.
the growing demand for renting.
of homes New buy-to-let lending down 41% in the A slowdown in the number of rental Strengthened acquisitions process Professionalisation year:71% of existing buy-to-let landlords homesprovided by buy-to-let investors.
5 of the rental market were not planning to buy any new properties Growing need for large-scale, Differentiating our offer from buy-to-let in the next year: 50% were not planning  to provide rental housing, through providing a tobuy in the next five years Council good-quality rental homes.
greaterlevel of service, including ofMortgage Lenders.
43% increase in supply from large-scale Enhancing customer service, including institutional investors in the PRS, albeit leveraging technology.
withonly c. 96,000 homes in the total Targeting regional cities with attractive build-to-rent pipeline BPF.
investment characteristics and growth prospects.
Positive moves by the UK Government to Overall a favourable environment Promoting the benefits of investment in A positive political support growth in the PRSand build-to-rent forinvestment in the PRS.
the PRSand professionalising the sector.
6 landscape and policy sector, including the Housing White Paper.
A comprehensive programme of Positive changes to London Planning Policy engagement with central government, environment by the London Mayor.
the London Mayoral team and local Increasing support at local government level.
Some risk of populist policy proposals, Active dialogue with all political parties to including additional regulatory burden.
continue to make the case for the benefits ofinvestment in the PRS and build-to-rent.
Regular monitoring of political developments.
See our principal risk and uncertainties See our strategy in action page 38 page 16 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 8 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Driver What has happened The impact on Grainger How we are responding Key statistics UK population projected to grow by over Rising population growth will continue Targeting investment opportunities The PRS market Our market share Growing population 12%by 2039. to underpin the need for more housing inlocations with the greatest growth 1 underpins housing Greater urbanisation, with 42% of the UK of all tenures.
prospectsusing our in-house market 4.5m 4,789 population living in 11 major city regions.
demand PRS households PRS homes Renting in cities is more prevalent, with continue to grow.
Households currently in the PRS, Graingers existing operational 86% of renters being in urban areas.
Renting will continue to be more popular a 25% increase since 2011 ONS PRS units inurban areas and commuter zones.
ensureour geographical exposure, at 1.8m 5,000 2 growth Nationally, average house price for first-time Affordability challenges underpin demand bothregional and local level, mitigates More PRS households PRS homes buyers is now 5.4 times income Nationwide.
The number of additional PRS homes Additional PRS homes to be delivered Recently, Northern regions have seen Investing in the PRS to grow our net required by 2025 PwC through our 850m investment plan fasterhouse price growth than London rentalincome and reduce our reliance andthe South.
100k 37% of renters rent through choice, rather Increasing demand for rental homes Designing products attractive to a wide Lifestyle drivers PRS homes in supply than issues of affordability, in accessing supports growth in our net rental income.
3 increasing the The number of purpose built rental home ownership Knight Frank.
Positioning our brand and offering to homes in the total UK pipeline, Renting is on the rise across all over-25 age appeal to a broad range of customers.
demand for renting including under construction groups ONS.
Undertaking research to ensure we know andseeking planning consent BPF Renting among 35-44 year olds has increased ourcustomers and their preferences.
189,000 new homes were built last year, Undersupply supports high levels Creating new homes for rent, to help Continued compared with an increase in new household ofdemand, supporting our strategy support new supply and meet 4 Proportion of age group living in the PRS % undersupply demand of c. 250,000 per annum ONS.
50% of homes 6 46 New buy-to-let lending down 41% in the A slowdown in the number of rental Strengthened acquisitions process 40% Professionalisation 40 year:71% of existing buy-to-let landlords homesprovided by buy-to-let investors.
5 of the rental market were not planning to buy any new properties Growing need for large-scale, Differentiating our offer from buy-to-let 30% 7 in the next year: 50% were not planning  to provide rental housing, through providing a 26 tobuy in the next five years Council good-quality rental homes.
greaterlevel of service, including 20% ofMortgage Lenders.
4 19 5 43% increase in supply from large-scale Enhancing customer service, including 15 10% 12 institutional investors in the PRS, albeit leveraging technology.
11 1 1 withonly c. 96,000 homes in the total Targeting regional cities with attractive 7 6 5 5 4 build-to-rent pipeline BPF.
investment characteristics and growth 0% 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 65-74 75 or over prospects.
2010-11 2015-16 Positive moves by the UK Government to Overall a favourable environment Promoting the benefits of investment in A positive political support growth in the PRSand build-to-rent forinvestment in the PRS.
A comprehensive programme of Years required to save for a 10% deposit and SDLT on the average Positive changes to London Planning Policy engagement with central government, environment first-time buyer home by the London Mayor.
16 48k Some risk of populist policy proposals, Active dialogue with all political parties to 14 including additional regulatory burden.
12 Regular monitoring of political developments.
23k 10 13k 8 13k 13.5k 6 4 2 0 London Bristol Manchester Birmingham Leeds Average first-time buyer price based on Hometrack UK city average price and a 15% discount Source: Nationwide First Time Buyer Index.
Number of years saving required for deposit and SDLT based on Grainger research, utilising ONS data for average first-time buyer salaries and expenditure, and 2017 wage growth.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9
