Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Relations with shareholders Key shareholder events 2016 17 An ongoing dialogue with our shareholders is fundamental to ensuring that there is an understanding of the strategy and governance of the business, and that the Board is aware of the issues and concerns of our investors.
In this section of the report we highlight the key activities of our shareholder engagement programme throughout the year.
October 2016 January 2017 March 2017 Property tour Investor conference Two investor December 2016 London conferences London Full year results Company Secretary announcement and pre-AGM engagement February 2017 presentation London Investor roadshow Trading update Full year investor New York, Boston, roadshow London, Philadelphia AGM Newcastle Edinburgh, Amsterdam May 2017 July 2017 September 2017 Half year results Property tour Investor roadshow and April 2017 announcement and conference New York, June 2017 presentation London Boston Property tour Property tour Half year investor Capital Markets Day Roadshow Edinburgh, roadshow London Trading update London Amsterdam Property tour Investor conference Amsterdam Substantial shareholdings At 30 September 2017 and 31 October 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report, the Company is aware of the following interests amounting to 3% or more in the Companys shares: 30 September 2017 31 October 2017 Holding Holding Holding Holding million % million % Schroder Investment Management Ltd 46.7 11.2 45.5 10.9 BlackRock Inc. 41.7 10.0 39.1 9.4 Standard Life Aberdeen 19.2 4.6 21.2 5.1 Aberforth Partners LLP 15.3 3.7 15.3 3.7 Columbia Threadneedle Investments 15.3 3.7 15.3 3.7 The Vanguard Group Inc. 13.6 3.3 13.8 3.3 M&G Investment Management Ltd 13.4 3.2 13.5 3.2 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Governance Relations with shareholders continued Case study of investor engagement: Capital Markets Day Case study and property tour of Argo Apartments in Canning Town, Objective a soon-to-complete new PRS development, which is market leading To provide shareholders and prospective target investors with a in its design.
An opportunity to hear from and meet the wider Grainger comprehensive deep dive into the operational business model team, including: of Grainger, focused on how we are delivering on our strategy.
Andrew Saunderson, Director of Investment Topics covered: John Kenny, Chief Operating Officer Anish Thobhani, Customer Operations Director Strategy recap and update Michael Adefuye, Market Research Manager Market drivers Business model: Originate, Invest and Operate Over 60 top investors and sell side analysts attended the event, Investment approach with positive feedback received.
Operations and customer proposition Financial returns Frequently asked questions The market Demand for renting continues to outstrip supply.
Q A What is the competitive landscape in the UK PRS like at the moment?
There has been an increase in interest in the UK PRS among institutional investors.
However, it is estimated that the PRS will grow from 4.5m by a further 1.8m households by 2025, and the current supply of new purpose built PRS stock is less than 100,000 units.
We currently have 4,789 operational PRS units, with a pipeline of afurther 5,000 units, positioning us as one of the largest players in the market.
We have demonstrated our ability to deliver on our strategy through the success in our secured pipeline of651m.
Looking ahead Our ambition is to grow beyond the 850m target and the market opportunity is Q A Do you have ambitions to grow beyond substantial.
The natural wind down of our regulated tenancy portfolio is expected the initial 850m investment target?
togenerate at least 100m per annum of proceeds over the next few years, which can support further growth, as will other funding options, including active asset recycling.
Operational potential and costs We have designed our business model and operating platform to enable scalability Q A Canyour operational platform and support significant future growth without the need to significantly increase our supportgrowth beyond the initial central overhead cost base.
investment plan, and can you maintainrelative overheads?
Transformation of the income statement Our strategy is to transform Grainger into a business that generates superior total Q A How will the investment of 850m into returns from UKrental homes, with an increasing contribution from income through PRS assets transform your returns profile?
Our 850m investment plan is projected to more than double our net rental income since we embarked on our new strategy to 75m once our investment pipeline is completed and stabilised.
Capital structure We have reduced our cost of debt by 190bps to 3.4% since setting out our new strategy Q A Is there scope for further reductions FY15: 5.3% average.
inyour cost of debt, and lengthening youraverage maturity even more?
PRS assets are well aligned to longer-term funding and this is likely to be an increasing feature forGrainger as our PRS schemes are developed out.
Our new, 75m facility for some of our PRSassets with Rothesay Life at a fixed rate for a ten-year term demonstrates this future potential.
Inaddition, our current headroom is accessible at a marginal rate of below 2%.
Our 275m corporate bond with a 5% coupon matures in 2020, and could provide an opportunity forfurther improvement.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 60 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The Groups website includes a comprehensive investor relations The Board believes that understanding the views of its section, containing all RNS announcements, share price shareholders is a fundamental principle of good corporate information, annual documents available for download and governance.
Strong engagement with stakeholders and similar materials.
All the Directors standing for election or investorsis key to achieving this.
re-election as applicable intend to attend the 2018 AGM and Investor relations are based on the financial reporting calendar, beavailable to answer questions.
All shareholders can attend with additional engagement when considered beneficial to theAGM, which is a means of communication with smaller theCompany.
We have held more than 125 meetings with andprivate shareholders.
shareholders, analysts and potential investors in the year, in We send out the notice of meeting and Annual Report and addition to the usual half yearly results announcements and Accounts at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Helen Gordon and Vanessa Simms held the vast separate votes for each proposed resolution.
A proxy count is majority of these meetings, and manage the Groups investor given in each case after the voting on a show of hands.
Grainger relations programme with the Director of Corporate Affairs.
includes, as standard, a vote withheld category, in line with Wealways seek feedback at these meetings and present it to bestpractice.
Shareholders can also lodge their votes through theBoard.
In addition, the Company Secretary engaged with theCREST system.
acombination of fund managers and corporate governance officers of the Companys major shareholders before the 2017 Having regard to environmental considerations, the 2018 AGM AGM.
We anticipate a similar pre-AGM engagement process will be the final year in which we issue hard copy proxy voting willtake place in 2018. cards by post.
Thereafter, we will move towards using online proxy forms.
Attendance at key investor meetings Chief Executive 97% Chief Financial Officer 97% Shareholders by region Senior executive 96% UK excluding Scotland 57% North America 16% Rest of Europe 9% Scotland 8% Other 10% Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61
