Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors report In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing at any time the financial position of the parent company and Rules LR, the information to be included in the Annual Report enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with and Accounts, where applicable under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in Note the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal 16 to the financial statements on page 111 in relation to the control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation dividend waiver arrangements.
of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for Information incorporated by reference taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 42 to 81 the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and forms part of this Directors Report and is incorporated into other irregularities.
this Directors report by reference.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Directors interests in significant contracts responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, No Directors were materially interested in any contract Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance ofsignificance.
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report and the financial statements of the corporate and financial information included on the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the and the Group and parent company financial statements in preparation and dissemination of financial statements may accordance with applicable law and regulations.
differfrom legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Responsibility statement of the Directors company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that in respect of the annual financial report law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards asadopted by the European Union EU IFRS and applicable the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair and performance of the business and the position of the issuer view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a andof their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the whole, together with a description of the principal risks and Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors uncertainties that they face.
are required to: We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the information consistently: necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant performance, business model and strategy.
and reliable: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have Financial risk management been prepared in accordance with EU IFRS: Details are included in Note 28 to the financial statements.
for the parent company financial statements, state whether Directors indemnities and insurance applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed: The Company has in place contractual entitlements for the assess the Group and parent companys ability to continue as Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries to claim a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to indemnification by the Company for certain liabilities they might going concern: and incur in the course of their duties.
We have established these use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either arrangements, which constitute qualifying third-party indemnity intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to provision and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision, in cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
compliance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 2006.
They include provision for the Company to fund the costs records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent incurred by Directors in defending certain claims against them companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy inrelation to their duties.
The Company also maintains an appropriate level of Directors and officers liability insurance.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Governance Directors report continued Sustainability Further information is provided on our website at www.
Our approach to sustainability is based on our assessment of the potential risk and opportunity to our business.
In the year ended 30 September 2017, the Group achieved 50% andpartially achieved 33% of the applicable sustainability targets that it committed to meeting by that date.
Further information isprovided on our website at www.
Scope 1 and 2 Global GHG emissions data for period 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017 Tonnes of CO e 2 2016 2017 Trend 2016 2017 Trend  from based based based based based based Combustion of fuels and operation of facilities 585 598 2% 585 598 2% Electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use 849 852 0% 724 689 -5% Total footprint 1,434 1,450 1% 1,309 1,287 -2% Companys chosen intensity measurement: 1 0.55 0.54 -2% 0.50 0.48 -5% Emissions reported above per m value of assets under management 2 Emissions reported above per owned unit 0.25 0.24 -4% 0.23 0.21 -6% 3 Emissions reported above per employee 6.29 6.74 7% 5.74 5.99 4% Scope 3 Global GHG emissions data for period 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017 Emissions from 2016 2017 Trend Electricity transmission and distribution losses 71 70 -1% Business travel air and rail 72 95 32% 4 Estimated tenant energy use tCO 18,669 17,311 -7% 2 1 Value of assets under management AUM on the last day of the financial year, expressed in m. 2 Number of owned units on the last day of the financial year within the scope of data collection.
3 Total number of employees of Grainger plc on the last day of the financial year.
4 This has been estimated based on a sample of Energy Performance Certificates EPCs and reported in CO only.
2 Summary Methodology Grainger complies with the greenhouse gas GHG emissions Grainger follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard reporting requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic revised edition and ISO14064: Part 1 standard for its reporting.
Grainger reports all We have used the UK Government conversion factors 2017 for material GHG emissions, wherever possible using tonnes of location-based reporting and the Association of Issuing Bodies COequivalent tCO e as the unit of measurement.
Our European Residual Mixes 2016 for market-based reporting.
2 2 reporting period for GHG emissions is 1 October 2016 to We havereported on all emissions sources required under the 30September 2017 and we report emissions for the previous Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report year to demonstrate the trend.
Our German business was sold in Regulations 2013.
We have used the operational control April 2016 and we have chosen to exclude emissions associated consolidation method.
These sources fall within our with this portfolio from the data reported above for the previous  statements.
reporting year, to enable a meaningful comparison of our In 2015 the GHG Protocol guidance was updated advising emissions with the most recent reporting year.
We have also not organisations to provide separate figures to reflect the market included our Grainger Trust portfolio and are working to collect and location-based emissions resulting from purchased data for future reporting.
The location-based method uses average emissions Graingers Scope 1 and 2 location-based GHG emissions intensity of the grid network for that area: the market-based increased by 1% between 2016 and 2017, and market-based method uses emissions based on purchasing decisions made GHG emissions decreased by 2%.
For market-based emissions there is a reporting hierarchy and Grainger has used contractual instruments where On an intensity basis, emissions per m value of assets under there is data readily available.
We purchase 100% renewable management and per owned unit reduced between 2016 and electricity tariffs for GRIP REIT which has resulted in reduced 2017: however, due to a reduction in employee numbers, emissions per employee increased.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 80 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Scope 2 emissions using the market-based approach.
Where no Directors, and the Health and Safety Director gives a contractual data is available we use residual mix factors.
presentation to the Board at least once a year.
Scope 1 data Employment of disabled persons This includes landlord-obtained gas consumed in common areas The Company gives full and fair consideration to applications and by tenants on an unmetered basis as well as fuel consumption foremployment made by disabled persons, having regard to in vehicles owned or leased by Grainger.
Fugitive emissions are theirparticular aptitudes and abilities.
In the event of an not included as they have been assessed to be immaterial.
employee becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure theiremployment within the Company continues, and that we Scope 2 data arrange appropriate training where necessary.
It is Company This includes landlord-obtained electricity consumed in common policy that the training, career development and promotion of areas and by tenants on an unmetered basis as well as electricity disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that consumed by Grainger in its own offices.
There is no purchased ofother employees.
Employee engagement Scope 3 data The Group places considerable value on the engagement of This includes estimated emissions from electricity used by its employees and has continued its practice of keeping them Graingers tenants in its buildings based on EPC analysis and informed on and involved in business and strategic matters, extrapolation.
Emissions from the transmission and distribution for example through team meetings, presentations by senior of Graingers Scope 2 electricity are included.
We also report management and regular all-staff conference calls hosted emissions from business travel, including emissions from by the Executives.
For more information on our people, see employee grey fleet data which was not available in 2016. page 31.
No other Scope 3 emissions are included.
Independent auditor and disclosure A more detailed breakdown of our carbon footprint for our of information to auditor property portfolios is available in our EPRA Sustainability As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Performance Measures Report, available on our website.
information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
EachDirector has taken the steps they ought to have taken Restatements asDirectors, to make themselves aware of any relevant audit We have recalculated emissions for 2016 as we are able to report information, and to establish that the Companys auditor is more accurate data for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from awareof that information.
energy consumption in owned properties.
We have also restated our associated Scope 3 emissions from electricity transmission Political donations and distribution losses.
In accordance with the Companys policy, we made no political donations in 2017 2016: nil.
Intensity metrics We have used three intensity metrics: emissions by market Takeover directive valueof AUM tCO e m value of AUM, emissions per the 2 On a change of control, the main bank facility included in Note number of owned units tCO e owned unit andemissions 2 27 to the financial statements will become repayable should per number of employees in line with our financial reporting alternative terms for continuing the facilities not be agreed with tCO e employee.
In addition, the corporate bond also referred to in Note 27 may become repayable following a change Health and safety of control.
There are no other material matters relating to a Grainger has a well-developed health and safety management change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
system for the internal and external control of health and safety risks, managed by the Health and Safety Director.
This includes The Directors have confirmed approval of the Directors report.
using online risk management systems for identifying, mitigating and reporting real time health and safety management By order of the Board.
The Health and Safety Committee is responsible foroverseeing health and safety management.
It consists of members of staff from across the organisation.
The Committee continues to monitor legal compliance in health and safety Adam McGhin through audit and implementation of improvements, to enable Company Secretary the Group to become best in class.
Further oversight is also 30 November 2017 carried out by the Operations Board.
In addition, a health and safety report isprovided to each meeting of the Board of Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81
