Our business model An efficient low-cost model to drive sustainable shareholder returns Our sustainable business model makes travel easy and affordable and drives growth and returns for shareholders.
KEY RESOURCES The success of our business depends on a number of key resources: Capital CREDIT RATING 1 easyJet has a strong capital base, with market capitalisation of 5 billion and a net cash position of 357 million at 30 September 2017. easyJets credit ratings are amongst the strongest in the world for an airline.
BBB Baa1 Aircraft easyJet operates a modern Airbus fleet, using the A320 family of aircraft, and is 279 investing in the new 186-seat, fuel-efficient A320neo aircraft, as well as A321neos from summer 2018.
Thisprovides customer, operating and maintenance benefits to AIRCRAFT the Group.
OVER People easyJet has a dedicated workforce of over 12,000 people, including 3,291 pilots and 7,547cabin crew members, as at 30 September 2017.
12,000 PEOPLE Technology and insight easyJetleverages its customer relationship management capabilities, driving 23.0m revenueby increasing customer loyalty and implementing its wider digital strategy.
Our increasingly sophisticated use of data will enable us to continue to make travel APP DOWNLOADS easy and affordable in the longer term.
Relationships with stakeholders OVER easyJet interacts with a number of stakeholders in its operations, such as customers, suppliers  owners and operators e. g. airports, air traffic control, regulators and national governments.
80.2m PASSENGERS OUR VALUES Safety Simplicity One team We never compromise We cut out the things that Together well always on safety dont matter to keep us lean finda way and make it easy SAFETY UNDERPINS EVERYTHING WE DO 1 Based on a share price of 12.17 at 30 September 2017.
8 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT An efficient low-cost model to drive sustainable shareholder returns OUTCOMES HOW WE DO IT Creating value for We build on our business through our strategic pillars: our stakeholders CREDIT RATING Building and strengthening number one and two network positions GENERATING HIGH RETURNS We fly from the main airports in attractive catchment areas.
We are increasing our FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS presence in the right markets, with frequencies and slots at primary airports that deliver choice and flexibility.
BBB Baa1 50% Maintaining a lean cost advantage DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO easyJet is committed to maintaining its structural cost advantage against competitors in our markets.
We have low overhead costs, use our aircraft efficiently and have a lean approach to all areas of the business.
279 AIRCRAFT Maintaining customer and operational excellence People are attracted to the well-known easyJet brand and high-quality service 71% offering.
We make it easy to buy our low fares through our website and digital platforms, which have on average overone million visits every day.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION OVER Continuing to leverage data and digital platforms  digital platform continues to be a major enabler of revenue and customer satisfaction.
easyJets app has been downloaded 23.0 million times at OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE 12,000 30 September 2017 and as it becomes more established it is driving increasing PEOPLE contribution to revenue.
76% Grow revenue ON-TIME PERFORMANCE We have a clear focus on building strong relationships with customers to create more sustainable, long-term revenues, leveraging quality, innovation and digital.
23.0m easyJet is looking to develop new revenue streams, leveraging its network, cost APP DOWNLOADS focus and track record of innovation.
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER The best people It is our people who continue to deliver the strategy for the business and will drive OVER future success.
Internally, we continue to focus on recruiting the right people, helping 7.4% them to understand their role and our values, and then giving them the tools to develop a high-performance culture.
80.2m Turn to page: 19 PASSENGERS Turn to page: 24 for more details of Strategy for more details of KPIs http: corporate.
com to read more about our values Integrity Passion Pioneering We stand by our word and We have a passion for our We challenge ourselves to do what we say customers, our people and find new ways to make travel thework we do easy andaffordable SAFETY UNDERPINS EVERYTHING WE DO 9 www.
