Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Viability statement The Group has completed one year of its five-year business The Groups business model has proved to be resilient plansince the launch of its new PRS-focused strategy.
throughout the different economic cycles, even with higher levelsof gearing and over the long term, with consistent The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group demonstration, through its ability to sell assets and let vacant considering its current position, potential impact of our principal properties, of providing stable income returns and cash risks and future prospects.
Based on the assessment, the generation, even during challenging market conditions.
Currently Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company the Group directly owns 1.7bn of residential property assets, willbe able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities which are relatively liquid, as proved throughout previous asthey fall due over the four-year period to September 2021. property cycles.
They made this assessment recognising the principal risks that The Group would remain viable even in the event of severe and could have an impact on the future performance of the Group sustained house price deflation, as it would be able to accelerate see pages 38 to 40.
The business plan process incorporates the natural conversion of assets to cash, including the sale of severe-scenario planning, with the amalgamation of multiple tenanted assets, and reduce or suspend development and risks to assess impact and the longer-term viability of the Group.
An unprecedented and continued long-term The key scenarios assessed included: lack of liquidity in UK residential property markets would cause athreat to the Group.
sensitivity to valuation movements, including a sudden and severe deterioration in market conditions in the housing market: The Board has reviewed its strategic and financial plans in detail, sensitivity to increasing interest rates: and believes a viability assessment period to September 2021 is cost inflation ahead of rental growth: appropriate, as it could manage any of the principal risks during reducing rental levels: and this period.
The financial plan has been stress-tested against combinations of the above circumstances.
severe and prolonged reductions in house prices.
In addition, the Group has a business planning process, The financing risks of the Group are also considered to have conducted annually, which comprises a five-year strategic plan, a animpact on the Groups financial viability.
The two principal financial forecast for the current year and a financial projection financing risks for the Group are the Groups ability to replace for the next four years.
The Board reviews the plan each year as expiring debt facilities and adverse movements in interest rates.
part of its budget and strategy review process.
Once approved by The Group has secured funding to deliver the secured PRS the Board, the plan is cascaded across the business.
It provides a pipeline, and has prepared the strategic plan on this basis.
basis for settling all detailed financial budgets and strategic Inaddition, the Group manages its hedge exposure with action subsequently used by the Board to monitor performance, interestrate swaps, caps and fixed rate facilities.
and for the Remuneration Committee to set targets for the annual incentive.
Our 2017 Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 41, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on 30November 2017.
Vanessa Simms Chief Financial Officer Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41
