Our strategy Delivering our strategy A year of strategic acquisitions and disposals.
This years M&A activity has seen Sage strengthen the Golden Triangle by acquiring technology that will complement our existing suite of products seamlessly, whilst reinforcing our commitment to the cloud.
The integration of collective intelligence modules within our existing products will fortify our customers for life, whilst being able to offer a complete suite of cloud solutions maximises our potential to win new customers at scale in the market.
Sage People enhances our People and Payroll Intacct acquisition North American Payments disposal offering and reinforces our commitment to the InAugust 2017 we acquired Intacct, the leading In FY17 we conducted a review of our Golden Triangle and the cloud.
The solution is provider of cloud financial management payments strategy, concluding that we would complementary with accounting products solutions, based in San Jose, California, with leverage existing payments assets that are such as X3, providing cross-sell opportunities thousands of customers in North America.
complementary to our core business model to the existing customer base, as well as Intaccts cloudbasedsolution to be known as and growth aspirations and exit those areas growth opportunities through new customer Sage Intacct is suitable for the upper scale-up where the strategic fit is less strong.
to lower enterprise market and fits well American Payments business was in an between our Sage Live and X3 products, industry where it is considered that partners withvery little overlap.
Compass acquisition would be able to provide a better service to We acquired Compass in March 2017, an ourcustomers than providing the service Sage Intacct is hugely popular in the North innovative collective intelligence and internally.
We therefore disposed of this American market, growing at over 30%, well in e-commerce benchmarking platform.
business, and have since signed partnerships excess of the market rate.
The acquisition will Compass can be integrated into our suite with best-in-class payments providers who provide us with the platform to build amarketoffinancial solutions and enables customers willbe able to  leading positionfor cloud financial tobenchmark their own metrics in the context solutions in North America and globally, management solutions in North America, of their peers: another great example of our increasing automation and speeding up which represents over 50% of our total commitment to revolutionising business.
FY18 public spendon cloud financial softwarein the scale-up marketis expected to grow by $400m, more than the entire cloud market of the next We were attracted to Sage because it is the global category leader biggest geography.
in the scale-up market segment.
Working together, Sage and Whilst the solution is currently only available in North America, in the medium term we have Intacct have a fantastic opportunity to grow this market position plans to deploy Sage Intacct across our other bywinning in the US and worldwide cloud markets.
major English-speaking geographies, once we have integrated and established the business Rob Reid within Sage in North America.
CEO Intacct Fairsail acquisition Having previously held a minority interest, we obtained full control of Fairsail rebranded as Sage People in March 2017.
Sage People is apure-cloudHCM system which keeps our Business Builders legal and compliant, whilst providing a single touchpoint for talent management, colleague recognition, careerdevelopment and payroll services.
20 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 s t s h e e t k e n r f w i i a l s t s s o e h r e e t m k r u f r n e o w i a i l s o g b r g e f m u r o e g f b r e g a e h s r s h a e r o t s o r S We presented our strategy at our June 2015 Capital Markets Day, basedaround five strategic pillars.
These pillars remain important today and continue to evolve with the business.
Putting our customers at the heart of everything we do to provide exceptional experiences.
See page 23 Our people and our culture, Outpacing market growth to working collaboratively with gain market share and realise pace and agility toput our our ambition to be the customersfirst.
See page 31 See page 25 Building a single, united operating Using the latest technology within our model, increasing efficiencies and ecosystem to make our customers synergy to drive superior lives easier, so they can focus on qualitymargins.
See page 29 See page 27 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 21 e f t s S i n e y n e i f m i t n o g o i n n e i c y O t t n m a i s i u n n p l o t u o n g i C a o i i v O C t c W e t n R i u a s n l p u o n a C v i C e W R Our strategy Today, I need help with more than just managing invoices and tracking expenses, I also need reportsand cashflow forecasts that enable me to plan ahead and continue bringing new, innovative products to the market.
Denise Zannu Owner of Black Mermaids Bath & Body Denise helps people to feel comfortable in their own skin.
As her business moves from start-up to scale-up, Sage has helped Black Mermaids Bath & Body not only survive, but thrive.
com investors The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 22 s t s h e e t k e n r f w i i a l s o r m r u e o g b g e f r a e h s o r acceleration Customer starts here.
A pathway to the cloud for our for life on-premise customers.
Helping our customers be more successful through a At Sage we want to make it easy for our customers deeper, enduring relationship with Sage.
This involves to take advantage of the benefits of the cloud, but providing choice, indispensable advice and the right we recognise that they want to upgrade their solutions at their own pace.
Thats why at Sage, our productfor the customer however they want to deploy existing customers can upgrade to the cloudtheir solution.
enabledversion of their existing solution, giving the flexibility and mobility of the cloud, whilst keeping Weve invested for the future the functionality and familiarity of the solutions they Throughout the transformation we have focused on the transition of customers from know and love.
alicence model to subscription, allowing the mutual benefits of improved features And when our customers are ready for a nativeand functionality for the customer, whilst driving higher value contracts and cloud solution, we have Sage Business Cloud that increasing our retention rates.
will deliver the full benefits and advantages that the cloud has to offer.
New and existing customers can Wedo notforce migration and pride ourselves on being able to give our customers products and contracts that best suit their needs.
Any migrations are hassle-free and access Sage Business Cloud at any stage of their business journey, adding solutions from Money to are delivered with exceptional customer service.
People as their business continues to grow and evolve.
Start-up or enterprise, manufacturing or Demonstration that our strategy is working services company, Sage offers a rich and powerful Software subscription revenue as a proportion of total revenue has increased set of cloudsolutions from easy to use cloud year-on-year andis now 37%, up from 22% in FY14.
We have managed this transition accounting, to industry-specific business whilstincreasing our renewal rates andNPS.
management software to support unique Significant momentum has also been achieved with our cloud-enabled solutions with businessrequirements.
revenue increasing by 140% to 133m, whilst the number of  have increased by 87% to 172,000.
140% 87% increase in cloud-enabled increase in cloud-enabled revenue in FY17 contracts in FY17 KPIs Principal risks Renewal rate Licensing model transition Market intelligence More information about More information about our our Risks on p52-61 KPIs on p32-33 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 23 t s S e i f n n e y m i n o t g i o i O t c t n i u a s n l p u o n a C v i C e W R Our strategy Thanks to Sage, when we added a warehouse in Berlin, we were able to move to the cloud, keep teamwork and data in one place and easily manage everything from our head office in Madrid.
Luis Ongil CEO and Co-founder of Percentil Percentil keeps already-made clothing from ending up in landfills and saves over a hundred thousand litres of water per day.
Asone of our cloud customers, the Percentil business can be managed from any location inthe world.
com investors The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 24 s t s h e e t k e n r f w i i a l s o r m r u e o g b g e f r a e h s o r acceleration Winning in starts here.
Cloud business management the market solutions areset to dominate the Outpacing the competition to gain market share and market for years to come.
IDC achieve our ambition to be the leader in our chosen markets.
predicts that by 2020, nearly 50% Providing the very best cloud technology will unlock huge ofconsumer software spendin our opportunities for growth.
major geographies will beoncloudbased solutionsand cloud adoption Weve invested for the future growth rates are accelerating fast.
Throughout the transformation, significant work has been done to prime the organisation to win new customers at scale.
Weve launched a suite of award-winning In FY17 the US spend on cloud financial software cloud accounting solutions across our major geographies to provide the latest exceeded $11bn and this pace is set to continue.
technology and functionality to win in the market.
We continue to drive discipline and Sage is strategically positioned to take full efficiency through our sales and marketing functions to unlock our potential to grow advantage of this transition to accelerate growth in the cloud.
and deliver the best overall customer solutions and experiences.
FY17 has seen the launch of a new web and mobile experience onsage.
com, which delivers an end-to-end experience for prospects, customers andpartners to access To capitalise on this market shift, Sage has launched any product, service or information from Sage.
Visitors now have a seamless Sage Business Cloud in FY18, the one andonly experience across all their devices, as they engage with blogs, communities and business managementplatform a customer will marketplaces through our site, geo-targeted to their location.
need throughout their business journey.
Designed to support companies of all sizes across a range Demonstration that our strategy is working ofverticals, Sage BusinessCloud is a platform We are starting to see clear evidence of new customer acquisition at scale: aided comprised of cloud products including Accounting, by52 country launches of cloud products in FY17, we now havenearly 600,000cloud Financials, Enterprise, People, Payroll, Payments and contracts and the net new recurring contract number has increased by 32% Banking, as well as marketplace apps that can be sinceFY14.
provisioned to match the exact needs of any business.
Sage Business Cloud products are Sage Business Cloud comprises revenue from the cloud and cloud-enabled elements supported by the very latest technology, such of Sage One, Sage Live, Sage X3, Sage Intacct, Sage People and the Sage 50C and asAIand Machine Learning, to help our Sage 200C families.
FY17 cloudARR was 300m, growing at 83% in FY17.
customerscut the burden of administration andimprove productivity.
52 300m Country launches of cloud Cloud annualised recurringrevenue productsin FY17 KPIs Principal risks Adoption of Sage One Market intelligence Adoption of Sage X3 Competitive positioning and product development More information More information about our Risks on p52-61 about our KPIs on p32-33 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 25 t s S e i f n n e y m i n o t g i o i O t c t n i u a s n l p u o n a C v i C e W R Our strategy We chose Sage because the complete business management solution is perfect for our philosophy.
I love that one system can account for all parts of the company.
If you take a stroll around the building you will find Sage software in every room.
Max Glcher Head of Finance & IT at Drees Lichttechnik Sage fulfils Dreess ongoing need for maximum visibility in their increasingly complexoperations.
With the ability to easily manage so many parts of the business, Drees, like Sage, continues to charge down a path of innovation as the business grows.
com investors The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 26 s t s h e e t k e n r f w i i a l s o r m r u e o g b g e f r a e h s o r acceleration Revolutionise starts here.
Our commitment to revolutionising business how start-ups launch their business Innovation and exciting technology are at the heart of Sages is underpinned by our payments strategy.
We deliver thelatest solutionssupported byour andbanking partnerships.
Every ecosystem of partners and third party applications to our partnership signed is designed to nations of Business Builders, giving them the technology make life easier for these they deserve so they can focus on doing what they love.
BusinessBuilders: Getting started straight away: Our partnership Weve invested for the future withStripe means an entrepreneur can set up Our products have matched changes in technological advancements stride for stride, andreceive card payments instantly, with not only in terms of the cloud, but also in understanding the role that automation and easyreconciliation.
AI will play in making accounting invisible.
Sage One now uses AIto automatically perform bank reconciliations.
Setting up direct debits: Our partnership with GoCardless enables direct debits to be set up We also developed the worlds first accounting chatbot which has thousands of inminutes, ensuring that our Business Builders usersacross all Sage platforms.
Currently embedded within Sage One in the UK&I, getpaid on time, every time.
This automated US, Canada, Spain and Brazil, supporting three different languages, Pegg provides payment service reduces admin and is seamlessly avirtual personal assistant to perform administration tasks through chat, voice integrated into our accounting solutions, enhancing andcamera.
efficiencies and reducing the risk of error.
Our M&A activity has reinforced our commitment to being market leaders in Raising finance faster: Our partnership with Liberis providing the most innovative and forward thinking products.
The acquisition of means our customers can gain finance for their Compass now allows users to benchmark their own performance against their business quickly, accessing higher acceptance competition, whilst Intacct has been classified as a visionary in the renowned Gartner rates and a more efficient way to get access to magic quadrant.
working capital, taking care of the cash flow concern that most start-up businesses face.
Demonstration that our strategy is working Pegg has recently been integrated to provide customer service support for Sage 50 Getting paid earlier: Embedding pay now buttons Payroll customers and cananswer over 500 of the most frequently asked questions, into our customers sales invoices encourages reducing the time consumers spend waiting for a response from help desks, allowing faster cash receipts from their customers, them to improve their productivity.
Direct bank feeds: Our partnerships with major global banks mean bank statement data can be imported to Sage software instantly via live direct bank feeds.
500 500 questions that Pegg is trained to answer ISV partners in our ecosystem KPIs Principal risks Annualised Software Subscription Partners and alliances Base ASB Third party reliance More information about More information about our KPIs on p32-33 our Risks on p52-61 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 27 t s S e i f n n e y m i n o t g i o i O t c t n i u a s n l p u o n a C v i C e W R Our strategy Sage helped us build a foundation for growth by making it easy for us to manage inventory planning, monthly reporting, compliance and more.
Jacob Thundill Founder and Director of Cocofina Cocofina sells 32 products in 28 countries.
With so much rapid growth, Jacob needed a strong financial partner to help maintain a solid foundation for the future.
com investors The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 28 s t s h e e t k e n r f w i i a l s o r m r u e o g b g e f r a e h s o r acceleration Capacity starts here.
Beyond the transformation we will for growth continue to strive for efficiencies Financial discipline and efficient capital allocation are and cost savings across all our integral to Sages strategy to ensure ongoing cost savings functions: this will be achieved generate superior operating margins as the business scales.
through a combination of people and process, with a tone from the Weve invested for the future top culturecreated amongst our Throughout the transformation there has been a huge drive for cost savings.
colleagues who see financial Functions such as Marketing, Product Delivery and Technology have been centralised, we have halved the number of properties we occupy whilst investing in discipline as business as usual.
existing sites and we have hired top talent to drive forward growth and efficiencies.
"This has resulted in reducing the general & administration ""G&A"" spend as a Where appropriate, cost savings will be reinvested proportion of revenue ""G&A expense ratio"" from 19% to 14%."
We continue to identify into those areas that will deliver growth, either cost savings across all business functions, to reinvest into go-to-market functions to organically through specific products, regions drivegrowth.
andfunctions or through targeted bolt-on M&A ofhigh growth technology assets.
We are Whilst reducing our operating expenditure we have continued to invest in capital committed to maintaining and enhancing expenditure.
Of the savings made from , 32 million was marginsbeyond the transformation.
reinvested in FY17 in 11 new locations across nine countries, creating 270,000 square feet of agile, best-in-class work space, delivered for the benefit of 2,700 colleagues.
Any M&A activity is conducted withfinancial discipline, ensuring anyacquisitions generate a strong return on investment.
Furthermore, acquisitions ofhigh-growth technology assets are funded through our cost saving initiatives to ensurethat we can maintain and even enhance our margins.
Demonstration that our strategy is working The reduction of unnecessary back office costs has generated over100 millionof cost savings over the transformation period and, as a result, ourG&A expense ratio as a percentage of revenue has reduced significantly.
59m 360bps annualised cost savings in FY17 reduction in G&A expense ratio KPIs Principal risks G&A expense ratio Competitive positioning and product development Business model delivery Supporting control environment More information about More information about our KPIs on p32-33 our Risks on p52-61 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 29 t s S e i f n n e y m i n o t g i o i O t c t n i u a s n l p u o n a C v i C e W R Our strategy It used to take days to share ticketing information between two people in the same room.
Sage helps us cut through the red tape, and helps us do business faster.
This gives us more time to focus on doing what we love, bringing the people of Bristol together.
Gavin Marshall CFO of Bristol Sport Bristol Sport shares Sages value of instilling pride, focus, and a sense of unity in its people.
com investors The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 30 s t s h e e t k e n r f w i i a l s o r m r u e o g b g e f r a e h s o r acceleration One Sage starts here.
Our people and our culture: working collaboratively with pace and agility, ensuring that we integrate our acquired We will continue to deploy sufficient businesses thoroughly.
Operating as a truly unified resourcesto ensure the seamless organisation that provides exceptional experiences for integration of Sage's vision and ourcustomers.
strategy withinany acquisitions we make.
The key to our success during Weve invested for the future the integration phase is to protect Creating a unified culture in a previously decentralised business has been at the forefrontof Sages strategy during the transformation period.
The creation of Sage TV the business model of the acquired Live broadcast live to all employees and All Hands meetings have increased company, to nurture continued colleague engagement.
We do this whilst The Sage Foundation has enabled Sage to give back to the local community, with welcoming colleagues to the Sage colleagues being encouraged to take up tofive days paid volunteering each year.
family and embedding a positive, One Sage also means investing in the development of our colleagues, which aligned culture, as demonstrated continued inFY17 with a strong focus on creating consistent learning experiences across all of our geographies.
This included SageLearning, a cloud-based learning through our recent acquisition of management system, intensive standardised training for all sales and service Intacct.
"colleagues, and the ""Leading at Sage"" programme which supports our community of2,000 managers."
Welcoming Intacct into the Sage family here's how we did it: Demonstration that our strategy is working Sage management invested significant time with Since its creation in 2015, Sage Foundation has led to over 150,000 Intacct management during the due diligence  36,000 volunteer days by Sage colleagues to process to ensure that both cultures, values and community-based projects and local charities.
strategic vision for Intacct as part of the Sage familywere aligned Sage key management visited Intacct in the days following the acquisition announcement to 1.8m 23,000 welcome Sage Intacct colleagues and outline the grants awarded in FY17 volunteer days organised by Sage new vision and strategy Foundation in FY17 Key management personnelhave beenretained Sage Intacct has been strategically positioned within Sage Business Cloud KPIs Principal risks Sage Foundation days Supporting control environment The day that the acquisition was closed, CRM systems were linked and sales leads began to be Information management and sharedbetween North American teams protection including cyber Regulatory and legal framework Brand More information about More information about our KPIs on p32-33 our Risks on p52-61 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 31 t s S e i f n n e y m i n o t g i o i O t c t n i u a s n l p u o n a C v i C e W R
