"Weve investedfor the future Transforming our business Developing our model... Weve improved the margin profile... moved to a subscriptionbased through extensive cost savings business model... General & Administration ""G&A"" expense Software subscription revenue as a % of as a % of organicrevenue organic revenue 13.8% 37% FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17... acquired new... and maintained focus on our customers at scale... existing customer base."
Cloud Annual Recurring Revenue m Net Promoter Score 300m 25 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Q115 FY15 FY16 Q417 Annual recurring revenue ARR is the value of all components of recurring revenue, annualised for the ensuing year.
Cloud ARR includes the contributions ofSage People and Sage Intacct in addition to Sage One, Sage Live, the cloud version of Sage X3 and the cloud-enabled versions of the Sage 50 and Sage 200families.
NPS is measured by an external company, Medallia, following the industry prescribed process.
This is the first year that we have disclosed NPS and quarterly fluctuations may be expected.
2 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 2 19.1% 300 13.8% 3 22% 25 37% Strategic report Governance Financial statements Weve investedfor the future... whilst delivering a compelling investment case Higher quality revenue Superior Acceleration operating margin starts here.
78% of organic revenue is recurring 59m annualised In FY18 we are changing the costsavings 37% of organic definition of organicto include revenueisfrom the impact oftheacquisitions G&A expense as a subscription contracts of Intacct now Sage Intacct percentage of revenue and Fairsail now Sage People.
reduced by 360 bps 9.0% growth in Combined, they are expected to13.8% organicrecurring revenue to contribute around 1% of growth.
On this basis we 6.6% organic willbe raising our organic revenuegrowth revenue growth guidance 86% renewal rates toaround8%.
We expect to continue to achieve cost efficiencies that Strong cash flow Progressive dividend will be more than sufficient to offset any losses in the Underlying cash conversion We remain one of acquired businesses as they of 95% the very few FTSE 100 scale.
We aretherefore businesses that have Free cash conversion of confident of delivering an delivered an increased revenue of 15% organic operating margin ordinary dividend every ofaround 27.5% in FY18.
year since 1999 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 3 Weve investedfor the future Welcome to Sage Business Cloud Small and medium-sized businesses are the lifeblood of theeconomy, driving over two thirds of job creation.
80% People Payments and oftheseBusiness Builders work every weekend, with50% and Payroll Banking working more than 50 hours per week.
At Sage we help the real heroes ofthe economy by using the best technology to offer them integrated software solutions that increase Golden efficiency andinsight, freeing up their time so that they Triangle canrun their business moreeffectively.
We are the only worldwide company that can offer a complete suite ofcloud business management solutions following the journey of a business all the way from start-up, to scale-up, through to enterprise, across the Golden Triangle.
All of these cloud solutions can now be accessed through Sage Business Cloud, the one and only cloud business Accounting managementplatform companies will ever need throughout their business journey.
The cloud solution for Launched in October 2017, Sage Business Cloud is designed to startup to enterprise supportcompanies of all sizes across a range of verticals.
Sage Business Accounting Clouddelivers a powerful set of cloud services including Accounting, Winning in the market products Financials, Enterprise Management, People, Payroll, Payments and Our cloud accounting solutions allow us to win Banking, as well as marketplace apps that can be provisioned to match in the market.
Cloud-led technology attracts the exact needs of any business.
start-ups to financial software and provides the catalyst for larger Business Builders toreview their existing software and migrate Sage Business Cloud uses artificial intelligence AI and collective toaSage cloud solution.
intelligenceas technology catalysts to power the cloud products, driving intelligent automation, simplicity and ease of use for all our customers, Accounting partners, ISVs and developers.
previously Sage One Serving customers who need a powerful, essential accounting solution that will enable them to take full control of their finances and help them reduce time spent on manual business administration and navigating complex, expensive accounting tools.
Sage Accounting is accessible across any device smartphone, tablet, laptop, PC and includes technology advancements in mobile and chatbot technology, enabling day-to-day 4 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Accounting People Payments and Payroll and Banking Winning in Customer Enterprise the market for life 200k businesses Enterprise Management 300c People Pay Scaleup 200c Intacct 5m businesses Payroll Payments 100c Financials 50c Startup 77m businesses Accounting balance visibility, invoice and expense technology, services and not-for-profit canbenefit from the best of both worlds, management and next generation verticals.
The solution allows for processretaining the familiarity and functionality of conversational accounting.
automation, rich financial and operational desktop, combined with the flexibility and insight, cutting-edge features and seamless automation of the cloud.
Financials integration with the customers existing application ecosystems.
previously Sage Live People and Payroll Sage People, our Payroll & Human Capital Serving customers beyond principal Enterprise Management Management HCM solution, is simple, accounting needs, Sage Financials adds previously Sage X3 secure and efficient: helping our customers functionality to support more complex toremain compliant, pay their employees financial processing needs.
Sage Financials is Sage Enterprise Management is not your accurately and on time, and to deliver a a hub that, when combined with other Sage typical ERP solution.
It's a faster, simpler and greatemployee experience.
Business Cloud products and marketplace more flexible industrial-strength business applications, delivers a full end-to-end view of management solution for globally connected, Payments and Banking your business.
Our powerful Financials large-scale businesses.
Sage Enterprise Through a combination of our existing product is designed to help you seamlessly Management offers multi-company, payments assets and our partnerships with scale and manage your business in real-time multi-currency, multi-language and leading payments providers, we are continuing by integrating accounting with critical multi-legislation support and is perfectly to develop a comprehensive range of payment business functions.
We enable business and suited tomanufacturing and complex solutions to speed up the movement of money finance leaders to access integrated distribution verticals.
in and out for our customers, across all of management and financial reports across ourmajor geographies.
These solutions their business entities in minutes, not days, Customer for life products aredesigned to make the lives of Business improving decision-making to grow and drive We recognise that not all customers want Builders easier, automating routine their businesses.
revolutionary change, especially when our transactions and utilising the latest traditional products give them everything Fintechinnovations see page 27 for more.
Intacct theyfeel they need thats why we never force Sage Intacct, acquired inAugust 2017, is a migration.
Instead we have cloud-enabled sophisticated and powerful solution perfect ourmuch-loved Sage 50 and Sage 200 forgrowing businesses, especially in familiesofproducts so that customers The Sage Gr The Sage Group plc | Annual R oup plc | Annual Report & A eport & Accounts 201 ccounts 2017 7 5 5 Weve investedfor the future Enhancing our global network North America In the US, 70% of buyers are looking to purchase cloud solutions.
Over half of our total addressable market is in North America, where cloud acceleration is the highest, representing a significant growth opportunity for Sage.
Major geographies: USA Canada Sage isa market leaderin 28% of revenue the23countries in which it operates.
Growing in our markets Our customers move over 3 trillion through their businesses every year using Sage accounts software, twice the GDP of the UK.
We serve 3 million customers in 23 countries, with the topnine countries providing 95% of our revenue.
Whilst we have integrated and globalised functions, we ensure that the responsibility for each customer will remain under the remit of that country, with sales and service provided locally, in local language, by Sage experts.
6 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Central and Southern Europe In Spain, over 50% of taxes are paid through Sage solutions.
Northern Europe Central and Southern Europecontributes In the UK, over 50% of thelargest portion of revenue, with high market businesses pay their share and a history of customer loyalty, allowing employees using Sage us to maintain our installed base whilst winning new customers.
Founded in Newcastle, Northern Major geographies: Europe is our home market, France where we are the market leader Spain inscale-up and enterprise due to Germany strong brand awareness and loyalcustomers.
Major geographies: 34% UK and Ireland of revenue 22% of revenue International In the International region, 56% of revenue is on subscription.
International is our fastest growing region, driving growth through new customer acquisition and with over half of revenue now on subscription.
Major geographies: South Africa Brazil Australia 16% Acceleration starts here.
There remains a significant amount of revenue of value to unlock in our existing geographies and in FY18 we will continue to focus on these 23 countries, offering more to our existing customers and attracting new customers with the Sage Business Cloud.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 7 Weve investedfor the future Q4 Supporting customers 2017 along the way Q3 2017 Our deep knowledge of local regulations sets us apart Q2 2017 from our competition.
It also ensures our customers remain 100% compliant, 100% of the time across all 23countries.
Q1 2017 But we know that customer experience is as important as compliance and we Q3 have continued to develop our multi-channel approach so customers have the Q4 2016 choice in how they communicate with us.
Customers can choose to pick up 2016 thephone or chat online to our maintenance and support workers, or even to self-serve through Sage City, our online forum.
We have also moved to a universal operating model, ensuring that our service remains personal but is standardised to guarantee consistent levels of quality, Q2 nomatter the geography.
"2016 These developments are reflected in our improving Net Promoter Score ""NPS"", an indicator of customer advocacy, which reached a three-year high in the final quarter of the year, with the score of 25 a22-pointincrease onthree years ago."
Q4 2015 Continuing to drive up our NPS isvery important to us.
To achieve this we will continue toimprove our digital contact, providing a better quality of service whilst generating a greater Q3 bandwidth for the busiest periods 2015 of the year.
We will also learn from Q2 the best-in-class customer success 2015 models implemented by our colleagues in Sage People and Q1 Sage Intacct, who drive strong 2015 renewal rates and NPS.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 9 Weve investedfor the future Acceleration starts here.
Our Total Addressable Market Operating in 23 countries, providing solutions across the Golden Triangle for start-ups through to enterprise, $27bn across givesus access to a huge total addressable market worth$27 billionacross 82 million businesses.
Asignificant number of these businesses are 82m stillcurrentlyusing traditional methods such as spreadsheets orpen and paper.
businesses These methods are becoming increasingly redundant as Business Builders place greater importance on automation, flexibility and data-security.
The speed atwhich technology is increasing in our markets means that in the future all businesses will be software enabled, a huge opportunity for Sage.
The cloud and acceleration in the market The cloud enables Business Builders to access their financial data anywhere, at any time, whilst providing asecure, easy-to-install and user friendly way of running their business.
53% of scale-up market spend The up-take of cloud-based technology is accelerating fast, in the on cloud products scale-up segment in particular, with IDC research forecasting double-digit growth in cloud spend in each year up until 2020, at which point over50% of market spend will be onfinancial software in the cloud.
2020 10 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Innovation Technology continues to evolve rapidly, allowing Sage to provide solutions that continually offer thecustomer more.
Sage Business Cloud is a complete business management platform, taking usbeyondoffering justfinancial software.
Sage Business Cloud solutions use AIto increase automation and provideintuitive dashboards to offer more insight into a customers business.
The solutions also providereal-time access to current financial data Pegg socustomers can look ahead instead of looking backwards.
Additional benefits are that they can becustomised and integrated with other in 2016 Sage launched the world's appsand areall available on smartphone, tabletor desktop.
first accountancy chatbot Fragmented market Ourmarkets remain incredibly fragmented.
We are one of the market leaders in every country in which we operate but competition is currently localised and fragmented.
We believe the emergence of the cloud provides an opportunity for the market to consolidate over time, enablingus to grow our market share and strengthen our position in the market.
The cloud has acted as a catalyst for accelerated growth and provides a unique and unprecedented opportunity to develop innovative products that will Revolutionise Businesses, meeting the demands ofallcustomers, in all markets.
Through our global reach, wecan capitalise on these market opportunities and achieve accelerated growth, led by Sage Business Cloud, which will allow us to Win in the Market and strengthen our ability toemerge as the true market leader.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 11
