Directors report Directors report The Directors present their report together with the audited Viability statement consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September The full viability statement, and the associated explanations made in 2017.
The Annual Report & Accounts contains statements that are not accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code based on current or historical fact and are forward-looking in nature.
Please refer to the Disclaimer on page 107.
Research and development Strategic report During the year, we incurred a cost of 179m 2016: 144m in respect The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to the of research and development.
Please see page 134 for further details.
following matters can be found on the following pages of the Strategic report: Political donations No political donations were made in the year.
Subject matter Page Future developments 17 Chief Executives review Directors and their interests Greenhouse gas emissions 48-49 Environment section A list of Directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, their interests in its long-term performance share plan and Viability statement 58 Principal risks details of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company are given in the Directors remuneration report on page 100.
No Director Corporate governance statement had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service The Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR require certain contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the operating companies at any time during the year.
This information can be found in the Corporate governance report on pages 68 to 83, which is incorporated into this The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were Directors report by reference and, in the case of the information referred Directors of the Company can be found on pages 64 to 65. to in DTR 7.2.
As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006 are in place under Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors of the Information on allotments of shares for cash pursuant to the Group Company to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys articles employee share schemes can be found on page 163 within the notes to of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in connection with the the Group financial statements.
performance of their duties as a Director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities are available for review at the Results and dividends Companys registered office.
The results for the year are set out from page 119.
Full details of the proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 30 September 2017 Employment policy are set out on page 39.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 10.20p The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications per share following the payment of an interim dividend of 5.22p per share for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their on 2 June 2017.
The proposed total dividend for the year is therefore respective aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, 15.42p per share.
the continued employment of those who may become disabled during their employment and the provision of training and career development Going concern and promotion, where appropriate.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Sage has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for The Group has continued its policy of employee involvement by making the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date information available to employees on matters of concern to them.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the Colleagues regularly receive updates on the financial and economic going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In reaching factors affecting the Group.
Many colleagues are stakeholders in the this conclusion, the Directors have had due regard to the following: Company through participation in share option schemes and a longterm performance share plan.
Further details of colleague engagement The cash generated from operations, available cash resources and are given on pages 41 to 43. committed bank facilities and their maturities, which, taken together, provide confidence that Sage will be able to meet its obligations as they fall due.
Further information on the available cash resources and committed bank facilities is provided in Note 14 to the financial statements The financial position of Sage, its cash flows, financial risk management policies and available debt facilities, which are described in the financial statements, and Sages business activities, together with the factors likely to impact its future growth and operating performance, which are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 62.
108 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 104 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors report The Directors present their report together with the audited Viability statement Substantial shareholdings Dividends and distributions consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September The full viability statement, and the associated explanations made in At 30 September 2017, the Company had been notified, in accordance Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, 2017.
The Annual Report & Accounts contains statements that are not accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code with the DTRs, of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but based on current or historical fact and are forward-looking in nature.
can be found on page 58. no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Name Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding Please refer to the Disclaimer on page 107.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, Standard Life 81,048,985 7.50% Direct and indirect Research and development whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Aberdeen Strategic report During the year, we incurred a cost of 179m 2016: 144m in respect Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid BlackRock Inc 63,526,140 588% Indirect The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to the of research and development.
pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
following matters can be found on the following pages of the Strategic Lindsell Train Limited 56,347,354 5.21% Direct report: Political donations Aviva Investors 54,870,660 5.08% Direct and indirect Liquidation No political donations were made in the year.
Subject matter Page If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority of Information provided to the Company under the DTRs is publicly a special resolution of the Company and any other authority required by Future developments 17 Chief Executives review available via the regulatory information service and on the Directors and their interests the statutes as defined in the articles of association : Greenhouse gas emissions 48-49 Environment section A list of Directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company website.
Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the Company, their interests in its long-term performance share plan and Viability statement 58 Principal risks Share capital assets of the Company: or details of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company The Companys share capital is as set out on page 163.
The Company are given in the Directors remuneration report on page 100.
No Director Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts Corporate governance statement has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, 4 The Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR require certain of 1 77p each.
contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its shall think fit.
information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the operating companies at any time during the year.
This information can be found in the Corporate Rights and obligations attaching to shares Transfer of shares governance report on pages 68 to 83, which is incorporated into this The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were Voting Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all or any Directors report by reference and, in the case of the information referred Directors of the Company can be found on pages 64 to 65.
In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the of his or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual to in DTR 7.2.
articles of association and to any special rights or restrictions as to As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying third-party form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, voting attached to any class of shares in the Company of which there indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006 are in place under in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 are none : which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors of the of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share although not so as Information on allotments of shares for cash pursuant to the Group Company to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys articles On a show of hands, a qualifying person being an individual who to prevent dealings in shares taking place on an open and proper basis employee share schemes can be found on page 163 within the notes to of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in connection with the is a member of the Company, a person authorised to act as the or on which the Company has a lien.
performance of their duties as a Director of the Company or its representative of a corporation or a person appointed as a proxy of The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities are available for review at the a member shall have one vote, except that a proxy has one vote for Results and dividends unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the office, or at such other Companys registered office.
and one vote against a resolution if the proxy has been appointed The results for the year are set out from page 119.
Full details of the place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by by more than one member and has been given conflicting voting proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 30 September 2017 the certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence Employment policy instructions by those members, or has been given discretion as to are set out on page 39.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 10.20p if any as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications how to vote per share following the payment of an interim dividend of 5.22p per share intending transferor or his or her right to transfer the shares.
for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall on 2 June 2017.
The policy includes, where practicable, have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held 15.42p per share.
the continued employment of those who may become disabled during in uncertificated form and, subject to the articles of association, title No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class their employment and the provision of training and career development to uncertificated shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system Going concern meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any call or other and promotion, where appropriate.
and may revoke any such permission.
Registration of a transfer of an After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
uncertificated share may be refused where permitted by the statutes Sage has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for The Group has continued its policy of employee involvement by making Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
as defined in the articles of association.
the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date information available to employees on matters of concern to them.
Deadlines for voting rights of the financial statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the Colleagues regularly receive updates on the financial and economic Repurchase of shares Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Many colleagues are stakeholders in the the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last Annual General this conclusion, the Directors have had due regard to the following: Company through participation in share option schemes and a longMeeting 28 February 2017 to buy back up to 108,009,614 ordinary be held on 28 February 2018 will be set out in the Notice of Annual term performance share plan.
Further details of colleague engagement The cash generated from operations, available cash resources and General Meeting.
The minimum price which must be paid for each ordinary share are given on pages 41 to 43. committed bank facilities and their maturities, which, taken together, is its nominal value and the maximum price set out in the resolution is provide confidence that Sage will be able to meet its obligations as the higher of 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an they fall due.
Further information on the available cash resources ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official and committed bank facilities is provided in Note 14 to the List for the five business days immediately before the purchase is made financial statements and the amount stipulated by article 5 1 of the Buy-back and The financial position of Sage, its cash flows, financial risk Stabilisation Regulation 2003, as amended in each case exclusive of management policies and available debt facilities, which are expenses.
Share repurchases are used from time to time as a method described in the financial statements, and Sages business activities, to control the Groups leverage and decisions are made against strict together with the factors likely to impact its future growth and price, volume and returns criteria that are agreed by the Board and operating performance, which are set out in the Strategic Report regularly reviewed.
108 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 109 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 105 Directors report continued Directors report continued In the year under review, the Company made no share repurchases.
The Significant agreements Employee Benefit Trust purchased a total of 1,376,583 ordinary shares of The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the 4 1 77p at a weighted average price of 6.80p per share.
counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: In the year under review no treasury shares were cancelled.
Total share awards of 2,450,345 were made out of shares held by the Employee Under a note purchase agreement dated 20 May 2013 relating to Benefit Trust.
US$50 million senior notes, Series D, due 20 May 2018, US$150 million senior notes, Series E, due 20 May 2020, US$150 million senior notes, Series F, due 20 May 2023 and US$50 million senior notes, Series G, Amendment of the Companys articles of association due 20 May 2025 between Sage Treasury Company Ltd and the note Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be made holders and guaranteed by the Company, on a change of control in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of of the Company, the Company will not take any action that special resolution.
consummates or finalises a change of control unless at least 15 business days prior to such action it shall have given to each holder Appointment and replacement of Directors of notes written notice containing and constituting an offer to prepay Directors shall be not less than two and no more than 15 in number.
all notes on a date specified in such offer which shall be a business Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the change of by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days after the the next Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the date of the notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes accepts shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more the offer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the principal Directors to hold employment or executive office for such period amount of the notes together with accrued and unpaid interest subject to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may thereon and shall be made on the proposed prepayment date.
determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
No prepayment under a change of control shall include any Under the articles of association, at every Annual General Meeting of premium of any kind.
the Company, every Director shall retire from office but shall be eligible Under a dual tranche US$551 million and 218 million five-year multifor election or re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may by currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 26 June 2014 special resolution or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has between, amongst others, Sage Treasury Company Limited and been given remove, and the Board may, by unanimous decision remove, Lloyds Bank plc as facility agent and guaranteed by the Company, any Director before the expiration of his or her term of office.
The office on a change of control, if any individual lender so requires and after of Director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: ii he or she has having consulted with Sage Treasury Company Limited in good faith become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director and may for not less than 30 days following the change of control, the facility remain so for more than three months and the Board resolves that his or agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to Sage Treasury her office is vacated: iii he or she is absent without permission of the Company Limited, cancel the commitment of that lender and declare Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the the participation of that lender in all outstanding loans, together with Board resolves that his or her office is vacated: iv he or she becomes accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under the finance bankrupt or makes an arrangement or composition with his or her documents, immediately due and payable, whereupon the creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all such outstanding director: or vi he or she is removed from office pursuant to the articles amounts will become immediately due and payable.
Under a note purchase agreement dated 26 January 2015 relating to 55 million senior notes, Series H, due 26 January 2022, 30 million Powers of the Directors senior notes, Series I, due 26 January 2023 and US$200 million senior The business of the Company will be managed by the Board which may notes, Series J, due 26 January 2025 between Sage Treasury Company exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Limited and the note holders and guaranteed by the Company, on Companys articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and any a change of control of the Company, the Company will not take any ordinary resolution of the Company.
action that consummates or finalises a change of control unless at least 15 business days prior to such action it shall have given to each Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust holder of notes written notice containing and constituting an offer The trustee of The Sage Group plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT has to prepay all notes on the date specified in such offer which shall agreed not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general meeting.
be a business day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee change of control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares after the date of notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes which are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will have regard accepts the offer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the to the interests of the award holders and will have power to consult principal amount of the notes together with accrued and unpaid them to obtain their views on the offer.
Subject to the above the trustee interest thereon and any applicable net loss and, in each case, may take action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
including the deduction of any applicable net gain and shall still be made on the proposed payment date.
No prepayment under a change of control shall include any premium of any kind.
110 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 106 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors report continued In the year under review, the Company made no share repurchases.
The Significant agreements Under a US$390m term loan credit facility agreement dated 25 July Statement of Directors responsibilities Employee Benefit Trust purchased a total of 1,376,583 ordinary shares of The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the 2017 between, amongst others, Sage Treasury Company Limited and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & 4 1 77p at a weighted average price of 6.80p per share.
counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of HSBC Bank plc as facility agent and guaranteed by the Company, on Accounts, including the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group a change of control of the Company: a change of control, if any individual lender so requires and after and parent Company financial statements, in accordance with In the year under review no treasury shares were cancelled.
Total share having consulted with Sage Treasury Company Limited in good faith applicable law and regulations.
awards of 2,450,345 were made out of shares held by the Employee Under a note purchase agreement dated 20 May 2013 relating to for not less than 30 days following the change of control, the agent Benefit Trust.
US$50 million senior notes, Series D, due 20 May 2018, US$150 million Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to Sage Treasury senior notes, Series E, due 20 May 2020, US$150 million senior notes, for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Company Limited, cancel the commitment of that lender and declare Series F, due 20 May 2023 and US$50 million senior notes, Series G, Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Amendment of the Companys articles of association the participation of that lender in all outstanding loans, together with due 20 May 2025 between Sage Treasury Company Ltd and the note Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be made accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under the finance holders and guaranteed by the Company, on a change of control and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of documents, immediately due and payable, whereupon the of the Company, the Company will not take any action that United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United special resolution.
commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all such outstanding consummates or finalises a change of control unless at least 15 Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company amounts will become immediately due and payable.
business days prior to such action it shall have given to each holder law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless Appointment and replacement of Directors Under the terms of all four agreements above, a change of control of notes written notice containing and constituting an offer to prepay they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Directors shall be not less than two and no more than 15 in number.
occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains all notes on a date specified in such offer which shall be a business of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or control of the Company.
day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the change of and the Company for that period.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days after the the next Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the The platform reseller agreement dated 31 January 2015 relating to In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: date of the notice of prepayments.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more the Companys strategic arrangements with Salesforce.
com EMEA the offer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the principal Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Directors to hold employment or executive office for such period Limited contains a change of control right enabling Salesforce to amount of the notes together with accrued and unpaid interest subject to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may terminate the agreement in the event there is a change of control in Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent thereon and shall be made on the proposed prepayment date.
favour of a direct competitor of Salesforce.
The State whether IFRS as adopted by the EU, and applicable UK No prepayment under a change of control shall include any agreement contains post termination requirements upon Salesforce Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material Under the articles of association, at every Annual General Meeting of premium of any kind.
to support a transition for up to a specified period.
departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company the Company, every Director shall retire from office but shall be eligible Under a dual tranche US$551 million and 218 million five-year multiIn respect of the platform reseller agreement with Salesforce.
com financial statements respectively for election or re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may by currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 26 June 2014 EMEA Limited, change of control occurs where a corporate special resolution or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, between, amongst others, Sage Treasury Company Limited and transaction results in the owners of the subject entity owning been given remove, and the Board may, by unanimous decision remove, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue Lloyds Bank plc as facility agent and guaranteed by the Company, less than 50% of the voting interests in that entity as a result of any Director before the expiration of his or her term of office.
The office in business on a change of control, if any individual lender so requires and after the corporate transaction.
of Director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: ii he or she has having consulted with Sage Treasury Company Limited in good faith The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director and may for not less than 30 days following the change of control, the facility that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Financial risk management remain so for more than three months and the Board resolves that his or agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to Sage Treasury disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, credit, her office is vacated: iii he or she is absent without permission of the Company Limited, cancel the commitment of that lender and declare the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the interest rate and foreign currency risk are shown in note 14 to the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the the participation of that lender in all outstanding loans, together with financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply financial statements.
Our approach to risk management generally Board resolves that his or her office is vacated: iv he or she becomes accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under the finance with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups financial and our principal risks can be found on pages 52 to 61 of the bankrupt or makes an arrangement or composition with his or her documents, immediately due and payable, whereupon the statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Strategic Report.
creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all such outstanding Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of director: or vi he or she is removed from office pursuant to the articles Disclaimer amounts will become immediately due and payable.
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps of association.
The purpose of this Annual Report & Accounts is to provide information for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under a note purchase agreement dated 26 January 2015 relating to to the members of the Company.
The Annual Report & Accounts has 55 million senior notes, Series H, due 26 January 2022, 30 million Powers of the Directors been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, senior notes, Series I, due 26 January 2023 and US$200 million senior The business of the Company will be managed by the Board which may and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors and employees, notes, Series J, due 26 January 2025 between Sage Treasury Company exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other Limited and the note holders and guaranteed by the Company, on Companys articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and any person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may a change of control of the Company, the Company will not take any ordinary resolution of the Company.
come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
action that consummates or finalises a change of control unless at least 15 business days prior to such action it shall have given to each The Annual Report & Accounts contains certain forward-looking Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust holder of notes written notice containing and constituting an offer statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial The trustee of The Sage Group plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT has to prepay all notes on the date specified in such offer which shall condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve agreed not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general meeting.
be a business day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee change of control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares after the date of notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available which are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will have regard accepts the offer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the at the date of preparation of this Annual Report & Accounts and the to the interests of the award holders and will have power to consult principal amount of the notes together with accrued and unpaid Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking them to obtain their views on the offer.
Subject to the above the trustee interest thereon and any applicable net loss and, in each case, statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report & Accounts should be may take action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
including the deduction of any applicable net gain and shall still be construed as a profit forecast.
made on the proposed payment date.
110 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 111 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 107 Directors report continued Directors report continued Directors statement The Directors as at the date of this report, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors on pages 64 to 65, confirm that: To the best of their knowledge, the Groups financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group To the best of their knowledge, the Directors report and the Strategic report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces Each Director as at the date of this report further confirms that: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware The Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, the Directors as at the date of this report consider that the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
By Order of the Board Vicki Bradin Company Secretary 21 November 2017 The Sage Group plc Company number 2231246 108 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Contents Directors report continued Group financial statements Directors statement Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc 110 The Directors as at the date of this report, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors on pages 64 to 65, confirm that: Group financial statements Consolidated income statement 119 To the best of their knowledge, the Groups financial statements, Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 120 which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Consolidated balance sheet 121 EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Consolidated statement of changes in equity 122 and profit of the Group Consolidated statement of cash flows 123 To the best of their knowledge, the Directors report and the Strategic report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a 1.
Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements 124 Notes to the Group financial statements description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces Supplementary notes to the Group Each Director as at the date of this report further confirms that: financial statements.
Results for the year So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information 2.
Segment information 128 of which the Companys auditors are unaware 3.
Profit before income tax 133 The Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken 4.
Income tax expense 138 as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant 5.
Earnings per share 139 audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information Operating assets and liabilities This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with 6.
Intangible assets 142 the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Property, plant and equipment 146 In addition, the Directors as at the date of this report consider that 8.
Investment in an associate 148 the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 9.
Working capital 148 and understandable and provides the information necessary for 10.
Provisions 151 shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups position 11.
Post-employment benefits 152 and performance, business model and strategy.
Deferred income tax 154 By Order of the Board Net debt and capital structure 13.
Equity 163 Other notes Vicki Bradin 16.
Acquisitions and disposals 169 Company Secretary 17.
Group undertakings 174 21 November 2017 The Sage Group plc Company number 2231246 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 109
