Strategic report How we create value Our core business strengths Simple, low-risk banking model Scale and scope of larger players, with the agility of a smaller bank Long-established franchise in core regional and selected national markets Resilient and strongly capitalised balance sheet with a diverse range of funding sources available Cutting-edge, scalable and full-service digital operating platform positioned for the future Experienced Executive Leadership Team and dedicated colleagues means we can offer our broad customer base 2.7m retail and business customers Strong market shares in our core regions of Scotland and the North of England Perfectly positioned to support and benefit from the UK Governments Northern Powerhouse initiative Customer proposition increasingly attracting new customers from our underrepresented demographic segments young and affluent Business Commercial Mortgage Business Give your business Current Account room to grow with a commercial 25 months mortgage free day-to-day Buy or improve your business premises with a commercial mortgage from Clydesdale and banking Yorkshire Bank when you borrow over 25,000.
You can choose a repayment term up to 20 years and even build in a capital repayment holiday of Were making our longest ever, free up to 5 years to help boost your cash ow.
day-to-day banking offer available to both start-ups and switchers.
Because we believe businesses from here should be rewarded for banking here.
Please note that security over your commercial premises will be required and your property may be repossessed if you do not keep up any repayments on your borrowing.
Any other asset used as security, which may include your home, will be at risk if you break the agreement, and may be sold to repay your debt.
A commercial mortgage is a term loan product.
All lending is subject to status and applicants must be aged 18 or over.
An arrangement fee, valuation and security fees will be payable.
The commercial mortgage amount and term o ered will depend on an assessment of your business circumstances.
Taking a capital repayment holiday will increase the total interest charged and the total amount payable over the full term of the commercial mortgage.
Offer applies to new business customers with a turnover of less than 2 million switching their main business current account or start ups opening their first account within 12 months of beginning trading.
No charges apply in the 25 month period to cash or cheque deposits and withdrawals, Direct Debits or other automated transactions.
Cash limit paid in, paid out or exchanged of 250,000 per annum.
Charges for Other additional services, fia nc cillu itd iein s u g t p t he P o o 2s 5 t O 0,0f0 fi0 a ce C va hila an bg le s e S uer bje vc ict t e a o s nd tatb uor s, f re oe w s a ing c pplh y. arges are not part of the free banking offer and highlighed in our business banking tariff.
At the end of the period you will move to our Business Tariff.
Borrowing Business Banking Business Banking 0800 121 4619 Ask in branch 0800 032 3971 cbonline.
co. uk commercialmortgages C PL lyC d. R esd ea gle B ister ae nd i k P n S LC is a cotlau ntd hor Nis oe.
R ude en gis tit aer l R ee d O gula ffi tc ion A e: 30 S uth tor.
Vit in y a cen nd r t Pe la gcu ela, G teld b asgo y t w h, G e F 1 2 inaH nL ci.
al Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority Financial Services Register No.
Clydesdale Bank Yorkshire Bank is a trading name of Clydesdale Bank PLC which is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority Financial Services Register No.
Registered O ce: 30 St. Vincent Place, Glasgow G1 2HL.
R6075 EXP APR 18 R6725 EXP NOV 18 a full-service retail and SME banking proposition We offer a range of simple banking products supported by great customer service Retail SME Personal current accounts Business current accounts Savings accounts and term deposits Savings and deposits Mortgages Term lending Personal loans Overdrafts Credit cards Working capital solutions Overdrafts Payment and transaction services 10 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information through our three brands Clydesdale Bank B Yorkshire Bank cbonline.
co. uk in whichever way our customers choose to interact with us Omni-channel delivery Branches and Mobile Internet banking Telephony Intermediary business centres benefits the customer with Increased Improved Deeper Broadened Extended ease and experience relationships offering reach convenience enabled and driven by our digital capability Digital is at the heart of everything we do Our methods of working are evolving to become more flexible and allow us to bring our Our commitment to digital is preparing us products to market more quickly, leveraging for a radically different banking environment existing channels in the future Our products are increasingly designed to We are investing c. 350m to drive a be sold across all of our distribution channels transformation in our customers experience and at the heart of this investment is our We created B, our digital-only brand, in 2016 iB digital platform and already have over 100,000 customers CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11
