Corporate responsibility Business Builders Shining a light on the heroes of the global economy.
With small businesses creating two thirds of all new jobs and making up 99% of theprivate sector in most countries, one thing is for certain when Business Builders do well, we all do.
It is in all of our interests to champion small businesses and entrepreneurs and at Sage, with millions of small business customers around the world, we see that as our noble cause.
This year, weve formalised our commitment to small & medium businesses through the Sage Forum for Business Builders giving entrepreneurs the world over a voice: campaigning for change that creates the ideal environment for businesses to flourish, and representing Business Buildersat the top table.
Sage is committed to three different courses of action through the Forum: commissioning regular pieces of research that assess the small business landscape: holding events and panel discussions that allow entrepreneurs to talk directly to politicians: and campaigning to change policy for the better.
Here are just a few of the ways weve supported the heroes of the economy this year.
Taking Sage Summit on the road 29,000 Following on from 2016s Sage Registered attendees Summitin Chicago the worlds across all Sage Summits largest gathering of entrepreneurs inFY17 we took Sage Summit on the road, to eight different cities around the world.
Overall around 29,000 people registered to attend a Sage Summit.
We were joined by all-star 552m guests from George Foreman in Atlanta, to Deborah Meaden in Social impressions London, to Rick Mercer in Toronto inspiring auditoriums full of Business Builders.
The events garnered over 550 million social impressions: around 750 pieces of press coverage: and 716 raised over $150,000 for charity through Sage Foundation.
Inspiring sessions & talks for entrepreneurs The Georgia Tech choir performing at Sage Summit US in Atlanta.
44 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Ireland Debate In December 2016, Sage gathered small businesses inDublin alongside An Taoiseach Enda Kenny, a Minister and other influential policymakers to debate the opportunities and challenges facing Irish entrepreneurs.
The debate coincided with the launch of a piece of major global research looking at the landscape of Business Builders in 16 of Sages markets around the world.
The debate was covered in major broadcast and print mediaacross Ireland including RTE, TV3 and the Irish Independent.
As An Taoiseach said at the event we understand that small businesses are a key part of the social fabric of society The Sage Forum for Business Builders offers an important platform to entrepreneurs and SMEs to voice their opinions.
An Taoiseach Enda Kenny speaking at Sages Ireland Debate.
Education around the General election campaign in the UK Fourth Industrial Revolution Sage responded immediately to news of the snap general election As an industry leader in Artificial Intelligence, Sage feels a strong in the UK last June, setting out a call to action for the successful sense of responsibility to help create an industry that supports political party to back business growth and ambition.
Working Business Builders today and in the future.
The Fourth Industrial with think tank The Entrepreneurs Network, we reached out to Revolution is changing the way entrepreneurs do business for the Sage customers and a network of over 10,000 entrepreneurs to better: artificial intelligence has the power to free Business Builders hear their views on how an incoming government could support from the burden of administrative tasks, and in turn, boost their needs.
Ahead of polling day we launched A Boost to British productivity.
We are driven to do business the right way, and are Businesses Policies for a New Government, 25 concrete policy working to make sure that AI is ethically engineered, as well as ideas in areas such as skills, technology, tax, regulation and building a workforce that will have the right skills for tomorrow.
An open letter signed by Stephen Kelly gained We have established five core principles towards the ethical creation widespread media coverage ahead of election day, and the of AI.
We are committed to adhering to all of these principles, and ideaswere submitted to key ministers as soon as they formed enabling the wider tech community to do the same.
We have also thenew Government.
been working to build the next generation of engineers, AI developers and conversation designers through the creation of Botcamp a training programme dedicated to providing school leavers with the right skills to help them become the technology leaders of tomorrow.
70% The proportion of entrepreneurs around the world who do not feel listened to by governments The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 45 Corporate responsibility Community Sage Foundation: working together to do more good.
Founded in 2015, Sage Foundations mission agroup of the young people themselves.
It Women issimple: to mobilise our 13,000 colleagues ispart of a wider call from Sage and Stephen In South Africa in July, Sage Foundation around the world to build social, economic Kelly to make FY18 the year that businesses released a report titled The Hidden Factors: andentrepreneurial opportunities in our work together to give more young people a Fostering Female Entrepreneurship.
was motivated by a recognition of the importance of this emerging groups For us, this isnt just the right way to do contribution to the economy, combined with a #SageServingHeroes: business its the only way.
realisation that there was very little information Military veterans FY17 was the year that Sage Foundation out there on female entrepreneurs in South Sage is committed to helping ex-servicemen trulybecame ingrained into the culture of the Africa.
The study found that only 20% of and women to make the transition into civilian business.
Our colleagues gave backalmost women surveyed saw running your own life, and find meaningful employment.
We 23,000 days in volunteering thats a 120% business as a viable career path when growing dothis in part through our support of the increase on last year.
But female entrepreneurs showed greater InvictusGames.
The Invictus Games use the Foundation is the golden thread that connects self-confidence, leadership and competitive power of sport to inspire recovery and support us from front-line sales colleagues to senior spirit than their counterparts in the corporate rehabilitation of disabled, sick or injured acting leaders.
Indeed, this is illustrated by the Boards world.
The report was launched with a panel and ex-servicemen and women.
Sage has group volunteering day this year.
event featuring Jennifer Warawa, Sages EVP supported the initiative since last years Games Partners, Accountants and Alliances.
in Orlando, and this year we were proud to Since Sage Foundations inauguration, weve stepup our commitment to become a Premier decided to concentrate our efforts down to Partner for the Toronto Games in September.
Young people three key groups of people that we want to In September 2017in the UK, Sage launched help: women, young people and military In June, we announced the launch of the Sage APlace to Call Home a report on youth veterans.
Take a look at just a few examples Serving Heroes Program in Canada, to support homelessness in London and Newcastle.
ofthe work weve done with these groups veterans as they move into the workplace.
Thestudy was launched with an exclusive thisyear.
Theprogram has started by working with exhibition and panel discussion at the asmall group of Invictus Team Canada Southbank Centre in London, featuring competitors, providing them with mentoring, photography, film and conversation from business support and Sage technology to help them start and grow businesses.
22,859 Over 80 $1m The number of working days this year that The number of small charities around the The total amount we have given away Sage colleagues have spent volunteering world that weve helped this year to charities across 2017 46 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Million Dollar Challenge In 2016, Sages CFO Steve Hare pledged to run a total of 500km forhis chosen charityCVYP.
Steve completed the final leg of his challenge in June this year in Newcastle, surrounded by dozens of Sage colleagues, customers and partners.
Steves original pledge has turned into the Million Dollar Challenge mobilising Sages colleagues, customers and partners in a united mission to raise a total of one million dollars throughout 2017 for their chosen causes and through their chosen activities.
And by the end of 2017, well have reached our target.
500km the distance run over the last year by CFO Steve Hare for charity CVYP CFO Steve Hare completing his 500k running challenge.
The Enterprise Fund The Enterprise Fund was set up this year as a chance for small charities who might otherwise be overlooked for funding to bid for much-needed cash to innovate and grow specifically, charities thatare delivering change for women, young people and military veterans.
We gave away grants valued at between $5,000 and $35,000, donating a total of $1,000,000 to over 80 small charities all around the world throughout the whole of 2017.
$5,000-$35,000 the size of grants given away in Sage Foundations Enterprise Fund Mandela Day Mandela Day may be only one day an annual day of celebration and activism in South Africa in honour of Nelson Mandelas legacy but this year Sage Foundation stretched the days goodwill out for the whole month of July.
By the end of the month, the team had mobilised almost 1,000 Sage colleagues and partners across eight different regions in Africa to support the work of 35 non-profits through volunteering.
1,000 The number of colleagues in Africa who volunteered in honour of Mandela Day Its about spreading the love, helping others and putting a smile on peoples faces.
Lesedi Morei Sage business partner from OS Holdings: volunteered as part ofMandela Day in South Africa The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 47
