Risk report Financial crime risk Exposures A strengthened and robust There are currently no significant exposures to report.
The Group continues to review the external environment for any change in financial crime framework regulatory or legislative direction, taking action as appropriate.
The Group continues to invest in its systems and Mitigation measures controls to prevent, detect, screen and report Risk assessments against the four financial crime policy standards take place on an annual basis.
Over and above these assessments, financial crime, demonstrating a tangible uplift regular oversight of higher-risk activities takes place as part in effectiveness.
of the formal oversight plan and embedded activity takes place throughout the year.
Key performance metrics relative to critical Financial crime risk is the risk that the Groups products and financial crime systems are kept under review to ensure ongoing services will be used to facilitate financial crime against the Group, effectiveness.
Third party tools are used to test system its customers or third parties.
It encompasses the risk of failing effectiveness where available and appropriate.
Training to understand and comply with relevant laws, regulations and completion and compliance is subject to annual oversight.
supervisory requirements relating to money laundering, terrorism All standards are reflected in the Group policy and standards and financing, bribery and corruption and sanctions and embargoes.
financial crime prevention manual, the content of which is provided It also includes risks associated with external or internal acts by financial crime risk and updated as appropriate.
intended to defraud, misappropriate, and circumvent policy, funds, information, regulations and property.
The Group maintains an Monitoring overarching financial crime policy and four policy standards aligned The financial crime team is responsible for strategy, governance, to each material financial crime risk.
These are: standard setting, oversight, training and reporting to the Sanctions The Group has no appetite for non-compliance with competent authorities and governance committees Board.
the legal and regulatory obligations relating to sanctions and The control framework is owned by financial crime risk but embargoes.
To reflect the Groups risk appetite and to protect the management and execution of customer identity and verification, Group from financial and reputational damage, including regulatory customer due diligence, enhanced due diligence, identifying censure, fines and enforcement action, the Sanctions and high-risk customers, including correspondent banking relationships Embargoes Policy articulates a set of minimum standards and and record keeping is the responsibility of first line business units.
requirements which must be complied with.
Account opening pass rates are overseen as part of a regular Anti-money laundering The Group applies a prescribed high-risk process undertaken by financial crime risk and reported monthly.
customer model which sets out the types of customer it has no risk appetite to onboard, as well as customers with whom the Higher-risk customers are referred to financial crime risk and Group is prohibited from entering into or maintaining a customer senior management within Customer Banking for agreement and relationship.
All other customers who are not prescribed shall be sign off that business is within appetite and then continue to be subject to controls commensurate with their risk.
monitored on an ongoing basis.
Anti-bribery and corruption The Group does not tolerate the Screening customers for sanctions or politically exposed persons direct or indirect offer, payment, solicitation or acceptance of and transaction monitoring is carried out by financial crime risk.
The Group has in place risk assessments, Sanctions screening for payments is carried out by the Payments policies and guidelines on interacting with customers, suppliers team in the first line.
Critical financial crime systems oversight is and agents, including specific policies for gifts and hospitality.
independently tested by Internal Audit.
Senior managers across the business are required to complete an evaluation of risk areas as part of the risk assessment process.
Fraud The Group accepts that, in order to conduct business in a commercially viable manner, it is willing to sustain fraud losses within an agreed set of parameters.
The application of fraud risk management considers customer impacts, industry trends and financial impacts of fraud which, on occasion, provide conflicting priorities.
Emerging risks are identified and assessed with action taken to mitigate them.
An agreed loss plan is set and performance against this is overseen by the policy owner and reported through the appropriate governance committees.
With regard to internal fraud, the Group recognises the risk of internal fraud but has no appetite for it.
Consequently there is a control framework in place to mitigate that risk.
174 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
