Risk report Regulatory, compliance and conduct risk Conduct risk Effectively addressing legacy Conduct risk is the risk of undertaking business in a way which is contrary to the interests of our customers resulting in the delivery issues and building a platform of inappropriate customer outcomes, customer detriment, for growth regulatory censure, redress costs and or reputational damage.
Risk appetite The Group continues to focus to address and The Group is committed to acting in the interests of its customers, eliminate legacy conduct issues while seeking to and has no appetite for conduct risk.
ensure that regulators expectations are met and Mitigation measures our current and future proposition is compliant The Group has a conduct framework which recognises the key and fair to customers.
conduct risks inherent in the Groups strategy through which it seeks to apply the highest standards in the design and sale of Regulatory and compliance risk products, and the treatment of its customers.
The framework Regulatory and compliance risk is the risk of: failing to understand ensures fair customer outcomes supported by a good customer and comply with relevant laws, regulations, licence conditions, experience.
This is achieved in a number of ways including supervisory requirements, self-regulatory industry codes of continuous monitoring and responding to customer feedback conduct and voluntary initiatives: failing to identify, monitor and and complaints.
In addition, if things do go wrong, action is taken respond to changes in the regulatory environment: damaging the to ensure we put things right for our customers.
Groups relationship with its regulators through non-compliance Products are designed and sold to meet customer needs and with requirements, not keeping regulators informed of relevant expectations with governance processes embedded to ensure issues that affect or which may affect the Group, not responding those objectives are met.
effectively to the information requests and review findings of the regulators, by providing incorrect or inadequate information, not Consideration of customer outcomes is embedded within the meeting regulatory deadlines or obstructing the regulator from Groups operating processes, and metrics are regularly monitored fulfilling its role.
to help ensure outcomes are appropriate.
Risk appetite Exposures The Group has no appetite for actions resulting in breaches of As part of the demerger from NAB in 2016, NAB and the Group regulation or for inaction to address systemic process and control have entered into a Conduct Indemnity Deed where NAB has failures leading to material non-compliance.
agreed to provide the Group with an indemnity in respect of certain historic liabilities relating to conduct in the period prior to Mitigation measures the demerger date.
Details of the Conduct Indemnity Deed are The Group has a regulatory engagement policy designed to included in note 3.14 Provisions.
ensure an open and cooperative relationship is maintained with There continues to be a great deal of uncertainty and significant regulators at all times, ensuring that all key interactions with judgement is required in determining the quantum of conduct regulators are managed, recorded and escalated as appropriate.
risk-related liabilities with note 3.14 reflecting the Groups current All colleagues are required to achieve mandated standards position in relation to redress provisions for PPI, interest rate to meet their compliance gateway obligations.
hedging products IRHPs and other smaller historic conduct matters.
The final amount required to settle the Groups potential Material changes to regulatory policies and protocols liabilities for these matters is materially uncertain.
The Group are approved by either the Executive Leadership Team will continue to reassess the adequacy of provisions for these or the Board.
matters and the assumptions underlying the calculations at each The Group CRO and Risk Leadership Team consider compliance reporting date based upon experience and other relevant factors risk topics when setting risk appetite and through ongoing risk at that time.
Monitoring Monitoring This is a principal focus of the Board, senior management and A risk management oversight and compliance monitoring plan is regulators, and the Group seeks to ensure customers are treated approved by Boards Risk Committee on an annual basis which fairly and products are designed and sold to meet their needs.
The independently assesses the control framework underpinning Group also works to ensure that customer expectations are met compliance with laws and regulations.
and complaints are dealt with effectively and fairly.
All Three Lines of Defence consider conduct risk as part of their oversight and assurance activities.
172 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
