Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Governance Directors report AGM and used in future Group publications.
If you attend the Corporate governance report AGM in person, you may be included in the webcast, recording The Corporate governance report, found on pages 49 to 122, and or photographs.
together with this report of which it forms part, fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Governance Statement for the purpose of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
Election and re-election of Directors at the forthcoming AGM Company background Following recommendations from the Governance and The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on 18 May Nomination Committee, the Board considers all Directors 2015 as a public company limited by shares under the Companies continue to be effective, committed to their roles and have Act 2006 with the name Pianodove PLC.
Pianodove PLC changed sufficient time available to discharge their duties.
its name to CYBG PLC on 1 October 2015.
The registered office In accordance with the Code, all Directors will retire and seek of the Company is at 20 Merrion Way, Leeds, West Yorkshire, LS2 re-election at the 2018 AGM.
8NZ with the Head Office and principal place of business of the Company being 30 St Vincent Place, Glasgow, G1 2HL.
Directors indemnities The Directors have each entered into individual deeds of access, Directors insurance and indemnity with the Group which, among other The current Directors of the Company and their biographical things and subject to certain exceptions, indemnify the Directors details are shown on pages 55 to 59.
As previously announced, to the maximum extent permitted by law and regulation against Richard Gregory, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director liabilities to a person other than the Company or an associated retired from the Board on 10 January 2017. company that they may incur as an officer of the Company and Particulars of Directors emoluments and interests in shares in any other subsidiary of the Group.
Each such provision constitutes the Company are given on pages 108 to 118 of the Directors a third-party indemnity provision and a qualifying indemnity remuneration report.
provision for the purposes of section 234 to 236 of the Companies Act 2006.
These provisions are in force for the benefit During the year, no Director had a material interest in any contract of the Directors at the date of this report, and were in force when of significance to which the Company or a subsidiary undertaking this report was approved and during the financial year to which this was a party.
Such deeds are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Board composition changes Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 October 2016, The Group has an insurance policy in place for the benefit of all and up to the date of this report, are shown in the table below.
trustees, colleagues, Directors, officers, members and partners Further details of Board changes can be found on page 67 of the of the Company while acting in the capacity of a trustee or Corporate governance report and on page 76 of the Governance administrator of employee benefit or pension plans.
This policy and Nomination Committee report.
therefore indemnifies the Directors of Yorkshire and Clydesdale Bank Pension Trustee Limited and YCB DC Trustee Limited each Name Role Date of retirement a Trustee Company, the trustees of two occupational pension Richard Gregory Senior Independent 10 January 2017 schemes operated by the Group, against liability incurred by them Non-Executive in connection with the management and administration of the Director pension schemes.
This insurance policy constitutes a pension scheme indemnity provision and a qualifying indemnity provision for the purposes of sections 235 to 236 of the Companies Act Annual general meeting AGM 2006.
These provisions are in force for the benefit of the The Companys 2018 AGM will be held at 10am GMT on Directors of Trustee Companies at the date of this report, and Wednesday 31 January 2018 at the offices of Pinsent Masons LLP, were in force when this report was approved and during the 30 Crown Place, Earl Street, London, EC2A 4ES, United Kingdom.
financial year to which this report relates.
Such policy is available Details of the meeting venue and the resolutions to be proposed, for inspection at the Companys registered office.
together with explanatory notes, are set out in a separate Notice of AGM which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts and In addition, the Group had appropriate Directors and Officers is published on the Companys website www.
com Liability Insurance cover in place throughout the financial year.
The AGM will be webcast live at 10am GMT on Wednesday 31 January 2018 on the Companys website www.
com and a Profits and appropriations recording will also be available shortly after the conclusion of the The Group profit before tax for the financial year ended AGM.
Please note that viewing the live webcast does not enable 30 September 2017 amounted to 268m 2016: profit of 77m.
shareholders to ask questions or vote during the AGM.
The profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders for the year ended 30 September 2017 amounted to 146m 2016: loss The webcast may include a question and answer session with of 206m.
As at 30 September 2017, the distributable reserves shareholders present at the AGM in addition to background shots of the Company were 1,002m 2016: 1,003m.
Photographs may also be taken at the CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 123 Governance Directors report policy not to make any political donations to political parties or Dividends incur political expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those The Directors recommend a final dividend of 1p per ordinary share words.
Given the wide definition of donations and expenditure in the Company in respect of the year ended 30 September 2017 within the Companies Act, activities which form part of the regular 2016: Nil which will, subject to approval by shareholders at the operations of the Group such as communicating with government 2018 Annual General Meeting, be payable on 16 February 2018. at local, national and European level and funding events to which politicians are invited, may be covered.
Amendment to the Articles of Association The Company may only amend its Articles of Association if its Financial risk management objectives shareholders pass a special resolution to that effect.
and policies Information about internal controls and financial risk management Share capital, control and Directors powers systems in relation to financial reporting and Board review can be Shares in the Company are listed on both the London Stock found on page 71 of the Corporate governance report.
Exchange LSE and the ASX in the form of CHESS Depositary Interests CDIs and therefore, the Company is required to comply Information about financial risk management objectives and with the disclosure requirements of both listing regimes.
policies in relation to the use of financial instruments can be found in the Risk report on pages 127 to 175.
Details of the movements in allotted share capital during the year, together with the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares, are shown in note 4.1 to the consolidated Post balance sheet events financial statements.
There have been no material post balance sheet events.
There are no restrictions on voting rights of securities in the Information included in the Strategic report Company.
The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for determining The following information that would otherwise be required to be attendance and voting entitlements at the AGM.
disclosed in this report and which is incorporated into this report Where participants in an employee share incentive plan operated by reference can be found on the following pages of the Strategic by the Company are the beneficial owners of shares but not the report.
registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised at the Page discretion of participants.
Subject matter reference With the exception of restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Future developments 13 to 15 shares under the Companys share incentive plans, while the shares Colleague engagement 30 to 32 are subject to the rules of the plan, there are no restrictions which Emissions reporting 34 to 35 exist on the transfer or holding of securities in the Company under its Articles of Association and there are no shares carrying special Equality of employment opportunities rights with regards to the control of the Company.
It is the policy of the Group to promote equality of employment Subject to the Articles of Association and provisions of relevant opportunities by giving full and fair consideration to applications statutes, the Board may exercise all powers of the Company.
If existing colleagues become disabled, every effort is made to retain them within the workforce wherever Acquisition of own shares reasonable and practicable.
The Group also endeavours to provide At the AGM of the Company held on 31 January 2017 a equal opportunities in the training, promotion and general career resolution was passed that the Directors were authorised to development of disabled persons.
purchase up to a maximum of 88,153,185 ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share Substantial shareholdings capital.
A renewal of authority will be sought at the 2018 AGM.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the FCAs Further information is set out in the Notice of AGM.
DTR is published on Regulatory Information Services and on the Companys website.
Political donations As at 30 September 2017, the following information has been The Group did not give any money for political purposes nor did it received, in accordance with DTR 5, from holders of notifiable make any political donations to political parties or other political interests in the Companys issued share capital.
The information organisations, or to any independent election candidates, or incur provided below was correct at the date of notification: however, any political expenditure during the year.
At the Annual General the date received may not have been within the current financial Meeting in 2017, shareholders gave authority under Part 14 of year.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have the Companies Act to make political donations and incur political changed since the Company was notified.
However, notification expenditure up to a maximum aggregate amount of 100,000. of any change is not required until the next notifiable threshold This authorisation was sought for prudence as it is the Groups is crossed.
124 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information % of issued capital ICAAP and ILAAP.
The strategic and financial plan makes certain with rights to vote assumptions about the performance of the Group and the in all circumstances economic, market and regulatory environments in which it Total number at general 1 of shares meetings operates.
To support the planning process, downside scenario Perpetual Limited and analysis has been performed to consider how the Groups subsidiaries 83,900,030 9.49% performance would be affected by changing economic and Cooper Investors Pty Ltd 52,888,470 5.99% market conditions throughout the planning period.
Schroders plc 44,572,549 5.04% Information relevant to this assessment can be found in the Investors Mutual Limited 45,016,877 6.17% following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts: AMP Life Limited, AMP Capital a financial summary, including a review of the latest income Investors Limited, Ipac Asset statement and balance sheet is provided in the Financial results Management Limited, AMP section pages 38 to 48: Capital Investors NZ Limited 43,908,981 4.97% the Groups capital position is included in the balance sheet JCP Investment Partners and prudential regulation risks section of the Risk report pages Limited 35,251,058 3.99% 154 to 160: BT Investment Management the Groups liquidity position is described in the balance sheet Limited 27,036,329 3.06% and prudential regulation risks section of the Risk report pages 1 Percentage correct as at 30 September 2017.
160 to 167: the Groups principal risks and policies and processes for managing those risks are described in the Strategic report Going concern on page 19: The Groups Directors have made an assessment of the Groups the Groups business model and strategy are described in the ability to continue as a going concern and are satisfied that the Strategic report pages 10 to 13: and Group has the resources to continue in business for the the Groups approach to stress testing and reverse stress foreseeable future.
testing are described in the Risk report on page 135.
The Groups use of the going concern basis for preparation of the Based upon this assessment, the Directors have concluded that accounts is discussed in note 1.4 of the Groups consolidated there is a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to financial statements.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three years to 30 September 2020.
Viability statement Disclosure of information under Viability In accordance with the Code, the Directors have assessed Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4R the prospects of the Group over a three-year period to Additional information required to be disclosed by LR9.8.
4R, where 30 September 2020. applicable to the Group, can be found in the following sections of this report: The Directors have determined that a three-year period is an appropriate period over which to perform the assessment.
This is Subject matter Page reference the period over which forecasts have a greater level of certainty.
Publication of unaudited The disclosures within the Risk report The Board monitors a longer-term strategic and financial plan which financial information pages 127 to 175 are unaudited extends beyond the three-year period.
This longer-term strategic unless otherwise stated.
and financial plan provides less certainty of outcome, but provides a Allotment of equity 233 robust planning tool against which strategic decisions can be made.
securities Significant contracts 248 In making this assessment the Directors have considered a wide range of information, including the Directors robust review and challenge of the outcomes of the latest ICAAP and the ILAAP, Research and development activities which assess the Groups future projections of capital adequacy, The Group does not undertake formal research and development liquidity and funding.
The Board has also considered the results of activities although it does invest in new platforms and products in stress testing which is performed.
each of its business lines in the ordinary course of business.
In Furthermore, the Directors have considered the current state of addition to new products and services the Group also invests in the balance sheet, principal and emerging risks which could impact internally generated intangible assets including software and the performance of the Group and the Groups strategic and computer systems.
Further details can be found in note 3.10 of the financial plan which includes future projections of profitability Groups consolidated financial statements.
alongside capital funding and liquidity in a manner aligned to the CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 125 Governance Directors report at any time the financial position of the Group and Company Change of control and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply The Group is not party to any significant agreements that are with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for subject to change of control provisions in the event of a takeover safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence bid, other than the following: for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection A Conduct Indemnity Deed with NAB under which NAB has of fraud and other irregularities.
agreed, subject to certain limitations, to provide CYBG with a Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also capped indemnity in respect of certain historic liabilities relating responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, to relevant conduct matters as defined therein.
The capped Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance indemnity will not automatically cease to apply nor will it statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
automatically terminate upon any takeover.
However, prior to any change of control, the parties must cooperate in good faith to facilitate an assessment by the PRA to determine whether Responsibility statement of the Directors in the capped indemnity should continue at the same amount or respect of the Annual Report and Accounts whether it should be terminated in whole or part.
Any such The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge: assessment will be at the sole discretion of the PRA.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the There is a very small number of senior colleagues who are entitled applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view to an enhanced redundancy payment if redundancy arises within of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the the initial period of employment and is a result of a change of Company and the Group and the undertakings included in the control.
The Group has share schemes under which change of consolidation taken as a whole: and control may apply, albeit this is not considered to be significant.
the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Statement of Directors responsibilities Company and the Group, together with a description of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys statements for each financial year.
Under that law, they are and Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Independent auditor and audit information by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the In accordance with section 485 of the Companies Act 2006, a parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Under resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP, and to authorise the company law the Directors must not approve the financial Audit Committee to agree their remuneration, will be proposed statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair at the next AGM.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that year.
In preparing The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of these financial statements the Directors are required to: approving the Report of the Directors are listed on page 53.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Groups select suitable accounting policies in accordance with auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: International Accounting Standard IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no them consistently: information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable each Director has taken all the steps a Director might information: reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific aware of that information.
requirements of IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events On behalf of the Board: and conditions on the financial performance: and state that the Group and Company have complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Lorna McMillan Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and 20 November 2017 Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy CYBG PLC.
09595911 126 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St Str ra at te eg giic c r rep epor ort t F Fiin nanc anciial al re res sul ult ts s G Go ov ver ern na an nc ce e R Riis sk k r rep epor ort t Fi Fin na an nc ciia all s st ta at tem emen ent ts s A Ad dd diit tiion ona all i in nf for orma mat tiion on RISK REPORT Risk report 128 Risk classes 137 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 127
