20 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTRIBUTORS AP ALTERNATIVE ASSETS ATHENE WENDEL Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Investment Company 43.8% Investment Holding Company 35.6% Weight Contribution GBP Weight Contribution GBP No longer held 332bps 4.7% 227bps Total return on position FY17 local Discount Total return on position FY17 local Discount 40.9% 32.1% -27.1% % of investee company % of investee company No longer held 0.8% The position in AP Alternative Assets was by some distance the Wendel has been a high conviction investment for over three years largest positive contributor over the financial year, adding 332bps now and was your Companys largest position for much of the past to British Empires NAV as the position climbed in value by 43.8%.
The share price total return from Wendel over the year was 34%, with 21% of that coming from NAV return and the remainder from the The Company first invested in AP Alternative Assets in mid-2012, effects of discount contraction.
attracted by the 40% discount and managements unambiguous message that they saw no better investment than buying back their We have commented in the past about how Wendels discount own shares at such a cheap rating.
Launched in 2006 at a time when stood out as anomalously wide when compared to other European US private equity and hedge fund managers were coming to Europe in family-controlled holding companies and did not appropriately reflect search of permanent capital, AP Alternative Assets was established to the high-quality nature of its assets or the prospect of corporate co-invest alongside fund manager Apollos private equity funds and in transactions unlocking a great deal of hidden value from their unlisted its credit and hedge funds.
Just under a third of its NAV was invested businesses.
One year ago, the discount stood at 33%, whereas today in a privately-held life insurance company called Athene.
The financial it has narrowed to 25%.
Partly, this reflects the increased awareness crisis saw sharp mark-downs in Apollos heavily-levered private equity for potential M&A amongst the four largest unlisted businesses in investments exacerbated by further leverage at the AP Alternative their portfolio and, additionally, it is also down to action taken by Assets level.
Apollos response was aggressive, buying up debt management to reduce gearing at the holding company something issued by their portfolio companies at deep discounts to par, and the which we have long encouraged management to address.
portfolio had been much stabilised by the time we invested.
Late-2012 saw a restructuring under which AP Alternative Assets injected its The likely sale of some of Wendels unlisted companies is an exciting investments into Athene in exchange for additional shares in Athene, prospect and was fundamental to our thesis for having such a large which became a single asset holding company as a result.
It is this part of the portfolio where there is greatest uncertainty about the realisable value and we expect that We viewed Athene, a pure-play provider of fixed mainly equityultimately the sale of these businesses will occur at prices in excess of indexed annuities, as an attractive high-growth business with clear reported NAVs.
The prospect of unlocking some of this hidden value and embedded cost of capital and competitive advantages over peers.
is an important driver of returns.
We believe it will boost the NAV of the We added materially to the position in AP Alternative Assets over the Company and also improve sentiment, so reducing the discount.
years, despite its shares trading at times at premiums approaching 30% to official reported NAVs.
As our analysis suggested Athene was As the market has started to appreciate this potential, we have taken appreciably undervalued by the official valuation at which it was held.
some partial profits and reinvested the proceeds into other situations Athenes successful IPO in the first half of December saw us reduce where we believe investors have failed to recognise value.
Wendel the position, and we sold the remainder of the combined holding over remains too cheap in our view and we maintain that there is plenty of the next six months as Athenes share price climbed further.
upside to come from NAV growth and further discount contraction.
Over the life of this investment, the position recorded a return on investment in US Dollars of 115% and an internal rate of return IRR of 44% 140% and 52% respectively in GBP.
% OF TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES % of total assets less current liabilities.
4.7% Weighted returns adjusted for buys and sells over the year.
Figure is an estimate by the managers and sum of contributions will not equal quoted total return over the financial year.
British Empire Trust plc 21 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information WENDEL CONSTANTIA FLEXIBLES Constantia Flexibles is one of the worlds leading on a global basis in the world's most attractive and fastestgrowing markets for flexible packaging and labels.
Constantia manufacturers of flexible packaging and labels.
The group supplies its products to numerous multinational Flexibles stands for premium positioning, leading technology, customer proximity and highly efficient production facilities.
corporations and local market leaders in the food, pet food, pharmaceuticals and beverage industries.
In recent years the group has developed from a supplier with a strong European regional focus into a group which is active Source Constantia Flexibles 22 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW INVESTOR AB ATLAS COPCO It specialises in the design and assembly of custom-made compressed air and nitrogen generation packages and Atlas Copco provides high quality compressors, industrial modules.
Atlas Copco Compressors supports UK industry, not only by providing high-quality air products, but also by vacuum pumps, power tools and construction & mining equipment, as well as service plans, through its five employing diverse people with both engineering and nonengineering backgrounds and ensuring their continuous training business areas: Compressor Technique, Vacuum Technique, Industrial Technique, Construction Technique and Mining & and development, unique career opportunities and attractive working conditions.
Source Atlas Copco British Empire Trust plc 23 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CONTRIBUTORS INVESTOR AB JPEL PRIVATE EQUITY Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Investment Holding Company 28.9% Investment Company 26.8% Weight Contribution GBP Weight Contribution GBP 3.8% 174bps 4.6% 144bps Total return on position FY17 local Discount Total return on position FY17 local Discount 27.9% -20.5% 29.7% -19.3% % of investee company % of investee company 0.3% 15.1% Investor is one of the greatest illustrations of the advantages and JPEL Private Equity has been a strong source of returns, particularly attractions of investing in family-controlled holding companies.
The following its move into run-off in early 2016.
The position returned Company has now held a position in Investor for 15 years and during 26.8% over the year, adding 144bps to British Empires NAV.
NAV this period it has outperformed the MSCI All Country World ex-US growth of 18% and the discount moving in from 26% to 19% only Index by 6.5% on an annualised basis.
The fact that, despite this tells half the story, as two returns of capital were also made at NAV tremendous record, the company still trades at a discount to NAV i. e. at zero discounts.
greater than 20% is baffling to us, particularly when one considers that a number of its peers amongst the Swedish holding company The first distribution under the new policy, paid via a mandatory sector with inferior track records trade at narrower discounts.
It is redemption of shares at NAV, was announced in November 2016 encouraging that the discount has narrowed over the past 12 months and was relatively modest at just 4% of NAV.
December then saw the from 24% one year ago to 21% today.
Nevertheless, it remains sale of Innovia, the company responsible for the new UK plastic five wider than is justified by its long-term track record and the quality pound notes, to Canadian strategic buyer CCL Industries.
Innovia was of its portfolio.
a co-investment made in 2014 by JPEL Private Equity alongside lead sponsor Arle, and the impressive returns 3.2x invested capital IRR Like Wendel, Investor owns both listed and unlisted assets, but it is in of 50% help validate the renewed investment programme begun by the unlisted portfolio that there is the greatest potential for unlocking JPEL Private Equity at the beginning of 2014.
The sale of Innovia came hidden value.
Reported NAVs are typically out of line with realistic at a 100% uplift to carrying value, boosting JPEL Private Equitys NAV realisable values.
It is in this area that we at AVI spend a lot of our by 3.6%.
This was followed in March by the sale of Datamars, the research effort trying to identify assets where the market has failed to animal tagging business, for a return on invested capital of 3.5x and appreciate the true value.
It was therefore very pleasing when Investor an IRR of 51%.
These realisations helped fund a subsequent return of this year took steps to publicly disclose their estimated realisable capital of 19% of NAV.
valuations of the unlisted assets in the portfolio.
Investments had previously been held at book value: masking the true value in the With the maturity of JPEL Private Equitys Zero Dividend Preference portfolio and causing an artificially wide discount.
The impact from shares at the end of October, substantially all of the proceeds from such a disclosure was greater than we had anticipated which saw a future portfolio exits will be available for distribution to shareholders, narrowing of the discount and an increase in the markets assessment and we expect a further distribution to be made before the end of of Investors NAV, adding 13% of previously hidden value to the 2017 given the recently reported sale of a key holding.
Sample metrics for JPEL Private Equitys buy-out portfolio show In addition to the improved transparency on unlisted valuations, an average weighted EV EBITDA carrying value of just 7x, which Investor held its first capital markets day in seven years, with compares favourably to the average 9.9x EV EBITDA level recorded presentations from Investors largest unlisted assets.
These steps for US middle market buy-outs in Q1-17, suggesting that its portfolio towards greater communication with the market were well received is under-valued compared to listed markets.
We continue to see and we are encouraged to see such a large family holding company upside and further liquidity in JPEL Private Equitys portfolio.
take such interest in minority shareholders.
3.8% Weighted returns adjusted for buys and sells over the year.
24 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTRIBUTORS AKER ASA EXOR Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Investment Holding Company 16.9% Investment Holding Company 22.0% Weight Contribution GBP Weight Contribution GBP 3.5% 128bps 5.1% 108bps Total return on position FY17 local Discount Total return on position FY17 local Discount 19.1% -29.4% 20.3% -29.4% % of investee company % of investee company 1.5% 0.4% Aker was by far the greatest contributor to performance in 2016, and EXOR is a new investment for your Company and one that we have been adding to heavily since the first purchase in December.
It is now was once again a key driver of returns this year.
As the market started your Companys second largest holding and much of the profit we to price in the recovery in the oil price from the low levels seen in 2016 took out of Wendel has been reinvested into EXOR.
and to recognise the high quality nature of Akers portfolio, as well as the proactive approach of management, the discount narrowed EXOR is run by the Agnelli family with a history dating back to the late from 43% 18 months ago to 18% at some points during the current 19th century.
Originally the holding company for FIAT, through value year.
We used this substantial re-rating to reduce the holding in a enhancing transactions and a commitment to diversifying the groups substantial way for the first time since the initial investment in 2008. assets, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles FCA now accounts for only 31% of EXORs portfolio.
Other assets include reinsurer PartnerRe 26%, Over the whole year, Akers NAV, including dividends, appreciated Ferrari 19% and CNH Industrial 17%.
Our interest in EXOR was by 21% following on from a NAV return of 55% in the prior year, with piqued when, in early 2016, its discount widened from the low teens AkerBP being the main driver of returns given its 60% weight in Akers to 35%.
The discount subsequently narrowed rapidly to 17% before NAV.
The focus at AkerBP is the start-up of Johan Sverdrup, one widening again to 25%, where we made the initial investment.
A key of the five largest oil fields ever found in the Norwegian continental element of our investment thesis is the potential upside in FCA.
First oil is expected in late 2019, although the field is now Sergio Marchionne became CEO in 2004, it has been transformed 60% complete and ahead of plan so this may be brought forward, from a small loss-making Italian car company to the fifth largest global much to the delight of shareholders.
AkerBP is a quality operator, auto manufacturer by market cap.
consistently beating production expectations and lowering production With Marchionnes retirement planned for early 2019, FCA has cost guidance.
We trust management to continue in this manner and been clear about meeting certain profitability and net debt targets.
on a dividend yield of 3.8%, before Johan Sverdrup delivers its first oil, Annual targets up to and including 2018 were released in 2014 and, we expect further upside.
despite FCA meeting the targets so far, the market has little faith in The second largest asset in Akers portfolio is ship leasing business the 2018 target.
This is evident in that FCA trades on a 2018 guided EV EBIT multiple of 2.2x.
Marchionne has commented numerous Ocean Yield, accounting for 20% of NAV and returning 19% over times regarding the market valuation of FCA and it is our belief that the year.
It continues to invest in new vessels across a variety of end something will be done to unlock this value, most likely through further industries and pay an attractive yield to Aker.
One large exposure to spin offs, but potentially through a large merger.
Despite FCA almost a gas producing vessel in India is a concern given its lease maturity at doubling since the first purchase, we believe there is further valuation the end of 2018.
We believe this uncertainty is suppressing the market upside.
The combination of a hated industry, with the accompanying price and once the outcome of the contract becomes clear we expect low valuation, and a rational, value-realising CEO skews the risk-reward the market to value Ocean Yield on a more favourable yield than the in the Companys favour.
We estimate that the potential value of FCA is current 8.3%.
substantially higher than the current share price and it is the prospect of a corporate event occurring in the next 12-18 months that has driven Aker has taken full advantage of the oil downturn in some asset our conviction in this investment and made it such a large holding.
categories, investing counter cyclically in unloved sectors.
The 30% discount on which Aker trades seems too wide for a company with a Ferrari, accounting for 19% of EXORs portfolio, has also been an predominantly listed portfolio.
While we wait for this to narrow, we are important driver of returns since the initial investment in EXOR, with an being paid a 5% yield to invest alongside a family who have shown increase in its share price of 94%.
It has increased in value by 112% great investment acumen and in a group of companies that we find since its IPO in 2015. attractive in their own right.
We will continue to hold a position in While we do have our reservations regarding valuation, the quality of Aker while such favourable attributes exist.
Ferraris business is undeniable and we believe it will generate attractive growth and margins for many years to come.
PartnerRe is an interesting investment for EXOR.
It is part of the strategy to diversify away from the historic main holding in Fiat.
Reinsurance rates have fallen as capital seeking idiosyncratic returns has driven down premiums.
It is in such environments that having investment discipline is paramount.
Being privately owned by EXOR, who have no requirement to demand shortterm targets, is allowing PartnerRe to reduce their level of underwriting and to avoid irrational deals.
When the cycle turns, it will be PartnerRe which emerges as a winner, much to the benefit of EXOR.
% of total assets less current liabilities.
Weighted returns adjusted for buys and sells over the year.
On a 29% discount we do not believe that the market is accurately Figure is an estimate by the managers and sum of contributions will not equal reflecting the investment acumen of EXOR or the potential for value quoted total return over the financial year.
British Empire Trust plc 25 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information % OF TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 5.1% EXOR FIAT CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES Fiat Chrysler Automobiles FCA consists of a unique portfolio of distinctive brands that meet the needs and expectations of customers and enthusiasts around the world.
FCA continues to build upon the historic foundations of FIAT, founded in Italy in 1899 by pioneering entrepreneurs, including Giovanni Agnelli, and Chrysler Corp. established in 1925 by industry visionary Walter P. Chrysler.
Source Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV 26 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTRIBUTORS PARGESA NB PRIVATE EQUITY Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Investment Holding Company 18.6% Investment Company 20.9% Weight Contribution GBP Weight Contribution GBP 5.7% 106bps 3.7% 105bps Total return on position FY17 local Discount Total return on position FY17 local Discount 22.4% -32.8% 22.9% -18.8% % of investee company % of investee company 1.2% 3.7% Pargesa is a Swiss-listed holding company whose sole asset is a stake Your Companys position in NB Private Equity Partners NBPE in Belgian-listed holding company Groupe Bruxelles Lambert GBL : registered a 21% total return, contributing 105bps.
on a look-through basis, the two companies assets are therefore identical and include stakes in listed companies LafargeHolcim, The long-awaited announcement in March of NBPEs plans to Imerys, SGS, Adidas, Pernod-Ricard, Umicore, Engie and Ontex.
enfranchise its shareholders helped drive the companys discount down.
At the time of NBPEs IPO in 2007, the high proportion of In September 2015, we sold the Companys position in GBL and US shareholders on its register would have resulted in the company invested the proceeds in Pargesa when Pargesas discount both losing its Foreign Private Issuer status with adverse consequences absolute and relative to GBL reached rarely seen levels.
At that time, for its investment flexibility if shareholders had full voting rights.
The Pargesas discount was 34% compared with a long-term average change in the shareholder base since the companys listing meant of 25% and GBLs was 22% 26%, and the 12% spread between this had ceased to be such an impediment and, having engaged the two discounts was the largest that it had been in over a decade constructively with the board and management of NBPE on the issue the long-term average spread is 1%.
over a sustained period of time, we were pleased with the proposed introduction of full voting rights for ordinary shareholders.
Pargesa gives the Company exposure to a high-quality portfolio of European listed companies.
The active approach of management The move was accompanied by an upgrade of the companys listing has delivered good returns over the long term.
On an anomalously to the Premium segment of the London Stock Exchange which, in wide discount of 34% we believe this is an excellent way of getting tandem with a switch of trading currency from USD to GBP, made exposure to European equities, with potential upside coming from the shares eligible to enter the FTSE indices and opened them up to a variety of sources strong European equity markets: discount index-tracker buying for the first time.
Having begun this reporting contraction and active ownership.
We have been surprised that the period on a 23% discount, NBPEs discount tightened in to a 12%- discount has remained at these elevated levels for almost two years, 13% range ahead of the FTSE re-balancing and we took advantage particularly as investors are buying into the same portfolio and the of the re-rating to reduce what had become an out-sized position.
same management via GBL on a far narrower discount.
We continue By the year-end, the discount had drifted out to almost 20% on the to believe that investors will recognise this at some point.
In the back of selling pressure, but we expect the result of the companys meantime, there is no cheaper way to gain access to a diversified restructuring to be a narrower discount over the long term than would portfolio of high quality European names and for this reason, otherwise have been the case.
Pargesa is currently your Companys largest position.
In terms of NAV growth, NBPE has had a respectable year with a 13% NAV total return in US Dollars, but we believe there is more to come.
The legacy funds portfolio, which has been a relative drag on returns, is now down to just 16% of NAV and its impact should be more muted going forward.
Moreover, NBPE has been a particularly active investor over the last few years 60% of its direct equity co-investments were made in 2015 or later, and we expect returns to accelerate on these investments as they move further through the investing cycle.
Notably, NBPEs 2014 investments are already held at 1.8x cost.
Another feature of NBPE that we think is under-appreciated by the market is an advantageous fee structure relative to its listed private equity peers.
There are no management or performance fees charged on co-investments made by the lead GP sponsor, as compared to funds of funds which typically have a double layer of fees.
In addition, the level of NBPEs single layer of fees compares favourably to direct investing peers 7.5% performance fee versus 15-20% for peers.
We continue to view NBPE shares as undervalued given the attractive portfolio composition and fee structure.
British Empire Trust plc 27 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information TOP 30 LOOK-THROUGH HOLDINGS British Empire invests in holding companies and closed-end funds that in turn invest in listed and unlisted companies.
We show below the top 30 holdings on a look-through basis, i. e. the underlying companies to which we have exposure.
For example, British Empire owns a stake in Symphony International Holdings, a London-listed private equity fund, that accounts for 4.8% of British Empires portfolio 5.2% of its NAV.
Symphony International's largest holding is Minor International, which accounts for c. 50% of its own NAV.
This translates to an effective exposure of British Empire to Minor International of 2.6% of British Empires NAV.
The table below is an indication of the degree of diversification of the portfolio.
Underlying look-through Look-through Look-through holding Parent company weight holding sector Minor International Symphony International Holdings 2.6% Hotels, Resorts & Cruise Lines Aker BP Aker ASA 2.3% Oil & Gas Exploration & Production Swire Properties Swire Pacific Ltd A and B 2.3% Real Estate Operating Companies Bureau Veritas Wendel 2.2% Research & Consulting Services Fiat Chrysler Automobiles EXOR 2.0% Automobile Manufacturers Toyota Forklifts and Handling Equipment Toyota Industries 1.8% Auto Parts & Equipment Toshiba Plant Operations Toshiba Plant 1.7% Construction & Engineering PartnerRe EXOR 1.7% Reinsurance Canadian Intl Oil Corp Riverstone Energy 1.6% Oil & Gas Exploration & Production Automatic Data Processing Pershing Square Holdings 1.5% Data Processing & Outsourced Services Toyota Motor Corp Toyota Industries 1.4% Automobile Manufacturers Centennial Resource Development Riverstone Energy 1.3% Oil & Gas Exploration & Production Kakaku.
com Digital Garage 1.3% Internet Software & Services Jardine Cycle & Carriage Jardine Strategic 1.3% Car & Motorbike Distribution Indonesia Mondelez Pershing Square Holdings 1.3% Packaged Foods & Meats Hongkong Land Jardine Strategic 1.3% Real Estate Operating Companies Ferrari EXOR 1.2% Automobile Manufacturers Dairy Farm Jardine Strategic 1.2% Food Retail Imerys Pargesa 1.1% Construction Materials CNH Industrial EXOR 1.1% Agricultural & Farm Machinery Cosan Cosan Ltd 1.1% Oil & Gas Refining & Marketing Hidroelectrica SA Fondul Proprietatea 1.1% Electric Utilities Adidas Pargesa 1.1% Apparel, Accessories & Luxury Goods LafargeHolcim Pargesa 1.0% Construction Materials Restaurant Brands International Pershing Square Holdings 0.9% Restaurants Zalando Kinnevik B 0.9% Internet & Direct Marketing Retail Financial Technology e-payments Digital Garage 0.9% Data Processing & Outsourced Services FibroGen JPEL Private Equity 0.9% Biotechnology SGS Pargesa 0.9% Research & Consulting Services Tokyo Electron Tokyo Broadcasting Systems 0.8% Semiconductor Equipment 28 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTRIBUTORS JARDINE STRATEGIC BETTER CAPITAL 2009 Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Investment Holding Company 16.5% Investment Holding Company 24.2% Weight Contribution GBP Weight Contribution GBP 4.5% 102bps 0.4% 98bps Total return on position FY17 local Discount Total return on position FY17 local Discount 24.7% -23.5% 24.2% -44.7% % of investee company % of investee company 0.1% 2.0% Like Investor AB, the Company has been invested in either Jardine We added significantly to the Companys position in Better Capital Matheson or Jardine Strategic for well over a decade.
And like 2009 BCAP over 2016, and reaped the benefits of doing so this Investor AB, this long-term investment has been justified by returns year when the sale of its key holding, Gardner Aerospace, came well in excess of broad equity markets once again highlighting the through.
The holding in BCAP increased in value by 24%, adding very real attractions of investing for the long term in family-controlled 98 basis points to your Companys NAV: the position is now much holding companies.
smaller following the return of the proceeds from the Gardner sale.
Last year, we sold the Companys stake in Jardine Matheson after We first invested in BCAP in December 2014 after a material and its discount narrowed to below 10% and reinvested the proceeds badly-communicated write-down in one of its previously strongin October 2016 into Jardine Strategic.
The Keswick family exert performing portfolio companies resulted in the evaporation of the control over these two listed companies by way of a complex premium rating then enjoyed by the company.
Having traded at cross-shareholding structure, but the two companies essentially times in excess of a 20% premium, we were able to acquire stock offer exposure to the same group of underlying listed companies, on discounts exceeding 20%.
We viewed the holding in Gardner predominantly in Asia Dairy Farm, Hongkong Land, Mandarin Aerospace, which then accounted for 50% of BCAPs NAV, as an Oriental and Astra International via Jardine Cycle & Carriage.
inherently attractive business given four factors: first, its advantaged position as a Tier 1 supplier to Airbus manufacturing a large number The initial investment in Jardine Strategic was made at a discount of of essential parts that accounted for a very low portion of the total 34% and, over the course of this year, that discount has narrowed cost of an aircraft: second, the visibility on future revenue and earnings to 24% the narrowest level we have observed since 2009.
At the growth from the ramping-up of production on contracts already won: same time, its NAV has grown by 10% so that the total return over third, the high regulatory and technical barriers to entry: and last, the year has been achieved from a combination of both NAV growth strong levels of customer retention.
This discount narrowing and NAV growth provided good returns for your Company, as Jardine Strategic In November 2016, BCAP announced it was in exclusive discussions contributed slightly over 1% to NAV.
However, the protracted sale process, and scepticism over the credentials of the buyer given other Chinese The Jardine Groups long-term focus on creating shareholder value International M&A deals falling through led to the shares trading at from a concentrated, high-quality portfolio of Asian-focused assets an implied discount of over 80% to the ex-Gardner rump.
The deal continues to appeal to us even at these narrower discount levels.
completed in June 2017, with BCAP recording a 7x multiple on cost The valuations of the underlying companies look attractive and we and 35% IRR on its investment.
The sale price for Gardner was more see upside potential in them.
This will be an important driver of returns than double its carrying value at the time of the initial investment in coming years, notwithstanding any changes in the discount.
addition, it has been interesting to observe that Jardine Matheson has been buying additional shares in Jardine Strategic in recent months, At the end of June, BCAP returned the proceeds from the sale to increasing their stake to 84%.
This may well have been a factor behind shareholders resulting in 83% of the holding being redeemed at NAV.
the recent discount contraction and, in addition, we believe it pays This investment, initiated in December 2014, has registered a 27% to look at what the controlling shareholders are doing.
The fact that IRR to date, driven by the upside we identified in Gardner at the outset they are effectively buying up more of their own company is possibly in addition to discount narrowing.
a good indicator of the value they see in their businesses.
British Empire Trust plc 29 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information DETRACTORS PERSHING SQUARE HOLDINGS HUDSONS BAY Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Description Total return on position FY17 GBP Investment Company -18.7% Asset-backed Company -35.1% Weight Contribution GBP Weight Contribution GBP 3.9% -104bps No longer held -182bps Total return on position FY17 local Discount Total return on position FY17 local Discount -15.4% -24.1% -36.0% % of investee company % of investee company 1.7% No longer held Despite only being acquired late in the financial year, Pershing Square Hudsons Bay was the largest detractor from performance this year, Holdings PSH was the second largest detractor -104bps.
This was costing your Company 182bps of NAV.
We initiated this position in due mainly to discount widening, but also as a result of share price December 2015 because, in addition to owning a number of retail th weakness in its holdings in Mondelez and Chipotle Mexican Grill.
We brands Hudsons Bay, Saks 5 Avenue, Lord & Taylor and Kaufhof, welcome a falling share price particularly when driven largely by an it also owned the real estate from which these brands operated.
expanding discount while we are building a new position as it allows Management had already started the process of unlocking this real us to accumulate additional shares at lower levels.
We continued to estate value by spinning off a large part of their portfolio into separate add to your Companys holding in PSH at discounts approaching joint venture companies, and we had high hopes that this process of 25%, having made the initial purchases at the 15% level.
monetisation would continue and narrow the very wide gap between the share price and the value of its real estate assets.
We were The reputation of Pershing Square Capital Management, the manager reassured of this by the presence of the Chairman as the largest of PSH, has been damaged by the catastrophic losses experienced in single shareholder in the company and were confident his strategy their out-sized position in Valeant Pharmaceuticals, but the corollary of monetising real estate assets would deliver strong returns for all of this is that we were able to make the investment in PSH at wide shareholders.
discounts to NAV, despite the managers long-term track record still being outstanding 13.5% annualised returns since inception in 2004 The investment did not work out as planned and we decided to sell vs 8.3% for the S&P500 index.
the entire investment this year and realise a loss of 9.4m.
Like many retailing businesses around the world, Hudsons Bay has been hit We see clear scope for upside in several of PSHs largest holdings, hard by the Amazonisation of the retail industry.
The massive growth in particular Mondelez.
Mondelez has a compelling collection of of e-commerce and the scale of Amazons ambitions has changed brands with enviable emerging market exposures, and its sub-par the industry enormously.
This affected Hudsons Bay as, not only margins notwithstanding improvements over the last few years offer a were retail profits under pressure, but at the same time, the value of purchaser huge scope for efficiency gains.
If M&A is not forthcoming, its real estate assets, which are inextricably linked to the success of the prospect of margin expansion is an attractive plan B. the retail operations, were hit hard.
One only has to look at the retail REIT sector in the US to see how the market has reacted to this We also believe it is untenable for Pershing Square to preside over a phenomenon.
The sharp declines in the share price of Hudsons Bay public vehicle trading at a wide discount to NAV given their high profile reflect the reality that it will be very difficult to capture the potential and vocal championing of shareholder rights during various activist value of those real estate assets at a time when pricing is so weak.
We are pleased to see that steps have been taken to address the rating improving voting rights, moving to a main We do not know whether the value of these assets will recover.
What market London listing, introducing a buyback, but we will expect we do know, however, is that the timing of the monetisation event will further discount control measures to be implemented should the rating have to be pushed out into the future and that the financial position of not improve materially.
the company will continue to look stretched for as long as retail profits are under pressure.
Painful as it was to take the loss, we think there is too much risk in the company for us to maintain a position.
30 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW ADDITIONAL HOLDINGS OF INTEREST JAPANESE SPECIAL SITUATIONS Description Asset-backed Companies Weight 6.6% Discount -32.0% The Japanese Special Situations basket consists of 15 stocks that have inefficient balance sheets and diversified domestic sector exposure.
Really, these should be thought of as one basket made up of cash and assets that trade at a discount.
Our investment thesis is that with a large portion of their value in net cash, which is being under appreciated by the market, they will outperform, particularly under the pressure of improving corporate governance.
We formed the basket at the beginning of June and it now consists of 15 names with an aggregate 7.3% weight in your Company.
We found the most opportunities in small-capitalisation companies which often are not accessible to other large market participants due to lack of liquidity and size.
Your Companys fixed base of capital allows us to bear this illiquidity risk and to remain agile so that such opportunities can be exploited.
Source Parsona Group In addition to the focus on highly capitalised balance sheets, we also sought companies with strong cash generation despite a large portion of capital being used inefficiently.
By investing in this basket, we have effectively placed 53% of invested capital in cash yet are still receiving a 6.5% Free Cash Flow FCF yield and a dividend yield of 1.5%.
If these companies were to return their redundant tangible assets to shareholders, these investments would have a FCF yield of 24%.
There are few markets outside Japan where a portfolio with the above statistics could be created.
While the holding period has been short, the performance has been strong, with the basket outperforming the TOPIX index by 11%.
We find the changing corporate governance theme in Japan to be an interesting one and believe that we have built a compelling basket of companies, at attractive valuations, that should be a beneficiary of such change.
% OF TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 6.6% % of total assets less current liabilities.
British Empire Trust plc 31 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information JAPANESE SPECIAL SITUATIONS The companies in this category are as follows: Pasona Group Yamato Kogyo Denyo Tachi-S Kato Sangyo Matsui Construction Enplas Toa Daiwa Industries Hirano Tecseed Takamatsu Dai-Dan Nishimatsuya Chain Construction Nakano Nippon Road 32 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW SWIRE PACIFIC A & B CATHAY PACIFIC Cathay Pacific Airways is an international airline registered in Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Limited.
They are also a founding member of the oneworld global alliance whose combined and based in Hong Kong, offering scheduled cargo and passenger services to more than 110 destinations around network serves over 700 destinations worldwide.
Cathay Pacific is the major shareholder in AHK Air Hong Kong Limited, an all cargo carrier that offers scheduled services in the Asia region, and is a shareholder Source Swire Pacific A & B British Empire Trust plc 33 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ADDITIONAL HOLDINGS OF INTEREST SWIRE PACIFIC A & B VIETNAM PHOENIX FUND C Description Discount Description Discount Investment Holding Company -27.6% -35.4% Investment Company -17.6% Weight % of investee company Weight % of investee company 0.4% 2.2%.
0.1% 0.6% 2.4% 18.5% Swire Pacific, through both their A and B shares, has had a small While we engage with the boards and management of almost all negative impact on British Empires NAV over the 12 months.
While investee companies, we consider ourselves constructive shareholders the large exposure to their listed property subsidiary, Swire Properties, and seek to work with companies to find ways to improve the rating has provided strong returns, similar to those we saw with Hongkong on which they trade.
On some occasions, however, we are forced Land and the Jardine Group, other holdings in Cathay Pacific, to take a more forthright stance.
The investment in Vietnam Phoenix HAECO and the Marine Services Division, SPO, have been a drag Fund formerly known as DWS Vietnam Fund, which added 80bps on performance.
In fact, the stub value of the ex-Swire Properties over the year, has been one such example.
businesses currently has a negative valuation something that has only occurred once since 2012.
We first invested in Vietnam Phoenix Fund in July 2013.
Despite a successful track record, the companys shares languished on However, while we believe these businesses including their beverage a near 40% discount due to an egregious fee structure, poor bottling and distribution business are worth more than zero, the corporate governance, a conflicted board and the absence of any company needs to do more to improve returns from their investments.
An 18% stake was accumulated in After meeting with management in Hong Kong recently, we were the company and we set to work tackling the various issues that pleased to see that they have taken some steps to try to remedy this were resulting in such a wide discount to NAV.
We voted against as the family are clearly displeased about performance in recent years.
the three management representatives on the board and had two They have made sweeping changes to the Swire board, removing of our nominees appointed as directors.
The company cancelled directors who were representatives of the underlying holdings, the 10% of its shares held in treasury and began a new buyback enabling a more transparent and rigorous review of their performance.
Most significantly, we extracted a public commitment In addition, they brought an external candidate onto the board who from the board that the managers contract would not be extended has strong experience of corporate deals in China.
We believe this on the same terms and to put forward restructuring proposals to greater oversight of performance and ability to look at deals will see open-end the fund.
movements in the portfolio which we hope will improve performance significantly over the medium term.
However, we do have to judge In late 2016, the restructuring proposals were approved and Vietnam performance on their actions so we will be watching closely.
Phoenix Fund was converted into an open-ended fund two-thirds of the position that realised its investments over the next three months and returned cash to shareholders at NAV, and a closed-end fund housing the private equity assets that should do the same over the next two years.
We have since added to your Companys holding in the spun-off private equity fund at discounts in excess of 20%.
Its major asset is Greenfeed, an animal feed company that we estimate is carried very inexpensively in the funds NAV, particularly given its strategic positioning and its track record of growing earnings.
Over the life of your Companys investment in Vietnam Phoenix Fund, including the current position in the private equity spin-off, we have recorded a 52% total return and 19% IRR in USD 82% and 29% respectively in GBP.
% OF TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 2.6% % of total assets less current liabilities.
34 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW ADDITIONAL HOLDINGS OF INTEREST SYMPHONY INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS SYMPHONY INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS MINOR INTERNATIONAL Description Discount From its founding in 1978 with a single beachfront resort in Pattaya, Investment Company -27.9% Minor International Pcl MINT is today one of the largest hospitality Weight % of investee company and leisure companies in the Asia Pacific region.
With over 150 hotels 4.8% 14.7% and resorts, 2,000 restaurants and 300 retail trading outlets, MINT meets the growing needs of consumers in Thailand and in 32 markets from Africa to Australia, including South America and Europe.
Symphony holds a portfolio of listed and unlisted investments Source Elewana Collection Loisaba Tented Camp Laikipia, Kenya operating in the hospitality, healthcare, leisure and real estate sectors, with its most significant holding being its 6% stake in Thai-listed Minor International, which accounts for approximately half of Symphonys NAV.
With over 150 hotels and resorts, 2,000 restaurants and 300 retail trading outlets across 32 countries spread across Asia, Africa, Europe, South America, and the Middle East, Minor is a significant company in terms of scale.
Over the year, Symphonys NAV was essentially flat after adjusting for dividends.
Modest increases in the share prices of listed holdings Minor and Parkway Life REIT and small foreign exchange gains were offset by a decline in the share price of IHH Healthcare and a write-down in Christian Liaigre the high-end furniture retailer on the back of a weak retail environment in Paris due to the string of terrorist attacks.
However, your Companys position in Symphony benefited from a material contraction in its discount from 39% to 28%.
Since we first invested in Symphony in 2012, we have engaged constructively with management to find ways to tackle the excessively wide and persistent discount at which the shares have traded.
In 2014, a policy of paying an annual dividend was introduced, with large special dividends being paid for the first three years equivalent to dividend yields of 5.5%, 5.8%, and 8.8%.
This year, the special dividend was cut due to limited excess cash being available for distribution and the dividend yield equated to just 4.1%.
However, a very large additional dividend of $0.10 equivalent on its own to a 12.4% yield was declared in September following the full sale of Parkway Life REIT and the partial sale of some of the holding in Minor.
Given that % OF TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES dividends effectively represent a return of capital at a zero discount, such payments are highly accretive to shareholders.
Our work with management on ways of reducing the discount also saw the appointment of a new corporate broker with greater expertise 4.8% in closed-end funds than the previous incumbent, and the initiation of an aggressive buyback that seeks to repurchase at least 10% of shares annually.
This buyback has helped narrow the discount, and has been significantly accretive to NAV per share given the wide discount on which shares are being repurchased.
