Segment review We have created seven divisions toserve our four segments moreeffectively Asset management The asset management segment includes the brands and businesses that serve the global asset management industry.
Itprovides independent research that enables our clients to make informed investment decisions: runs networks and conferences that bring asset allocators and asset managers together in an effective and efficient way: and provides news and data that are critical for the industry to stay informed and visible in an increasingly complex world.
Its main brands include BCA, Ned Davis Research NDR and the Institutional Investor family of businesses.
More than 80% of the segment revenues are derived from subscriptions to its research and data products and annual membership fees.
2017 2016 Movement Underlying m m % % Total revenue 171.8 156.7 10% 2% Adjusted operatingprofit 64.3 55.2 16% 3% BCA: HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS Adjusted TO NAVIGATE MIFID II operatingmargin 37% 35% BCA embarked on a digital and multi-channel engagement programme to help inform its customers Total asset management revenues increased by 10% to 171.8m.
about the likely impact of MiFID II which comes into Underlying revenues were flat in the first half of the year, forcein January 2018.
We combined a range of online followed by a 4% decline in the second half, largely reflecting marketing tools to build customer awareness, share our the increasing cyclical headwinds caused by the MiFID II expertise as thought-leaders and create an advisory regulations.
By placing senior executives at the centre of thecampaign BCA has demonstrated its subject Despite these headwinds, the adjusted operating margin matterexpertise resulting in wide media coverage.
improved from 35% to 37%, reflecting the Groups rigorous Tocompliment this we launched a MiFID II microsite approach to capital allocation as the cyclical headwinds containing information for customers using webcasts, inasset management worsened.
During the year, the asset video, podcasts and online articles.
We have also management businesses shifted from the top-right to the created an online assessment tool for our customers top-left quadrant.
Hence the segments businesses focussed tomeasure their MiFID II readiness.
This has resulted in onbattening down the hatches and successfully implemented strong customer engagement with our digital channels.
profit protection measures to deliver a 3% underlying growth in We will continue to inform and guide our customers as adjusted profit before tax.
Total revenue by type % 2 9 Subscriptions andcontent 8 Advertising Sponsorship Delegates 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 20 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 20 12 11 2017 12:13:43 PM Strategic report Pricing, data & market intelligence Managing The pricing, data and market intelligence segment houses Intellectual businesses span many industries that provide information and Property analysis critical for our clients business processes and workflows.
The segments largest business is Metal Bulletin, A Euromoney Institutional aleading price reporting agency for the metals and mining Investor Company Grow your network & knowledge industries, but also includes our businesses active in the telecoms, insurance, airline and banking industries.
Two-thirds of the segments revenues are derived from subscriptions.
Price discovery is a big theme and is expected to grow significantly as most industries are seeking more transparency around the prices and risks they face in their traditionally opaque markets.
During 2017 we enhanced our capabilities through the acquisition of RISI, a leading price reporting agencyfor the global forest-products market.
2017 2016 Movement Underlying m m % % Total revenue 165.5 132.1 25% 3% Adjusted SPECIALIST INFORMATION: operatingprofit 51.3 43.8 17% 6% INVESTING IN PRODUCT Adjusted Over the last two years we have invested in our operatingmargin 31% 33% AirFinance Journal business.
We acquired a fleet database and hired leading air finance sector analysts.
Total revenues increased by 25% to 165.5m reflecting These investments have been responsible for AirFinance favourable exchange rates, the acquisition of RISI and strong Journals strong trading, ahead of our investment case.
performances from Metal Bulletin, including the successfully integrated FastMarkets, and the Groups wholesale telecoms We have strong market share in the fast-growing aircraft business, TelCap.
finance sector and are evolving plans to benefit further from the tailwinds the sector is experiencing.
We are The segments adjusted operating margin decreased working with our customers to develop tools that allow from33%to 31%, largely reflecting significant headcount them to better evaluate assets in this sector.
Product investmentin Metal Bulletin, TelCap and Legal Media Group development work is progressing.
Our tools will support todrive new product and sales initiatives, together with costs our customers decision-making for large capital tointegrate FastMarkets into Metal Bulletin and to enhance investments, assist their business prospecting and allow TelCaps events portfolio.
On an underlying basis, adjusted our business to capitalise on the growth of both primary operating profit was down 6%.
Working closely with our customers on product development, our strong market position enables us to benefit from further growth in thisarea.
Total revenue by type % 1 11 Subscriptions andcontent Advertising 9 Sponsorship Delegates Other 10 69 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 21 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 21 12 11 2017 12:13:49 PM Segment review continued Banking & finance Banking & finance provides market intelligence, news, training and conferences to the global finance industry.
Itincludes the flagship Euromoney magazine, a leading publication for the global banking sector, which, through itsawards for excellence, has been the arbiter of status for banks for over 45 years.
Itsconferences across the Euromoney and IMN brands are thepre-eminent events for their specific industry sectors.
Thesegment derives over 70% of its revenues from delegates and sponsorships for its events.
2017 2016 Movement Underlying m m % % Total revenue 69.8 68.1 3% 6% Adjusted operatingprofit 13.8 10.5 31% 7% Adjusted operatingmargin 20% 15% Total revenues increased by 3% to 69.8m, largely due tothe strength of the US dollar improving IMNs growth rate.
Onan BANKING & FINANCE: THOUGHT underlying basis, revenues were down 6% reflecting theGroups LEADERSHIPANDRIVAL ADVOCATES actions to eliminate low-margin events and training courses in Euromoney magazine has long been known as an the first and fourth quarters.
This was partly offset by some arbiterof status in finance.
It is now building on its success in the strategic investment in thought-leadership  platforms such as the Euromoney products in Euromoney magazine.
Awards for Excellence by creating digital amplification campaigns to showcase key award findings to its clients' The adjusted operating margin improved from 15% to 20%, customers and peers.
Euromoney has developed the largely due to the successful restructure of the training business process of peer influence between banks as a powerful in the second half of 2016.
As a result, on an underlying basis, marketing tool through its Rival Advocacy system which adjusted operating profit increased by 7%.
improves customers net promoter scores.
Euromoney is achieving this by combining its authoritative banking coverage with a new, digital audience development platform which draws on Euromoneys database of financial and corporate leaders.
These techniques placeEuromoney at the heart of content-marketing andthought leadership in finance.
Total revenue by type % 2 13 Subscriptions andcontent Advertising 31 Sponsorship 14 Delegates Other 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 22 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 22 12 11 2017 12:13:51 PM Strategic report Commodity events Commodity events consists of the leading conferences in the metals, agriculture and energy sectors.
Most of the conferences are large trading events, bringing the whole industry together toconduct business and exchange market intelligence.
Coaltrans Conferences 2017 2016 Movement Underlying m m % % Total revenue 27.4 29.3 6% 8% Adjusted operatingprofit 6.9 8.0 14% 10% Adjusted operatingmargin 25% 27% Total revenues were down 6% to 27.4m, and down 8% onan underlying basis.
Despite the pick-up in commodities markets during the year, this performance largely reflects the self-help strategic actions taken in 2016 to consolidate some ofthe segments event activities and the decision not to repeat events in certain markets in the fourth quarter due to increased geopolitical instability.
COALTRANS EVENTS: BENEFITTING FROM AMARKETONTHE UPTURN The adjusted operating margin fell from 27% to 25%, primarily Increased demand for coal in Asia has driven coal prices due to the challenging market conditions faced by some of up and we have therefore focused our Coaltrans portfolio thesegments large commodities-related events before the in that region during 2017.
The Groups global footprint improvement in cycle.
As a result, adjusted operating profit enables us to pivot and divert resource where needed fellby an underlying 10%.
At Coaltrans Asia, our hallmark event, over 800 coal professionals gathered for two days of networking and deal-making.
Our performance is enabling us to invest in our core events and event formatsas well as an expanded portfolio and we will continue to do so in order to meet the evolving content and networking needs of our audience.
Total revenue by type % 2 Sponsorship 22 Delegates Other 76 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 23 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 23 12 11 2017 12:13:53 PM
