38 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements There are no geographic limits on exposure, as the Company invests for the year ended 30 September 2017. wherever it considers that there are opportunities for capital growth.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, many of which Status themselves are diversified companies.
The Company is registered as a public limited company under the Companies Act and is an investment company under Section 833 The Company will not invest in any holding that would represent more than of the Companies Act 2006.
15% of the value of its total investments at the time of investment.
The Company has been approved as an investment company under Potential investments falling within the scope of the Companys investment Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Directors are objective will differ over the course of market cycles.
The number of holdings of the opinion, under advice, that the Company continues to conduct its in the portfolio will vary depending upon circumstances and opportunities affairs as an Approved Investment Trust under the Investment Trust within equity markets at any particular time.
The Company may gear its assets through borrowings which may vary The Company is a qualifying company for the purposes of Stocks substantially over time according to market conditions but which will & Shares ISAs.
not exceed twice the nominal capital and reserves of the Company.
The Companys Investment Manager is authorised as an AIFM by the Gearing Levels Financial Conduct Authority under the AIFMD regulations.
The Company has The Companys Investment Policy, as disclosed above, permits a provided disclosures on its website, www.
co. uk, incorporating significant level of gearing, as do the Companys Articles of Association the requirements of the AIFMD regulations.
and the limits set under AIFMD see the Companys website www.
Investment Objective, Policy and Restrictions The objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth through Under normal market conditions, it is expected that the portfolio will be fully a focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose invested, although net gearing levels may fluctuate depending on the value shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
of the Companys assets and short-term movements in liquidity.
Investments are principally in companies listed on recognised stock As set out on page 10, the Companys debt as a percentage of equity as exchanges in the UK and or overseas, which may include investment holding at 30 September 2017 was 7.9%.
Long-term debt comprised 15m of companies, investment trusts and other companies, the share prices of which Debenture Stock and two tranches of Loan Notes, one of 30m and the are assessed to be below their estimated net asset value or intrinsic worth.
Although listed assets make up the bulk of the portfolio, the Company may Subsequent to the year end, on 1 November 2017, the Company also invest in unlisted assets with the prior approval of the Board.
See Chairmans Statement on page 6 and note 17 on page 71 for further information.
The Company generally invests on a long-only basis but may hedge exposures through the use of derivative instruments and may also hedge its foreign currency exposures.
Results and Dividends Company profit for the year was 141,699,000, which included a profit of 12,603,000 attributable to revenue 2016: profit of 204,238,000, which included a profit of 18,747,000 attributable to revenue.
The profit for the year attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: 000 Current year revenue available for dividends 12,603 Interim dividend of 2.0p per Ordinary Share paid on 30 June 2017 2,380 Recommended final dividend payable on 5 January 2018 to shareholders on the Register as at 8 December 2017 ex dividend 7 December 2017 : Final dividend of 10.0p per Ordinary Share 11,557 13,937 Based on shares in circulation on 9 November 2017.
British Empire Trust plc 39 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors Subsidiary Company The Directors of the Company are listed on page 36.
All served throughout The Companys dormant subsidiary, BEST Securities Limited, was dissolved the period under review with the exception of Calum Thomson, who was on 17 January 2017. appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 April 2017.
Andrew Robson retired from the Board on 31 May 2017.
Management Arrangements AVI is the Companys appointed AIFM, and is engaged under the terms Strone Macpherson will be retiring as Chairman and a Director at the of an Investment Management Agreement IMA dated 17 July 2014. conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
The IMA is terminable by one years notice from either party, other than for cause.
In accordance with the recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate Governance, Mr Thomson will stand for election at the AGM.
The Investment Manager is entitled to a management fee of 0.70% The remaining Directors of the Board will retire at the forthcoming AGM of the net assets of the Company, calculated quarterly by reference and offer themselves for re-election.
to the net assets at the preceding quarter end and paid monthly.
As set out on page 43, the Board carries out an annual review of each J. P. Morgan Europe Limited was appointed as Depositary under an Director and of the Board as a whole.
The Board considers that all Directors agreement with the Company and AVI dated 2 July 2014, and is paid a contribute effectively, possess the necessary skills and experience and fee on a sliding scale between 0.5 basis points and 4 basis points based continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles as non-executive on the assets of the Company.
The Depositary Agreement is terminable Directors of the Company.
Following the performance review, it was agreed on 90 calendar days notice from either party.
that all Directors, with the exception of Mr Macpherson, should stand for election re-election, and the election re-election of each of the Directors JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch, has been is recommended by the Board.
appointed as the Companys Custodian under an agreement dated 2 July 2014.
The agreement will continue for so long as the Depositary The Company has provided indemnities to the Directors in respect of costs Agreement is in effect and will terminate automatically upon termination or other liabilities which they may incur in connection with any claims relating of the Depositary Agreement, unless the parties agree otherwise.
to their performance or the performance of the Company whilst they are Directors.
Link Company Matters Limited formerly Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited was appointed as corporate Company Secretary on The beneficial interests of the current Directors and their connected 1 April 2014.
The current annual fee is 65,000, which is subject to an persons in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2017 annual RPI increase.
The Agreement may be terminated by either party on are set out in the Directors Report on Remuneration Implementation six months written notice.
With the Boards consent, AVI has sub-contracted certain fund administration Nigel Rich is a director of Matheson & Co Ltd, a subsidiary of Jardine services to Link Asset Services formerly Capita Asset Services.
The cost of Matheson whose subsidiary, Jardine Strategic, is an investee company.
these sub-contracted services is borne by AVI from its own resources and not by the Company.
Interests in Share Capital Information on the structure, rights and restrictions relating to share capital is given on page 50.
At 30 September 2017 and 9 November 2017, the following holdings representing more than 3% of the Companys voting rights had been reported to the Company: Number held at Percentage held at Percentage held at 30 September 2017 30 September 2017 9 November 2017 Lazard Asset Management LLC 9,280,340 7.99 8.03 1607 Capital Partners, LLC 8,412,853 7.24 7.28 Alliance Trust Limited 7,010,214 6.04 6.07 Wells Capital Management, Inc 6,164,585 5.31 5.33 Halifax Share Dealing 5,942,781 5.12 5.14 Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 4,848,659 4.17 4.20 Charles Stanley & Co Limited 4,735,407 4.08 4.10 No other changes have been notified.
40 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial Risk Management Details of shares bought back during the year under review can be The principal financial risks and the Companys policies for managing found in note 12 to the financial statements.
these risks are set out in note 14 to the financial statements.
Ordinary Shares bought back may be held in treasury for cancellation Greenhouse Gas Emissions or sale at a future date rather than being cancelled upon purchase.
The Companys environmental statements are set out in the Strategic The Directors would not exercise the authority granted under this Report on page 11.
Resolution unless they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Auditor KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and Details of the above resolutions are contained in the Notice.
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to re-appoint them as Auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Resolution 13 Adoption of new articles of association The Companies Act 2006 Amendment of Part 23 Investment Companies Special Business at the AGM Regulation 2012 removed the requirement that the articles of association The Notice of the AGM to be held on 20 December 2017 the Notice of an investment company must prohibit the distribution of capital profits.
As noted in the Chairmans statement, in the light of the amended rules, the Board no longer considers it appropriate to have such a prohibition in Resolution 10 Authority to allot shares the Companys articles of association.
Accordingly, the Board is seeking The Directors seek to renew the general and unconditional authority authority at the AGM to amend the articles of association to allow the to allot up to 38,523,282 Ordinary Shares of 10p each, representing Company to distribute capital profits.
The proposed articles of association approximately one-third of the issued Ordinary Share capital excluding therefore reflect this change and remove all references to the prohibition of shares held in treasury.
The Directors would only exercise this authority if the distribution of capital profits by way of dividend.
they considered it to be in the best interests of the Company generally.
This authority would expire 15 months after the date of the passing The Board believes that the removal of this restriction will give the of the resolution or, if earlier, at the next AGM of the Company.
Company greater flexibility in the long term as it will enable the Company to make distributions from any surplus arising from the realisation of any As at 9 November 2017, 13,956,317 shares are held in treasury, investment.
However, the Board has no intention of exercising this authority representing 10.8% of the issued share capital.
Resolution 11 Authority to issue shares outside of pre-emption rights It is also proposed that the articles of association be amended to include The Directors seek to renew the authority to allot, other than on a preprovisions to provide the Company with the ability to require shareholders emptive basis, Ordinary Shares including the grant of rights to subscribe to co-operate in respect of the exchange of information to comply with the for, or to convert any securities into Ordinary Shares for cash up to a Companys international tax reporting obligations.
maximum of 5,778,492 Ordinary Shares, being approximately 5% of the Ordinary Shares excluding shares held in treasury in issue as at Recommendation 9 November 2017, and to transfer or sell Ordinary Shares held in treasury.
The Directors consider that all of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its members as a The Directors would only exercise this authority if they consider it to be whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote advantageous to the Company.
The Directors do not currently intend in favour of all of the resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their to issue shares or sell shares from treasury other than at or above the own beneficial holdings.
Resolution 12 Share buy-back facility At the AGM held on 20 December 2016, the Directors were authorised to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the shares in circulation at the date of that meeting.
As at the date of this Report, 7,788,317 shares have been bought back under this authority.
At the forthcoming AGM, the Directors will seek to renew the authority for up to 14.99% of Ordinary Shares in issue excluding shares held in treasury, representing 17,323,920 Ordinary Shares as at 9 November 2017, to be bought back.
Purchases would be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and Listing Rules.
The authority would expire 15 months after the date of the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the next AGM of the Company.
British Empire Trust plc 41 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Corporate Governance The Board considers that reporting against the principles and The Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules recommendations of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide which incorporates Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority require listed companies the UK Code provides shareholders with full details of the Companys to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the Corporate Governance compliance.
provisions of the corporate governance code to which the issuer is subject.
The provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code issued Throughout the year ended 30 September 2017, the Company has by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 are applicable complied with the provisions of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions for the year under review.
The related Code of Corporate Governance of the UK Code, except as set out below.
AIC Code issued by the AIC in July 2016 addresses all of the principles set out in the UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and The UK Code includes provisions relating to the role of the Chief Executive, recommendations on issues that are specific to investment trusts.
The Executive Directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment the UK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant Companies AIC Guide.
The FRC has confirmed that AIC member to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment companies which report against the AIC Code and which follow the AIC company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management Guide will meet the obligations in relation to the UK Code and associated and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, disclosure requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
the Company has no Executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in The AIC Code can be viewed at www.
The UK Code can be viewed at www.
The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of 21 principles split into three sections covering: The Board Board Meetings and Relationship with the Investment Manager Shareholder communications The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should be The Chairman, Strone Macpherson, and Susan Noble, who will become Chairman at the conclusion of this years independent.
AGM, were independent of the Investment Manager at the time of their appointment and remain so.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the Investment Manager and the Companys other third-party service providers.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and is responsible for ensuring that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
A majority of the Board should The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent of the Investment Manager.
be independent of the Manager.
No member of the Board is a director of another investment company managed by the Companys Investment Manager, nor has any Board member been an employee of the Company, its Investment Manager or any of its service providers.
Steven Bates is the Senior Independent Director.
Strone Macpherson was, until 30 April 2017, Chairman of Close Brothers Group plc, the ultimate parent of Winterflood Securities Limited which was the Companys Corporate Broker until 31 March 2017 and which was entitled to a retainer of 25,000 per annum, payable by the Company.
The retainer was offsettable against commissions earned from share buy-backs on behalf of the Company.
For the year to 30 September 2017, Winterflood Securities Limited earned commissions of 73,000, fully offsetting the retainer.
The Board has determined that this did not compromise Mr Macphersons independence.
42 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Board continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 3.
Directors should be submitted All Directors submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
for re-election at regular intervals.
Nomination for reThe individual performance of each Director standing for re-election is evaluated annually by the remaining election should not be assumed members of the Board and, if considered appropriate, a recommendation is made that shareholders vote but be based on disclosed in favour of their re-election at the AGM see section 7. procedures and continued satisfactory performance.
The Board should have a policy The Board does not have a formal policy requiring that Directors should stand down after a fixed period.
on tenure, which is disclosed in It considers that a long association with the Company and experience of a number of investment cycles can the annual report.
be valuable to its deliberations and does not compromise a Directors independence.
It does also recognise the need for progressive refreshing of the Board see section 6.
Steven Bates has now served as a Director for 11 years.
The remaining members of the Board have considered the length of his service and any impact that this might have on his continuing independence.
They have determined that Mr Bates continues to be demonstrably independent of the Investment Manager.
There should be full disclosure All of the Directors are resident in the UK and their biographical details, set out on pages 36 and 37 of this of information about the Board.
Report, demonstrate the wide range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
Details of the Boards Committees and their composition are set out on page 48 of this Report.
The Audit Committee comprises all of the Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of the Audit Committee, but does not chair it.
His membership of the Audit Committee is considered appropriate given the Chairmans extensive knowledge of the financial services industry.
The Directors also consider it appropriate for Susan Noble to continue to be a member of the Audit Committee when she succeeds Strone Macpherson as Chairman.
The Board considers that, as it is comprised of non-executive Directors, it is not necessary to establish a separate Remuneration Committee.
Further information on Directors remuneration is set out under section 8 below.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in Letters of Appointment, which are available for inspection on request at the registered office of the Company and at the AGM.
The Board should aim to have As the Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit Committee had indicated their intention to retire, the Nomination a balance of skills, experience, Committee, led by the Senior Independent Director, discussed the required skills and experience of a new length of service and Chairman, Chairman of the Audit Committee and a new non-executive Director, bearing in mind the balance of knowledge of the Company.
These requirements were reviewed with independent recruitment consultants prior to the search for suitable candidates.
The Nomination Committee conducts annually a skills audit to enable the Board to identify any skill shortages to be filled by new Directors.
The experience of the current Directors is detailed in the biographies of the Directors, set out on pages 36 and 37 of this Report.
When considering new appointments, the Board reviews the skills of the Directors and seeks to add persons with complementary skills or who possess skills and experience which fill any gaps in the Boards knowledge or experience and who can devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out their duties effectively.
The Company is committed to ensuring that any vacancies arising are filled by the most qualified candidates and recognises the value of diversity in the composition of the Board.
Whilst the Board does not feel that it would be appropriate to set targets as all appointments are made on merit, when Board positions become available as a result of retirement or resignation, the Company will ensure that a diverse group of candidates is considered.
British Empire Trust plc 43 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 7.
The Board should undertake The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, has a formal process to evaluate its own performance and a formal and rigorous that of its Chairman annually.
The Chairman leads the assessment, which covers the functioning of the Board annual evaluation of its own as a whole, the effectiveness of the Board Committees and the independence of each Director.
Where necessary, performance and that of its the Chairman discusses the responses with each Director individually.
The Chairman absents himself from committees and individual the Boards review of his effectiveness as the Company Chairman, and this review is led by the Senior Directors.
During 2017, an independent review of the Board was undertaken by Lintstock Limited, the results of which were considered in detail by the Board.
The review by Lintstock Limited concluded that the Board functions well but made a number of suggestions on succession planning and continuing constructive dialogue with the Investment Manager in light of ongoing regulatory changes.
Observations made by Lintstock Limited were also taken into account in the process of recruiting new Directors.
The Board is satisfied that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be effective and relevant for the Company.
The Board has agreed that an independent review of the Board will be commissioned regularly and a further review will be commissioned in 2020.
There is no connection between Lintstock and the Company or any of the Directors.
Directors remuneration The Board periodically reviews the fees paid to the Directors and compares these with the fees paid by the should reflect their duties, Companys peer group and the investment trust industry generally, taking into account the time commitment and responsibilities and the value responsibility of each Board member.
Details of the remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the Company of their time spent.
can be found in the Directors Remuneration Implementation Report on pages 80 and 81 and in note 3 to the financial statements.
As all of the Directors are non-executive, the Board considers that it is acceptable for the Chairman of the Company to chair meetings when discussing Directors fees.
The Chairmans remuneration, additional remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and additional remuneration paid to the Senior Independent Director are determined by the Board in the absence of the individuals affected.
The Board periodically takes advice from external independent advisers on Directors remuneration.
All Directors own shares in the Company, all of which were purchased in the open market and using the Directors own resources.
No stock options or other performance-related elements have been awarded.
44 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Board continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 9.
The Independent Directors The Nomination Committee is comprised of the whole Board, which is made up entirely of Independent Directors should take the lead in the and, subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all members of the Committee are entitled to vote on appointment of new Directors candidates for the appointment of new Directors and on recommending for shareholders approval the and the process should be Directors seeking re-election at the AGM.
Due to the Chairmans plan to retire, the Nomination Committee was disclosed in the annual report.
chaired by the Senior Independent Director for the search for a new Chairman and other Directors.
Trust Associates Limited was appointed to assist with the search for both a new Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Trust Associates produced a long list of candidates for the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee and a number were selected for interview by the Committee.
Following this process, Calum Thomson was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 April 2017 and succeeded Andrew Robson as Chairman of the Audit Committee on Mr Robsons retirement as a Director on 31 May 2017.
Trust Associates also produced a long list of potential candidates for Chairman of the Board, from which the Nomination Committee agreed a shortlist.
Following interviews, the Committee excluding Susan Noble and Strone Macpherson came to the view that Mrs Noble would be the best candidate to succeed Mr Macpherson.
After discussions with Mrs Noble and Mr Macpherson, it was agreed that Mr Macpherson would retire at the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting, at which point Mrs Noble will become Chairman.
Fletcher Jones Executive Search has been appointed to assist with the search for a further non-executive Director.
An announcement will be made shortly.
There is no connection between the Directors or the Company and either Trust Associates or Fletcher Jones.
Directors should be offered New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The programme covers the relevant training and induction.
Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
The Directors are also given key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise, including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company Secretary through its appointed representative which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring good information flows between all parties.
The Chairman and the Board Principle 11 applies to the launch of new investment companies and is therefore not applicable to the Company.
should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
British Empire Trust plc 45 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Board Meetings and Relationship with the Investment Manager AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 12.
Boards and managers should The Board meets regularly throughout the year and a representative of the Investment Manager is in attendance, operate in a supportive, when appropriate, at each meeting and most Committee meetings.
The Chairman encourages open debate to co-operative and open foster a supportive and co-operative approach for all participants.
The primary focus at regular The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
This includes Board meetings should establishing the investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks, the permitted types or categories of investments, be a review of investment the markets in which transactions may be undertaken, the level of permitted gearing and borrowings, the amount performance and associated or proportion of the assets that may be invested in any category of investment or in any one investment, and the matters, such as gearing, asset Companys treasury and share buyback policies.
allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information The Board, at its regular meetings, undertakes reviews of key investment and financial data, revenue projections and industry issues.
and expenses, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and performance comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, gearing, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
The Audit and Management Engagement Committees of the Board respectively review the Companys risk matrix and the performance and cost of the Companys third-party service providers.
The Board has agreed arrangements under which the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Boards should give sufficient The Board is responsible for strategy and has established a predetermined annual programme of agenda items attention to overall strategy.
under which it reviews the objectives and strategy of the Company at each meeting.
In addition to the regular Board meetings, the Board meets specifically on one additional day each year to focus on strategy and any other issues that require in-depth attention.
The Board should regularly The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once a year.
It reviews annually the performance of review both the performance the Investment Manager.
The Committee considers the quality, cost and remuneration method of the service of, and contractual provided by the Investment Manager against its contractual obligations and the Board receives regular reports arrangements with, the on compliance with the Investment Restrictions which it has set.
It also considers the performance analysis Manager or executives of provided by the Investment Manager.
In view of the level of data available from independent service providers, a self-managed company.
and the appraisal undertaken by the Board, the Board does not consider a formal independent appraisal of the Investment Managers service to be necessary.
Following a formal annual review, and bearing in mind the long-term performance of the Company, the Board concluded that, in its opinion, the continuing appointment of AVI, the Investment Manager, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of its shareholders as a whole.
The Audit Committee reviews the Investment Managers compliance and control systems in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company and the Board undertakes periodic reviews of the arrangements with, and the services provided by, the Custodian, to ensure that the safeguarding of the Companys assets and security of the shareholders investment is being maintained.
46 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Board Meetings and Relationship with the Investment Manager continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 16.
The Board should agree policies The IMA between the Company and the Investment Manager sets out the limits of the Investment Managers with the Manager covering key authority, beyond which Board approval is required.
The Board has also agreed investment guidelines with operational issues.
the Investment Manager, including guidelines on the deployment of gearing, which are considered at each Board meeting.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each meeting of the Board to address questions on specific matters and to seek approval for specific transactions which the Investment Manager is required to refer to the Board, for example investing in unquoted investments.
The Board delegates investee company communication to the Investment Manager.
The Board has also delegated discretion to the Investment Manager to exercise voting powers on its behalf, other than for contentious or sensitive matters which are to be referred to the Board for consideration.
AVI is a signatory of the UK Stewardship Code issued by the FRC.
The Board has reviewed the Investment Managers Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance and Voting Guidelines, and which is published on the Investment Managers website: www.
The Board recognises that appropriate environmental, social and governance policies are usually a reflection of good management and encourages AVI to consider this when evaluating investments.
Reports on commissions paid by the Investment Manager are submitted to the Board regularly.
Boards should monitor the The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the Companys shares in the market level of the share price discount and takes appropriate action when considered necessary.
or premium if any and, if desirable, take action to The Board considers the discount or premium to NAV of the Companys share price at each Board meeting and reduce it.
reviews the changes in the level of discount or premium and in the share price since the previous Board meeting and over the longer term.
At each meeting the Board reviews reports from the Investment Managers marketing department on marketing and shareholder communication strategies.
It also considers their effectiveness as well as measures of investor sentiment and any recommendations on share buy-backs.
The Board should monitor The Management Engagement Committee reviews, at least annually, the performance of all of the Companys and evaluate other service third-party service providers, including the level and structure of fees payable and the length of the notice period, providers.
to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders, as well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010, together with their policies on whistle-blowing and cyber crime prevention.
A review of the Investment Manager and the other service providers undertaken during the year concluded that the services provided to the Company were satisfactory and that the agreements entered into with them were operating in the best interests of the shareholders.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the principal service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon.
The Directors have carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control as they have operated over the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Given the nature of the business, the Company is reliant on its service providers and their internal controls.
As set out in more detail in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 75 to 77, the Company has in place a system for assessing the adequacy of those controls.
There were no material matters arising from the review of the Companys controls that required further investigation and no significant failings or weakness were identified.
British Empire Trust plc 47 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 19.
The Board should regularly A detailed analysis of the substantial shareholders of the Company is provided to the Directors at each Board monitor the shareholder profile meeting.
Representatives of the Investment Manager regularly meet institutional shareholders and private client of the Company and put in asset managers to discuss strategy and to understand their issues and concerns and, if applicable, to discuss place a system for canvassing corporate governance issues.
The results of such meetings are reported at the following Board meeting.
shareholder views and for communicating the Boards Regular reports on investor sentiment and industry issues from the Companys broker are submitted to the Board.
The Directors are available to meet shareholders.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the Board, may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM, where they are given the opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and representatives of the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager will make a presentation to shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors welcome the views of all shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with them.
The Board should normally All substantive communications regarding any major corporate issues are discussed by the Board taking take responsibility for, and have into account representations from the Investment Manager, the Auditor, legal advisers, broker and a direct involvement in, the Company Secretary.
content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the Manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should ensure that The Board aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys investment objective, policy shareholders are provided with and activities, its performance and the principal investment risks by means of informative Annual and Half Year sufficient information for them reports.
This is supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset to understand the risk reward value of the Companys shares and the publication by the Investment Manager of a monthly fact sheet.
balance to which they are exposed by holding the shares.
The Annual Report provides information on the Investment Managers investment performance, portfolio risk and operational and compliance issues.
Further details on the risk reward balance are set out in the Strategic Report under Principal Risks on pages 10 and 11, and in note 14 to the financial statements.
The Investment Portfolio is listed on pages 14 and 15.
co. uk, is regularly updated with monthly factsheets and provides useful information about the Company including the Companys Financial Reports and Announcements.
48 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Board Committees Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for The Company has adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and decision by the full Board, subject to which the Board has delegated has reviewed the statements regarding compliance with the Bribery Act specific duties to Committees of the Board which operate within written 2010 by the Companys Investment Manager and key service providers.
Link Company Matters Limited acts as Company These statements are reviewed regularly by the Management Engagement Secretary to each Committee.
No persons other than the Committee Committee.
members are entitled to attend Committee meetings unless formally invited by the Committee.
Copies of the terms of reference for Board Committees Disclosure of information to the Auditor are available from the Company Secretary and The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Report of the on the Companys website.
Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director Management Engagement Committee has taken all of the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once each year make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and establish and comprises the whole Board, being independent Directors.
The main that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
functions of the Committee are to define the terms of the IMA, ensuring that they follow good industry practice, are competitive and are in the Requirements of the Listing Rules best interests of shareholders.
The Committee monitors the Investment Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Company to include specified information Managers compliance with the terms of the IMA and the Investment in a single identifiable section of the Annual Report or a cross reference Managers performance.
table indicating where the information is set out.
The information required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 10 in relation to contracts of significance in The Committee also reviews the services and performance of the which a Director is or was materially interested, is set out on page 41.
Companys other third-party service providers.
The Directors confirm that no additional disclosures are required in relation to Listing Rule 9.8.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the whole Board and convenes Going Concern to undertake the annual appraisal of the performance of the Board, its The Directors have carefully reviewed the current financial resources and Committees and the Directors and, if agreed, to propose the re-election the projected expenses of the Company for the next 12 months.
On the of the Directors, each of whom will retire at the AGM.
It also meets to basis of that review and as the majority of net assets are securities which consider the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Candidates for are traded on recognised stock exchanges, the Directors are satisfied nomination may be sourced from outside the Company using third-party that the Companys resources are adequate for continuing in business search and selection services as well as potential candidates known to for the foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to prepare the financial Directors through their extensive knowledge of the industry.
statements on a going concern basis.
The Board has agreed to follow the recommendations of the AIC Code Viability Principle 3 that the Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject The Directors consider viability as part of their continuing programme of to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Directors believe three years to be a reasonable time horizon to consider the continuing viability of the Company, reflecting Information about the work of the Nomination Committee during the year a balance between a longer-term investment horizon and the inherent can be found on pages 42 to 44. shorter-term uncertainties within equity markets, although they do have due regard to viability over the longer term and particularly to key points Audit Committee outside this time frame, such as the due dates for the repayment of longThe Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and comprises the term debt.
The Company is an investment trust whose portfolio is invested whole Board, being independent Directors.
All members of the Committee in readily realisable listed securities and with some short-term cash have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee has deposits.
The following facts support the Directors view of the viability set out a formal Report on pages 75 to 77 of the Annual Report.
of the Company: In the year under review, expenses including finance costs and taxation Disclosure Committee were adequately covered by investment income.
With the implementation of the Market Abuse Regulation MAR on The Company has a liquid investment portfolio.
3 July 2016, the Board agreed to form a Disclosure Committee, comprising The Company has long-term debt of 15m which falls due for all Directors, to ensure inside information is identified and disclosed, if repayment in 2023 and 30m and 30m which both fall due for necessary, in a timely fashion.
This debt was covered some 13.7 times as at the end of September 2017 by the Companys total assets.
Following the Due to the necessity for meetings to be called on short notice, the issue of further debt on 1 November 2017, the total debt was covered quorum for the Committee is two members, at least one of whom shall be some 10.5 times by the Companys assets at that date.
The Directors either the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Senior are of the view that, subject to unforeseen circumstances, the Company Independent Director.
will have sufficient resources to meet the costs of annual interest and eventual repayment of principal on this debt.
The Company has a large margin of safety over the covenants on its debt.
British Empire Trust plc 49 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Companys viability depends on the global economy and markets The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records continuing to function.
The Directors also consider the possibility of a wide that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and ranging collapse in corporate earnings and or the market value of listed disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the securities.
To the latter point, it should be borne in mind that a significant Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply proportion of the Companys expenses are in ad valorem investment with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are management fees, which would reduce if the market value of the also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence Companys assets were to fall.
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In order to maintain viability, the Company has a robust risk control framework which, following guidelines from the FRC, has the objectives of The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, reducing the likelihood and impact of: poor judgement in decision-making: Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate risk-taking that exceeds the levels agreed by the Board: human error: or Governance Statement that comply with relevant laws and regulations, control processes being deliberately circumvented.
and for ensuring that the Annual Report includes information required by the Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Taking the above into account, and the potential impact of the principal risks as set out on pages 10 and 11, the Directors have a reasonable The financial statements of the Company are published on the Companys expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and website at www.
The Directors are responsible for meet its liabilities as they fall due for a period of three years from the date ensuring the maintenance and integrity of the information relating to the of approval of this Annual Report.
Company published on this website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Statement of Directors Responsibilities differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Declaration and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors listed on page 36, being the persons responsible, hereby statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to confirm to the best of their knowledge: prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and Under Company law, the Directors must not approve the financial the Strategic Report and the Investment Managers Review include statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view a fair review of the development and performance of the business of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit and loss of the and the position of the Company together with a description of the Company for that period.
principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: In the opinion of the Board, the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently in whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and it provides the information accordance with International Accounting Standard IAS 8 Accounting necessary to assess the Companys position and performance, business Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: model and strategy.
make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: state whether the financial statements have been prepared in By Order of the Board compliance with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained therein: Link Company Matters Limited provide additional disclosures where compliance with the specific Corporate Secretary requirements of IFRS are considered to be insufficient to enable users to 10 November 2017 understand the impact of particular transactions, events and conditions on the financial position and performance: and prepare financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
