Strategic report Group Management Board The Group manages a portfolio of B2B businesses across four segments: asset management: pricing, data & market intelligence: banking &finance: and commodity events.
We have created seven divisions to serve our four segments more effectively.
As part ofour best-of-both-worlds operating model we have also created five central functions, again to serve our four segments better.
The leaders of our divisions, who also serve our segments, and our functional leaders, sit on a newly created Group Management Board which operates under the direction and authority of the CEO.
It assists the CEO and Finance Director in implementing strategy: monitoring financial performance: developing the Groups approach to managing employees: taking joint responsibility for the Groups approach to corporate governance: and ensuring that the Groups best-of-both-worlds operating model works.
TheGroup Management Board meets monthly to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues.
Banking & Finance Events Global Market Intelligence Institutional Investor John Orchard Rosalind Irving Aloisio Parente Diane Alfano Case study see page 22 Case study see pages 02 and 23 Case study see page 02 Investment Research Price Reporting & Analytics Specialist Information Bashar AL-Rehany Raju Daswani Danny Williams Case study see page 20 Case study see pages 01 and 40 Case study see page 21 Corporate Development Finance Corporate Development manages Finance carries out the full range ourM&A activity.
A significant success offinancial activities across the during the year was the Groups Group, supporting the segments acquisition of RISI.
Following DMGTs Companys largest acquisition since selldown, Finance has taken on the purchase of Metal Bulletin plc functions previously provided by more than 10 years ago.
We were DMGT such as tax, treasury and able to compete with private equity internal audit and strengthened firms in part due to our ability to others.
In addition, it negotiated Christopher Fordham Colin Jones complete transactions quickly newexternal borrowing facilities andefficiently.
Central Marketing Global Human Resources Central Marketing is responsible for Global Human Resources is sharing best practice and achieving responsible for recruitment, economies of scale.
We do this by retentionand development of developing training, managing staff.
This year we changed our suppliers used by more than one approach to hiring people for division, maintaining the Group seniorroles, introducing amore customer database, and providing formal, evidence-based process.
Jane Wilkinson Gillian Fox Central Technology Legal, Risk and Programmes Central Technology supports the Legal, Risk and Programmes Groups technology infrastructure includesthe Groups legal, maintaining data-centre-hosted risk, information-security and andcloud-hosted services, running programme-management experts.
helpdesks and implementing and The department was heavily supporting networks and common involvedin the transactional, legal applications.
We work closely with and regulatory work required for our the technology teams in the segments share buyback a complex project and divisions whofocus on with tight deadlines.
Andrew Pieri Tim Bratton developing client-facing products.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 13 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 13 12 11 2017 12:13:38 PM
