Directors Report Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC is listed on the London Change of control Stock Exchange and is a member ofthe FTSE 250 share index.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following The Directors Report comprises pages 44 to 57 of this report atakeover bid.
These include the Groups debt facility together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated agreement with HSBC under which the bank can demand byreference.
Some of the matters required by legislation immediate repayment of outstanding debt upon a change of havebeen included in the Strategic Report pages 04 to 39 control.
Other than this agreement, none of theseagreements astheBoard considers them to be of strategic importance, isdeemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact particularly future business developments and principal risks.
onthe business of the Group as a whole.
TheCompanys share plans contain provisions that take effect insuch an event but It is expected that the Company, which has no branches, will donot entitle participants to a greater interest in the shares continue to operate as the holding Company of the Group.
ofthe Company than created by the initial grant or award underthe relevant plan.
Details of the Directors entitlement to Forward-looking statements compensation for loss of office following a takeover or contract Certain statements made in this document are forward-looking.
termination are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause Authority to purchase and allot own shares actual events or results to differ materially from any expected At the 2017 AGM, the Company was authorised by shareholders future events or results referred to in these forward-looking to purchase up to 10% of its own shares and to allot shares statements.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law, uptoan aggregate nominal amount of 81,800.
The resolutions regulation or accounting standards, the Directors do not to renew this authority for a further period will be put to undertake any obligation to update or revise any forwardshareholders at the 2018 AGM.
looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Nothing in this document Share buyback shall be regarded as a profit forecast.
In December 2016, Daily Mail General Trust plc DMGT announced its intention to reduce its equity interest in Group results and dividends Euromoney from 68% to 49% through a combination of a The Group profit for the year attributable to equity holders 15%share buyback by the Company and a 10% placing with oftheparent amounted to 42.7m 2016: 30.7m.
The Board institutional shareholders, which was completed in early approved a new, progressive dividend policy with an increase January.
The 193.4m share buyback was funded by a mix of in the dividend pay-out ratio from approximately 33% to cash and new borrowing facilities arranged by the Company, approximately 40% of adjusted diluted earnings per share.
andits borrowing facility with DMGT was terminated.
TheBoard is able to recommend an increased final dividend of21.80p per ordinary share 2016: 16.40p, payable on Significant shareholdings Thursday15 February 2018 to shareholders on the register on As at 13 November 2017, the Company had been notified of the Friday 1 December 2017.
This, together with the interim dividend following significant interests: of 8.80p per ordinary share 2016: 7.00p which was declared on18 May 2017 and paid on, brings the total dividend for the Nature Number % of voting Name of holder of holding of shares rights year to 30.60p per ordinary share 2016: 23.40p.
DMG Charles Limited Direct 53,546,470 49.1 Share capital Standard Life Aberdeen plc Indirect 7,371,779 6.8 The Companys share capital is divided into ordinary shares Woodford Investment of0.25p each.
At 30 September 2017 there were 109,101,608 Management Direct 6,167,186 5.7 ordinary shares in issue and fully paid.
During the year, 35,425 Heronbridge Investment ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2016: 64,462 ordinary shares Management LLP Indirect 5,468,492 5.0 with an aggregate nominal value of 88 2016: 161 were issuedfollowing the exercise of share options granted under the Relationship deed Companys share option schemes for a cash consideration of The Company and DMGT, the parent company of DMG Charles 0.3m 2016: 0.3m.
On 6 January 2017, the Group completed Limited, entered into a revised relationship deed on 8 December the purchase for cancellation, of 19,247,173 ordinary shares from 2016 which supersedes theagreement entered into on 16 July its then majority shareholder, DMG Charles Limited, a DMGT 2014 in accordance with theListing Rules and have acted in group company.
The aggregate nominal value of shares accordance with its terms since execution.
Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 23 to the Groups financial statements.
Employees Quality and integrity of employees Employee Share Trust The competence of people is ensured through high recruitment The Executive Directors of the Company together with other standards.
High-quality and honest personnel are an essential employees of the Group are potential beneficiaries of the part of the control environment.
The high ethical standards Euromoney Employee Share Trust and as such, are deemed expected are communicated by management and through tobe interested in any ordinary shares held by the trust.
theemployee handbook which is provided to all employees.
At30September 2017, the trusts shareholding totalled Theemployee handbook includes specific policies on matters 1,700,777shares representing 1.6% of the Companys called-up such as the use of the Groups information technology resources, ordinary share capital.
There have been no awards transferred data protection policy, the UK Bribery Act, and disciplinary and between 30 September 2017 and the date of this Annual Report grievance procedures.
The Group operates an intranet which and Accounts.
isused to communicate with employees and provide guidance and assistance on day-to-day matters facing employees.
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares TheGroup has a specific whistle-blowing policy that is Each share entitles its holder to one vote at shareholders supported by an externally managed whistle-blowing hotline.
meetings and the right to receive one share of the Companys The whistle-blowing policy is updated when necessary and is dividends.
There are no special control rights attached to them.
reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Company is not aware of any agreements or control rights between existing shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities shares or loan notes or on voting rights.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 54 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 54 12 11 2017 11:48:27 AM Governance Human rights and health and safety requirements GREENHOUSE EMISSION STATEMENT The Group is committed to the health and safety and the human The following emissions have been calculated according to the rights of its employees and communities in which it operates.
Health and safety issues are monitored to ensure compliance Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition methodology.
Data was gathered to with all local health and safety regulations.
External health and safety advisors are used where appropriate.
fulfil the requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Disabled employees Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The carbon footprint is expressed in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment from people who are disabled: to and includes all the Kyoto Protocol gases that are of relevance to the business.
The Companys footprint covers emissions from continue, wherever possible, the employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for, employees who become disabled: and its global operations and the following emission sources: Scope 1 and 2 as defined by the GHG Protocol, business travel and to provide opportunities for the career development, training and promotion of disabled employees.
ASSESSMENT PARAMETERS Political donations No political donations were made during the year 2016: nil.
Baseline year 2012 Consolidation approach Operational control Post balance sheet events Boundary summary All entities and facilities Events arising after 30 September 2017 are set out in note 30 eitherowned or under operational tothe Groups financial statements.
control Consistency with the The only variation is that leased Going concern financial statements properties, under operational Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters control, are included in scope 1 and discussed in connection with the viability statement, the 2 data, all scope 3 emissions are Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going off-balance sheet emissions concernbasis of accounting in preparing this Annual Assessment methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol andDefra Reportand Accounts.
environmental reporting guidelines Additional disclosures Intensity ratio Emissions per m of revenue Additional information that is relevant to this report, and GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION SOURCE whichis incorporated by reference into this report, including information required in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2017 2016 2006 and Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, can be located as follows: tCO2e tCO2e tCO e m tCO e m 2 2 Financial instruments note 19 Scope 1: Combustion 1,900 4.4 2,100 5.2 Related party transactions note 29 offuel and operation offacilities Greenhouse Gas GHG reporting Scope 2: Electricity, 2,600 5.6 2,200 6.0 The Group participates in a carbon footprint analysis heat, steam and cooling completedby ICF International.
This exercise has been purchasedfor own use undertaken every year since 2007 using the widely recognised Total scope 1 and 2 4,300 10.0 4,300 11.2 GHG protocol methodology developed by the World Resource Scope 3: Business travel 5,400 12.6 6,200 14.6 Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable andoutsourced activities Development.
The Directors are committed to reducing Total emissions 9,700 22.6 10,500 25.8 theGroups absolute carbon emissions and managing its carbonfootprint.
Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006 Auditor Each Director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is norelevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and that each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of the information.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as theCompanys statutory auditor and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed atthe 2018 AGM.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 55 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 55 12 11 2017 11:48:27 AM Directors Report Continued Annual general meeting Directors responsibilities The Companys next AGM will be held at Euromoney Institutional The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Investor PLC, 8 Bouverie Street, London EC4Y 8AX on 1 February and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 2018 at 9.30 a. m. A separate circular comprising the Notice of and regulation.
Meeting, together with explanatory notes, accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance Directors and directors interests with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as The membership of the Board and biographical details of the adopted by the European Union and Company financial Directors are given on pages 42 and 43. statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Details of the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting the Company and of options held by the Directors to subscribe Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and for ordinary shares in the Company are set out in the Directors applicable law.
Under Company law the Directors must not Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 73. approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group Appointment and removal of directors and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and The Companys Articles of Association give power to the Company for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, Boardto appoint Directors from time to time.
In addition to the the Directors are required to: statutory rights of shareholders to remove a Director by ordinary resolution, the Board may also remove a Director where 75% of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Board gives written notice to such Director.
The Articles of consistently Association themselves may be amended by a special resolution state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European of the shareholders.
Union have been followed for the Group financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102, Following best practice under the 2016 UK Corporate have been followed for the Company financial statements, Governance Code the Code and in accordance with the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Companys Articles of Association, all Directors submit the financial statements themselves for re-election annually.
Accordingly, all Directors make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer and prudent: and themselves for re-election.
In addition, in accordance with the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Code, before the re-election of a Non-Executive Director, the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Chairman is required to confirm to shareholders that, following Company will continue in business formal performance evaluation, the Non-Executive Directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting commitment to the role.
Accordingly, the Non-Executive records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy eligibleoffer themselves for re-election.
at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors indemnities Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act A qualifying third-party indemnity QTPI as permitted by the 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 Companys Articles of Association and Section 232 and 234 of of the IAS Regulation.
the Companies Act 2006, has been granted by the Company toeach of the Directors of the Company.
Under the provisions The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of ofQTPI the Company undertakes to indemnify each Director the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps against liability to third parties excluding criminal and for the prevention and detection of fraud and other regulatory penalties and to pay Directors costs as incurred, irregularities.
provided that they are reimbursed to the Company if the Director is found guilty or, in an action brought by the Company, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity judgement is given against the Director.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and the Companys performance, business model andstrategy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 56 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 56 12 11 2017 11:48:27 AM Governance Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed onpages 42 and 43 of the Annual Report and Accounts confirm that, tothe best of their knowledge: the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared inaccordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces On behalf of the Board Andrew Rashbass Chief Executive Officer 22 November 2017 Colin Jones Finance Director 22 November 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 57 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 57 12 11 2017 11:48:28 AM
