08 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY COMPANY PURPOSE The Company is an investment trust.
Its investment objective is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio of mainly listed investments, particularly in companies whose shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
STRATEGY INVESTMENT APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Our strategy is to seek out-of-favour As an investment trust, the Companys The Company uses KPIs as an effective companies whose assets are most important relationship is with the measurement of the development, misunderstood by the market or underInvestment Manager.
performance or position of the Companys researched, and which trade significantly business, in order to set and measure below their intrinsic value or where The Companys assets are managed by performance reliably.
These include Net pressure can be brought to bear Asset Value Investors Limited.
AVI aims to Asset Value Total Return, Discount to Net to enact change to release value deliver superior returns and specialises in Asset Value and Value for Money.
investment in securities that for a number of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
The Investment Manager has the flexibility to invest around the world and is not constrained by any fixed geographic or sector weightings, but does seek to maintain a concentrated yet diversified portfolio.
No more than 10% of the Companys investments may be in unlisted securities.
AVIs investment philosophy is described in more detail on page 16 of the Annual Report and the Companys Investment Policy is set out on page 38.
TOTAL RETURNS TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 Company 1 Year Benchmark 1 Year MSCI All Country % World ex-US Index 18.8 16.3% 10 Years 10 Years 85.0% 80.5% British Empire Trust plc 09 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RIVERSTONE ENERGY Nature of business Investment Company % of total assets less current liabilities 4.9% Read more on page 13 DISCOUNT CORE POSITIONS THE COMPANY TYPICALLY HOLDS 30 September 2017 30 September 2016 25-35 % % 9.9 9.6 ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE ADDED TO NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE FROM BUYBACKS TOP TEN INVESTMENTS REPRESENT 2017 2016 % 47.0 % % 0.8 0.8 of total assets less current liabilities ONGOING CHARGES RATIO 2017 2016 % % 0.87 0.89 10 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY Key Performance Indicators KPIs Principal Risks The Companys Board of Directors meets regularly and at each When considering the total return of the investments, the Board must meeting reviews performance against a number of key measures.
also take account of the risk which has been taken in order to achieve that return.
There are many ways of measuring investment risk, and Net asset value total return the Board takes the view that understanding and managing risk is The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total return as much more important than setting any numerical target.
The Board being the overall measure of value delivered to shareholders over the looks at risk from many different angles, an overview of which is set long term.
Total return reflects both the net asset value growth of the out below.
It has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Company and also dividends paid to shareholders.
The Investment facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business Managers investment style is such that performance is likely to model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
deviate materially from that of any broadly based equity index.
The Board considers the most important comparator to be the MSCI All The Investment Manager presents reports on portfolio returns Country World ex-US Index, which was adopted as the Companys and a set of contribution and risk statistics at each Board meeting.
The objective of using these techniques is not to be prescriptive, but to understand levels of risk and how they have changed over A full description of performance and the investment portfolio is time.
The purpose of this focus on risk is to ensure that the returns contained in the Investment Review, commencing on page 16 earned are commensurate with the risks assumed.
The investment of the Annual Report.
approach followed by the Investment Manager aims, over the long term, to achieve returns in excess of those produced by the market.
The discount at which the Companys shares trade compared with net asset value Portfolio diversification The Board believes that an important driver of an investment trusts Conventional wisdom holds that the most effective way of reducing discount or premium over the long term is investment performance.
risk is to hold a diversified portfolio of assets.
The Company typically However, there can be volatility in the discount or premium.
Therefore, now holds 25-35 core positions.
This range could be considered a the Board seeks shareholder approval each year to buy back and relatively concentrated and therefore risky portfolio.
It is important issue shares with a view to limiting the volatility of the share price to note that, in line with its investment objective, the Companys discount or premium.
holdings are mostly in stocks which are themselves owners of multiple underlying businesses.
Thus, the portfolio is much more diversified on During the year under review, the discount has moved generally in a look-through basis than if it were invested in companies with a single a range from 10% to 12%, with a high of 13.6% and a low of 8.3%, line of business.
For the same reason, the top ten portfolio positions, based on closing prices and, as at 30 September 2017, stood at representing 47.0% of total assets at the year end, are in practice 9.9%.
highly diversified on a look-through basis.
This diversification is evident at country, sector and currency levels.
During the year under review, no new shares were issued and 9.7m shares were bought back and placed into treasury, adding Investment strategy an estimated 0.8% to net asset value per share to the benefit The Investment Manager has a clear investment strategy, as set out of continuing shareholders.
The shares were bought back at a on page 16.
There will be periods when this strategy underperforms in weighted average discount of 11.4%.
comparison to its benchmark and its peer group.
The Board monitors performance at each Board meeting, and reviews the investment Value for money process thoroughly at least annually.
The Board continues to be conscious of expenses and works hard to maintain a sensible balance between good service and costs.
Gearing The Company is permitted to use gearing, and has had a 15m For the year ended 30 September 2017, the ongoing charges ratio debenture in place for many years.
In January 2016, the Company was 0.87%, down slightly from the previous year.
also issued two tranches of fixed-rate, long-dated Loan Notes, denominated in Sterling 30m and Euros 30m.
Taking account of the 15m debenture liability and the Loan Notes, the Companys debt as a percentage of equity as at 30 September 2017 was 7.9% 2016: 8.4%.
A further 20m of Loan Notes were issued on 1 November 2017 for a term of 20 years at a fixed rate of 2.93%.
Subsequent to the issue of the new Loan Notes, the debt as a percentage of equity was 9.5%.
British Empire Trust plc 11 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information There is a degree of risk associated with gearing.
While gearing Environmental, Social and Governance Issues should enhance investment performance over the long term, it is The Company recognises that social, human rights, community, likely to exacerbate any decline in asset value in the short term.
There governance and environmental issues can have an effect on some are covenants attached to both the Loan Notes and the Debenture, of its investee companies.
AVIs Stewardship Policy also recognises which could be breached in extreme market conditions and could that the social and environmental consequences of corporate activity require early repayment, which could be expensive.
Total return are important factors in determining the creation and maximisation results, when issued on the basis of debt being marked to estimated of shareholder value over the long term.
market value, are likely to be more volatile.
The value of the Euro tranche of the Loan Notes will fluctuate with currency movements, The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct although it should be noted that the portfolio contains a significant environmental impact is minimal.
The Company has no greenhouse amount of Euro denominated assets.
It is possible that the investment gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have returns will not match the borrowing cost over time, and therefore the responsibility for any other emissions-producing sources under the gearing will be dilutive.
Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
The Board manages this risk by setting its fixed gearing at a prudent level.
It obtained the 20-year borrowing in January 2016 at a blended The Company has no employees.
The Directors are satisfied that, to fixed annualised rate of 3.79%, which the Board and AVI consider to the best of their knowledge, the Companys principal suppliers, which be attractive over the long term.
The covenants are set at levels with are listed on the inside back cover of this report, comply with the substantial headroom.
The two significant covenants on the Loan provisions of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Notes are that total indebtedness should not exceed 40% of net assets and net assets should not fall below 300m, whilst the Debenture The Directors do not have service contracts.
There are five Directors, specifies that borrowings shall not exceed 100% of adjusted capital four male and one female.
Further information on the Boards policy and reserves.
The covenants on the further debt issued on 1 November on recruitment of new Directors is contained on page 42.
2017 are substantially similar to those on the existing Loan Notes.
Future Strategy Foreign exchange The Board and the Investment Manager have long believed Foreign exchange risk is an integral part of a portfolio which is invested in their focus on investment in high-quality undervalued assets across a range of currencies.
This risk is managed by the Investment and that, over time, this style of investment has been well rewarded.
Manager mainly by way of portfolio diversification but the Investment Manager may, with Board approval, hedge currency risk.
The Companys overall future performance will, inter alia, be affected by: the Investment Managers decisions: investee Discount companies earnings, corporate activity, dividends and asset values: The shares of investment trusts frequently trade at a discount to their and by stock market movements globally.
Stock markets are published net asset value.
The Board seeks to manage the risk of any themselves affected by a number of factors, including: economic widening of the discount by regularly reviewing the level of discount conditions: central bank and other policymakers decisions: political at which the Companys shares trade, and it will, if necessary and and regulatory issues: and currency movements.
appropriate, limit any significant widening through measured buybacks of shares.
The value of the Companys shares will additionally be The Companys performance relative to its peer group and benchmark subject to the interaction of supply and demand, prevailing net asset will depend on the Investment Managers ability to allocate the values and the general perceptions of investors.
The share price will Companys assets effectively, and manage its liquidity or gearing accordingly be subject to unpredictable fluctuations and the Company appropriately.
More specifically, the Companys performance will cannot guarantee that the share price will appreciate in value.
be affected by the movements in the share prices of its investee companies in comparison to their own net asset values.
Other risks Further risks which can impact on performance are a loss of key The overall strategy remains unchanged.
personnel especially within the investment management team : regulatory principally breaches of either UKLA Listing Rules, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules or Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and failure of systems or controls.
In managing these risks, the Company reviews staffing and succession planning of the Investment Manager at least annually to ensure that there are adequate qualified staff capacity available, and in particular requires the Investment Manager to notify the Board promptly of any changes in senior staff.
The Company also reviews the relevant systems and controls, including their cyber crime controls, at the Investment Manager and at other third-party suppliers, including the Custodian, Depositary and Administrator.
The Board monitors the risks inherent in the changing of a supplier, and also considers the risk controls at new suppliers.
There were no material changes to the Companys risk profile during the year, other than normal movements in market risk.
The principal financial risks are examined in more detail in note 14 to the financial statements on pages 65 to 71.
