36 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 DIRECTORS BUILDING VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS Committee membership key: STRONE MACPHERSON Chairman Independent Non-Executive Chairman Member Length of Service: 14 years Appointed Chairman: December 2007 A Audit Committee Mr Macpherson will retire at the conclusion M Management Engagement Committee of this years AGM.
N A M N D Nomination Committee D Disclosure Committee STEVEN BATES Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID Length of Service: 11 years Appointed SID: November 2012 A M N D Attendance at meetings Management SUSAN NOBLE Name Board Audit Engagement Nomination Disclosure Independent Non-Executive Director Strone Macpherson 7 7 4 4 2 2 3 3 4 Steven Bates 7 7 4 4 2 2 3 3 4 Susan Noble 7 7 4 4 2 2 3 3 2 Length of Service: 5 years Nigel Rich 7 7 4 4 2 2 3 3 1 Andrew Robson 5 5 3 3 2 2 2 2 3 Calum Thomson 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 Mrs Noble will become Chairman at the conclusion of this years AGM.
The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings each was entitled to attend.
A M N D Generally meets on short notice.
NIGEL RICH FCA Independent Non-Executive Director Length of Service: 5 years A M N D CALUM THOMSON FCA Independent Non-Executive Director Length of Service: 7 months Appointed Audit Committee Chairman: June 2017 A M N D British Empire Trust plc 37 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Strone Macpherson Last re-elected to the Board: Shared Directorships with any 2016 other Company Directors: External appointments: None Chairman of Estover Energy Limited and Remuneration: Trustee and Treasurer of the Kings Fund.
38,500 Shareholding in Company: 40,000 Ordinary Shares Experience: Employment by the Investment Manager: Formerly Chairman of Close Brothers Group None plc, a Director at Flemings, Executive Deputy Other connections with the Chairman of Misys plc, Chairman of JPMorgan Company or Investment Manager: Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc, and None a Non-Executive Director of Axa UK plc.
Steven Bates He sits on, or is adviser to, various Employment by the Investment Manager: committees in the wealth management None External appointments: and pension fund areas.
Chairman of VinaCapital Vietnam Opportunity Other connections with the Fund Limited, of Baring Emerging Europe Experience: Company or Investment Manager: plc and of F&C Capital & Income Investment He was Head of Global Emerging Markets None Trust plc and a Director of Biotech Growth at JP Morgan Asset Management until 2002.
Shared Directorships with any Trust PLC, of GuardCap UCITs Fund plc Last re-elected to the Board: other Company Directors: and of Magna Umbrella Fund plc.
He is also 2016 None a Director of GuardCap Asset Management Limited, an investment management company Remuneration: Shareholding in Company: specialising in emerging markets.
27,800 20,000 Ordinary Shares Susan Noble Director of Goldman Sachs Asset Employment by the Investment Manager: Management, Head of European Equities None External appointments: and Head of Global Equities.
Also a Director Chair of Newton Investment Management Other connections with the and Senior European Portfolio Manager at Limited and Newton Capital Management Company or Investment Manager: Robert Fleming Asset Management.
Limited, an Associate Director of Manchester None Square Partners and a Trustee of the Hospice Last re-elected to the Board: Shared Directorships with any of St Francis, Berkhamsted.
2016 other Company Directors: Experience: Remuneration: None Formerly Chair of Alliance Trust Investments, 25,300 Shareholding in Company: a Director of Alliance Trust plc, a Managing 9,070 Ordinary Shares Nigel Rich ITV plc.
Also formerly Managing Director of Other connections with the Jardine Matheson Holdings and the Group Company or Investment Manager: External appointments: Chief Executive, Trafalgar House plc.
None Non-Executive Director of Matheson & Co Ltd and Non-Executive Chairman of Pacific Last re-elected to the Board: Shared Directorships with any Industrial & Logistics REIT plc.
2016 other Company Directors: None Experience: Remuneration: Formerly Chairman of SEGRO plc, Xchanging 25,300 Shareholding in Company: plc, Ocean Group Exel plc, CP Ships Limited 18,000 Ordinary Shares and Hamptons Group Limited and Director Employment by the Investment Manager: 3,000 held by Cynthia Rich.
of Pacific Asset Trust plc, Granada plc and None Calum Thomson Experience: Employment by the Investment Manager: A qualified accountant with over 25 years None External appointments: experience in the financial services industry, Non-Executive Director and Audit Chairman Other connections with the including 21 years as audit partner at Deloitte of The Diverse Income Trust plc, The Bank Company or Investment Manager: LLP, specialising in the asset management of London and The Middle East plc and None sector.
BLME Holdings plc, Non-Executive Director Shared Directorships with any of Baring Emerging Europe plc, Schroder Appointed to the Board: other Company Directors: Unit Trusts Limited and Schroder Pension April 2017 None Management Limited and Chairman of the Remuneration: Board of Trustees of La Serenissima.
Shareholding in Company: 29,700 5,200 Ordinary Shares
