16 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW OVERVIEW OF AVIS INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY BRITISH EMPIRE INVEST IN COMPANIES IDENTIFY GOOD QUALITY UNDERLYING IS MANAGED BY TRADING AT DISCOUNTS ASSETS WITH APPRECIATION POTENTIAL ASSET VALUE TO NET ASSET VALUE.
INVESTORS LIMITED Our focus is to find listed companies that own assets There are many companies trading at discounts to The aim of AVI is such as listed securities, property, cash and other net asset value.
Our aim is to identify companies to deliver superior businesses.
We then estimate the value of all of that own high-quality businesses where there is not investment returns.
After deducting any liabilities such as only a wide discount, but also where we consider AVI specialises in debt or pension liabilities, we arrive at an estimate of there to be a reasonable likelihood of those assets investing in securities net asset value for that company.
We will consider appreciating in value.
that for a number investing in companies where the discount between of reasons may be the current share price and our estimate of the selling on anomalous value of that business is wide.
AVIs investment philosophy is to: 1 2 LOOK FOR EVENTS TO NARROW FOCUS ON BALANCE DISCOUNTS.
Once we find a good quality business on an attractive Debt works very well when markets are appreciating.
valuation, we then consider whether it is likely that However, debt can also destroy a lot of value when the discount will narrow.
Many companies trade at a markets are falling and the business environment for discount for a reason and if that reason persists, then the a particular company deteriorates.
We consider very discount may persist.
Catalysts differ for the various types carefully the balance sheet strength of the companies of company in which we invest.
For example, in the case in which we invest.
Factors which we look at include of a closed-end fund, where we are a large shareholder the actual quantum of debt relative to the assets of we can influence a board to pursue a strategy for the companies, the maturity profile of the debt and discount narrowing.
In the case of a family controlled the cashflows that the businesses generate.
company, we would rely on the family to be the activist.
Our analysis would involve trying to understand the interests and objectives of the controlling shareholder, and whether our interests were aligned with theirs.
3 4 Our focus on buying high-quality businesses trading FOCUS ON BOTTOM-UP at wide discounts to their net asset value has served STOCK PICKING.
us well over the long term.
There are periods of time, however, when our style is out of favour and the We are not asset allocators attempting to invest a types of companies in which we invest are ignored pool of money across various asset classes.
We are by the broader market.
This requires us to be patient equity investors focusing on a particular style of value and to remain true to our style, so that when other investing.
We do not hug benchmarks and we will not investors begin to appreciate the value in those own a company just because it is in a benchmark.
companies, we are well placed to benefit.
In the short We seek to invest in companies that meet the term, this means that there could be some volatility criteria described above.
However, we are confident that we own high-quality businesses, which are trading on cheap valuations.
Members of the investment team at AVI invest their own money in funds which they manage.
As at 30 September 2017 AVIs investment team owned 214,364 shares in British Empire Trust plc.
