Our strategy Our strategy is to manage a portfolio of businesses in markets where information, data and convening market participants are valued.
Wedeliver products and services that support our clients critical activities Our quadrants Financial performance will come from a rigorous allocation of capital.
We allocate capital towards those businesses which weconsider are, or can be, successful B2B 3.0 businesses seepage 11.
Depending on market cycle and structure, wecategorise our businesses into four quadrants.
We allocate capital to the top two quadrants and withdraw capital from the bottom two.
A cyclical downturn can create opportunity for a structurally strong business.
For instance, whencommodities markets were depressed, we put targeted investment into Metal Bulletin we bought FastMarkets and invested in systems and people among other things.
This improved our market position so that as the commodity market turned we were able to take a disproportionate share of the uptick.
We have invested in top-right businesses like those we have serving the insurance sector.
The combination of structural and cyclical strength means those businesses are now growing fast.
However, for markets which are structurally challenged, wewill disinvest and reallocate capital.
This quadrant-based assessment leads to three pillars of strategic activity: investing around the big themes, transforming the operating model and actively managing the portfolio.
Our quadrants PREPARE FOR THE UPTURN INVEST Protect and enhance competitive position New product development 3 4 Selective investments for when cycleturns Sales and marketing Opportunistic revenue initiatives Acquisition Tight cost control Fix any operational deficit Fix any operational deficit Accelerate transition to 3.0 Cycle DISINVEST USE THE TIME WISELY Maximise shorter-term profit and cash Modest investment to move to top-right quadrant 1 2 Divest Maximise shorter-term profit and cash Prevent future build-up Fix any operational deficit Consider divestment Annual Report and Accounts 2017 16 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 16 12 11 2017 12:13:39 PM Structure Strategic report Strategic 1 Invest around 2 Transform the 3 Actively manage pillars big themes operating model theportfolio DESCRIPTION We look to serve semi-opaque We have developed what we Acquisitions have always been, markets where the information call a best-of-both-worlds and remain, an important organisations need in order to operating model.
operate effectively is hard to find.
isknown for its entrepreneurial Wehave a record of identifying This determines our big themes culture our people are creative, good businesses where our which include price discovery, action-oriented, close to their ownership adds value.
We also post-trade activities, asset customers, passionate about sell businesses where we believe we are not the best owners, and management and telecoms.
their brands, knowledgeable about the industries they serve to generate capital to invest in the big themes.
and accountable for their results.
PROGRESS Invested in product Created seven divisions Successfully integrated development.
For example: PriceReporting & Analytics, FastMarkets into our price MADE IN2017 BCAproducts targeting passive, Investment Research, reportingdivision specialist and alternative Institutional Investor, Banking Acquisitions of RISI, BroadGroup investments: NDR tools for &Finance, Specialist andLayer123 registered investment Information, Events and Global Sold Euromoney Indices, advisors:Euromoneys Market Intelligence toserve our IIIntelligence, LatinFinance, thoughtleadership initiative: foursegments moreeffectively HedgeFund Intelligence, and andInstitutional Investors Created a Group Management after the financial year-end, ManagerMatch service: Board to provide a new Adhesion and World Bulk Wine Invested heavily in our price operating framework for the reporting capabilities with the Groups divisions and functions acquisition of RISI, the leading Continued to develop and build pricereporting agency for the our strong central functions global forest products market suchas HR, IT, Corporate Through the acquisitions of Development, Finance, Legal, Risk and Programmes to support BroadGroup and Layer123 weexpanded the market and ourbusinesses customer segments our telecoms Improved the technology events businesses serve leadership in the price-reporting Increased our investment in and businesses and investment reshaped our relationship with research divisions Zanbato, a company offering Introduced sophisticated institutional investors alternative approaches to how we price investment opportunities ourproducts at BCA and MetalBulletin HOW WE Financial performance and KPIs Following the DMGT share We have reduced dragimpact demonstrate that ourinvestment MEASURE sell down and buyback the ofunderperforming businesses in big themes is having a Groupis no longer able to use by4m through the above PROGRESS positivefinancial impact.
DMGT central services and salesand grown revenue in theinvestment in Euromoneys ourPrice Reporting & Analytics functions has enabled the division to57m with a 29% Groupto operate as a operating margin.
61% subscription revenue share of total revenue 4% growth in adjusted profit beforetax PRIORITIES Further investment in these areas Ensure we take advantage of Continue to evaluate potential through acquisition, product Euromoneys scale, share best M&A opportunities to reallocate FOR2018 development and expansion into practice, operate strategically capital andaccelerate the newsegments or geographies.
and create career paths for staff Groups transition towards being across the Group.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 17 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 17 12 11 2017 12:13:39 PM
