12 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT TEN LARGEST EQUITY INVESTMENTS The top ten equity investments make up 47.0% of total assets less current liabilities, with underlying businesses spread across a diverse range of 1 2 sectors and regions.
PARGESA EXOR Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Holding 55.5m Investment Holding 50.1m Company Company Discount Discount % of total assets less -32.8% % of total assets less -29.4% current liabilities current liabilities 5.7% 5.1% Through Pargesa's stake in GBL it holds interests EXOR is an Italian-listed holding company run by View our investment platforms: in a number of listed companies.
The portfolio is the Agnelli family, which traces its roots back to the www.
co. uk concentrated on a limited number of major holdings formation of FIAT in 1899.
It has exposure to four how-to-invest platforms with the aim of creating long-term value through active main assets, three of which are listed: Fiat Chrysler ownership.
Automobile, Ferrari and CNH, and one unlisted: PartnerRe.
Photography Umicore Photography Ferrari S. p. A.
Copyright 6 7 JPEL PRIVATE EQUITY JARDINE STRATEGIC Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Company 44.4m Investment Holding 43.8m Company % of total assets less Discount Discount current liabilities -19.3% % of total assets less -23.5% 4.6% current liabilities 4.5% JPEL Private Equity is a London-listed closed-end fund An Asian holding company which holds significant investing in private equity investments primarily in the interests in Jardine Matheson, Hongkong Land, Jardine US and Europe.
The portfolio is well-balanced between Cycle & Carriage, Dairy Farm and Mandarin Oriental by mature legacy funds and more recent secondary direct way of a cross shareholding between Jardine Matheson investments the former generate prodigious cash flows and Jardine Strategic.
The group structure, which that will now be distributed to shareholders under the is controlled by the Keswick family, provides broad new realisation policy: the latter are largely high growth exposure to Asian businesses at an attractive discount companies bought at attractive valuations that have to the value of their listed underlying holdings, while produced strong NAV growth.
providing the base for long-term value creation through the stable stewardship of their investee companies.
Photography Getty Images representing Corsicana Source Market Place by Jason in Hong Kong, owned by Bedding Inc.
Dairy Farm All discounts are estimated by AVI as at 30 September 2017.
British Empire Trust plc 13 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 3 4 5 RIVERSTONE ENERGY SYMPHONY INTERNATIONAL WENDEL Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Company 47.4m Investment Company 47.1m Investment Holding 45.5m Company % of total assets less Discount % of total assets less Discount Discount current liabilities -17.7% current liabilities -27.9% % of total assets less -27.1% 4.9% 4.8% current liabilities 4.7% A London-listed closed-end fund investing in oil & Symphony is a London-listed closed-end fund with Wendel is a French-listed holding company with gas companies, mainly in the US and Canada with a a focus on the Asian consumer.
The shares trade exposure to a diverse range of sectors.
Major focus on unconventional shale assets.
Backed by a at a deep discount to the value of the investment business lines include certification and inspection management team with a strong track record in the portfolio, half of which is invested in fast-growing Minor services, consumer packaging and mobile telephone sector, Riverstone Energy was able to capitalise on International, a Thai-listed hotels and restaurants group infrastructure through their investments in Bureau the distress in the sector following the oil price crash with a global footprint.
Other exposures include real Veritas, Constantia Flexibles and IHS.
to assemble an attractive portfolio concentrated in the estate and healthcare.
lowest-cost basins in North America.
The company trades on a 18% discount to NAV.
Source Riverstone Energy Ltd Source Elewana Collection Loisaba Tented Camp Laikipia, Source Stahl Kenya, owned by Minor International 8 9 10 TETRAGON FINANCIAL ADLER REAL ESTATE PERSHING SQUARE HOLDINGS Nature of business Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Valuation Investment Company Investment Company 43.4m Real Estate Company 42.3m 38.0m % of total assets less % of total assets less Discount % of total assets less Discount Discount current liabilities current liabilities -34.1% current liabilities -13.6% -24.1% 3.9% 4.5% 4.3% A Euronext and London-listed closed-end fund investing A Euronext and London-listed closed-end fund investing Adler Real Estate owns a portfolio of c. 50,000 in a highly-concentrated, predominantly long portfolio in a multi-asset portfolio with exposure to CLO equity, residential units throughout Germany.
The company of listed US equities.
The managers reputation has hedge funds, and real estate.
Tetragon wholly owns primarily focuses on affordable housing while improving been damaged by the catastrophic losses experienced or has substantial stakes in the asset managers that operating performance of these often undermanaged in their out-sized position in Valeant Pharmaceuticals, manage its portfolio, and the ultimate IPO of this asset assets.
It is trading on a 14% discount to NAV while but that enabled us to make the investment at a wide management business is likely to release some of the peers are trading at or above NAV.
discount to NAV despite the managers long-term track value found in the companys 34% discount to NAV.
The shares trade on a 24% discount to NAV, which we believe is far too wide.
Photography Getty Images representing Cadbury, owned by Source Tetragon Financial Group Ltd Source Adler Real Estate AG Mondelez International Photography Tobias Vollmer
