E G A R E V E L G N Business model Inputs Business model PEOPLE AND CULTURE Euromoney is known for its entrepreneurial culture.
We empower our teams to deliver the best for their customers, businesses and fast-moving markets Our people are creative, action-oriented, closetotheir customers, passionate about their brands, knowledgeable about the industries theyserve and accountable for their results We have more than 2,200 staff working in 40officesacross more than 20 countries whoallcontribute to our success Create once, sell many OUR CUSTOMERS We have a global customer base with revenuederived from almost 200 countries Our customers are financial institutions, investment Scalable banks, commodity traders, miners, asset managers, Pricing Recurring and cash governments, corporations, professional-service power revenues providers, consultants andtechnology providers generative Our customers level of spend is affected by theirprofitability, expectations of market developments and the regulatory environment Our products enable our customers to operate effectively in their markets Low capital intensity OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE We deliver products and services which form partof our customers daily workflow We have globally recognised and trusted brands We have long-standing relationships with buyers and sellers Our sophisticated infrastructure enables and supports our businesses around the world Our strong cash generation and a strong balance sheet enable us to invest in our bestopportunities How we are structured ASSET MANAGEMENT PRICING, DATA & MARKET INTELLIGENCE Brands and businesses serving the global asset Businesses spanning many industries that provide information managementindustry and analysis critical for our clients business processes and workflows Providing independent research enabling our clients to makeinformed investment decisions Including Metal Bulletin, the leading price reporting agency for the metals and mining industry and RISI, the leading price Running networks and conferences and providing news reporting agency for the global forestry products sector anddata Approximately two-thirds of revenues are derived from Over 80% of revenues are derived from subscriptions subscriptions andlicences COMMODITY EVENTS BANKING & FINANCE The leading conferences in the metals, agricultural and Providing market intelligence, news, training and energy sectors conferences to the global finance industry Large-scale trading events Including the flagship Euromoney magazine Bringing entire industries together to conduct business Our conferences across the Euromoney and IMN brands andexchange market intelligence arethe pre-eminent events for their sectors Over 75% of revenues are from delegate fees Over 70% of its revenues from delegate and sponsorship fees Four business segments supported by strong central functions Annual Report and Accounts 2017 14 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 14 12 11 2017 12:13:38 PM I T A R E P O H G I H Strategic report How we monetise our activities Outputs SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTENT REVENUES SHAREHOLDERS are the recurring subscription and licence fees We allocate and recycle capital efficiently togood thatcustomers pay to receive access to the organic and inorganic opportunities via our Groupsinformation through tools and platforms best-of-both-worlds operating model.
Our which formpart of our customers daily workflow.
ambition is to generate consistent and meaningful Assetmanagers also subscribe to Institutional returns for our shareholders at relatively low risk.
SPONSORSHIP REVENUES CUSTOMERS are fees paid by customers to sponsor or be We deliver products and services that support our associated with an event.
clients critical activities and in particular to serve markets which are semi-opaque, that is, where there is information which our customers need in order to operate effectively butthe information is hard to find.
STRONG SUSTAINED EARNINGS ANDCASH GENERATION DELEGATES REVENUES PARTNERS are fees paid by customers to attend conferences, We collaborate with our partners in mutually training courses or seminars.
beneficial ways to enable us both to understand and penetrate each others markets better.
Strongthird-party relationships are important tohelp us execute our strategy and we seek tobuild longer-term relationships with those partnerswhere appropriate.
ADVERTISING REVENUES EMPLOYEES are fees paid by customers to place an We serve our four segments through seven divisions advertisement in one or more of our publications.
supported by strong central functions to ensure As well as selling more traditional brand and thatour employees can be expert, creative, product advertising, we have started to meet action-oriented and customer-focussed and customers thought-leadership marketing needs.
takeadvantage of Euromoneys scale, share bestpractice, operate strategically and create career paths for themselves and their colleagues across the Group.
Our Strategic Pillars 1 2 3 INVEST AROUND TRANSFORM THE ACTIVELY MANAGE BIG THEMES OPERATING MODEL THEPORTFOLIO We look to serve semi-opaque We have developed what we call Acquisitions have always been, markets where the information abest-of-both-worlds operating andremain, an important part of organisations need in order to model.
Euromoney is known for its Euromoneys strategy.
We have a operate effectively is hard to find.
entrepreneurial culture our people record of identifying good businesses Thisdetermines our big themes are creative, action-oriented, close to where our ownership adds value.
whichinclude price discovery, their customers, passionate about Wealso sell businesses where we post-trade activities, asset their brands, knowledgeable about believe we are not the best owners, management and telecoms.
the industries they serve and and to generate capital to invest accountable for their results.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 15 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 15 12 11 2017 12:13:39 PM
