Directors report 74 The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements  PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together, theGroup fortheyearended 30 September 2017. c neither the controlling shareholder nor any The Directors Report comprises pages 74 to 76 of this report, in addition to the sections of its associates will propose or procure the ofthe Annual Report incorporated by reference, including the Board biographies, the proposal of a shareholder resolution which Corporate Governance Report, the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee is intended or appears to be intended to Report and theDirectors Remuneration Report.
circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts, where applicable, under LR The Board confirms that, in accordance with 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors Report, with the exception of the information set out in the the Listing Rules, on 29 January 2016, the table below, which can be found at the location specified.
Company entered into such an agreement theRelationship Agreement with, among Listing Rule Information Location others, OCM Luxembourg Coppice Topco S. R. L. 1 and various Oaktree funds together, the LR 9.8.
4 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes as Not applicable Oaktree Shareholders which, at the time, required by LR 9.4.
3, regarding information about the recruitment of a director hada combined total holding of approximately 56percent ofthe Companys voting rights.
4 11 Details of contracts for the provision of services Not applicable Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, to the Company by a controlling shareholder the Oaktree Shareholders agreed to the independence obligations contained in the LR 9.8.
4 14 Details of transactions with controlling shareholders Not applicable Relationship Agreement.
On 26 May 2017, the Oaktree Shareholders General information Directors interests sold shares in the Company, and reduced their combined total shareholding to approximately Countryside Properties PLC is a public limited The Directors interests in the shares and share 23 per cent of the Companys voting rights.
company, listed on the Main Market of the London options of the Company are shown on page 70 Below 25 per cent holding, under the terms Stock Exchange, incorporated and domiciled in of the Remuneration Report.
ofthe Relationship Agreement, Oaktree the UK.
The registered address of the Company is Shareholders retained the right to appoint Countryside House, The Drive, Brentwood, Essex Significant contractual only one Non-Executive Director to the Board CM13 3AT.
The Company acts as the holding agreements of the Company, and so James Van Steenkiste company and ultimate parent for the Group.
The Strategic Report describes the most important resigned from the Board on 5 June 2017.
All other customer and supplier contracts and other provisions of the Relationship Agreement, including Principal activities and arrangements essential to the Group.
We do the right forOaktree Shareholders toappoint StrategicReport not consider ourselves to be dependent on a single one Non-Executive Director to theBoard of Countryside is a UK homebuilder and urban key supplier.
Countryside entered into a new the Company, remain in force until such time regeneration partner, operating in London and 300m revolving credit facility on 12May2016, asOaktree Shareholders reduce their combined the South East of England, and with a presence in expiring in May 2021.
The first of two options total shareholding to below 10per cent of the West Midlands and the North West of England.
on the first and second anniversaries was theCompanys voting rights.
We operate through two divisions: Housebuilding exercised extending the facility to May 2022.
The Board confirms that, since the entry into and Partnerships.
Our Strategic Report on pages the Relationship Agreement on 29 January 2016 2 to 39 sets out detailed information on the Relationship Agreement with until 21 November 2017, being the latest Group and its strategy, its principal activities, controlling shareholders practicable date prior to the publication of the operation of the businesses, and the Where a listed company has a controlling thisAnnual Report: resultsand financial position for the year ended shareholder, it is required to have in place at all 30September 2017.
Information on the i the Company has complied with the times a written and legally binding agreement principal risks and uncertainties facing the independence provisions included in which is intended to ensure that the controlling Group, trends and economic factors impacting theRelationship Agreement: and shareholder complies with the independence the business and likely future developments provisions set out in LR 6.1.
A controlling ii so far as the Company is aware, the canalso be found in the Strategic Report.
shareholder is defined as any person who independence provisions included in the exercises or controls on their own, or together Relationship Agreement have been complied Board changes with any person with whom they are acting in with by the Oaktree Shareholders and Following Oaktrees reduction of its concert, 30 per cent or more of the votes able theirassociates.
shareholding in the Company to below 25 per to be cast on all or substantially all matters at cent on 26May 2017, James Van Steenkiste, a As there have been no controlling shareholders general meetings of a company.
4D Non-Executive Director appointed to the Board of the Company other than the Oaktree requires that the agreement must contain by Oaktree, resigned on 5 June 2017 in accordance Shareholders, there has been no need for the undertakings that: with the terms of the Relationship Agreement Relationship Agreement to require the Oaktree a transactions and arrangements with the described below.
On 2 October 2017, the Shareholders to procure compliance by any third controlling shareholder and or any of its Company announced that Richard Adam will parties with the independence provisions of associates will be conducted at arms length step down from the Board on 31December 2017. the Relationship Agreement.
and on normal commercial terms: 1.
T he Oaktree funds were: Oaktree Opportunities Fund VIIIb, For more details on the members of the Board, b neither the controlling shareholder nor any L. P. Oaktree Opportunities Fund VIIIb Parallel, L. P. Oaktree see pages 42 and 43.
The Corporate Governance Opportunities Fund IX, L. P. Oaktree Opportunities Fund IX of its associates will take any action that Report on pages 46 to 51 gives more Parallel, L. P. Oaktree Opportunities Fund IX Parallel 2, L. P. would have the effect of preventing the information on how the Board functioned Oaktree European Principal Fund III, L. P. and Oaktree European listed company from complying with its during the year.
Principal Fund III Parallel, L. P. obligations under the Listing Rules: and Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 75 Significant agreements change Substantial shareholdings of control At 15 November 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Upon a change of control of Countryside Report, the Company has been notified of the following interests amounting to 3 per cent or Properties, a number of significant agreements more of the voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company: take effect, alter or terminate as follows: Non-controlling interest Interest in Countryside subsidiaries Revolving credit facility: Under the terms of the 300m revolving credit facility, entered into Oaktree Capital Management Private Equity 23.0% on 12 May 2016, extended in maturity until May 2022 on 2 May 2017 and provided by a Woodford Investment Management Ltd. 11.8% syndicate of banks to Countryside Properties, the Standard Life Aberdeen 9.6% lenders may, following such change in control, elect to continue to provide such Aviva Investors Global Services Ltd. 8.6% facility, or alternatively cancel it and require Ruffer LLP 5.4% all monies borrowed under such facility to be repaid.
Capital Research & Management 4.1% Directors and employees: There are no BlackRock Investment Management Ltd 3.1% agreements between the Company and M&G Investment Management Ltd 3.0% itsDirectors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid or change of control.
The Company will be operating a Dividend Policy on financial instruments Reinvestment Plan DRIP, further details The policy with respect to financial instruments ofwhich can found on our website at: Equal opportunities is covered in the accounting policy Note 3 investors.
com The Group is committed to employment policies tothe financial statements.
The Notes to the  dividends.
The DRIP will which follow best practice based on equal financial statements include the Companys operate automatically in respect of the 2017 opportunities for all employees, irrespective of policies and processes for managing its capital: final dividend for those shareholders whohave gender, race, nationality, colour, disability, marital its financial risk management objectives: details previously registered a DRIP mandate unless status, sexual orientation, age or religion.
All of its financial instruments and hedging activities: varied by shareholders beforehand and also decisions relating to employment practices are and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
inrespect of all future dividends, until such objective, free from bias and based upon work timeas each participating shareholder elects criteria and individual merit.
The Groups Independent auditor towithdraw from the DRIP or the DRIP is policyis to offer appropriate training and The Board is satisfied that suspended or terminated in accordance with career development to disabled persons that  LLP PwC itsterms and conditions.
The Board will continue are, as far as possible, identical to other remained independent for the purpose of to keep the availability of the DRIP under employees and in line with best practice.
event of a member of staff becoming disabled, the Group makes every effort to continue Shareholders are again reminded to check their Corporate governance employment, arrange appropriate retraining position regarding any dividend mandates which A report on Countrysides corporate and offer opportunities for promotion.
are in place, should they either wish to participate governance framework, together with its Formore information on our diversity in the DRIP or discontinue or vary any participation, compliance with the principles and provisions statistics, please refer to the Our people as existing mandates will apply to all dividend of the UK Corporate Governance Code can section on page 31. payments unless or until revoked.
be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 46.
The Corporate Governance Report The right to receive any dividend has been waived Employee involvement forms part of this Directors Report and is by the Trustee of the Companys Employee Benefit The Group systematically provides employees incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Trust over those shares held by that Trust.
with information on matters of concern to them, consulting them or their representatives regularly, Political contributions Power of the Directors so that their views can be taken into account The Group does not make political contributions.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, when making decisions that are likely to affect the Companies Act and any directions given by their interests.
Employee involvement in the the Company by special resolution, the business Group is encouraged: a common awareness Dividend of the Company will be managed by the Board, onthe part of all employees of the financial The Directors recommend the payment of a which may exercise all powers of the Company.
and economic factors affecting the Group final dividend of 5.0 pence 2016: 3.4 pence playsa major role in maintaining the Groups per ordinary share which, if approved by customer-focused approach.
For more information shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, on how the Group engages its employees, will be paid on 9February 2018 to those refer to page 30 of the report.
For more shareholders on theregister at the close information on how employees can participate in ofbusiness on 22December 2017. the Groups performance through membership of the LTIP and SAYE employee share plans, refer to pages 116 and 117 of the report.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Directors report continued 76 Directors indemnities Statement of disclosure of By means of a Deed of Indemnity entered into information to the auditor separately by the Company and each Director, Each Director of the Company confirms that, there is a qualifying third party indemnity as far as each Director is aware, there is no provision as per the Companies Act 2006 relevant audit information of which the Companys that provides, for the financial year ended auditors is unaware and that each of the 30September2017 and as at the date of this Directors has taken all the steps they ought to document, that the Company may pay for have taken individually as a Director in order to Directors indemnities out of its own assets.
make themselves aware of any relevant audit The Company has obtained directors and information and to establish that the Companys ofcers insurance for this purpose.
auditors is aware of that information.
Share capital Going concern At the date of this report, 450,000,000 The Directors have reviewed the liquidity position ordinary shares the same number as at of the Group for the 18-month period from admission to the London Stock Exchange 21 November 2017.
The cash ows of the of0.01 each have been issued, are fully paid Group have been assessed against the Groups up and are admitted to trading on the London available sources of finance on a monthly basis Stock Exchange.
The Companys Articles of to determine the minimum and maximum Association, copies of which can be obtained expected levels ofheadroom.
Based on this analysis from the Companys website, set out the rights and an assessment of the potential cash risks, the and obligations attaching to the Companys Directors have a reasonable expectation that ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the the Group has adequate resources to continue Companys Directors.
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to Details of employee share plans are provided in adopt the going concern basis in preparing its Note 30 to the Group financial statements.
The Directors Viability Statement can be found in the Purchase of the Companys Strategic Report on page 37. ownshares At the 2017 AGM shareholders approved a Carbon emissions resolution permitting the Company to make Details of the Groups approach to the purchases of its own shares up to a maximum environment, including information in relation of 45,000,000 ordinary shares representing to its carbon emissions, are set out in the 10per cent of the issued share capital at section headed Environment on page 34, 14December 2016.
This resolution remains forming part of the Sustainability Report section inforce until the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
of the Annual Report on pages 32 to 35.
TheCompany has made no purchases of its own shares to date.
Annual General Meeting The Company will seek to renew this authority The 2018 Annual General Meeting of the at the 2018 AGM.
Company will be held at fide Rougemont Manor Hotel, Great Warley Street, Brentwood Authority to allot shares CM13 3JP, at 2.30 pm on Thursday 25 January At the 2017 AGM shareholders approved a 2018.
The notice convening the meeting, together with details of the business to be considered resolution permitting the Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of and explanatory notes is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available onour website.
Shareholders also approved a resolution authorising the Directors to allot By order of the Board shares up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 1,500,000 in connection with a rights issue.
As at 21 November 2017 the Gary Whitaker Directors had not used these authorities and Company Secretary these authorities willremain in force until the 21 November 2017 conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
The Company will seek to renew this authority at the 2018AGM.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
