STRATEGIC REPORT SECTORISATION Understanding our clients The global food services market is very large and disparate.
That is why we segment the market into various sectors and sub-sectors using our portfolio of B2B brands.
It enables us to be closer to our clients and consumers to better understand their different needs.
In this way, we can create innovative, bespoke offers that meet their specific requirements and, in doing so, truly differentiate ourselves.
OUR BRANDS BUSINESS & INDUSTRY 39% OF GROUP UNDERLYING REVENUE We provide a choice of quality, nutritious and well balanced food for employees during their working day.
In addition, where clients seek broader service offerings, we can deliver a range of support services to the highest standard, and at the best value.
HEALTHCARE & SENIORS 23% OF GROUP UNDERLYING REVENUE We are specialists in helping hospitals in the public and private sectors on their journey of managing efficiency and enhancing quality across a range of food and support services.
We have an increasing presence in the growing senior living market.
EDUCATION 18% OF GROUP UNDERLYING REVENUE From kindergarten to college, we provide fun, nutritious dining solutions that help support academic achievement at the highest levels.
We educate young people on how to have a happy, safe and healthy lifestyle while contributing to a sustainable world.
SPORTS & LEISURE 12% OF GROUP UNDERLYING REVENUE Operating at some of the worlds most prestigious sporting and leisure venues, exhibition centres, visitor attractions and major events, we have an enviable reputation for providing outstanding hospitality and true service excellence.
DEFENCE, OFFSHORE & REMOTE 8% OF GROUP UNDERLYING REVENUE Through our established health and safety culture, we are a market leader in providing food and support services to major companies in the oil and gas and mining and construction industries.
For our defence sector clients, we are a partner that runs efficient operations outside areas of conflict.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 9 10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 We act responsibly We seek to achieve our strategic goals in a sustainable way with emphasis on where we believe we can makethe most positive social impact, whilst consistently delivering value for all our stakeholders inthe long term.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 11
