STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Viability Principal risks and uncertainties The most relevant potential impacts on viability, which arise from our principal risks and uncertainties are set out below: A substantial and sustained decrease in visitor numbers to the West End and our villages which could result in reduced stat ement occupier demand, rental income and or capital values, higher vacancy and declining profitability Regulatory changes which could reduce profitability and The Board has assessed the prospects of capital values Changing economic conditions which could reduce capital the Group over a five year period.
Based values, reducing headroom in loan covenants.
on the assumptions set out below, it has Scenario analysis a reasonable expectation that the Group In carrying out this review, we assumed no further acquisitions nor capital expenditure, other than that which was committed will be able to continue in operation and or approved by the Board.
Similarly, we assume no new debt facilities are raised and no debt refinancing takes place, other meet its liabilities as they fall due over than refinancing the bank facilities which mature during the forecast period.
The review overlaid the potential impact of the principal risks The Board considered a five-year review of the Groups prospects, prepared by senior which could affect solvency or liquidity in severe but plausible management.
This period reflects lease lengths or rent review patterns across the scenarios onto the five-year forecasts and concluded that the majority of our portfolio, and corresponds with the Groups current forecast period.
It included sensitivity analyses Our forecasts are updated half-yearly and reflect the Groups established strategy of which flexed inputs to the forecasts including reduced income, long-term investment in Londons West End, its existing commitments, available profitability and capital values, both individually and in unison, to financial resources, and long-term financing arrangements.
They consider profits, cash reflect these severe but plausible scenarios.
flows, funding requirements and other key financial ratios over the period, as well as the Asset value declines resulting from increasing equivalent yields headroom in the financial covenants contained in the Groups various loan agreements.
to levels similar to those in 2008 09 were modelled.
This would result in a near halving of our portfolio valuation.
In unison, we considered decreases in rental income of up to 40%.
These KEY FORECAST ASSUMPTIONS assumptions would represent a significant contraction in the size of the business over the five-year period.
However, our ASSUMPTIONS COMMENT assessment is that such a scenario would not threaten the viability of the Group.
The Group maintains a prudent approach The Group had cash and to gearing, with debt facilities which are undrawn committed loan largely fixed and long-term in nature.
At facilities at 30 September Viability 1 30 September, our loan-to-value ratio 2017 totalling 320.6 million, Based on the assessment outlined above, the directors have a was 26.7%.
The interest on all drawn debt which comfortably exceeds reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue was fixed at that point and our weighted the Groups commitments over in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the average maturity of debt was 10.3 years.
five-year period to September 2022. the assessment period.
This The two facilities which mature during the assumes an ability to refinance The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 64 was approved by the period of assessment represent 22.2% of revolving credit facilities totalling Board on 27 November 2017. our total committed debt facilities.
150 million and 125 million We are currently in advanced negotiations which mature in 2018 and 2020 to refinance both of these facilities and the respectively.
Board has reasonable confidence that these Brian Bickell Chris Ward negotiations will conclude successfully.
Chief Executive Finance Director We have a long record of crystallising Crystallisation of the portfolio the  ERV of our reversionary potential over the portfolio over a three-to-five year period.
67% of the total uncontracted portfolio reversion arises from restaurants, leisure and shops, the demand for which, in our locations, is not cyclical and has demonstrated sustained long-term growth over many years.
ERVs are based on current, proven rental tones, and do not assume any further growth.
1 Based on net debt and including our 50% share of the Longmartin joint venture.
See principal risks and uncertainties on pages 61 to 63 See Financial management on pages 56 to 57 64 See principal risks and uncertainties on pages 61 to 63 65 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Governance 66 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Governance 67
