Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information Directors Report This section contains additional information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the Annual Report and Accounts.
This section along with the information from the Chairmans Statement on page 10 to the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 66 constitutes the Directors Report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
STRATEGIC REPORT The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a Strategic Report in this document.
The information that fulfls the requirements of the Strategic Report can be found on the inside front cover to page 38, which is incorporated in this report by reference.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Corporate Governance Statement as required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
1 is set out on page 40 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT In-house research and development is undertaken alongside work with the British Beer and Pub Association BBPA and Brewing Research International.
Other sources of data include CGA: On Trade Market and State of Nation and IRI Off Trade Market.
We produce our own On Trade and Off Trade ale reports into the market on an annual basis.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE Details of the Companys issued share capital and of the movements during the period are shown in note 28 to the fnancial statements on page 105.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares and one class of preference shares.
On a poll vote, ordinary and preference shareholders have one vote for every 25 pence of nominal value of ordinary and preference share capital held in relation to all circumstances at general meetings of the Company.
The issued nominal value of the ordinary shares and preference shares is 100% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
There are no specifc restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 27 to the fnancial statements on pages 104 to 105.
Where shares are held on behalf of the Companys share schemes, the trustees have waived their right to vote and to dividends.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Under the Articles of Association, the Directors have authority to allot ordinary shares subject to the aggregate set at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Company was also given authority at its 2017 AGM to make market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum number of 57,595,999 shares.
Similar authority will again be sought from shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of the Directors are further described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 41 to 47.
DIRECTORS Biographies of the Directors currently serving on the Board are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Changes to the Board during the period are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 41.
Details of Directors service contracts are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 62.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code all Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the AGM on 23 January 2018, other than Matthew Roberts who will offer himself for election following his appointment to the Board on 1 March 2017 and Nick Backhouse who will retire from the Board following the 2018 AGM.
CHANGE OF CONTROL There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or terminate upon, a change of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be signifcant in terms of their likely impact on the business as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of offce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
DIVIDENDS ON ORDINARY SHARES An interim dividend of 2.7 pence per ordinary share was paid on 4 July 2017.
The Directors recommend a fnal dividend of 4.8 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 29 January 2018 to shareholders on the register on 15 December 2017.
This would bring the total dividend for 2016 17 to 7.5pence per ordinary share 2016: 7.3 pence per ordinary share.
The payment of the fnal dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
PREFERENCE SHARES The preference shares carry the right to a fxed cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 6% per annum payable in June and December.
Further details are given in note 19 on page 97.
MAJOR INTEREST IN COMPANY SHARES Notifcations of the following voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital had been received by the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the DTR.
The information shown below was correct at the time of disclosure.
However, the date received may not have been within the current fnancial reporting period and the percentages shown as provided at the time of disclosure have not been re-calculated based on the issued share capital at the period end.
It should also be noted that these holdings may have changed since the Company was notifed, however, notifcation of any change is not required until the next notifable threshold is crossed.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 63 Directors Report continued No further notifcations have been received by the Company between 30 September 2017 and 27 November 2017 being the latest practical date prior to the date of this report.
Ordinary shares of 7.375 pence each As at 30 September % of Shareholder 2017 voting rights The Capital Group Companies, Inc 34,423,328 6.01% Brewin Dolphin 28,448,600 4.94% Dimensional Fund Advisors LLP 29,565,208 4.66% Royal London Asset Management Limited 23,030,587 3.99% The Company also discloses the following information, obtained from the Register of Members, for the preference shares: Preference shares % of preference share voting Shareholder Number rights Fiske Nominees Ltd 34,048 45.40% Mrs HM Medlock 10,407 13.88% George Mary Allison Ltd 5,500 7.33% Mr PF and Dr K Knowles 4,356 5.81% Mr GAL Southall and Mr N Aston 2,855 3.81% Mrs H Michels 2,750 3.67% Mr R Somerville 2,750 3.67% Hargreave Hale Nominees Ltd 2,700 3.60% INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES The Company maintains Directors and Offcers Liability Insurance in respect of legal action that might be brought against its Directors and Offcers.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by law, the Company has indemnifed each of its Directors and other Offcers of the Group against certain liabilities that may be incurred as a result of their position within the Group.
These indemnities were in place for the whole of the period ended 30 September 2017 and as at the date of the report.
There are no indemnities in place for the beneft of the Auditors.
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION The average number of employees within the Group is shown in note 5 to the fnancial statements on page 88.
Apart from ensuring that an individual has the ability to carry out a particular role, we do not discriminate in any way.
We endeavour to retain employees if they become disabled, making reasonable adjustments to their role and, if necessary, look for redeployment opportunities within the Group.
We also ensure that training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all employees irrespective of gender, race, age or disability.
The Group is committed to keeping employees informed of business performance and our strategy, aiming to drive engagement and ensure employees are enabled.
We do this in a variety of ways from presentations of the interim and annual results by senior management, to video and email messages from our CEO.
In addition, there are a range of internal communication channels including newsletters, magazines, apps and briefngs to keep employees abreast of developments.
Employees views are sought through regular engagement surveys across the Group and action plans are put in place to respond to issues arising.
Employees are also encouraged to participate in the Companys SAYE scheme.
HUMAN RIGHTS Marstons is committed to respecting and upholding human rights within our business and also within our supply chain.
However, Marstons does not currently have a separate human rights policy.
MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT Our Modern Slavery Act disclosure is available on our website www.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING Our approach to corporate responsibility is closely correlated with our Groups strategic objectives.
One of our key corporate priorities is to reduce environmental impacts.
We recognise the importance of this priority to the long-term proftability of the business and operating a high quality estate.
Many of the environmental initiatives we adopt reduce our impact upon the environment as well reducing expenditure on energy and utilities in the long term.
Each year Marstons produces a Corporate Responsibility Report providing information on the many aspects of our corporate values, available at www.
The report includes detailed information on our environmental performance by business area including energy consumption, water usage, waste volumes and recycling rates.
64 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information Water usage has been reduced by installing water management systems in our managed pubs and franchised estate.
For many years we have been increasing the percentage of waste being recycled across the Group 2017: 71.8%, 2016: 69.4%.
Last year we appointed a new waste collection service provider and have since increased signifcantly the number of sites receiving segregated food collections 2017: 529 of our managed and franchised pubs recycle food waste, 2016: 346.
Electricity and gas reported emissions have remained stable with last year, both years benefting from relatively mild weather conditions.
Increases in energy as a result of business activity, for instance more food cooked in our kitchens and more production in our breweries, have been largely offset by energy effciencies, mild weather and an increasing proportion of our UK energy coming from non-fossil fuel energy sources.
This year we have continued to achieve considerable reductions in energy usage by replacing the lighting in the public areas of our managed and franchised pubs with LED lighting.
In addition we have also been installing LED lighting in our back of house areas.
Other projects this year have included using ambient air to cool our cellars rather than air conditioning, voltage optimisation, heating control systems and heat recovery systems.
2017 2016 CO2e CO2e Fuel Types tonnes tonnes Electricity and gas 118,848 117,171 Petrol and diesel 11,972 11,665 Refrigerants breweries 43 65 Refrigerants pubs 5,109 4,179 LPG 2,457 2,511 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio: 2017 2016 CO e tonnes per 100,000 of turnover 13.72 15.09 2 Notes: 1.
We report on all the measured emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Data collected is in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017, the period for which our carbon emissions are reported under the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Effciency Scheme.
POLITICAL DONATIONS Our policy is not to make any donations for political purposes in the UK or to donate to EU political parties or incur EU political expenditure.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The disclosures required in relation to the use of fnancial instruments by the Group together with details of our treasury policy and management are set out in note 25 to the fnancial statements on pages 100 to 102.
AUDITORS  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as Auditors and their re-appointment has been approved by the Audit Committee.
Resolutions to re-appoint them and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
Details of the audit tender are set out on page 52.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report.
The fnancial position of the Group is described on pages 28 to 34.
In addition, note 25 to the fnancial statements on pages 100 to 102 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its exposures to interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, counterparty risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups fnancial instruments and hedging activities are also provided in note 25.
The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the fnancial statements set out on pages 75 to 108 and 109 to 119 have been prepared on the going concern basis.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The AGM of the Company will be held at Wolverhampton Wanderers Football Club, Molineux Stadium, Waterloo Road, Wolverhampton WV1 4QR at 12 noon on 23 January 2018.
The notice convening the meeting, together with details of the special business to be considered and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available in the shareholder section of our website at www.
co. uk investors where a copy can be viewed and downloaded.
By order of the Board Anne-Marie Brennan Group Secretary 30 November 2017 Company registration number: 31461 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 65
