OUR MARKET POSITION Global food services market LARGE COMPASS PLAYERS GROUP 10% 16% 24% 50% SELF REGIONAL OPERATED PLAYERS STRUCTURAL GROWTH OPPORTUNITY Numbers relating to market size and penetration rates are based on management estimates and a range of external data.
6 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Significant structural growth opportunity across our sectors and markets The market for food and support services continues to offer Sports & Leisure is a highly outsourced sector with a global outlook significant growth potential as we drive outsourcing and deliver in which we benefit from our strong reputation across key markets.
astrong proposition across our sectors and regions.
The Defence, Offshore & Remote sector offers significant Compass provides outsourced food and support services in around opportunities to build lasting strategic relationships with large local 50 countries in a market worth over 400 billion comprising and international operators.
Creating strong client relationships approximately 200 billion food service and 200 billion support allows us to respond positively to tougher market conditions.
The five sectors in which Compass operates are: Business example, in the basic commodities sector where we have leveraged & Industry: Healthcare & Seniors: Education: Sports & Leisure and our cost base and changed our offer to meet our clients needs Defence, Offshore & Remote.
All five sectors continue tooffer and have retained business in the face of real budgetary pressure.
Support services remains an important market for Compass, Food service remains at the core of the Compass offer.
Business & particularly in Healthcare & Seniors and Defence, Offshore & Remote.
In these sectors, we are recognised for fulfilling Industry accounts for around 40% of this value, and this important sector continues to offer attractive growth opportunities.
In more the needs of clients who require excellent services with uncompromising quality.
developed markets where outsourcing rates are routinely in excess of 60%, our combination of scale, efficiencies and first class service In all the markets and regions in which Compass operates, delivery supports continued revenue growth.
In more emerging we continue to build our business and our reputation based on markets, outsourcing rates are still only around 10%, providing our ongoing focus on health and safety, the environment and an enormous opportunity for future growth in our core sector.
our firmcommitment to responsible corporate practices.
The Healthcare & Seniors and Education sectors also continue to grow, with less than half of the addressable global market currently outsourced.
We are developing operational excellence in areas such as our proposition for hospital visitors and nutritional meal planning in schools and, by sharing this expertise, we can better serve our clients and consumers across multiple markets.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 7
