Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information Our Strategy DESTINATION AND PREMIUM 397 PUBS Our Destination pubs offer family dining and great value in a relaxed pub environment.
We aim to retain strong pub values while 1 refecting modern tastes and trends in a fast moving and competitive market.
Our Pitcher & Piano bars and Revere bars and pubs offer premium food and drink Operating a high in attractive, often iconic town centre and qualitypub estate suburban locations.
STRATEGIC PRIORITY TAVERNS 806 PUBS The Place to Be To ensure we have the right Our community pubs are great locals consumer offer by having a pub with a more traditional pub ambience in Bringing our town strong locations.
The contribution of the estate with fexible operating centre bars back to life licensee, together with strong community models that cater for a broad engagement, are critical to the success Historically, many of our town centre range of customers.
of the pub with entertainment, teams bars were shoehorned into different and games often at the heart of the formats, whether or not it was the right pubs activities.
We now have a team that is OUR KPIs dedicated to rejuvenating these bars.
Like-for-like sales versus market To achieve our vision of hosting every LEASED 365 PUBS social occasion, we need to give Number of main meals served These distinctive pubs beneft from a high customers a reason to visit and ensure Average proft per pub degree of independence and committed our operators have the right tools to licensees.
The leased model, with longerdo this.
Employee engagement term assignable agreements, attracts A number of sites had remained unand enablement skilled entrepreneurs who build value invested for a long time and with no through developing their own businesses.
shortage of ideas for innovation the We contribute through our expertise in team focused on the ideas that would attracting the right lessee, dealing in a fair 2017 update really help each site come back to life, manner and providing business support.
We operate a pub estate that caters for a get customers through the door and broad range of customers, with fexible produce a fnancial beneft.
As a consequence we The Calder and Hops in Wakefeld ensure that we have the right consumer formerly The Gate had lacked offer, accompanied by the most appropriate meaningful investment for a long operating model, to maximise sales period of time.
To put it frmly back and profts for each individual pub.
on the Wakefeld map it needed a The key elements of this are listed in the complete overhaul and the introduction next column.
of lots of talking points!
This was achieved with a new colour-changing lighting system for inside and outside signage, full digital point of sale, bookable spaces with champagne tables and fridges in booths and, in keeping with Marstons brewing heritage, a cask ale cellar was installed as part of the back bar visual.
As a result of the investment, cask ale sustainability has doubled from two lines per week to four.
Sales have increased by over 4k net per week, Average proft per pub and return on investment is 54%.
2012 Proft 52% 2017 Proft % % Destination and Destination and 51 36 Premium Premium 73k 111k Taverns 33 Taverns 47 Leased 16 Leased 17 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 13 Our Strategy continued In recent years we have invested in, and developed our skills and expertise in our Premium pub business, comprising Pitcher & Piano and Revere.
We are seeking to selectively expand the estate through both 2 new-site development and acquisition.
In 2017 we completed 19 pubs and bars in the Destination and Premium estate.
In addition, we acquired the three-pub Pointing Dog Group in May and six pubs from Targeting pub growth Whitbread in June.
As described later in the report, we expect to open 15 pubs and bars STRATEGIC PRIORITY in 2018.
The new-build programme remains our key growth driver.
The Place to Be... DEVELOPMENT OF THE Our strategy has evolved to FRANCHISE MODEL Countryside pub capitalise upon other We pioneered the introduction of franchiseconversions: Accent opportunities for expansion style agreements in the pub sector.
We have some beautiful country pubs where the returns create We believe that the franchise operating in areas where the demographics do model in community pubs creates the signifcant shareholder value.
not support conversion to a Revere best experience for our customers and is pub and the building is too iconic the most fexible and attractive model for for our standard branding within the OUR KPIs licensees.
It is our intention to convert most Destination estate.
of our pubs in the Taverns business to this New-builds completed model over time and we continue to review Accent is our newest operating format: the feasibility of rolling out the franchise Underlying EPS a great authentic countryside or village model into the Destination estate.
pub that is supported by all the hearty FCF food you would expect from a great During the year we have taken operational British country pub, augmented with CROCCE responsibility for 22 pubs from New some exciting twists.
The bar celebrates River Retail.
These pubs will be operated Average proft per pub Marstons legendary range of ales but under our franchise model on a 15 year also adds more niche wines and spirits lease arrangement.
2017 update We needed something to maximise thevalue of these fantastic locations and with a 27% return on investment NEW PUBS AND BARS the frst four have launched to In our Destination business, we have great local acclaim.
You also cant opened over 200 pub-restaurants in the underestimate the local delight at last ten years, representing around 60% of having a building transformed into the the current Destination estate.
These pubs hub of the community.
Accent works offer family dining at reasonable prices and really well where we have hotel rooms generate high turnover, with target sales of upstairs and we have developed around 25,000 per week and a food sales those rooms to keep tradition with the mix of around 60%.
building below whilst keeping prices Competition and differentiation are key aimed at every-day travellers.
We operate in a market We have four more Accent conversions with signifcant investment in casual dining, planned before March 2018 and a fast food and restaurants, therefore our pipeline of 30in the next three years.
pub-restaurant investment is targeted in areas that are less exposed to intense competition, particularly outside London and city centres.
We beneft from the broad appeal of the pub brand which occupies a unique position in the market and has demonstrated longevity.
14 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information 2017 update Accommodation acts as a highly complementary income stream to an existing pub.
Organic room income has been 3 consistently strong with growth in both sales and RevPAR for each of the last four years and we anticipate similar trends in the future with growth in leisure and business visitors.
We operate around 1,250 rooms across Increased investment our Destination and Premium pub estate, in rooms including 22 lodges.
During the year we opened eight lodges and expect to open six STRATEGIC PRIORITY during 2017 18 including our largest lodge to date in Ebbsfeet.
The Place to Be... To enhance pub proftability by expanding our rooms offer.
Growing our NEW LODGES rooms business Looking forward, we expect accommodation OUR KPIs Marstons Inns is a rapidly growing to be increasingly important to our part of our pub business with sales Lodges completed investment plans, and we are acquiring sites for development this year and thereafter.
increasing over the past 12 months.
Like-for-like sales versus market The combination of pub-restaurant with an We added 300 rooms last year through adjacent lodge is attractive in the context of extensions and new-build lodges.
FCF increasing business and leisure travel.
There will be further expansion in the CROCCE 2017 18 fnancial period including the eagerly awaited arrival of our Average proft per pub NUMBER OF ROOMS 100-bed fagship lodge in Ebbsfeet.
Underlying EPS We now stretch from Peterhead, in 2017 2016 Northern Scotland, to Exeter with 63 Lodges 679 371 other sleeping locations in between!
Other 426 418 Our existing lodges were in 11% sales Destination pubs growth for the 2016 17 fnancial period as awareness of our offer increased and Premium 124 124 we grew both occupancy and price.
Taverns 40 40 We stay very true to our eat well, sleep well mantra: all of our lodges are located by a great Marstons pub Year Total number of rooms RevPAR Year on year Occupancy and we know that pub hospitality is key to our success.
This is demonstrated 2017 1269 37.74 4.4% 74.1% by signifcant ancillary sales for our 2016 953 36.15 7.9% 73.3% pubs where we open new lodges.
2015 797 33.51 12.5% 71.8% To maximise the eat well, sleep well 2014 722 29.78 14.5% 69.4% aim we have developed a new less corporate feel room which embodies warmth and style and this will launch in Nottingham in early 2018.
Mindful of the growing importance of room sales we have appointed two new senior members of the team: an operations manager and a marketing and revenue manager.
They will drive operational consistency and sales opportunities to help us maximise the return on our investment.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 15 Our Strategy continued We are also utilising the benefts of the integrated model, with our pub and brewing teams working closely together to improve our understanding of the drinks category and deliver growth across the Group.
4 Following the acquisition of CWBB, there are excellent opportunities to develop the drinks range further.
In addition to the excellent cask ale brands, there are signifcant retail opportunities through extending the Offering the best distribution of Estrella Damm and Founders.
Initiatives such as Masters of Cask and consumer experience: Drinks Doctors between the teams are quality, service, value helping to defne optimum ranging in our and innovation pubs and enhance the category knowledge in The Place to Be... our Brewing sales teams.
STRATEGIC PRIORITY Carvery menu relaunch SERVICE Providing a premium experience Delighting around 2,500 guests per in an informal setting at any time week at 60 locations nationwide, We measure service on a pub-by-pub basis through a combination of internal Milestone Carvery is one of the of the day and ensuring our offer and external mechanisms.
We are in the best loved and most successful remains attractive to customers.
process of investing signifcantly in high pub-restaurant formats in the speed broadband and state-of-the-art EPOS Destination portfolio.
OUR KPIs equipment which will provide us with better The latest Milestone Carvery menu customer information, improved service launched with a striking new design, Number of main meals served and are expected to contribute to proft a bold selection of new dishes and improvement in 2018.
Like-for-like sales versus market an energised team more enthusiastic We continue to make focused developments than ever about delivering outstanding Employee engagement in our digital plans, having developed in customer service and sales growth.
and enablement house: Sentifeed a social media listening Our approach to menu development tool, Tap-In an app-based customer loyalty is to focus on quality and consistency scheme and Nudge an application to on the traditional carvery deck, and 2017 update develop engagement and performance of innovate in the non-carvery section our pub teams.
Although in the early stages of the menu by serving a unique of implementation, all three are providing QUALITY OF FOOD AND carvery angle on a range of familiar positive results.
DRINK The big change this autumn was to Given the pace of change and competition VALUE add a range of limited edition seasonal in the sector, we prioritise quality and Value for money is a key element of our offer.
target a food offer with appeal spanning a specials with a twist offering guests We do not aim to offer the lowest prices broad range of age groups.
As previously an innovative alternative to the typical in the market but aim to offer a fantastic reported, we have introduced Pizza Kitchens, festive fayre options of roast turkey and experience that represents great value for Milestone Rotisserie and Smokehouse into Christmas pudding, creating a true money.
Our approach to pricing is to offer our pub estate as well as updating traditional point of difference.
everyday pricing rather than recourse to pub offers such as the Carvery to ensure Alongside an Italian herb porchetta, a heavy discounting and vouchering activity, they are relevant to all customers, young mouth-watering fruity salmon dish and which has been prevalent in the sector.
a butternut squash steak vegetarian We believe this approach is preferred by We continue to develop our offers to ensure option, not to mention a festive our customers and demonstrated by our we can remain attractive to all customers Camembert sharer and an irresistible continued outperformance of the market both now and in the future.
In 2016 17 we cookie fondant for two, the breakaway over the last three years.
have introduced new concepts including star of the new menu is the Yorkie Pud Firebrand, a new Grill & Pizza offer, and Wrap a full roast dinner inside a Accent, a premiumised offer with broad burrito style Yorkshire Pudding wrap.
demographic appeal, which are intended to In our market place it is very unusual enhance the experience for our customers for something new to break in to the top whilst continuing to offer everyday value.
20 dishes, even more so in Milestone Similarly, we are seeing constant change Carvery where over half of our guests in trends in beer, wines, spirits and nonchoose the carvery itself.
Growth in premium drinks amazing that within four weeks we sold continues, with strong consumer interest 8,500 wraps ranking 7th most popular in new brands and styles, including nondish by volume!
In our Taverns business we are creating the community pubs of the future, incorporating changes to the drinks category to ensure our community pubs are attractive to younger customers, without alienating our more traditional clientele.
16 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information highly valued by both our on-trade and offtrade customers, for insight into current and future market trends.
Our largest brand, Hobgoblin, is the most followed beer brand on social media, and 5 in a recent YouGov survey, Hobgoblin was voted the third most recognised beer brand in the UK, behind two global beer brands.
It remains after 10 years The Unoffcial Beer of Halloween.
Leadership in the UK We also revitalised the Marstons beer brand beer market in 2017, repositioned to be more attractive to younger consumers under the marketing STRATEGIC PRIORITY banner From Burton with Love.
Although it The Place to Be... To provide a portfolio of marketremains early days, the consumer feedback has been strong and we have gained new leading brands to meet consumer Arena Racing national listings for 61 Deep Pale Ale and demand for local provenance Company contract Pearl Jet Stout.
and taste, focused on the growth In February 2017, Marstons agreed Two brands from our recent acquisitions segments of the market.
terms with Arena Racing Company have also received national marketing ARC in an exclusive deal to supply awards, with both Bombardier March To ale, lager, cider and stout to its 15 OUR KPIs Your Own Drum and Wainwright Find Your racecourses across the country.
Mountain achieving awards at the Beer and Market share of premium Cider Marketing Awards.
With ARC having a major footprint in cask ale the UKs racing industry, this was a high Outside our own ale brands, collaboration profle deal involving sponsorship of Market share of premium brands also form part of our strategy.
race days and the opportunity to take We have the UK licences for Estrella Damm, packaged ale customers out for a great days racing.
Shipyard, Warsteiner, Kirin, Erdinger, Krusovice and Founders brands and in cider The success of our proposition to ARC we have the licence for Kingstone Press was largely twofold: 2017 update Cider.
All have performed extremely well in Our frst point of difference, in The UK beer market is evolving with the year, and of particular note, Shipyard is contrast to the standard deals in the consumers seeking a wider choice of beers now the number one draught craft beer in industry: we offered differential with local provenance and taste, including the UK.
ranging, that is, the right product craft beers.
The off-trade continues to We have a highly experienced and talented for the right racecourse.
What might grow, with the strongest growth in the brewing and logistics team, who ensure that work for Newcastle as a brand range premium bottled ale segment and the craft we are operating at maximum cost effciency.
is not necessarily right for Brighton.
In addition, we undertake extensive contract We were able to do this because of Our established strategy is well-positioned services work on behalf of a broad range of our extensive product range being a in respect of these trends.
We have evolved competitors who also recognise the benefts mixture of own ale, licensed brands our business signifcantly with pro forma of working in partnership with us.
In 2016 and other third party products.
operating profts accounting for a full year we invested in additional warehousing Secondly, we offered devolvement of of CWBB and synergies almost double at the Marstons Brewery in response to the decision-making process to the that from ten years ago, exploiting the the growth in our own brands and our local Business Development Manager.
market trends starting with the acquisition contract business.
of Refresh in 2008 which increased our This meant that each racecourse During the year we entered into a fve scale and expertise in the off-trade, and the would be looked after by a local year agreement to become the exclusive acquisitions of Ringwood, Jennings and the person who had a personal vested distributor to Punch B, comprising a Thwaites beer business, which strengthened interest in the success of that course.
portfolio of c. 1,355 leased and tenanted our local footprint.
The acquisition of CWBB A simple but rare proposition for such pubs nationwide, in addition to a similar will further consolidate our leading position a large account.
contract to exclusively distribute to Hawthorn in this regard.
Leisures c. 250-strong pub estate in England Whilst only part way though our frst and Wales.
Since the year end we have We have a wide portfolio of beers from our year of supply Marstons was nominated own six breweries, a national distribution entered an agreement to be the exclusive in two categories at the recent National network and a local approach to beer brand distributor to the Brakspear Pub Company Racecourse Catering Awards, winning management.
Around 1 in 4 premium bottled with effect from November 2017.
As well Most Effective Brand at a Racecourse.
ales and 1 in 5 premium cask ales in the UK as driving strong organic growth, we have are Marstons brands.
Premium ales now successfully integrated the acquisition account for around 72% of sales and the mix of Thwaites beer business into the of sales to the off-trade is 53%.
organisation, with earnings slightly ahead of our expectations, and the transformation Our position as category leaders has been of Wainwright into one of our fastest recognised across the industry, further growing brands.
evidenced by the number of national awards we received over the year.
Our own annual publications, the Cask Ale Report and Premium Bottled Ale Report, continue to be Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 17 Our Strategy continued Over the last year, weve worked hard to improve our Performance, Career and Development Review PCDR process to make sure that our people have absolute clarity about what they need to achieve 6 and how they need to achieve it.
However, improving the process is just part of the story, weve worked even harder to upskill our people to ensure that when they go through the different stages of this process, Ensuring people are at they are having quality conversations, feedback and direction that will really drive the heart of our business individual and business performance.
STRATEGIC PRIORITY Weve also made it easier than ever for our people to access the training and The Place to Be...
If our people feel good and enjoy development they need and want by what they do, our customers will launching a new online training portal, also Investing feel the benefts, enjoying and available as an app for our front-line team in apprenticeships members.
Its called the Marstons Talent buying more of our products At Marstons we now train over 450 Academy Online and its designed to support more frequently.
apprentices across our pubs every year.
a blended approach to our training and development, offering both formal courses, We see the importance and value of as well as employee self-development.
providing high quality apprenticeships, OUR KPIs This further enhances our commitment to accessible and relevant at every level, Employee engagement training which sees just over 40% of our with clear progression pathways to and enablement workforce receiving formal training.
develop the skills, knowledge and behaviours of our people.
Attracting new people to work with us is Like-for-like sales versus market also key to our future success, which is why Our people challenges Number of main meals served weve continued to focus on enhancing our In our pubs established apprenticeship programme.
We operate in a highly competitive Weve been busy developing and introducing and expanding market place with new 2017 update apprenticeships across our entire business casual dining outlets opening all the to increase our pipeline of talent across pub, Marstons employs around 14,500 people time.
Recruiting and retaining talent is brewery, logistics and Group service roles.
and, although many businesses claim that a signifcant challenge, particularly in We have developed 304 apprentices this year people are our most important asset, it back of house roles such as head chefs.
so far and are on track to train a total of just is the case that nothing makes a bigger over 450 by the end of the year.
In October, difference to our business than our people.
In our breweries and supply chain the National Apprenticeship Service highly Here at Marstons, we have an ageing commended our apprenticeship provision At Marstons we know if we develop and engineering workforce in our as part of the National Apprenticeship inspire our people, they will grow our breweries: 60% are over the age of 50, Awards 2017. business.
Its their passion for customer of which 77% are over 60, refecting the service and quality products that makes our We continue to strive to make Marstons national shortage of skilled engineers.
business successful thats why our shared ThePlace to Be for our existing and purpose is to keep our people at the heart of How apprenticeships are helping prospective employees by providing an all we do.
experience thats attractive and fulflling for In our pubs our people and benefcial for our business.
Key to unlocking the potential of our people We are part of the Trailblazer Employer is to engage and unite them through our Groups for hospitality with our new Ways of Working, while also enabling them apprentices all enrolled on the new Our gender diversity chart is shown on page 47 by providing skills, tools and environments national standards.
One in three of our so they can play their part and contribute.
pubs have an apprentice and three As such, we measure both engagement out of four apprentices complete their and enablement of our people through our apprenticeship.
Apprenticeships are employee survey and whilst our scores are open to both new and existing signifcantly above the comparator group, team members and are aligned to we continually develop our work in this our ways of working.
Our four year critical area.
One of the highlights of this chef development apprenticeship years survey is a signifcant improvement programme demonstrates how a young in employee alignment to our overall goals person can progress to become a and a notable increase in awareness of the Head Chef.
possible career opportunities at Marstons.
18 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information OUR FUTURE PLANS CURRENT TRADING Investing ANDOUTLOOK Our new-build programme for 2018 in apprenticeships will feature an integrated pub-lodge Trading in the current fnancial year is in continued design and our largest lodge to date line with our plans.
Pub like-for-like sales 100 rooms opens in Ebbsfleet in and beer volumes have been in growth for In our breweries and supply chain early 2018. the period, up to the date of this report.
The new Mechatronics standard: Albeit early in the year, there have not been Continuing evolution of our pub offers with a multi-skilled engineering any material changes to market conditions the expansion of new concepts: Firebrand, apprenticeship scheme, will support that would impact on our expectations for a Grill & Pizza offer, and Accent, a our skilled pipeline for those critical the full year.
premiumised offer to a wider audience.
In August 2017 four With regard to cost guidance for 2018 there 17 year old apprentices started their We have created a new World Beers are no material changes to the cost trends four year journey with us and the 2018 team, working with some of the best highlighted previously.
We have protected intake is already in the planning stages!
brand owners, focused on extending the a signifcant proportion of our cost base As part of the Brewing Trailblazer range of premium products available to through long-term relationships with Employer Group we are developing our customers including US craft beers suppliers and fxed price contracts, actively industry specifc standards such as a such as Founders and European premium managing the risk to our margins.
beers such as Estrella Damm.
As set out in our October trading update, we Over 100 applications for our Further collaborations between our pub have identifed cost savings of approximately Warehouse to Wheels two year and brewing teams to optimise our drinks 5 million per annum demonstrating that we apprenticeship programme range and enhance category knowledge in are alert to opportunities to mitigate ongoing were received in under a week.
our sales teams, using initiatives such as cost increases.
We anticipate underlying Apprentices on this programme work Masters of Cask and Drinks Doctors.
operating margins in our pub business to be towards gaining their fork lift truck In-pub technology: in addition to rolling slightly below those achieved in 2017. licence, followed by an LGV licence out our new state-of-the-art EPOS as part of learning the traditional role In summary, we are targeting further growth system, we are investing more in our of a dray, delivering our products to in the current fnancial year, refecting understanding of how customers engage organic growth and the rollover beneft of our customers.
with our pubs and lodges across multiple the CWBB and pub acquisitions described channels so that we can target our digital The journey doesnt end here above, and to make progress against our social promotional activity to specific We will continue to evolve our keyfnancial objectives.
catchment areas and customer types.
apprenticeship offer, embracing the new standards being developed and To complement the development of our continuing to meet the needs of our internal talent, we are looking to increase Ralph Findlay people and our business and the our activities to attract talented people by Chief Executive Officer industry challenges we face.
maximising our progress on the people agenda.
We are specifically using the work we have done on establishing our Ambition, Purpose and Ways of Working as a basis for recruitment campaigns, developing our employer brand and therefore making Marstons The Place to Be for external recruits.
We take the privacy of personal data very seriously and, in recognition of forthcoming legislation GDPR, we are enhancing the way we protect the data we hold without constraining our digital innovation.
ALLOCATION OF GROWTHCAPITAL In 2018, we expect to open 15 pubs and bars and six lodges.
We believe that investment in new pubs and bars continues to create shareholder value, and remains an important component of our strategy to achieve organic growth.
The site pipeline remains strong and we will maintain the current pace of site acquisition to continue similar levels of expansion beyond 2018.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 19
