GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES This Directors Report forms part of the management report as On 10 May 2017, the Company announced that it proposed to required under DGTR 4.
The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41 return approximately 1 billion to shareholders by way of a special 5 includes an indication of future likely developments in the Company, dividend of 61.0 pence per then existing ordinary share of 10 8 details of important events and the Companys business model and pence each in the capital of the Company existing ordinary shares strategy.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 94, the the Shareholder Return which would be accompanied by the Other Statutory Disclosures on pages 95 to 100 and the Directors consolidation of every 26 then existing ordinary shares into 25 new 1 Responsibilities Statement on page 101 are incorporated into the ordinary shares of 11 20 pence each new ordinary shares the Directors Report by reference.
At a general meeting of shareholders held on 7 June 2017 2017 GM, shareholders voted by a majority The following disclosures have been included elsewhere within of 99.99% in favour of the resolution to approve the Shareholder theAnnual Report and are incorporated into the Directors Report Return and the Share Capital Consolidation.
The Share Capital Consolidation took place on 26 June 2017 and DISCLOSURE PAGE the new ordinary shares were subsequently admitted to the Official Going Concern 33 List of the UK Listing Authority and commenced trading on the Viability Statement 33 London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities after Risk Management 34 8.00am on 27 June 2017.
Carbon Emissions 39 The 2017 interim dividend of 11.2 pence per existing ordinary share DIRECTORS 2016: 10.6 pence was paid to shareholders on 19 June 2017.
Particulars of the directors in office at the date of this Report are listed The special dividend of 61.0 pence per share was paid on 17 July on pages 47 to 49.
In accordance with the Code, each director will 2017 to shareholders in connection with the Shareholder Return.
retire and submit himself or herself for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Payment of the recommended final dividend for the year ended There were a number of changes to the composition of the Board 30September 2017, if approved at the 2018 AGM, will be made and its committees during the year.
On 2 February 2017, at the on26 February 2018 to shareholders registered at the close conclusion of the Companys AGM, Susan Murray stepped down ofbusiness on 19 January 2018.
The shares will be quoted asa non-executive director, having spent just over nine years on ex-dividend from 18 January 2018. theBoard.
On the same day, she was succeeded as Chairman During the year, the trustees of each of the employee benefit trusts ofthe Corporate Responsibility Committee by Nelson Silva.
On which operate in connection with the Companys share plans waived 21September 2017, the Company announced that Dominic their rights to receive dividends on any shares held by them.
Details Blakemore would be appointed as Deputy Group Chief Executive of the trusts can be found on page 97 of this Report.
The amount of with effect from 1 October 2017 and will succeed Richard Cousins dividends waived during the year ended 30 September 2017 in as Group Chief Executive on 1 April 2018. relation to the trusts was 15,113 2016: 7,725.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS As at the date of this Report, there were 8,182,749 ordinary In the year ended 30 September 2017, the Group delivered an 1 11 20 pence shares held in treasury for the purpose of satisfying the underlying profit before tax of 1,591 million 2016: 1,344 million Companys obligations under the Companys employee equity an increase of 18.3%: and a statutory profit before tax of 1,560 incentive schemes.
Shares held in treasury are not entitled to receive million 2016: 1,321 million an increase of 18.1%.
Therefore, 8,262,774 2016: 3,737,324 worth of the dividends on ordinary shares for the year ended 30 September dividends were not paid during the financial year in relation to 2017 compared with 2016 is shown below: treasury shares.
A dividend reinvestment plan is available to eligible YEAR DIVIDEND PENCE PER SHARE shareholders.
Details can be found on page 182.
To be paid gross to holders of ordinary shares of 11 20 pence.
Adividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available.
The latest date for receipt of elections forthe DRIP is 5 February 2018.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 95 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED REPURCHASE OF SHARES SHARE CAPITAL From 1 October 2016 to 21 April 2017, the Company repurchased GENERAL 5 and subsequently cancelled 1,340,344 ordinary shares of 10 8 Following the Shareholder Return and accompanying Share Capital pence for a consideration of 19 million including expenses.
Consolidation, more detail of which is set out on page 184, as at the 1 date of this Report, 1,589,736,625 ordinary shares of 11 20 pence 5 On 14 June 2017, 35 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence were each of which 8,182,749 are held in treasury have been issued, repurchased for a consideration of 582 including expenses are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
inrelation to the Shareholder Return and associated Share Capital The total voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary share capital Consolidation.
Of the 35 shares repurchased, 10 were placed into excluding treasury shares at the date of this Report is treasury and the remaining 25 shares were subsequently cancelled.
In addition, the Company sponsors a Level I No shares were repurchased between 15 June 2017 and American Depositary Receipts programme with BNY Mellon, under 30 September 2017.
No further shares have been repurchased which the Companys shares are traded on the over the counter in the period from 1 October to the date of this Report.
market in the form of American Depositary Shares.
As at the date of this Report there are 1,589,736,625 ordinary During the year ended 30 September 2017, 719,724 options 1 shares of 11 20 pence in issue and 8,182,749 ordinary shares wereexercised and 2,293,559 awards released pursuant to the 1 of11 20 pence held in treasury for the purpose of satisfying the Companys share option schemes and long term incentive plans.
Companys obligations under employee equity incentive schemes.
Ofthose options exercised and awards released, all were satisfied by Shares held in treasury are not eligible to participate in dividends the reissue of 3,013,283 treasury shares.
A further 45,427 treasury and do not carry any voting rights.
shares have been used to satisfy awards under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this Report.
Returns to shareholders continue to be an integral part of our business model and it is the Boards intention to continue to There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the maintain strong investment grade credit ratings by returning any capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may surplus cash.
from time to time be imposed by law, for example, insider trading law.
In accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation, certain At the 2018 AGM, a special resolution will be proposed to renew employees are required to seek the approval of the Company to deal thedirectors limited authority to repurchase ordinary shares in in its shares.
themarket, last granted at the 2017 GM.
The directors consider itdesirable for this general authorisation to be available in order The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders tomaintain an efficient capital structure whilst at the same time that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or retaining the flexibility to fund any infill acquisitions.
The authority sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by paid and it will be limited to a maximum of 10% of the Companys special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable date The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
Any purchases of itis party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control ordinary shares will be by means of market purchases through the of the Company following a takeover.
London Stock Exchange and any shares purchased may be cancelled or placed into treasury in accordance with the Companies More detailed information relating to the rights and obligations Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003. attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, which are available on the Companys website as well as on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Report for the year ended 30September 2007.
The 2007 Annual Report is available on the Companys website at www.
96 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE ISSUE OF SHARES SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS At the 2018 AGM, the directors will ask shareholders to renew the The following major shareholdings have been notified to the authority last granted to them at the 2017 GM to allot equity shares Company as at 30 September 2017 and up to the date of this representing approximately one third of the issued ordinary shares Report.
calculated at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the % OF COMPASS Notice of AGM the section 551 authority and, in accordance with % OF ISSUED GROUP PLCS 1 1 CAPITAL VOTING RIGHTS the Investment Association Share Capital Management Guidelines, Blackrock, Inc. 9.99 9.99 the directors again propose to extend this by a further one third of Invesco Limited 4.95 4.95 the Companys issued ordinary share capital, provided that such amount shall only be used in connection with a rights issue.
If Massachusetts Financial approved, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the Services Company 9.96 9.96 date on which the resolution is passed, or at the conclusion of the 1.
AGM to be held in 2019, whichever is the sooner.
Since the disclosure date, the shareholders interests in the The limited power granted to the directors at the 2017 GM to allot Company may have changed.
equity shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders The number of shares held by the directors as at 30 September 2017 expires no later than 6 September 2018.
Subject to the terms of the can be found on page 93 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
section 551 authority, this authority is in line with the Statement of Principles on Pre-emption Rights issued by the Pre-Emption Group EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUSTS and supported by the Investment Association and the Pensions and The Compass Group Employee Share Trust ESOP and The Lifetime Savings Association the Principles.
If granted, this Compass Group Employee Trust Number 2 CGET were established authority will give the directors the ability until the AGM to be held on 13 January 1992 and 12 April 2001 respectively in connection in2019 to issue ordinary shares for cash, other than pro rata to with the Companys share option plans.
The Compass Group Long existing shareholders, in connection with a rights issue or up to a Term Incentive Plan Trust LTIPT was established on 5 April 2001 limit of 5% of the issued ordinary share capital whether or not in in connection with the Companys long term incentive plans.
Details connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment of all employee equity incentive schemes are set out in the Directors calculated at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 94.
The trustees of the ESOP, Notice of AGM.
In accordance with the Principles, the directors 1 LTIPT and CGET hold nil 2016: nil, 15,575 2016: 16,198 and propose to extend this by an additional 5% of the Companys issued nil 2016: nil ordinary shares of the Company respectively.
ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM, provided that the additional The Compass Group Executive Option Share Trust and the authority would only be used for the purpose of an acquisition or a Compass Group Executive Share Trust were established on 15 and specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously 22 February 2010 respectively in relation to the operation of equity with the issue or which has taken place in the preceding six month incentive schemes in Australia.
No ordinary shares were held by period and is disclosed in the announcement of the issue.
In line these trusts as at 30 September 2017 2016: nil.
with recommended best practice, the Company has split the 1.
Following consolidation of the Companys entire issued share capital in disapplication of pre-emption rights authority into two separate connection with the Shareholder Return, more details of which may be found on page 184. resolutions.
The first resolution seeks authorisation for 5% of the issued ordinary share capital to be issued on an unrestricted basis, AWARDS UNDER EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES whilst the second resolution seeks authority for an additional 5% Details of awards made during the year and held by executive ofthe issued ordinary share capital to be used for an acquisition directors as at 30 September 2017 are set out in the Directors oraspecified capital investment.
Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 94.
Also, in line with best practice, the Company has not issued more Details of employee equity incentive schemes and grants made than 7.5% of its issued ordinary share capital on a non-prorated during the year ended 30 September 2017 to, and extant awards basis over the last three years.
The directors have no present held by, employees are disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to the financial statements on pages 154 and 155.
Companys employee equity incentive share schemes, and this authority will maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including any issues to finance business opportunities, should appropriate circumstances arise.
Details of repurchases into treasury shares and the reissue of treasury shares made during the year, together with details of options granted over unissued capital, are set out in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 153 and 154.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 97 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Employees are offered a range of benefits, such as private medical EMPLOYEE POLICIES AND INVOLVEMENT cover, depending on the local environment.
Priority is given to the The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its training of employees and the development of their skills.
employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal Employment of disabled people is considered on merit with regard bulletins and other in-house publications, meetings and the only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the role.
Arrangements Companys internal websites, on matters affecting them as to enable disabled people to carry out the duties required will be employees and on the issues affecting their performance.
Since made if it is reasonable to do so.
An employee becoming disabled 1996, those Group businesses in the European Economic Area EEA would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
have been represented on the Compass European Council CEC, which provides a forum for exchanging information and engaging in The Group continues to operate on a decentralised basis.
This provides consultation on the Groups performance and plans, and relevant the maximum encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial transnational issues affecting those countries in the EEA.
flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework exercised by a small head office team.
Local management teams are responsible for Permanent UK employees are normally invited to join the Companys maintaining high standards of health and safety and for ensuring that defined contribution pension scheme, Compass Retirement Income there is appropriate employee involvement in decision making.
Savings Plan CRISP, on the completion of two years service this includes any service that may have transferred across under the NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING DIRECTIVE Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations The EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive was implemented into 2006 TUPE.
Nigel Palmer, a English law as the Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts former employee of the Group, is chairman of the trustees.
The and Non-Financial Reporting Regulations 2016 earlier this year and other five trustee directors are UK based employees of the Group, requires companies with financial years beginning on or after two of whom have been nominated by CRISP members.
1January 2017 to disclose non-financial information necessary to Those UK employees who transferred from the public sector under provide investors and other stakeholders with a better understanding TUPE have been eligible to join the Compass Group Pension Plan of a companys development, performance, position and impact of the Plan, a defined benefit pension arrangement which is its activity.
The Audit Committee which advises the Board on such otherwise closed to new entrants.
However, under the Governments matters, will ensure that the Company is compliant with the Directive revised guidance for Fair Deal for staff pensions, the expectation is and includes the necessary disclosures in the 2018 Annual Report.
that the Group will in future participate in the relevant public sector Throughout this Annual Report the directors have disclosed a mix pension scheme and close the Plan to future new entrants.
The Plan offinancial and non-financial KPIs which they believe best reflect also has a corporate trustee.
Phillip Whittome is the independent the Group's strategic priorities: and which will help to convey an chairman.
There are a further five trustee directors, four of whom understanding of the culture of the business and the drivers which are either UK based employees or former employees of the Group contribute to the ongoing success of the Company.
three of whom have been nominated by Plan members, and the fifth is an independent trustee director.
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS Our Code of Ethics was developed in consultation with the CEC The Company became subject to the automatic enrolment andthe Institute of Business Ethics and sets out clear standards regulations for its workforce in the UK on 1 November 2012, ofbehaviour that we expect all of our people to demonstrate and but deferred its staging date for automatic enrolment of eligible adhere to.
The Code of Ethics, which is part of our CBC, underpins employees to 2 January 2013 as permitted by the regulations.
our social, ethical and environmental commitments and sends a Both the Plan and CRISP are compliant arrangements under clear message to our stakeholders of our commitment to responsible these regulations and have been registered as such.
All new UK business practice.
The 10 principles of the United Nations UN employees who meet the statutory requirements, and who are not Global Compact, to which we are a signatory, underpin our immediately entered into the Plan or CRISP, are automatically own Code of Ethics.
This UN initiative encourages companies enrolled into the National Employment Savings Trust NEST.
The to make human rights, labour standards, environmental Groups compliance with the auto-enrolment regulations, and the responsibility and anti-corruption part of their business agenda.
performance of NEST, are kept under regular review by the Groups Our annual Communication on Progress can be viewed at Pensions Department.
Permanent employees outside the UK are usually offered membership of local pension arrangements if and where they existand where it is appropriate to have Company sponsored arrangements.
98 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE Our people are instrumental in our success: we respect and value DONATIONS AND POLITICAL EXPENDITURE the individuality and diversity that every employee brings to the Charitable objectives support the Companys CR strategy and have Group.
We base our relationship with our employees on respect primarily focused on improving the environment, education, health forthe dignity of the individual and fair treatment for all.
In October and wellbeing, community engagement and responsible business 2017, the Company published its second statement in accordance practice.
Donations have included employee involvement through with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, details of fundraising and financialsupport.
which can be found on the website at www.
GROUP CHARITABLE DONATIONS M As at 30 September 2017, there were 588,112 2016: 527,180 2017 8.3 people employed by the Group average number of employees 2016 8.5 including directors and part-time employees of whom 323,462 were female 2016: 300,493 and 264,650 were male Since 2004, shareholders have passed an annual resolution, 2016: 226,687.
794 were senior managers, 602 male, 192 on a precautionary basis, to approve donations to EU political female 2016: 646 male, 198 female which includes members organisations and to incur EU political expenditure as such terms ofour global leadership team and statutory directors of corporate were defined under the then relevant legislation not exceeding entities whose financial information is consolidated in the Groups amonetary limit approved by shareholders.
The Board has accounts in this Annual Report.
As at 30 September 2017 there consistently confirmed that it operates a policy of not giving any were 11 directors, nine of whom were male and two were female cashcontribution to any political party in the ordinary meaning of on the Board of Directors of Compass Group PLC.
Prior to any those words and that it has no intention of changing that policy.
appointment to the Board, the Nomination Committee gives due No material amount of corporate funds or paid employee time regard to diversity and gender with a view to recommending the has been utilised during the year for political activities and, in appointment of the most suitable candidate for the role.
accordance with the Companys CBC, employees must not engage We seek to create a positive, open working environment wherever in any form of lobbying or have contact with political representatives, we operate.
Our employee policies are set locally to comply with government employees or public interest groups unless they are local law within an overall Group framework and we monitor our doing so legitimately and adhering to internal control processes.
employee satisfaction and engagement through a number of key Further information regarding the CBC can be found on page 60 performance indicators.
ofthis Annual Report and on the Companys website at www.
We also consider the concerns of wider communities where we operate, including national and local interests, utilising our relevant The directors propose to renew the authority granted at the 2017 expertise to help contribute to the wellbeing of communities which AGM for the Group to make political donations and incur political are appropriate to our business objectives.
Furthermore, the Group expenditure as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 365 of supports the rights of all people as set out in the UN Universal the CA 2006 until the Companys next AGM, which they might Declaration of Human Rights UN Declaration and considers otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under the terms carefully before doing any business in countries that do not adhere of the CA 2006 and which would not amount to donations in the to the UN Declaration.
ordinary sense of the word.
It is proposed to maintain the limit of such authority at 100,000.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions intonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the Group is responsible, including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility.
Details of our emissions during the year ended 30 September 2017 are set out within the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on pages 38 and 39 and form part of the Directors Report disclosures.
Further details of the actions which the Group is taking to reduce emissions can also be found at www.
This Annual Report is certified carbon neutral by sponsoring a carbon neutral cause to offset against the emissions arising from the production, printing anddelivery of this Report.
This year, the Company has participated in a project in Brazil which aims to prevent deforestation and protect one of the worlds most biodiverse habitats.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 99 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS CREST The Company places considerable importance on communication The Companys ordinary shares and sterling Eurobonds are in with its shareholders, including its private shareholders.
The Group CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are closely involved DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER in investor relations and a senior executive has day to day UK LISTING RULE 9.8.
The views of the Companys major There are no disclosures required to be made under UK Listing shareholders are reported to the Board by the Group Chief Executive Rule9.8.
4 which have not already been disclosed elsewhere in and the Group Finance Director as well as by the Chairman who thisReport.
Details of long term incentive plans can be found in remains in contact with our largest shareholders and are discussed theDirectors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 94 and details at its meetings.
of dividends waived by shareholders can be found on page 95.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, and privateshareholders through the AGM.
Contact with institutional SHAREHOLDER SERVICES shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and the media Details of services provided to shareholders can be found in the iscontrolled by written guidelines in the Companys Corporate Shareholder Information section on pages 182 to 184 and on the Communications Code and Market Soundings Policy, in compliance Companys website.
with EU Market Abuse Regulation requirements, to ensure the AGM continued protection of share price sensitive information that has notalready been made generally available to the Companys The Notice of Meeting setting out the resolutions to be proposed shareholders.
Contact is also maintained, when appropriate, with at the 2018 AGM, together with explanatory notes, is set out shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
on pages 185 to 194 of this Annual Report and is also available atwww.
The directors consider that each The primary method of communicating with shareholders of the resolutions is in the best interests of the Company and the is by electronic means, helping to make the Company more shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote environmentally friendly by reducing waste and pollution associated in favour of all of the resolutions.
with the production and posting of its Annual Report.
The Annual Report and Accounts is available to all shareholders and can be On behalf of the Board accessed via the Companys website at www.
The Groups annual and interim results are also published on the Companys website, together with all other announcements and documents issued to the market, such as statements, interviews and presentations by the Group Chief Executive and Mark White Group Finance Director.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all 21 November 2017 shareholders at least 20 working days prior to such meeting and Compass Group PLC it is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at Registered in England and Wales No.
All shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM at which they have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and it is standard practice to have the chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration committees available to answer questions.
The results of proxy voting for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, are announced to the London Stock Exchange and are published on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Further shareholder information is available on pages 182 to 184.
100 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017
