Board of Directors CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Roger Devlin Ralph Findlay Andrew Andrea Chief Executive Offcer Chief Financial and CEO Corporate Development Offcer CFO Board Board Committees Committees N N Independent Past experience Independent Other appointments Independent Other appointments Yes Previously NonNo Non-executive Director No Non-executive Director executive Director of and Chair of Audit at Portmeirion Group PLC Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board National Express and Committee at Bovis September 2013 May 1996 March 2009 Past experience RPS Group Homes Group PLC Roles held at Guinness Initially appointed Joined the Company Other appointments Previously Chairman of Chair of Council and Brewing Worldwide, Bass Finance Director in 1996 in 2002 Chairman of SIS Principal Hayley Group, Pro Chancellor at Brewers Limited and becoming CEO in 2001 Porthaven Nursing Keele University Qualifed Independent NonDolland & Aitchison Homes and Corporate Qualifed Chartered Chartered Accountant executive Director of the Director of BBPA Development Director Accountant and Treasurer Football Association atHilton International Past experience Roles held at Geest Plc and Bass Plc SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR GROUP SECRETARY Key Carolyn Bradley Anne-Marie Brennan Audit A Committee Nomination N Committee Remuneration Board R Committee Committees Denotes Committee N R Chairman Independent Past experience Appointed as Secretary Yes UK Marketing Director October 2014 at Tesco Joined the Company in 1998 Appointed to the Board Trustee of the October 2014 Qualifed Chartered DrinkAware Trust Secretary and Other appointments Chartered Accountant Non-executive Director at Legal and General Group Plc Director of The Mentoring Foundation Trustee of Cancer Research UK Non-executive Director of Majid Al Futtaim Retail LLC Skills directly relevant to our business model 50% 50% 38% Beer Pubs Rooms 50% of our Board 50% of our Board 38% of our Board have experience have pubs haveexperience in beer businesses and bar experience in hotels andlodges 42 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Matthew Roberts Catherine Glickman Board Board Committees Committees A N N R Independent Other appointments Independent Other appointments Yes Chief Financial Offcer Yes Member of the ofIntu Properties Plc Institute of Personnel Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board and Development March 2017 Past experience December 2014 Chief Financial Offcer of Past experience Gala Coral Group Limited Group HR Director of Genus Plc Finance Director of Debenhams plc Group HR Director at Tesco Robin Rowland Nick Backhouse Board Board Committees Committees A N A N R Independent Past experience Independent Past experience Yes Roles held at Whitbread Yes Senior Independent Inns, The Restaurant Director of Guardian Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Group Plc and Scottish Media Group September 2010 February 2012 &Newcastle Plc Senior management positions in the Other appointments Other appointments pub, leisure and Chief Executive of YO!
Senior Independent fnancial sectors Sushi Limited Director of Hollywood Bowl Group plc Non-executive Director at Eathos Limited and Caff Director of Chichester Nero Group Limited Festival Theatre ALMR Board Director Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Other relevant experience of our Board 63% 88% 75% Food Retail Leisure 75% 50% Operational Finance Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 43 Corporate Governance Report continued ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer CEO which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The key responsibilities for each Board member are set out below.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN DIRECTOR DIRECTORS Roger Devlin is responsible for: Carolyn Bradley is responsible for: The roles of Nick Backhouse, Catherine Glickman, Robin Rowland and Matthew The operation, leadership and Acting as a sounding board for the Roberts are to: governance of the Board.
Chairman and an intermediary for the other Directors.
Constructively challenge proposals The effectiveness of the Board.
Acting as chairman if the Chairman The agenda, style and tone of Board is conflicted.
Contribute to the development of discussions with a particular focus on longer-term strategy.
Leading the Non-executive Directors in their annual assessment of Meet with the Chairman, at least Ensuring each Non-executive the Chairmans performance and annually, without the Executive Director makes an effective providing feedback.
Acting as a conduit to the Board for Scrutinise management performance Ensuring through the Group the communication of shareholder in the delivery of strategic objectives.
Secretary that the Directors concerns when the normal channels receive accurate, timely and Monitor operational and have failed to resolve, or for when clear information.
such contact would be inappropriate.
CHIEF FINANCIAL CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND CORPORATE GROUP OFFICER DEVELOPMENT OFFICER SECRETARY Ralph Findlay is responsible for: Andrew Andrea is responsible for: Anne-Marie Brennan is responsible for: The performance of the Group in line Working with the CEO to develop Ensuring effective information with the strategies and objectives and implement the Groups channels within the Board and established by the Board and under strategic objectives.
its Committees, and between powers delegated by the Board.
senior management and NonDelivering the financial performance executive Directors.
Ensuring the Board is supplied of the Group.
with information relevant to its Advising on regulatory compliance Ensuring that the Group remains strategic role.
appropriately funded to pursue its Leading the Executive Directors strategic objectives.
Facilitating individual induction and senior management in programmes for Directors and Investor relations activities and the operational and financial assisting with their development communications to investors with management of the business.
Providing clear and visible leadership Communications with retail in business conduct.
shareholders and organisation of the AGM.
The effective and ongoing communication with shareholders.
Chairing the Risk & Compliance Committee and Data Security Committee.
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES The PLC Exec comprises of the CEO, CFO, Managing Director MD of Marstons Beer Company MBC, Group Estates Director, Group People Director, Group Secretary and the Operations Directors of each of the pub operating segments: Destination, Premium, Taverns and Leased.
It meets monthly to review operational performance and controls: consider property proposals, capital investment and new initiatives: people development, and to approve internal policies and governance, and financial matters within the authority limits delegated by the Board.
MBC has a separate management board owing to the breadth of operations within the division.
The MBC Board comprises the MD, Director of Finance and Customer Services, Director of Brewing, Director of Logistics, Director of Sales Free Trade, Director of Sales National, Brands Marketing Director, Group People Director and the Head of Technology Services.
The divisions strategy is presented to the PLC Board for approval each year and the extent of their autonomy is determined by this strategy and the Groups financial authority limits.
The MBC Board meets on a regular basis to review the operational performance of each channel, capital investment proposals, people development and strategic initiatives.
44 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information BOARD AGENDA AND ACTIVITIES DURING THEYEAR The Boards agenda comprises a combination of regular business matters and a forward agenda of other specific matters for consideration.
The agenda for each meeting is prepared by the Group Secretary and agreed with the Chairman and CEO.
This ensures sufficient time is devoted to key business matters at the appropriate time and the agenda remains flexible to accommodate the addition of any specific items for discussion as required.
Standing items and regular reports cover the Groups financial position, risk management, regulatory compliance and consumer insight.
Updates on activities across each operating division and performance against targets are reported to the Board in a monthly summary of key business operations.
Board papers are circulated in advance of each meeting to ensure that Directors have sufficient time to review them before the meeting.
Items considered during the period include: Customer Focus and Leadership and People Shareholder Strategy Business Operations Development Governance Focus Annual strategy day Lodge development Key personnel Effectiveness of Board Review of results and expansion succession planning and Committees announcements and Annual Report and Accounts Annual plan Retail systems update Appraisal and Matters Reserved Dividend proposals career development for the Board and assessment process delegated authorities Acquisition of Health, safety and food Apprenticeships Group risks and risk Going concern pubs package hygiene review programme management review and Viability Statement review Acquisition of Charles Pubs Code update Assessment of AGM preparation Wells beer business key business and financial controls Financing proposals Corporate responsibility Fair, balanced and Non-pre-emptive cash strategy and update understandable review placing of ordinary shares of Annual Report and Accounts Refinancing main Annual insurance New auditor Shareholder feedback bank facility renewal appointment and perceptions MBC strategy Modern Slavery Investor feedback Statement BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE The Board met nine times during the year, allowing sufficient opportunities to effectively challenge and monitor the Groups progress against its strategic objectives and within the governance framework.
The three principal Committees of the Board deal with financial and risk matters, remuneration and succession planning.
Each has its own terms of reference which are regularly reviewed and updated by the Committee before they are considered and approved by the Board.
Reports from each Committee can be found on pages 48, 50 and 53.
The table below shows each Directors attendance throughout the year: 2017 STRATEGY DAY ON THE AGENDA Name Board Nomination Audit Remuneration The annual strategy day enables the Board to focus in-depth on the Andrew Andrea 9 9 strategy, progress and implementation.
In 2017, a number of senior managers attended the Strategy Day to present proposals on their Nick Backhouse 9 9 2 2 4 4 areas of responsibility, helping to inform the debate around the 1 continued development of strategy.
Once again the Board were joined Carolyn Bradley 9 9 2 2 2 3 for dinner by a number of senior managers from across the business, 2 enabling Non-executive Directors to engage, discuss and debate with Peter Dalzell 8 9 those in attendance.
The key themes of the Strategy Day comprised: Roger Devlin 9 9 2 2 General market trends, regulatory challenges, performance and priorities.
Ralph Findlay 9 9 2 2 Five year financial plan, capital allocation and Catherine Glickman 9 9 2 2 4 4 corporate opportunities.
3 Neil Goulden 3 4 1 1 1 1 Evolution of property development expertise.
Progress and plans in developing the digital strategy for Robin Rowland 9 9 2 2 4 4 4 4 Marstons pubs.
4 Matthew Roberts 5 5 2 2 3 3 Organisational and behavioural change in operating pubs.
Carolyn Bradley joined the Remuneration Committee with effect from 24 January 2017.
Peter Dalzell stepped down from the Board with effect from 29 September 2017.
Neil Goulden retired from the Board on 24 January 2017.
Matthew Roberts was appointed as a Director with effect from 1 March 2017.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 45 Corporate Governance Report continued 2.
Effectiveness Commitment Evaluation and the structure of the Board Committees.
Significant commitments of the Directors The Code recommends that an annual The Chairman concluded that the current held outside of Marstons are disclosed prior evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board composition of the Board is appropriate, to appointment and on an ongoing basis and its Committees is conducted and that meetings are conducted in an open and where there are any changes.
Actual and this process is externally facilitated at least honest manner and with greater levels of potential conflicts of interest are regularly every third year.
Last years evaluation constructive challenge.
The Board has authority, under was conducted by Independent Audit, an considered to own their individual specialism the Articles of Association, to authorise external corporate governance consultancy, and make an effective contribution to potential conflicts of interest and to and progress made against key action meetings.
The Board Committee structure is impose any limits or conditions it sees fit.
This years working well and the NEDs will continue to All of our Directors are required to allocate annual Board evaluation was carried out meet informally with the CEO being invited sufficient time to the Group to discharge internally: a questionnaire was circulated on occasions.
their responsibilities effectively and this is to all Board members and this formed the Agreed action points, together with an reviewed by the Chairman as part of the basis of individual meetings between the update on progress against the action annual evaluation process.
The discussion points from the 2015 16 evaluation are covered the constitution and conduct of the shown below: Board, the contribution of each Director BOARD EVALUATION SUMMARY Our 2016 recommendations Update Our 2017 recommendations Bi-annual dinners with the The Board hosted two dinners with senior Senior management to attend Board Leadership Group.
Future presentations requested on NEDs to meet three times per year without NEDs met three times during the year employee and customer feedback.
NEDs to provide more constructive and Minuted challenges from the NEDs are Board meetings to be held at our pubs rigorous challenge that will be minuted followed up on a regular basis.
and brewery sites when practicable.
The Board and presenters are briefed NEDs to meet 2-3 times per annum Future Board presentations will have on the purpose and desired outcomes without the Executive Directors: the CEO greater clarity of purpose.
Organisational changes have been Strategy Day papers to adopt a more A more rigorous approach to risk reviews made to the risk management rigorous review of evidence-based data will be adopted to ensure the framework process and a restructure of Health tosupport proposals.
reflects the processes and remains relevant and Safety management is underway.
Proposals are being developed to A forward calendar of internal meetings deepen Board engagement with specific and events will be circulated to allow NEDs risk scenarios.
greater opportunity to interact with the business.
A forward calendar of internal events has been circulated.
Electronic Board papers to be offered in addition to a hard copy option.
The majority of Board members now receive their Board papers electronically.
46 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information TRAINING AND partner also provided a briefing ahead of RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Matthews first Audit Committee meeting.
DEVELOPMENT With the exception of Nick Backhouse Matthew has also met with the Head of all Directors will offer themselves for As part of the 2017 Board evaluation, Treasury and the new Head of Internal Audit.
Details of each the Chairman conducted individual Director serving on the Board at the date The Group Secretary advises the Board on development reviews with each Director.
of this Report are set out on pages 42 to all governance matters and makes herself Part of the Chairmans role is to ensure 43 and shall be set out to shareholders in available to all Directors for advice and the effectiveness of the Board and, as the papers accompanying the re-election services.
If necessary, Directors may seek such, he takes responsibility for ensuring resolutions for the AGM.
The Board is of independent professional advice at the that Directors continually update their the opinion, supported by the Nomination Companys expense in the performance of skills, knowledge and familiarity with Committee, that each Director continues to their duties.
Where specific training needs make an effective and valuable contribution are identified these are incorporated into and demonstrates commitment to his or the Board forward agenda or a personal DIVERSITY POLICY her role.
The Group provides the resources to meet relevant The Board, through the CEO, takes development requirements for individual overall responsibility for diversity and Directors as and when required and equality across the Group.
Catering for the it will continue to review development preferences of our many different customers initiatives for Directors.
The NEDs attend is fundamental to our business and therefore a number of external technical seminars it is essential that we consider diversity in run by professional advisers and the Group our decision-making process.
Our Ways of Secretary continues to monitor the need for Working are shared throughout Marstons: briefings and updates on compliance and we recruit the best people, invest in our regulation.
During the year, for example, the people and put people first whether Board received an update on the Groups thats the Marstons team, our customers compliance with the Pubs Code regulations.
We do not discriminate in any way, always seeking to appoint the To be able to continue to constructively candidate that best fits the role, regardless challenge proposals on strategy and of gender, race or background.
We have a contribute to the ongoing development and Whistleblowing Policy, the purpose of which implementation, the NEDs spend time with is to ensure that our people feel secure when the Executive Directors and other senior raising any concerns they may have without managers as well as visiting a range of any adverse effect on their career and pubs and brewery outlets.
NEDs are also development at Marstons.
Further details encouraged to engage with our people of Marstons approach to diversity and our across the business to further enhance their equal opportunities policy can be found on understanding of the business.
co. uk Induction programmes are tailored for Gender diversity each individual Director when joining the Number of employees at 30 September 2017 Board.
A comprehensive information pack is compiled covering an explanation of 8 49 14,822 the Groups financing structure, relevant statutory and regulatory guidance notes including, for example, the UK Corporate 11 2 Governance Code, the Companys Share Dealing Policy and guidance on Directors 7,653 duties.
Also included are Group policies, structure charts, matters reserved for the Board and Committee terms of reference.
An induction programme will include site 6 38 7,169 visits and meetings with relevant colleagues Directors Senior Total and advisers.
As part of his introduction to Managers employees the Group, Matthew Roberts undertook tours of Bankss Brewery in Wolverhampton and Female Male Wychwood Brewery in Witney, with the MD of MBC and local management teams to understand how the beer business operates.
He also received a summary overview of the pubs division to understand the challenges they face and visited a number of pubs with senior management to reinforce the briefings.
Further meetings took place with the CEO and CFO, to hear about investor feedback and City sentiment, with the Group Secretary to assess how the Company is governed and with the Corporate Risk Director to understand the main corporate risks to the business and how they are monitored and managed.
The external audit Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 47
