STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Creating distinctive, lively and interesting destinations Long-term, Ownership Improve our holistic curation clusters buildings of our areas Attracting footfall and Compounding benefits Growing rents, unlocking spending of individual transactions value, ensuring long-term Focussed on long-term sustainable income growth across nearby holdings sustainability and value creation, our portfolio management Over the years, we have identified well-located We estimate that the average age of our buildings strategy includes curating our vibrant restaurant, areas where footfall potential is good but rents is around 150 years.
Whilst conservation and listed leisure and retail destinations to: are initially low, often because they have suffered building legislation limits wholescale development provide an interesting experience to visitors.
from fragmented ownership, lack of investment, in our areas, our skill is in bringing long-term appeal to occupiers and residents.
and the absence of a coherent strategy for uses economic and environmental sustainability to attract footfall and spending.
We improve our buildings through refurbishment and reconfiguration to enhance drive sustained demand from tenants and By establishing ownership clusters, we can take a their rental potential and capital values, and extend high occupancy levels.
long-term holistic view in our investment and their useful lives.
This involves a combination of: management strategies.
This allows us to unlock Fundamental to the strategy is managing the rental and capital value potential whilst maximising retail, restaurant and leisure space.
long-term restaurant, leisure and retail compounding the benefits of individual transactions, reconfiguration to provide occupiers with more tenant-mix by: such as improved tenant quality and higher rental efficient trading space.
clustering similar uses and brands.
tones, across our adjacent and nearby holdings.
ensuring they are capable of meeting the needs managing planning uses to maximise rental of modern occupiers.
maximising environmental performance whilst encouraging new formats to ensure our maintaining buildings individual characters.
villages respond to ever-changing tastes converting under-utilised space on upper and expectations.
floors to introduce more valuable uses and bring long-term economic sustainability to buildings as a whole.
Typically, the duration of our schemes is short and the costs are modest.
Annual capital expenditure is normally around 1% of portfolio value.
Details of the impact of our business on the environment are set out in Sustainability and stakeholders on pages 28 to 33 22 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW CREATING DISTINCTIVE, LIVELY AND INTERESTING DESTINATIONS Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Forensic Invest in Promote knowledge of the public realm our destinations the West End Driving sustained Creating safe and Experience through occupier demand welcoming areas economic cycles Our long-established teams forensic and footfall to drive footfall knowledge of the West End and experience of We work closely with our tenants to promote We identify, promote and contribute to management through economic cycles is key our areas and their businesses to the West public realm improvements in our villages to to implementing our strategy.
Ends wide domestic and international ensure our streetscapes provide a safe and Our executive directors have an average length audience.
welcoming environment for tenants, their of service of nearly 24 years, and the senior customers, and residents.
In our experience, Our multi-channel marketing includes: executive management team has eleven this is an important catalyst for increasing years average service.
widely-publicised initiatives such as footfall.
shopping, street food and music events.
Additionally, we are supported by a broad range of external advisors, who bring us both ideas an active digital strategy, including dedicated and their wide experience, gained from other websites for our villages, and an extensive clients.
Everybody involved with Shaftesbury social media presence.
staff and advisors shares a passion and decorating our villages e. g. at Christmas enthusiasm for the West End and our locations.
Based in Carnaby, we are within fifteen We build on relationships with our existing minutes walk of all our holdings.
We maintain tenants who are not only a great source of new regular contact with tenants, community groups, ideas, but also have their own promotional neighbouring owners and other stakeholders, and digital strategies which bring further and are able to respond quickly to footfall to our villages.
opportunities and issues as they arise.
We invest considerable resources in promoting As a long-term investor in our areas, we are our areas to potential retail, restaurant and active in working with, and supporting, our local leisure operators.
This includes active community to address issues and challenges engagement with trade press, research visits of mutual interest and concern.
Also, we work to UK and international cities, and attendance closely with Westminster City Council and at trade events.
the London Borough of Camden to achieve our shared goal of a safe, lively and prosperous West End.
See pages 68 to 70 for details of our directors and senior management team 23 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW FOCUS Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 24 25 25
