S E I C N E I C I F F E G N I T A R E P O T S C O O C M P E T I T I V E A HOW WE CREATE VALUE Our business model in action Our business model begins with organic growth, which we drive by sectorising and sub-sectorising our business.
This approach differentiates us, and allows us to get close to our customers and create bespoke and innovative solutions.
Organic growth isoccasionally supplemented by small and medium sized acquisitions that add capability or scale in our existing markets.
We focus on operational execution and generate efficiencies by optimising our supply chain and diligently managing our food and labour costs.
These efficiencies enable us to reinvest in the OUR significant growth opportunities around the Group and to improve margins.
PEOPLE Our organic revenue growth, the scale it creates and our focus on cost and efficiencies give us a competitive advantage.
We can provide our clients and consumers the best value in terms of quality and cost and this, combined with sectorisation, helps drive long term sustainable organic revenuegrowth.
At the core lie our people.
Our aim is to nurture an engaged and highly capable workforce to win new business, manage our units efficiently and effectively, and deliver the healthiest, most innovative food solutions in a way that provides an exceptional experience to our clients and consumers.
Our values OPENNESS, TRUST Our values set out the things we AND INTEGRITY collectively believe in.
They guide We set the highest ethical and professional standards the way we conduct our business at all times.
We want all our relationships to be based on and the way we behave.
honesty, respect, fairness and a commitment to open dialogue and transparency.
14 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 D V A N T A G H E T W O R G E U N E V E R C I N A G R O STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy We have a disciplined approach to long term growth and remain focused on delivering shareholder value.
Our priorities How we drive How we deliver growth for our clients 1.
SELECT BOLT-ON SUPPORT SERVICES ACQUISITIONS Food is our focus and our Our preference is to grow We are committed to core competence.
We take organically given that it yields providing the best quality and a pragmatic and incremental the highest returns and value to our clients with approach to other support leverages the significant best-in-class execution.
We services developing strategies structural growth opportunity have increased our focus on on a country by country basis.
in the global food services innovation in our core food market.
However, we also business to bring more variety seek to invest in small to and excitement to our offer as medium sized acquisitions, well as to improve our but only if they are attractive operations.
targets that have the right cultural fit and further strengthen our organic growth capabilities.
PASSION FOR QUALITY WIN THROUGH RESPONSIBILITY CAN-DO SAFELY We are passionate about TEAMWORK We take responsibility for our We take a positive and delivering superior food and actions, individually and as a commercially aware can-do We encourage individual service and take pride in Group.
Every day, everywhere approach to the opportunities ownership, but work as a achieving this.
We look to we look to make a positive and challenges we face: we team.
We value the expertise, replicate success, learn from contribution to the health and always put safety first in individuality and contribution mistakes and develop the wellbeing of our customers, everything we do.
of all colleagues, working in ideas, innovation and the communities we work in support of each other and practices that will help us and the world we live in.
readily sharing good practice, improve and lead our market.
in pursuit of shared goals.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 15 HOW WE CREATE VALUE CONTINUED Long term stakeholder value HOW WE CREATE VALUE Our model for creating value has remained ORGANIC REVENUE INVESTMENT GROWTH unchanged for years.
Its longevity is down Capex in the range 2.5-3% of sales to its simplicity and proven success.
of 46% Bolt-on M&A We prioritise organic growth and concentrate resources on driving new business and retention see MAP 1 below and consumer sales MAP 2.
We focus relentlessly on costs: this includes managing the cost of food MAP 3, in unit labour costs and overheads MAP 4 and what we term above unit overheads MAP 5.
In large markets our size and scale enable 1 & 2 us to have a lower food cost structure and to make better use of overheads.
Efficiency and effectiveness are key to improving margins.
This focus on organic revenue growth and margins helps grow our earnings and cash flow.
Our priorities for cash are clear and simple.
We invest to support organic revenue growth of 4-6% and to generate further efficiencies to modestly improve margins.
Capital expenditure tends to be 2.5-3% of sales.
We invest in bolt-on acquisitions that add capability or scale in an existing market and whose returns exceed the cost of capital by year two.
MARGINS Having invested to support and maintain the long term growth prospects opportunities remain to of the business, we reward our shareholders with a dividend which grows modestly improve margins inline with constant currency earnings.
Any surplus capital that is not reinvested in the business we return to shareholders via share buybacks orspecial dividends to maintain net debt EBITDA at 1.5x.
We have a community of stakeholders that includes clients, consumers, employees and shareholders as well as NGOs and government agencies.
All have an interest in our success.
And because their opinions and actions 3, 4 & 5 can impact our ability to execute our strategy and conduct our business, weengage with them, taking into account their feedback and incorporating it, to the extent we can, into what we do.
We use the Management and Performance MAP framework across the business.
MAP 1: CLIENT SALES AND MARKETING MAP 1 is about winning new business and retaining our existing clients.
We invest in sales and retention and are increasingly sectorising and sub-sectorising the business around the world to allow us to get closer to our customers.
This approach allows us to develop bespoke offers that best meet our clients needs.
MAP 2: CONSUMER SALES AND MARKETING Like for like revenue consists of both volume and price.
It is heavily influenced both by the number of people at a clientssite and by macroeconomic conditions.
We are making good progress with intelligent marketing programmes and training schemes as we work hard to attract and satisfy our customer base with strong consumer propositions.
FREE CASH FLOW MAP 3: COST OF FOOD net debt EBITDA 1.5x Food makes up around one third of ourcosts.
In addition to the benefits of our scale in food procurement, we are able to manage food costs through careful menu planning and by rationalising the number of products we buy and the suppliers we buy them from.
MAP 4: IN UNIT COSTS In unit costs are made up predominantly of labour.
We focus on getting the right people inthe right place at the right time.
By using labour scheduling techniques and improving productivity, we are able to deliver the optimum level of service in the most efficient way.
MAP 5: ABOVE UNIT OVERHEADS SHAREHOLDER RETURNS Having reduced costs considerably when MAP was first introduced in 2006 by creating asimpler organisational model with fewer layers of management and less bureaucracy, ordinary and special dividends wenow strive to leverage those gains by maintaining overheads low whilst we continue and share buybacks to grow revenue.
16 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT WHO WE CREATE VALUE FOR CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS NGOS, GLOBAL PARTNERSHIPS & We are a B2B business-to-business organisation wellness agenda that suits the needs of their INITIATIVES, LOCAL and our clients range from large corporations and specific organisation and paves the way for COMMUNITIES hospitals to schools, universities and sports healthier, more balanced lifestyles.
However, our food is consumed by the working towards the United Nations Sustainable As a global business, employees, students, patients and sports fans that Development Goal SDG 3: to ensure healthy werecognise the critical come to our restaurants and cafs, so there is also lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages.
importance of engaging with a B2C business-to-consumer aspect to our our clients, suppliers and In 2010 our target was that, by 2016, 100% of business.
Across this extraordinarily diverse base, other stakeholders such as our units would provide Balanced Choices or we are conscious of the need to offer all of our NGOs, to improve the positive similar healthy eating programmes.
We did not clients value in terms of cost, quality, health and contribution that we can fully achieve that target, but we see year-on-year wellness and innovation.
make through global improvement in our performance 69% in 2017 partnerships and initiatives We work closely with clients and consumers vs 67% in 2016 and will continue to work that help bring about change, to promote and drive a nutritional health and towards achieving this through 2018. more sustainable business practices and scale.
We have adopted the UnitedNations SDGs as EMPLOYEES ahelpful framework to questions to allow for local and cultural priorities.
encourage such multiOur550,000 employees are fundamental The results of these surveys form the basis of stakeholder partnerships tailored action plans to address the issues raised.
todelivering high quality food and service and SDG17 anddeveloped maintaining our reputation and we are proud to Women make up 55% of our global workforce anumber of mutually have been included in the Forbes Global 2000 beneficial collaborations.
and 28% of our global leadership team.
We are Worlds Best Employer list for 2017. resolved to empower all our female employees These include our partnership withCompassion We are committed to ensuring their safety as well aswe know this leads to increased productivity, as promoting diversity and inclusion and better organisational effectiveness and high levels in World Farming and other farm animal welfare bodies, respecting human rights.
We support the United of customer satisfaction.
Nations SDG Goal 5, to achieve gender equality which has brought about SUPPLIERS third party insights and and empower all women and girls, and SDG Goal Each year we spend around 6 billion on food.
8, to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable expertise that have helped We collaborate with our partners throughout the us to develop a policy and economic growth, full and productive employment entire supply chain to deliver sustainable, scalable and decent work for all.
framework designed to and secure solutions for food and its production.
deliver enhanced farm All our sites work with local communities to offer We interact with our suppliers through one-on-one animal welfare standards fair employment and ensure that opportunities for meetings, field and factory visits, and third party throughout our global supply internal promotion are open to all.
We conduct supplier audits, to ensure that we source our food chain.
Working together, we regular employee engagement surveys that follow and non-food products in a transparent and have identified opportunities a similar format to allow comparison between sustainable manner.
to engage with our suppliers, different markets.
They also include specific be more ambitious in our sourcing commitments andachieve continuous improvement.
One significant outcome from INVESTORS ourengagement with these Open and proactive engagement is our way of between sustainable operations and long term partners has been a global building and maintaining relationships with the financial success.
We engage with the investment commitment to source only investment community.
We aim to provide fair, community in various ways including cage free eggs by 2025: balanced and understandable information about presentations, one-to-one and group meetings, thisincludes shell eggs our strategy, operations, risks and opportunities.
Within this framework we promote the links Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 17
