Our markets 8 KEY TRENDS IN THE HOUSINGMARKET The backdrop for the UK housing market remains positive with continued strong customer demand, favourable mortgage lending conditions and good political support.
Structural undersupply of housing Our response The long-term undersupply of housing, as first We have been growing our total annual identified in the 2004 Barker Review, meant completions over the past five years, from that a minimum of 200,000 new homes per year 1,903homes in 2012 to 3,389 homes in 2017. were required in England tomaintain the supply Our business has the resources both in people and demand balance.
It has subsequently been and financial strength to continue this growth in recognised that additional latent demand has the medium term, both in our existing areas of built up over the past 25 years, such that this operation and in newer geographies such as the number needs to be around 250,000 and possibly West Midlands.
We continue to see significant more.
While the supply of new housing has future growth in both our Partnerships and grown steadily over the past six years, the Housebuilding divisions, which in turn will drive number ofnet additions to the housing stock improved operating margins from greater scale.
Mixed-tenure delivery Our response In part, the structural undersupply in housing has We are committed to delivering a mixed-tenure been caused by the lack of affordable housing approach on our developments.
We differ from being built in England.
Large-scale local authority all other major housebuilders in that the private housing estates constructed in the 1960s and for sale homes made up just less than half, 1970s have not been replicated in the past 49per cent, of our total completions in 2017, 35years and the delivery of social housing with 30per cent affordable and 21 per cent PRS within private developments under Section 106 homes.
Our Partnerships division delivers a agreements has not kept up with demand.
balanced mix of all three tenure types, giving it Private Rental Sector PRS housing has the benefit of being able to grow more rapidly, largely been provided by small independent with the added benefit of business resilience landlords in poor quality older homes, with should the private for sale market start to slow.
little purpose-built PRS housing being constructed over the same period.
While there is increased appetite from institutional investors, there remains a structural undersupply of good quality homes for market rentin most urban areas.
Government policy Our response All political parties have recognised the need We are ideally placed to benefit from the for additional housing, not just because of the commitment to deliver more new homes of chronic need for new homes but also because alltenures.
In 2017, 88per cent of our private ofthe important role that housebuilding plays in forsale homes were eligible for the Help to Buy the wider economy.
Recent policy has focused on programme and it was utilised on 27 per cent stimulating demand for home ownership through ofour total completions across the Group.
programmes such as Help to Buy, which has Wedeliver a greater proportion of affordable helped over 140,000 families own a home over the housing in London than any other major past four years.
Commitment to the Help to Buy housebuilder and through our Partnerships programme has been made to 2021 and the division we have a nine-year pipeline of future scheme was recently bolstered by an additional work.
We also have an industry-leading owned 10bn of funding.
Additionally, the Government or controlled land bank, all within 50 miles of has committed a further 2bn of funding to deliver London, the vast majority of which, 83 per cent, affordable homes and the National Planning Policy has been strategically sourced.
Framework is ensuring that all local authorities have a consistently calculated five-year supply of land for new homes.
Read more on page 19 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 9 Future regulation Our response Following the tragic events at Grenfell Tower, a We have carried out a thorough reviewof all wide-ranging inquiry has commenced to establish buildings constructed since 2005 and have little the causes and examine the responses to this exposure to either tall buildings or refurbishments.
While the inquiry is yet to be concluded, We have identified only one development where the Government has required all housebuilders corrective work is required.
In conjunction with and property owners to review the fire strategy the housing association which owns the property, for all buildings built or refurbished since 2005 a scope of works has been agreed to fully remediate and in particular the materials used on buildings the fire strategy for the development and will greater than 18 metres in height.
Additionally, a be completed bythe end of 2017. consultation has commenced into leasehold On leasehold reform, we have committed reform with a focus on the creation of leasehold toensuring that houses are sold onafreehold houses, ground rent escalation and freeholder basis wherever we own the land and, where management charges.
This consultation is due leasehold is required, the terms of the lease are to report its findings at the end of 2017. clear and affordable.
We had a small number of developments where, on review, we felt that the ground rent rose too quickly and we have committed to amend those leases to fairer terms at our expense.
Labour supply Our response The housebuilding industry has a shortage We, together with the Home Builders Federation, ofskilled and experienced labour at all levels.
have been encouraging the Government to Chronic underinvestment over the past 25years, protect the status of EU construction workers as followed by the 2008 recession, has eroded a vital part of the UK economy.
At the same theworkforce considerably at a time when time, we are mitigating the risk of a lack of asignificant increase in output is required.
labour availability by recruiting a record number Theskills gap has largely been filled by overseas of apprentices and management trainees and workers from the European Union EU expanding our graduate recruitment programme.
andbeyond, who now make up a significant Our directly employed workforce has grown proportion of the workforce, especially in from fewer than 600 in 2014 to over 1,200 in 2017, Greater London.
Brexitnegotiations have as we focus on our growth agenda by recruiting, ledto uncertainty overthe security of the retaining and developing the best talent at all EUworkforce, not just from potential future levels.
Our larger sites also allow us to retain employment restrictions but also from possible and expand our supply chain, by offering economic migration caused by Sterling devaluation.
longer-term contracts and better quality working conditions.
Off-site construction Our response In order to meet the increased demand We already utilise off-site timber frame construction forhousing despite the labour shortage, on around 40 per cent of our current output.
theindustry must look at different build We are examining the way that this process can methodologies to deliver growth in output.
be enhanced to include all windows, first-fix While the industry has not yet fully embraced plumbing and electrical insulation and plasterboard non-traditional build, several methods of off-site in a closed panel system.
Together with our construction are being developed, from timber supply chain partners, we are also looking to frame construction to complete modular build.
automate the production process of the panels With Government and public sector land owner to improve capacity, product quality and efficiency.
support, together with potential future fire safety We believe that off-site construction is integral regulations, the case for off-site construction has to meeting our growth plans and securing our grown.
The principal benefits are speed of build, supply chain for the future.
lower reliance on scarce site skills and improved build quality from automated processes.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
