THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES BOARD OVERVIEW Consistent execution against our The Directors are collectively responsible and accountable to our strategy continues to create shareholders for the long-term sustainable success of the Group.
The Board has a key role in both setting the strategy and sustainable shareholder returns.
ensuring that its implementation is done by management operating responsibly within our governance framework, whilst MARK WILLIAMSON clearly demonstrating our values and high ethical standards.
The Chairman Directors are also mindful of their legal duties to act in the way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company for its shareholders whilst having MEMBERS regard to the interests of other stakeholders.
Mark Williamson Matthew Phillips Chairman As part of the governance framework the Board has adopted a Steven Stanbrook Alison Cooper schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision.
Oliver Tant These include approving the Groups strategy, business plans, Therese Esperdy Karen Witts dividends and major financial announcements.
The Board is also David Haines Malcolm Wyman responsible for approving the acquisition or disposal of assets Michael Herlihy exceeding defined thresholds.
John Downing to 1 February 2017 Company Secretary Within this framework the Board delegates responsibility for Simon Langelier developing and implementing strategy and for day-to-day from 12 June 2017 management to our Chief Executive, Alison Cooper, who is supported by her fellow Executive Directors and by the Operating FOCUS IN 2017 Executive OPEX, which she chairs.
The Board also delegates Investment step-up behind our MRM to leverage our matters to Board Committees.
Clearly defined terms of reference strengthened brand portfolio in priority markets: and written limits support these delegations.
Board meetings held in Italy and Spain to review and support The OPEX consists of senior executives from across the the implementation of the strategy: and business.
It oversees operational execution and delivers our Update and endorsement of the Groups NGP strategy.
The OPEX and Audit Committee also ensure that appropriate internal controls, which function LOOKING AHEAD TO 2018 effectively, are in place, and effective risk management Continued focus on our strategy and the drivers behind it, processes operate throughout the Group.
including: The MRM and our priority market investments: and NGP activity, including new launches in an extended footprint.
MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN 2017 Eight Board meetings were held during the year.
Business performance, safety, corporate development updates and general corporate housekeeping are standing items at each Board meeting.
In addition to these, the following agenda items were covered: 2016 2017 November Bristol January Bristol March Rome April Madrid June two meetings August call September Bristol Bristol Strategic review: Business plan Strategic review: Strategy in Strategy in Sell-down of CR & safety NGP & corporate finalisation MRM & NGP action: MRM & action: MRM & 10% in Logista review development Growth Division Returns Product supply Pension Fund Share buyIT strategic projects priority Division priority strategy triennial back review Appointment of investment investment valuation update Report and Business plan Simon Langelier markets markets Accounts signConsideration of review Group financing Half-Year off Board Board update Report Committee Dividend evaluation membership Dividend approval approval Appointment of Principal risks Senior Principal risks Independent Director Investor audit AGM 38 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 36 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS SUCCESSION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE OVERVIEW We aim to have the right people ROLE focused on the things that really The Committee reviews and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance of matter to deliver our strategy and skills, knowledge, experience and independence to enable them to function effectively.
Succession plans for the Non-Executive value creation for our stakeholders.
Directors NEDs, Executive Directors and the Groups senior management, in particular the OPEX, are also kept under review.
MARK WILLIAMSON The Committee also nominates candidates for appointment to Chairman the Board.
The Committee also retains an overview of the development MEMBERS plans for OPEX members together with the wider organisational structure and talent management processes.
Mark Williamson Steven Stanbrook 1 Chairman The Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
Karen Witts Therese Esperdy Malcolm Wyman BOARDROOM DIVERSITY David Haines John Downing As a global business, with our products sold in over 160 countries, Michael Herlihy Company Secretary diversity is an integral part of how we do business.
As set out on to 1 February 2017 page 30, the business celebrates diversity, which is something Simon Langelier the Board also fully supports.
from 12 June 2017 The Committee is mindful of the Davies review on gender 1.
Unless dealing with the succession of the Chairman.
diversity and is pleased that at the year-end women, including our Chief Executive, made up 30 per cent of our Board.
Executive Directors are invited to attend when appropriate.
Notwithstanding this, however, any search for Board candidates FOCUS IN 2017 and any subsequent appointments are made purely on merit Executive and Non-Executive Director succession planning, regardless of gender, race, religion, age or disability.
We look to including the appointment of Simon Langelier: ensure we have the appropriate balance of skills, diversity of knowledge and thinking, professional and geographic Review of skillset and composition of the Boards Committees: backgrounds and experience on our Board and recruit Review of the Groups people strategy within the context of the accordingly.
We are committed to appointing the best people and Groups overall strategy: and ensuring that all employees have an equal chance of developing their careers within the Group and as such we do not think it is Senior management succession and talent development.
appropriate to set specific targets for Board appointments.
LOOKING AHEAD TO 2018 Turn to page 30 Ongoing Executive and Non-Executive Director succession for further details on our workforce diversity planning: Senior management succession and talent development: and Further building organisational capability.
com 37 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES SUCCESSION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE continued SUCCESSION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Committee identified the profile and skillset required for a IN 2017 new NED to support our strategy and instructed Spencer Stuart 1 & Associates Limited Spencer Stuart to identify appropriate ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS candidates.
Within the Companys policy of appointing the best All Directors are appointed by the Board following a rigorous people, Spencer Stuart was requested to give consideration to selection process and subsequent recommendation by the candidates who, in addition to meeting the profile and skillset, Committee.
would add to the overall diversity of the Board.
From the list of The performance of each Director is considered as part of the strong candidates, and following a robust interview process, the annual Board evaluation process.
Following the 2017 evaluation, Committee decided to appoint Simon.
a review of the independence of each NED particularly in Following the 2016 Board evaluation which identified the need to respect of those who have served six years or more and optimise the use of Directors time, the membership of the Audit consideration of attendance, the Board recommends the and Remuneration Committees was restructured such that not re-election of all Directors at our 2018 AGM.
all NEDs now sit on both Committees as was previously the case.
REFRESHING THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES 1.
Spencer Stuart did not provide any other services to the Group during the financial year.
During the year Simon Langelier joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee.
Michael Herlihy stepped down after nine years service and was succeeded as Senior Independent Director by Malcolm Wyman.
MEETINGS OF THE BOARD, BOARD COMMITTEES AND AGM Succession and Annual Nominations Audit Remuneration General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in Financial Year 8 4 4 5 1 Number of meetings attended in Financial Year Executive Directors Alison Cooper 8 8 1 1 Oliver Tant 8 8 1 1 Matthew Phillips 8 8 1 1 Non-Executive Directors Mark Williamson 8 8 4 4 1 1 Therese Esperdy 8 8 4 4 4 4 2 2 1 1 David Haines 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 1 1 1 Simon Langelier 3 3 1 1 1 1 Steven Stanbrook 8 8 4 4 2 2 5 5 1 1 1 Karen Witts 8 8 4 4 4 4 5 5 1 1 Malcolm Wyman 8 8 4 4 2 2 5 5 1 1 1.
Simon Langelier was appointed to the Board on 12 June 2017.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.
TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BOARD GENDER BALANCE 8 years and over 1 Male 70% 5 to 7 years 2 Female 30% 3 to 5 years 1 1 to 2 years 3 40 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 38 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS AUDIT COMMITTEE As a Committee we continued to focus on risk management and in particular the Groups ongoing enhancements to systems of governance and internal control.
KAREN WITTS Chairman 1 MEMBERS As a Committee we continued to focus on risk management and in particular the Groups ongoing enhancements to systems of 2 Karen Witts Steven Stanbrook governance and internal control, whilst continuing to ensure the Chairman from 1 February 2017 to 1 February 2017 integrity of its financial statements and the quality of both the Malcolm Wyman John Downing external and internal audits.
We meet four times in the year at to 1 February 2017 Company Secretary key points in the Groups reporting cycle.
As Chairman I meet Former Chairman regularly with management, Internal Audit and the external Therese Esperdy auditor between Committee meetings.
David Haines In May 2017, the Group received an enquiry from the Financial Michael Herlihy Reporting Council FRC on its accounting for restructuring to 1 February 2017 costs within alternative performance measures.
The Committee Simon Langelier worked closely with management to formulate its response to from 12 June 2017 the FRCs questions, following which the FRC closed its enquiry in June 2017, as described in the Key Matters Considered section below.
OTHER REGULAR ATTENDEES An important aspect of our work is to critically review the Board Chairman Director of Assurance and detailed reports from both internal and external audit.
This 3 Risk Chief Financial Officer allows the Committee to understand any issues in the area under Deputy Company Secretary Deputy Chief Financial Officer review and to instigate action as appropriate.
Representatives from PwC, Group Financial Controller 3 our external auditors I am satisfied that our activities provided the Committee with a good understanding of the key matters impacting the Group 1.
All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
These key matters are set out on pages 40 and 2.
Karen Witts meets the Codes requirement of having recent and relevant financial 41.
This understanding, in conjunction with the Committees experience.
The Committee is satisfied that she also has the appropriate sectoral competence in accounting and auditing.
oversight of the governance and operation of the Groups 3.
At each meeting, both the Director of Assurance and Risk and PwC have the significant controls and processes, enables it to draw the opportunity to meet with the Committee without management present.
conclusions set out on page 42.
Other Non-Executive Directors are invited to attend each meeting.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER This Audit Committee Report provides insight into the Committees activities and its deliberations during the 2017 financial year.
KAREN WITTS Chairman of the Audit Committee Upon Malcolms appointment as Senior Independent Director, I gladly accepted the role of Chair of the Audit Committee.
At the same time, the number of members on the Committee was reduced: which was in response to proposed actions from our Board evaluation.
In June, I was pleased to welcome Simon on the Committee.
com 39 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE continued MAIN OBJECTIVE assisting the Board in confirming that, taken as a whole, our The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its corporate Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and governance responsibilities.
This includes oversight of the provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Groups internal control systems, risk management process and the Companys performance, business model and strategy see framework, the Internal Audit department and the external audit.
page 33 : It also involves ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial scrutinising the independence, approach, objectivity, statements and related announcements.
During the year the effectiveness, compliance and remuneration of PwC: and Committee achieved this by: considering the key matters detailed below, including taking maintaining appropriate oversight over the work and effectiveness account of PwCs views.
of the Internal Audit department, including reviewing its audit findings and monitoring managements responses: The Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of our risk management and internal control systems, including obtaining assurance that they are designed and implemented effectively: assessing and delivering the medium-term viability of the Group: AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETINGS HELD IN RESPECT OF THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR Four Committee meetings were held in respect of the 2017 financial year at key points in our reporting and audit calendar and included the following matters on the agenda: 2017 February April September November External audit planning Half-Year Report Goodwill and impairment Annual Report and Accounts considerations Internal audit and risk Goodwill and impairment review Goodwill and impairment review management review Tax update Going concern and Tax risk management External auditors solvency risk review FRC correspondence on FX risk management effectiveness review alternative performance External auditors report Viability and going concern measures Governance and internal External auditors fees and statements control Internal audit and risk independence External auditors report management review Restructuring costs Internal audit and risk Internal audit and risk and benefits External auditors report and updates management review independence Tax strategy and policy Governance and internal External auditors fees, Governance and internal control control independence and Distributable reserves Fraud policy update reappointment Restructuring costs and benefits Pension fund risk Governance and internal control management Impact of new accounting Revenue recognition standards KEY MATTERS CONSIDERED The Committee considered the appropriateness of the following areas of significant judgement, complexity or estimation in connection with the financial statements, as set out below: Focus area Why this area is significant How we as a Committee addressed this area 1 Goodwill and Goodwill and intangible assets We regularly received and considered detailed reports from management and intangible asset form a major part of the Groups challenged the methodology applied, the achievability of underlying business impairment balance sheet and their current forecasts, and macro-economic assumptions used.
For the groupings of cash reviews valuations must be supported generating units with the lowest headroom Growth Division and Other by future prospects.
Premium Cigars, we examined different scenarios and sensitivities to assess See note 11 of the financial whether managements conclusions were fair and balanced.
statements for During the period, a strategic investment programme was initiated in all further information.
This investment included initiatives to build long-term improvement in our market share and support a consistent pricing strategy.
The Committee noted that long-term cash flow forecasts, including strategic investment expenditure for the Growth Division, had been prepared.
The Committee reviewed the significant financial assumptions used, including the selection of appropriate discount and long-term growth rates.
The Committee also considered detailed reporting from, and held discussions with PwC.
Resulting from the above, we concluded that managements assertion that goodwill and intangible assets were not impaired was reasonable and, therefore, approved the disclosures in our financial statements.
42 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 40 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Focus area Why this area is significant How we as a Committee addressed this area 2 Use of adjusted Non-GAAP or adjusted measures The Committee considered whether adjusted performance measures had been measures provide an appropriate and useful prepared in accordance with our policy on the use of adjusted measures set out assessment of business in note 1 to the Group financial statements, and discussed this with PwC.
The See note 1 for performance and reflect the way in Committee concluded that adjusted performance measures had been prepared further information.
which the business is managed.
in accordance with our policy.
They are also used in determining The Committee also considered whether the Groups policy was compatible annual and long-term incentives with the ESMA guidelines on alternative performance measures.
The items for remuneration, and are widely excluded from adjusted operating profit have been applied consistently for a used by our investors.
number of years and are clearly disclosed.
The Committee concluded that this presentation is helpful in allowing users of the Group financial statements to understand the underlying business performance, especially in light of the scale and duration of the restructuring programme.
3 Treatment of Restructuring costs is one of the In May 2017, the Group received an enquiry from the FRC on its accounting for restructuring main items affecting our adjusted restructuring costs within alternative performance measures.
There is a risk that response explained the historic approach to accounting for restructuring costs restructuring costs are treated or and set out the rationale for treating the Cost Optimisation Programme as See note 5 for further information.
presented inappropriately within one-off and accordingly to account for the costs outside of its adjusted the Groups financial statements.
In June 2017, the FRC accepted the Groups response and closed its enquiry noting the Groups commitment to enhance its accounting approach for one-off restructuring costs and to enhance restructuring disclosures.
1 These changes have been made in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition, we periodically reviewed papers from management on actual and forecast levels of restructuring costs.
The restructuring costs disclosure for inclusion within the Groups financial statements and Half-Year results were also reviewed and discussed with management and PwC.
Following these detailed reviews and discussions, we concluded that determination of restructuring costs was consistently applied and that, notwithstanding the duration of some restructuring projects, costs were disclosed appropriately.
4 Going concern and The Directors are required We examined the Groups committed funding, its ability to generate cash viability statement to consider whether it is and its ability to raise further funding.
We challenged managements cash appropriate to prepare the financial projections and sensitivity analysis including mitigating actions.
In addition, See page 28 for further information.
statements on a going concern in assessing the Groups longer-term viability we considered outputs of basis and explain how they have the annual corporate planning processes including the strategic review, a assessed the prospects of the three-year business plan and a rolling re-forecast of current year business Company over a longer period.
We also considered the resilience of the Group to the potential impact of the Groups principal risks and mitigating actions.
We reviewed the period covered by the statement and concluded that three years remains the most appropriate period, being that used by the Group for its business plan.
We concluded that it was appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis and that the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to September 2020.
5 Revenue There is a risk that revenue could Discussions were held with management and PwC and the Committee was recognition be overstated through the inclusion satisfied that the Groups criteria for revenue recognition were appropriate.
of sales which are not in No breaches of the Groups revenue recognition policy were brought to the See note 1 for compliance with the Groups Committees attention.
6 Taxation The Group is subject to taxation We received and discussed reports from management in respect of the in a number of jurisdictions, and taxation affairs of the Group, including the tax audit in France see note 8 on See notes 8 and 21 for further significant judgement is required page 95 and the potential impact on the Group of various UK and foreign information.
in relation to taxation provisions taxation reform proposals.
Following consideration and discussion of which could materially affect the managements reports and a review of reports provided by PwC, we are Groups reported results.
satisfied that the taxation provisions and their disclosure are appropriate.
7 Tobacco-related The Group is exposed to litigation We considered reports from the Groups external lawyers which confirmed that litigation arising from claimants alleging the Group continues to have meritorious defences to the actual and threatened smoking-related health effects.
legal proceedings and concluded that risks in respect of tobacco-related See page 50 for further information.
litigation are appropriately disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The scope of the FRCs review was limited and was based on the Annual Report and Accounts without the benefit of detailed knowledge about the Groups business or an understanding of the underlying transactions entered into.
com 41 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE continued GOVERNANCE, RISK MANAGEMENT management of the related risks.
These management teams are AND INTERNAL CONTROL responsible for ensuring that the Groups strategic objectives are achieved in line with Group policies and standards, and that we The Board is ultimately responsible for risk management in conduct business in compliance with our Code of Conduct.
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, with accountability for the approach delegated to the Audit Committee.
The Groups functional and divisional management structure, led by our OPEX, enable a continuous process for the identification, In the course of the year the Group has further enhanced its evaluation and management of significant risks to the governance and risk management framework, increasing achievement of business objectives at both a Group and local accountability throughout the business.
level, enabling effective and timely identification of actual and Our governance and risk management framework has been emerging risks and responses to mitigate impacts or realise designed around four simple foundations that form the core of opportunities.
In order to achieve this the Group employs subject our approach to risk management, as set out in Managing the matter experts in its centres of expertise CoEs to provide Business the Right Way below.
effective solutions and support that enables our operational management to implement effective risk management In designing our approach in this way, the Group operates approaches across our varied geographic footprint.
in accordance with the recommendations of the FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Groups systems of internal An example of this is our Finance function, which has control are designed and operated to support the identification, responsibility for the financial policies, standards and best evaluation and management of risks affecting the Group.
The practice to be followed by operational finance management Groups risk management approach has further evolved in the across the Group, as documented in our Finance Manual.
year, to manage risks arising from the changing legal, regulatory, Compliance with Group and local reporting requirements has macro-economic and commercial environments in which the been confirmed by finance management across the Group on a Group operates.
The continuation of the programme to further quarterly basis, providing a robust basis for the central Finance embed risk management within our operations is enabling team to appropriately manage the Group financial reporting greater consistency in the identification, assessment and processes, allowing for the timely and accurate production of our mitigation of risks at both a local and Group level.
Half Yearly and Annual Accounts, which in turn enables the Board to discharge its reporting responsibilities.
The Operating Executive OPEX is responsible for the operational stewardship of the business, including the ownership of the Group Operational management are held accountable for the risks and related assurance activities.
OPEX ensures the successful compliance of their business units to Group policies and and effective alignment of functional business plans to the Group standards through the completion of the Group Control Matrix strategy, with business unit and functional management GCM assessment process, and certification of compliance to responsible for the delivery of operational performance and the Group policies and standards.
Clear Roles Clear Rules The Groups operating model defines the different roles that various The Groups policies, procedures and internal controls provide areas of the business play in risk management, with the three lines of the parameters within which the global business operates.
This defence continuing to be the principal model used to articulate this: enables a consistent application of the Groups risk management framework.
Local management own the management of risks and it is The Groups online Policy Index clarifies the Group-wide policies their responsibility to identify and mitigate these risks: and procedures that must be followed.
CoEs, which are generally central functions employing technical nd Controls Matrix has been developed with the 2 line CoEs over experts, develop and provide appropriate policy, process, control the last year, which lists all expected minimum controls so as to structures and support to local management: and clarify to operational management the standards of internal 3.
Our Internal Audit team independently reviews the effectiveness control expected of them.
of our risk management and internal control system.
MANAGING THE BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY Clear Authority Clear Values We have a centrally defined Group Approvals Matrix and aligned The Group expects all of its people to uphold the high corporate local schedules of authority.
This ensures the formal and effective standards expected of them and to act with respect and escalation of decisions to the appropriate level of responsibility and integrity in everything they do.
accountability, whilst also maximising the agility and efficiency The Groups values are a cornerstone of our Code of Conduct, which of management decisions.
helps to determine the culture within which we operate, ensuring a For those business units operating with organisational consistency of moral and ethical behaviour across the organisation.
independence from the Group, such as ITG Brands and Fontem Training is provided across the Group on the expectations Ventures, we have bespoke Governance Frameworks in place we have of our people, with tailored programmes developed to ensure the appropriate level of oversight and interaction for key elements, such as the Groups stance and processes with Group.
to manage anti-bribery and corruption requirements.
44 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 42 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Through these approaches management formally confirm the INDEPENDENCE OF OUR EXTERNAL AUDITORS status of their units compliance with key controls.
The results of In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of PwC, this are shared with relevant CoEs for expert insights and to help the Committee maintains and regularly reviews our Auditor further enhance controls and the guidance they provide to the Independence policy.
This policy provides clear definitions of business.
Additionally, the information is provided to our services that our external auditors may and may not provide Internal Audit department for reference during their audit and can be found on our website.
Following the FRCs publication testing.
of the Revised Ethical Standard in June 2016 the policy was updated to embed audit tendering and rotations requirements, The above processes and those described in the Principal Risks further extend the list of prohibited services and prohibit gifts and Uncertainties section on pages 24 to 28 enable the Board, and hospitality by or to the auditors.
The updated policy has been either directly or through the Audit Committee, to review and applied from 1 October 2016. monitor regularly the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established in order to provide appropriate internal PwC, and its predecessor firms, has been the Companys auditors controls.
They also enable the Board to confirm that an ongoing since 1996.
In line with our Auditor Independence policy, the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups Group Audit Partner is required to rotate after a maximum of five principal risks has operated throughout the year and up to the years seven years for subsidiary companies.
John Maitland, our date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Audit Partner, has been in post since 2013 and will be succeeded by James Chalmers for the financial year 2018.
The Committee received regular updates during the year on the continued development and implementation of the The policy states PwC may only provide non-audit services governance and risk management framework and on the risk where those services do not conflict with its independence.
management systems and processes operating within the Group.
It also establishes a formal authorisation process, including the Additionally, the Committee has reviewed the process for tendering for individual non-audit services expected to generate identification, assessment and reporting of the Companys fees in excess of 250,000, and pre-approval by the Committee principal risks set out on pages 24 to 28.
The Committee has also for allowable non-audit work that they may perform.
Guidelines considered and confirmed to the Board that this work is in for the recruitment of employees or former employees of PwC, accordance with the provisions in the 2016 UK Corporate and for the recruitment of our employees by PwC, are contained Governance Code and the Financial Reporting Councils FRC in the policy.
associated Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and During the year PwC undertook limited non-audit work.
This Related Financial and Business Reporting.
non-audit work was awarded to PwC due to its knowledge of the Group and it being deemed best placed to provide effectively INTERNAL AUDIT the services required.
This non-audit work included: Internal Audit IA has continued to evolve and develop its verification of our corporate social responsibility reporting practices in order to improve the independent challenge to the and underlying processes: and Groups activities, as required by the Audit Committee and management.
IA performs a risk based audit programme aligned provision of comfort letters to support renewal, and issuances, to the Groups strategic priorities, resulting in relevant individual of the Groups EMTN debt issuance programme.
and theme-based recommendations and insights to further In the current year non-audit fees were 3 per cent strengthen the Groups control framework.
2016: 37 per cent of total audit fees see note 4 on page 93.
The Audit Committee reviews the annual IA plan, including Following the auditor independence reviews during the year, its scope and extent, and reviews reports from IA at each the Committee concluded that the level of non-audit fees is quarterly Audit Committee meeting to monitor the functions appropriate in the light of the above activities and the Committee achievements against plan.
The Audit Committee considered does not believe that the objectivity of the external audit has the results of the audits undertaken by IA and monitored been impaired as a result of this non-audit work.
management responses to the audit matters raised.
IA post audit To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year the surveys are completed by relevant management, with feedback Committee carried out two auditor independence reviews, on IAs performance over the year being positive.
including consideration of the remuneration received by PwC for audit services, audit-related services and non-audit work.
EXTERNAL AUDIT The Committee also considered reports by both management At the Committees January 2017 meeting PwC set out its audit and PwC which did not raise any concerns in respect of PwCs strategy, including the key items and risks to be reviewed, the independence and confirmed that PwC maintains appropriate overall scope and materiality thresholds for the Half-Year Report internal safeguards to ensure its independence and objectivity.
and for the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the The outcome of these reviews was that performance of the year ended 30 September 2017. relevant non-audit work by PwC was in compliance with the The Committee noted that PwCs audit plan identified areas of policy and was the most cost-effective way of conducting our significant audit risk consistent with the previous year but with business.
No conflicts of interest were found to exist between an increased focus on new systems and processes.
In their such audit and non-audit work.
The Committee therefore controls reporting, PwC highlighted the need to focus on confirmed that the Company and Group continue to receive managing the risk of segregation of duties conflicts in the an independent audit service.
The Audit Engagement Letter detailing the revised agreement for the provision of statutory audit and half year review services was considered and approved.
com 43 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE continued AUDIT QUALITY There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditors.
We place great importance on ensuring that we receive a high standard and effective external audit.
To assist the Committee The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions in assessing the performance of our external auditors, during of the Competition and Market Authoritys Order for the financial the year audit effectiveness questionnaires, covering the audit year under review.
scope and planning, quality and delivery, challenge and communication and independence, were completed by members STATEMENT OF AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES of both the Committee and Logistas Audit Committee as well PwC is responsible for forming an independent opinion on as by senior managers and finance executives from across the the financial statements of the Group as a whole and on the Group.
Responses indicated that, as with previous reviews, there financial statements of Imperial Brands PLC as presented by was a consistently high perception of auditor effectiveness, the Directors.
In addition, it also reports on other elements of with no pervasive Group-wide concerns identified.
the Annual Report as required by legislation or regulation and Based on its consideration of the responses, together with its reports its opinion to members.
own ongoing assessment, for example through the quality of PwCs reports to the Committee and its interaction with the Turn to page 75 Group Audit Partner, the Committee remains satisfied with for further details on PwCs opinions the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.
AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION APPROACH TO AUDIT TENDER TO AUDITORS The Committee annually considers if the audit should be put out Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this to tender.
The decision from this years review was not to put the Annual Report confirms that: audit out to tender.
The audit has not been put to tender since PwC were appointed as the Companys auditors in 1996. so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by PwC in connection with The Committee has determined that the likely timing of the preparing its report of which PwC is unaware: and audit tender will be in the year ending 30 September 2021 so that the incoming external audit firm can take up the role for the year each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken ending 30 September 2023.
The Committee believes that this as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any timeframe for the audit tender is in the best interests of the relevant audit information and to establish PwC is aware Company and its members given the ongoing medium-term of that information.
projects involving significant changes to the Groups operating The Board accepted, at its November 2017 meeting, the model including the migration to finance shared services.
Committees recommendation to put to shareholders at the We believe it is in the interest of both the Group and its forthcoming AGM a resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors stakeholders to ensure that the pool of major accountancy to the Company.
firms with the capacity to be appointed as external auditor is For the Board maximised.
As part of our tender planning we have, therefore, established a number of processes including the pre-approval of any future services by appropriate accountancy firms to maintain an adequate level of independence to allow them to tender.
During the auditor independence reviews detailed above, we also considered the remuneration for audit services, auditKAREN WITTS related services and non-audit work undertaken by such Chairman of the Audit Committee accountancy firms.
46 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 44 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017
