OLIVER TANT, BSC, CA SCOTLAND 5.
THERESE ESPERDY Chairman of the Board Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Mark is a qualified accountant, who brings Oliver held a number of senior positions in Therese has significant international considerable financial and general managerial a 32-year career at KPMG, including Global investment banking experience having held a experience to our Board.
Mark was Chief Managing Director Financial Advisory and number of roles at JP Morgan including Global Financial Officer of International Power plc Private Equity Division and Head of UK Audit.
Chairman of JP Morgans Financial Institutions until 2012 and is experienced in managing Group, Co-Head of Asia-Pacific Corporate & He was also a member of both the UK and relationships with the investor and financial Investment Banking, Global Head of Debt Capital German boards of KPMG.
He brings to Imperial communities.
Prior to joining International Markets, and Head of US Debt Capital Markets.
international experience in change Power plc, Mark was Group Financial Controller She began her career at Lehman Brothers and management, organisational restructuring, and Group Chief Accountant of Simon Group.
joined Chase Securities in 1997 prior to the corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions.
He is also a former Senior Independent firms merger with JP Morgan in 2000.
Appointment Non-Executive Director and Chairman of She also meets the recent and relevant financial Appointed to the Board of Directors in October the Audit Committee of Alent PLC.
experience requirements of the UK Corporate 2013 and became Chief Financial Officer in Appointment Governance Code.
Mark joined the Board in July 2007 and was Appointment External appointments appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2016.
He was subsequently External appointments E appointed Deputy Chairman of the Board in Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the January 2013 before being made Chairman Finance Committee of National Grid Plc.
MATTHEW PHILLIPS, LLB D A N Chief Development Officer External appointments Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Skills and experience 6.
DAVID HAINES and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Matthew held a number of senior roles prior National Grid plc and Chairman of Spectris PLC Non-Executive Director to his appointment to the Board as Corporate D N Chairman Affairs Director in June 2012 and has been Skills and experience integral to the development and David brings considerable senior level board implementation of the Groups strategy.
experience and was until March 2016 Chairman 2.
ALISON COOPER, BSC, ACA and Chief Executive Officer of Grohe Group Srl In his current role he is responsible for Fontem Chief Executive Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Lixil Water Ventures, corporate development and corporate, Skills and experience Technology Group.
He joined Grohe in 2004 legal and regulatory affairs.
Since being appointed as Chief Executive Alison from Vodafone Group PLC where he was Global Appointment has led the development and implementation of Marketing Director.
David is Chairman and Appointed Director in June 2012.
Appointed the Groups sustainable sales growth strategy.
Co-Founder of Grace Founders Srl, a Chief Development Officer, June 2015.
Alison joined the Group in 1999 and, through Luxembourg-based investment company.
He a number of senior roles, has contributed External appointments is also a former Chairman of Vimpelcom A O. significantly to the international expansion No external Director appointments.
E Appointed Non-Executive Director in February Appointment 2012, and Chairman of the Remuneration Appointed Director in July 2007.
External appointments External appointments Chairman and Co-Founder of Grace Founders No external Director appointments.
E D A N R Chairman 36 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 34 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 7.
JOHN DOWNING, MA, SOLICITOR Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Simon has significant international experience Karen brings significant financial and John joined Imperial in 2005 having worked for within the tobacco industry.
He held a number management expertise to the Board.
She is the law firm Linklaters.
of senior commercial positions during a 30-year currently Chief Financial Officer and Executive He has had a number of senior legal roles in career with Philip Morris International, Director of Kingfisher plc and was previously Chief Imperial and was appointed Head of Group Legal including in Latin America, Asia, Western and Financial Officer of the Africa, Middle East, Asia in 2010 and played a leading role in the Altadis Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa.
In and Asia Pacific Region, at Vodafone plc.
He has considerable experience in addition, he was President of their Next that, Karen held a number of senior positions at BT, managing key corporate projects related to Generation Products & Adjacent Businesses.
including Chief Financial Officer of BT Retail and financing, business development and other Managing Director Operations Openreach.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in June 2017.
She also meets the recent and relevant financial Appointment experience requirements of the UK Corporate Appointed Company Secretary in June 2012.
Chairman of PharmaCielo Limited and S Ambassador of Lancaster University.
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in February D A N 2014 and Chairman of the Audit Committee in February 2017.
STEVEN STANBROOK External appointments E Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director D Non-Executive Director Skills and experience of Kingfisher plc.
S Company Secretary Steven brings considerable international N Succession and Nominations Committee D A Chairman N R executive experience to the Board, gained in a A Audit Committee number of FMCG companies.
MALCOLM WYMAN, CA SA years at SC Johnson & Sons Inc. most recently as Chief Operating Officer, where he was Non-Executive Director responsible for managing their international Skills and experience operations.
Previously, he held senior positions As a qualified accountant and former Chief at Sara Lee Corporation, including as Chief Financial Officer of SAB Miller plc, with Executive Officer of Sara Lee Bakery, and responsibility for the groups financial at CompuServe Corp.
He is also a former operations, corporate finance and development Non-Executive Director of Chiquita Brands and group strategy, Malcolm brings not International, Inc. and Hewitt Associates.
only a wealth of financial expertise but also Appointment considerable general management experience Appointed Non-Executive Director in to the Board.
Malcolm is also a former February 2016.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Serco Group plc.
External appointments Partner of Wind Point Partners and a Director of Appointment Autism Speaks.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in October 2011.
In February 2017 he was appointed as D N R Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
External appointments Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and former Chairman of the Audit Committee of Nedbank Group Limited, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
