Our markets Delivering transparency and efficiency Our strategic priorities are designed to help us maximise stakeholder value whilst navigating the complex and diverse marketplaces we operate in.
Weempower both consumers and partners throughout the entire property lifecycle to make smarter property and household decisions.
CONSUMERS PARTNERS Our brands and services are relevant to each and every one Our products and services help over 25,000 businesses make ofthe28 million households in the UK whether finding, smarter property decisions.
Market trends Market trends Proliferation of smartphone devices 24 7 demand from consumers The UK is becoming increasingly mobile-centric with smartphone Mobile device proliferation is changing the way, and the times adoption among adults having risen to 85% during 2017 and 77% of day, that we are able to interact and transact.
Consumers ability of adults using a mobile device daily.
to access information and interact anywhere in the world is putting pressure on traditional methods of engagement.
Increasingly time poor and data hungry With one in two British adults stating that they have little to no Margin pressure and legacy systems free time there is increased demand for services which help simplify Low barriers to entry for new start-ups are putting pressure on our daily activities, saving time and money.
the fee structures of incumbent suppliers and demand for 24 7 engagement from consumers is putting new pressures on the way professionals manage their business.
What we do What we do ZPG delivers transparency and empowers smarter household ZPG offers a one-stop shop for professionals to market, manage decisions by providing consumers with a free-to-use platform, and maximise their business.
By using our best-in-class marketing, tools and insights.
Consumers are able to interact with ZPGs software and data solutions professionals are able to continually home related partners to find a home, plan their move and improve the service they deliver to their customers whilst also optimise their running costs in just a matter of minutes.
driving greater effectiveness and efficiency in their business.
Brands Services Zoopla, PrimeLocation, uSwitch and Money.
Property Marketing, Software, Data which is covered in more detail on page 19.
Comparison Energy, Communications, Finance which is covered in more detail on page 19.
Our strategy creates a unique opportunity in markets with significant structural growth drivers.
End markets The property lifecycle spans two main markets: Property and Comparison.
Although each market has its own unique drivers, they are inextricably linked by the consumers and partners that depend on them throughout the cycle.
18 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report PROPERTY Our Property services can be divided into three main sub-verticals: Marketing, Software and Data.
MARKETING SOFTWARE DATA Key drivers: Transaction volumes Key driver: 24 7 consumer Key driver: Risk management andprint-to-digital shift demandandmargin pressure andregulation Total property commission earned The property software industry is highly Property data is available for consumption by professionals including both sales fragmented with low churn rates as the in two main areas: free to consume data and lettings is the main driver behind the products provide essential systems for and paid-for insight.
Free data is helpful total amount spent on property marketing.
the day-to-day management of inventory, at the beginning of the property journey Property professionals advertise via a variety marketing and communications as well to help educate property consumers and of channels including property portals, their as diary management, chain progression, partners, whereas paid-for insight gives own websites and print media in order to business reporting tools and financial them the confidence they need to transact.
build their brand, sell and let existing inventory processes.
However, increased demand Demand for quality bank-grade data is rising and win new business.
The hyper-local and from consumers for 24 7 engagement is as consumers and businesses want to be on highly competitive nature of estate agency driving an industry shift towards newer, the front-foot when negotiating deals and underpins long-term demand for marketing more innovative cloud-based products managing the risk associated with their services.
In addition, the proportion spent which mean professionals are no longer largest assets such as their own home on digital marketing continues to grow tied to their desks to manage their business.
as property professionals recognise the increased efficacy of marketing online.
COMPARISON Our Comparison services can be divided into three main sub-verticals: Energy, Communications and Finance.
ENERGY COMMUNICATIONS FINANCE Key drivers: Consumer awareness, Key drivers: Technological Key drivers: Economic fixed-term contracts and price volatility innovation, infrastructure  The market for energy switching is growing The financial services comparison market  as a result of high-profile press coverage of Communications includes broadband, TV, comprises some of the most established energy supplier price rises, the adoption of switching markets in the UK.
It can be divided home phone and mobile phone switching.
fixed-term contracts with a natural trigger The proliferation of smartphones, the rise into two broad areas: banking credit cards, point for switching and increased regulatory loans, mortgages, current accounts and credit of over-the-top content providers such as support for the role of digital comparison Netflix and the roll-out of super-fast broadband reports and insurance car, home, life and tools boosting consumer awareness.
Banking is set to be one of are changing the way we communicate However, despite increased supply-side and consume digital media.
The increasing the key growth areas as economic uncertainty competition and the average household drives increased comparison activity.
complexity of packages and interdependency savings of hundreds of pounds from switching, of products create a critical need for digital consumer engagement remains much lower comparison tools as consumers seek a than other more established switching better deal for their needs.
verticals such as car insurance, creating a significant structural growth opportunity.
We estimate the total market opportunity from helping consumers to find, move and manage Total market their homes to be worth over 3 billion.
co. uk 19 Consumer experience 648m 400m Visits per annum Consumer savings off their household bills 20 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Focused on delivering transparency and efficiency Most useful resource forconsumers We constantly improve our user journeys to empower consumers to make smarter property and household decisions.
Our strategic priorities Grow our audience effectively across all channels Innovate our products and consumer experiences Increase engagement through cross-selling of services Our performance in 2017 Launched innovative MovePlanner tool on Zoopla Expanded switching services available via uSwitch accounts and launched reminders Invested in and partnered with innovative start-ups Neos and Zero Deposit Our focus for 2018 Create the most useful home related resources forconsumers Develop and enhance our home mover and home management tools Read more about our markets on page 18 www.
co. uk 21 Focused on delivering transparency and efficiency Most effective partner for the businesses wework with We offer a one-stop shop for home related businesses.
Our products and services help to market their inventory, manage their business and maximise their revenue opportunities.
Our strategic priorities Encourage take-up of multiple products andservices Innovate tools and services for partners that enhance and support their business Build stronger relationships underpinned with insight Our performance in 2017 Acquisitions of TechnicWeb, Hometrack, ExpertAgent and Ravensworth significantly increasing our product offering for Property partners to include portal, software, websites, data and print Enhanced revenue opportunities for partners via MoveIT with the launch of energy switching powered byuSwitch Announced acquisition of Money, extending the reach ofComparison partners brands Our focus for 2018 Cross-sell more ZPG services to our Property partners Increase the reach and marketing efficacy of our Comparison partners Read more about our M&A on page 12 22 ZPG PlcAnnual Report 2017 Partner value 25,000 56m Total number of Property Leads delivered and Comparison partners www.
co. uk 23 Shareholder value 244.5m 15.2p per share Record Revenue Significant adjusted basic up 24% EPS growth up 20% 24 ZPG PlcAnnual Report 2017 Focused on delivering transparency and efficiency Delivering value toourshareholders Our multi-brand, multi-channel approach presents a unique opportunity to create integrated products in order to address consumer and partner needs throughout the entire property lifecycle.
Our strategic priorities Use growth and increased scale to deliver operationalleverage Deliver cross-sell opportunities across ZPG through dataand cross-division collaboration Expand the portfolio via effective M&A Our performance in 2017 Created dedicated cross-division working groups such asthe mortgage team Adopted new business intelligence and tracking tools across ZPG Made good progress on integration of acquisitions Our focus for 2018 Leverage ZPG data, traffic and assets Expand uSwitch consumer accounts Read more about our financial review on page 36 www.
co. uk 25 Focused on delivering transparency and efficiency Best place for our teams We attract, retain and develop the best talent by leading innovation across the industry, offering opportunities for ongoing learning and professional development together with market-leading benefits.
Our strategic priorities Create and promote development tools, frameworks andprocesses Build the ZPG employer brand Inclusive culture that focuses on growth, newopportunities and collaboration Our performance in 2017 Hired a dedicated Employee Engagement Manager Became an approved Institute of Leadership andManagement centre Launched various ZPG Committees including our new EcoCommittee Our focus for 2018 Offering award-winning benefits, growth opportunities and culture Raising the profile of our employer brand Read more about our people on page 42 26 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Best team 1,300 hours 882 Learning and development through Total staff our in-house workshops www.
