M&A and partnership activity Diversification of our brands, products and revenues We have a successful track record of M&A activity which supports strong organic growth and helps accelerate the delivery of our mission.
When reviewing our strategic opportunities for growth we apply the following filters: Great strategic Significant growth Market leading Build, buy Strong return fit?
We announced five acquisitions during We also made a further three strategic Each acquisition or partnership allows 2017, TechnicWeb, Hometrack, ExpertAgent, investments in Neos, Zero Deposit and us to offer the widest range of products Ravensworth and Money completed following PropertyFinder Group, which together with and services across our platform to both the end of the Period, which enhance both our existing investments and partnerships our consumers and partners and further our consumer and partner propositions and provide us with differentiated products and diversifies ZPGs brands, products and give us a unique product portfolio and services as well as valuable insights into some revenue opportunities.
of the leading innovators in our markets.
PARTNERSHIPS Neos is the UKs first home insurance provider Zero Deposit is an exciting new PropertyFinder Group is the Dubai-based that provides the latest connected home insurance-backed product that replaces business with leading property portals across technology.
In addition to comprehensive the need for tenants to place a security the Middle East and North Africa MENA.
buildings and contents cover, Neos connected deposit at the beginning of a tenancy PFG operates in seven countries, UAE, home insurance provides eight wireless and is underwritten by Munich RE, Qatar, Lebanon, Bahrain, Egypt, Morocco smart sensors and a camera linked to the one of the worlds largest reinsurers.
and Saudi Arabia, and generates over Neos app that detect fires, leaks and 2 million monthly visits.
12 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report ACQUISITIONS TechnicWeb specialises in designing custom-built, As a smaller independent business established fully responsive websites for the property sector for 30 years, the level of customer care was of the and has a team of 22 designers, programmers, project highest standard.
The result a much improved and account managers who have built over 1,500 website that has been very effective on all levels.
websites for estate agent clients.
Anything that required attention throughout the process was dealt with efficiently and professionally.
Rationale: TechnicWeb helps ZPG to continue to be The constant and regular customer support continues.
the most effective partner for UK property professionals and makes ZPG the largest provider of estate agency Scott Matheson-Barr websites in the UK.
Managing Director, Gobbitt & Kirby Hometrack is a leading supplier of automated The data and insight that Hometrack provides to property valuations and property market insights in our mortgage business informs our understanding the UK and Australia to partners including mortgage of collateral value and risk, increases our efficiency and lenders, developers, investors, housing associations helps us deliver higher quality service to our customers.
and others, generating over 20 million automated We are delighted to partner with Hometrack as we take our first steps to implementing AVMs within our property valuations p. a. mortgage offering.
Their expertise in the field of AVMs Rationale: Hometrack helps ZPG to provide the most and property risk analytics is unrivalled in the market useful resources to consumers when finding, moving or and will be invaluable as TSB continues to make banking managing their home and be the most effective partner better for all UK consumers.
for related businesses and gives ZPG the most valuable residential property resource in the UK.
Iain Laing Chief Risk Officer, TSB ExpertAgent is a leading provider of software ExpertAgent has been our groups agency software solutions and provides essential systems for the supplier for around four years now.
They have always day-to-day management of inventory, marketing been receptive to and implemented suggestions to and communications for estate agents and lettings enhance the software and are a pleasure to deal with.
We hope our close working relationship will continue for many years.
Rationale: ExpertAgent helps enhance ZPGs software product portfolio and allows us to continue to enhance Steve Moir the services we offer to UK property professionals, Chairman, The Experts in Property including software and CRM, digital marketing and data insight tools.
Keeping everything in house was important to me.
Ravensworth is the leading provider of integrated print ordering solutions to UK estate and letting I needed to keep things simple, effective and easy for the staff to use whilst maximising what we deliver agents.
Ravensworth has a comprehensive product offering for every stage of the property marketing to our clients: thats where Ravensworth comes in.
They delivered high quality marketing from site branding journey from listing through to post-sale including design services, brochures, canvassing materials, direct to professional looking property details.
mail, email marketing and branch display products.
Rationale: Ravensworth helps ZPG to continue to be Stephen Grace the most effective partner for UK property professionals Managing Director, The JNP Partnership and makes ZPG the largest provider of on-demand print and creative marketing services to UK estate and letting agents.
Money is one of the UKs leading financial services Over the last four years weve built our most comparison websites, allowing consumers to compare successful partnership with Money.
Weve been thousands of deals from over 600 providers across more lucky enough to work directly with decision makers than 60 product categories, including mortgages, loans, since day one and that has given us confidence to credit cards, bank accounts and insurance.
The business drive our own business forward to match the growth has a strong brand position with over 2 million visits per seen by Money.
The clients referred to us from Money month to its website.
Moneys strong financial services are consistently of the highest quality, the working comparison offering is highly complementary to ZPGs relationship is second to none and weve always been market-leading position in home services comparison treated with respect no matter who we work with via its uSwitch brand.
from the principal to the support teams.
Rationale: Money helps broaden ZPGs financial services Matt Tristram Co-Founder and Director of Loans Warehouse offering which has long been a key part of our strategy.
Adding Money to our brand portfolio further enhances our product capabilities and consumer engagement across both our comparison and property platforms.
