OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS DIRECTORS REPORT APPLICATION OF THE UK and independence to review critically and, where appropriate, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE challenge constructively strategies proposed by management.
This ensures the further development of our business, effective The latest revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code the use of our resources and maintenance of our high standards of Code was published by the FRC in April 2016. conduct.
We are pleased to confirm that the Company has complied in full with the Code throughout this financial year.
MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD In order to retain control of key decisions the Board has adopted We detail below how, in practice, the Company has applied the a schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision, Codes principles and complied with its detailed provisions.
including approval of the Groups financial statements, the Groups business strategy, the three-year corporate plan, major THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES capital expenditure, material changes to the Groups Each of our Board Committees has specific written terms management and control structure, material investments or of reference issued by the Board, adopted by the relevant disposals, changes to the Groups principal policies including Committee and published on our website.
All Committee treasury and tax and the appointment or removal of Directors chairmen report on the proceedings of their Committee at and the Company Secretary.
the next meeting of the Board and, where appropriate, make recommendations to the Board.
In addition, minutes of all DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES OF OUR CHAIRMAN AND Committee meetings are circulated to Board members.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE Whilst retaining a close working relationship, our Chairman To ensure Directors are kept up-to-date on developing issues and to enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, and Chief Executive have clearly defined and separate responsibilities divided between running the Board and the our Chairman and Committee chairmen communicate regularly with the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors.
They speak regularly between Board meetings to ensure a full understanding of evolving issues and to facilitate Our NEDs play a key role in corporate accountability and swift decision making.
They are responsible to our shareholders governance through their membership of the Boards Committees.
for the successful delivery of our strategy.
The membership and remit of each Committee are considered on pages 37 to 39 and 53.
The open atmosphere at our Committee meetings enables our NEDs to use their judgement, experience Board composition and roles Chairman Mark Williamson Leads the Board and creates an environment that ensures there are strong links between the Board and our shareholders and management.
Mark met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment and there have been no significant changes to his external commitments subsequent to his appointment.
Chief Executive Alison Cooper Supported by the Executive Directors and the OPEX, has day-to-day management responsibility for the Group, for recommending the Groups strategy to the Board and, once agreed, its implementation.
Alison and the Executive Directors actively promote the Groups values, culture and high standards of conduct and behaviour which underpin our reputation and support the delivery of our sustainable sales growth.
Executive Directors Oliver Tant Support the Chief Executive in devising and implementing our strategy and overseeing the Matthew Phillips operations and development of the entire Group, in addition to specific responsibility for managing their own areas of the business.
Senior Independent Malcolm Wyman Responsible for assisting the Chairman with effective shareholder communication and is Director available to them should they have any concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels or if these channels are not appropriate.
No such concerns were raised during the year.
Malcolm is available to our NEDs should they have any concerns which are not appropriate to raise with the Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
He also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and carries out the Chairmans performance evaluation.
Non-Executive Therese Esperdy Evaluate information provided and challenge constructively managements viewpoints, Directors David Haines assumptions and performance.
They bring to the Board a diverse range of business and Simon Langelier financial expertise which complements and supplements the experiences of the Executive Directors.
Steven Stanbrook Karen Witts www.
com 45 DIRECTORS REPORT continued CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND INDEPENDENCE Through this programme ongoing training is available to NEDs Directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or to meet their individual needs.
We also provide regular briefings could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly to all Directors on matters such as legislation and regulation may conflict, with the Companys interests.
In accordance with changes and corporate governance developments.
Members of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, our Articles of Association our Audit and Remuneration Committees also received briefings allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that from PwC and New Bridge Street respectively.
No specific may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
training needs were identified in 2017.
Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational In addition to the NEDucation programme we held our March 2017 and or transactional conflicts, which are considered at the Board meeting in Rome and our April 2017 meeting in Madrid, following Board meeting and, if appropriate, situational conflicts with sessions focusing on how our strategy is being executed in are authorised.
We do not allow any Director to participate in our Growth and Returns divisions respectively.
At its June 2017 such considerations or to vote regarding their own conflicts.
meeting the Board considered the NGP landscape and reviewed the Groups NGP strategy within that.
The Board has considered and authorised a number of situations, all of which relate to the holding of external directorships and To enable them to discharge their responsibilities, the Board and have been entered in our Conflicts Register.
No actual conflicts its Committees are supplied with full and timely information, have been identified.
The Board considers that these procedures including detailed financial information.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
in September 2017 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations In addition, all Directors have access to the advice of the entered in the Conflicts Register and the Board is satisfied that Company Secretary and, where appropriate, the services of the independence of those Directors who have external board other employees for all governance and regulatory matters.
appointments has not been compromised.
At this meeting, and Independent professional advice is available to Directors, in taking into account the annual Board performance evaluation appropriate circumstances, at the Companys expense.
discussed below, the Board concluded that all our NEDs continue to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate, PERFORMANCE EVALUATION demonstrate commitment to their role, challenge objectively and The Chairman held meetings with the NEDs during the year to question management robustly and at all times have the best consider, amongst other things, the performance of the Executive interests of our shareholders in mind.
We confirm, therefore, that, Directors.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director held separate with the exception of our Chairman who met the independence meetings with individual Board members and the Board as a whole, criteria of the Code on appointment, our NEDs remained both without the Chairman present, to consider the performance of independent throughout the year as defined in the Code.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS To enhance the effectiveness of the Board, and in line with NEDs, including the Chairman, may serve on a number of other Principle 6 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, during the year boards provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite an interview based external review of its performance and of its commitment to discharge effectively their duties.
The Succession Committees was undertaken.
and Nominations Committee reviews the extent of the NEDs other This review considered the overall functioning of the Board and its interests throughout the year.
The Board is satisfied that each of the NEDs commits sufficient time to their duties in relation to the Committees, the balance and range of Directors skills, diversity, succession planning, and how the Board works as a unit.
Each of the NEDs has confirmed they have sufficient time to fulfil their obligations to the Company.
The report was presented to the Board at its September 2017 meeting.
The evaluation showed that the Board and its The Board is supportive of Executive Directors and members of the OPEX accepting non-executive directorships of other companies Committees continue to function and perform effectively and neither significant areas for concern nor any requirement to in order to widen their experience and knowledge for the benefit of the Company.
Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the Board, provide extra training for our Directors were identified.
Executive Directors and members of the OPEX are permitted to Areas identified for further consideration were ensuring the Board accept one external non-executive board appointment and to makes the best use of each of the NEDs diverse skill sets, optimising retain any fees received from such appointment.
the use of the Boards time and a continued focus on succession.
INFORMATION AND TRAINING We addressed the areas raised for consideration in the 2016 evaluation as follows: Following their appointment to the Board, Directors are briefed on the legal and other duties they owe to the Company.
Tailored Area for consideration How we addressed this area induction programmes are arranged which include industryFocus on succession Simon Langelier appointed to the specific training, visits to the Groups businesses and meetings Board and enhanced succession with senior management.
They are also briefed on internal planning across the Group.
controls at both head office and business unit level and provided Increasing the NEDs Risk presentations received by the with information on relevant Company policies and  of Board and the Audit Committee.
changing emerging risks facing related matters.
the Group Through its NEDucation programme the Company is also Ensuring the Board has adequate Agendas planned to ensure Boards committed to the continuing development of its NEDs in order that time to consider appropriately all time focused on matters requiring its they may build on their expertise and develop their understanding matters requiring its attention attention and membership of Committees reviewed.
of the business and the markets in which we operate.
48 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 46 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES We have purchased and maintain appropriate insurance cover in respect of directors and officers liabilities.
The Company has also entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Act.
These indemnities were in force throughout the year and up to the date of this Annual Report.
DIALOGUE WITH OUR INVESTORS GEOGRAPHICAL ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDERS SHAREHOLDER COMPOSITION as at 30 September 2017 as at 30 September 2017 UK 53% International 87% USA 28% Non-institutional 5% Rest of Europe 16% Retail 3% Rest of World 3% Employees 1% Miscellaneous 4% We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent Our next AGM will be held on 7 February 2018, full details of communications which allow all our shareholders to understand which are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on our how we see our prospects and the market environments in website and, where applicable, posted with this Report.
ensure our Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM are made available at least 20 working days prior to the meeting We maintain an active engagement with our key financial to allow shareholders time to consider them fully before audiences, including institutional shareholders, debt submitting their proxy votes.
stakeholders and sell-side analysts as well as potential shareholders.
During the year we made regular presentations to, At the AGM our Chairman and Chief Executive give presentations and had meetings with, institutional investors from the UK, on our performance and current business activities.
Directors Europe, USA and Asia to communicate progress towards make themselves available to meet shareholders after the achieving our sales growth strategy and to answer questions.
conclusion of the formal business of the meeting.
Throughout the year our senior management team presented at To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings industry conferences organised by investor bodies and separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all investment banks for their institutional investor bases.
Our resolutions are put to a poll.
The number of proxy votes for, Investor Relations and management team managed the against and abstentions for each resolution are provided.
Votes interaction with these audiences and provided additional regular received at the AGM are added to the proxy votes and the final presentations during the year.
results published through a Regulatory Information Service, on We hosted two webinars during the year for investors and our website and via OTCQX.
The first in March 2017 focused on our Strategy, At our 2017 AGM we received votes representing approximately including the four strategic pillars: strengthening our brand 79 per cent of our issued share capital excluding shares held in portfolio: prioritising investment across our footprint while treasury at the date of the meeting.
driving the benefits from cost optimisation and our focus on capital discipline.
It also set out our Market Repeatable Model to deliver market share gains in our priority markets.
In June 2017, in our second webinar we provided a more detailed review of how we are strengthening our portfolio to deliver quality revenue growth and cost efficiencies through brand migrations and radical SKU rationalisation as well as prioritised brand investment.
Both webinars were well attended by investors and the materials have been made available on our website.
Looking ahead, we plan to continue with this format to support increased investor understanding of our business and strategy.
The Chairman held meetings with various shareholders over the course of the year.
In addition, NEDs, including our Senior Independent Director, were available throughout the year to meet with major shareholders if requested and are kept up-to-date with investor opinion.
com 47 DIRECTORS REPORT continued OTHER INFORMATION INTRODUCTION FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS One of the Boards primary responsibilities is to ensure We include a review of our operational and financial performance, the Company is run in the best long-term interests of its current position and future developments in our Strategic Report.
We believe this can The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the only be achieved if the activities of the Group are supported by financial year was 1,409 million, as shown in our Consolidated appropriate governance processes applied across the Group.
Note 3 to the financial statements gives an These processes are illustrated below and in the individual analysis of revenue and operating profit.
An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated Balance In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 the Act the Sheet and the related notes to the financial statements.
following items have been included in other sections of this We pay quarterly dividends.
The first and second dividends for Annual Report: financial year 2017 were paid on 30 June 2017 and 29 September a fair review of the business, as required by the Act, is included 2017 respectively.
The third dividend will be paid on 29 December in the Strategic Report.
The information in our Governance 2017 and, subject to AGM approval, the final dividend will be paid Report is included in this Directors Report by reference: on 29 March 2018 to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 23 February 2018.
The future developments in the business are included in the Chief associated ex-dividend date will be 22 February 2018.
Executives Review: The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows: information relating to our people is included in the million 2017 2016 Rewarding Workplace section: Ordinary Shares our principal risks are detailed on pages 24 to 28: and Interim paid June 2017, the Directors of the Company are listed on pages 34 and 35.
25.85p per share 247 225 Interim paid September 2017, 25.85p per share 247 225 SHARE CAPITAL Proposed interim December 2017, Details of our share capital are shown in note 24 to the financial 59.51p per share 569 516 statements.
All shares other than those held in treasury are freely Proposed final March 2018, transferable and rank pari passu for voting and dividend rights.
59.51p per share 569 516 At our AGM on 1 February 2017 shareholder authority for the Total ordinary dividends, 170.72p per share 2016: 155.2p 1,632 1,482 buyback of up to 95,870,000 shares was obtained.
As at 30 September 2017 we held 77,289,137 shares in treasury, RELATIONS WITH OTHER STAKEHOLDERS which represented 7.49 per cent of issued share capital and had RESPONSIBLITIES TO A BROAD STAKEHOLDER GROUP an aggregate nominal value of 7,728,914.
As highlighted in the Corporate Responsibility section, our We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury values and culture emphasise the need to do things in the right shares reserve within our profit and loss account reserve and way.
This includes considering the Groups responsibilities to a they represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
As a responsible and sustainable company this has been part of our continued and embedded At 30 September 2017 we had been notified of the following interests approach for a number of years.
in 3 per cent or more of our shares and there have been no changes to this information up to the date of this Annual Report.
Further details are provided on our website within our Number of Percentage Responsibility section and captured in a downloadable pdf ordinary shares of issued entitled Responding to our Stakeholders.
millions share capital 1 BlackRock Inc. 53 5.59 http: www.
com content dam imperial- 1 brands corporate responsibility approach-andCapital Group Companies Inc. 48 5.00 performance Responding to our Stakeholders 2016 update.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS We have not received notification that any other person holds As part of our responsible approach and commitment to reinvesting 3 per cent or more of our shares.
in society, we continued to support a number of communities in which we operate by allocating a well-considered central budget.
The share interests of the Directors, their families and any In addition to our central budget a number of entities donate to connected persons are shown on page 67.
Other than as charitable and community endeavours from local budgets.
We disclosed on page 59, there are no agreements between the further support community activities through in-kind activities Company and its Directors or employees providing for including management time, volunteering and gifts in-kind.
In 2017 compensation for loss of office or employment due to a takeover.
we dissolved our Altadis Foundation, deciding to support a number Information concerning employees and their remuneration is of select charitable projects directly and to make associated given in note 6 to the financial statements and in the Directors overhead savings with the dissolution.
Globally we continued our Remuneration Report.
Group-wide volunteering initiative, which in its third year has supported some 86 charitable projects in 38 countries.
More information on our approach to supporting community livelihoods can be found on our website www.
50 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 48 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS All charitable donations and partnership investments are subject insurance companies each make available to Imperial Tobacco to the requirements of our Code of Conduct.
Limited a surety bond, in each case issued on a standalone basis but in aggregate forming an amount of 600 million, until No political donations were made to EU political parties, January 2023: and organisations or candidates 2016: Nil.
This approach is aligned with our Group Policy and Code of Conduct.
a credit facility agreement dated June 2015 in which Bank of America Merrill Lynch Limited makes available to Imperial PENSION FUND Brands Finance PLC and Imperial Brands Enterprise Finance Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is Limited a committed credit facility of $300 million for a period not controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board of up to three years.
of which consists of five directors nominated by the Company, Imperial Brands Finance PLC the Issuer has issued bonds under one director nominated by employee members and two a Euro Medium Term Notes EMTN Debt Issuance Programme nominated by current and deferred pensioners.
This trustee as noted below.
The Company acts as guarantor.
company looks after the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group and are managed by The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control independent fund managers.
The pension fund assets can provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to only be used in accordance with the funds rules and for no any earlier exercise by the Issuer, have the option to require the other purpose.
Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note at its nominal value if: a any person, or persons acting in Turn to page 65 concert or on behalf of any such person s, becomes interested Further details are contained in our Remuneration Report.
in: i more than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share capital of the Company: or ii such number of shares in the capital of the Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION voting rights normally exercisable at a general meeting of the The Companys Articles of Association do not contain any Company: and b as a result of the change of control, there is entrenchment provisions and, therefore, may be altered or added either: i a reduction to a non-investment grade rating or to or completely new articles may be adopted by special withdrawal of the investment grade rating of the notes which is resolution subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. not raised again, reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during the change of control period specified in the SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS THAT TAKE EFFECT, ALTER OR final terms: or ii to the extent that the notes are not rated at the TERMINATE ON CHANGE OF CONTROL time of the change of control, the Issuer fails to obtain an The agreements summarised below are those which we consider investment grade credit rating of the notes within the change of to be significant to the Group as a whole and which contain control period as a result of the change of control.
provisions giving the other party or parties a specific right to terminate them if we are subject to a change of control following The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: a takeover bid.
15 September 2008 600 million 8.125 per cent guaranteed The Group has nine credit facility agreements that provide that, notes due 2024: unless the lenders as defined within each agreement otherwise 17 February 2009 1,000 million 9 per cent guaranteed notes agree, if any person or group of associated persons and or any due 2022: connected persons acquires the right to exercise more than 50 per cent of the votes exercisable at a general meeting of the 24 June 2009 500 million 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes due Company, the respective borrowers as defined within each 2019: agreement must repay any outstanding utilisation owed by 5 July 2011 850 million 4.5 per cent guaranteed notes due 2018: them under the respective facility agreement and the total commitments under that facility agreement will 26 September 2011 500 million 5.5 per cent guaranteed notes be cancelled.
due 2026: The nine credit agreements are: 1 December 2011 750 million 5 per cent guaranteed notes due 2019: a credit facilities agreement dated July 2014 under which certain banks and or financial institutions make available to 28 February 2014 1,000 million 2.25 per cent guaranteed notes Imperial Brands Finance PLC and Imperial Brands Enterprise due 2021: Finance Limited: a committed acquisition credit facilities 28 February 2014 650 million 3.375 per cent guaranteed notes originally across three tranches of $4,100 million, $1,500 due 2026: million and $1,500 million, for a maximum period of up to three years, four years and six years respectively: b committed 28 February 2014 500 million 4.875 per cent guaranteed notes credit facilities originally of 1,000 million for a period of up to due 2032: three years: and c committed credit facilities in two tranches 27 January 2017 500 million 0.5 per cent guaranteed notes of 2,835 million and 500 million for a period of up to five due 2021: and years.
The Group has subsequently either repaid, cancelled or extended certain of these facilities, such that as at 30 27 January 2017 500 million 1.375 per cent guaranteed notes September 2017 the following remained outstanding: due 2025. committed credit facilities of 2,835 million until July 2021 Imperial Brands Finance PLC has also issued bonds in the United and 500 million until July 2021: States of America under the provisions of Section 144a and seven deeds of counter-indemnity each dated July 2017 made Regulation S respectively of the US Securities Act 1933.
The on substantially the same terms under which certain Company acts as guarantor.
com 49 DIRECTORS REPORT continued The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control indemnity contained in the Licence Agreement, pursuant to provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to which SEITA is responsible for any product liability to third any earlier exercise by the Issuer, have the option to require the parties.
The claim is Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note at currently in the evidence production period, during which all 101 per cent of its nominal value if: a i any person as such expert and witness evidence will be produced.
term is used in the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the RUSSIA Exchange Act becomes the beneficial owner of more than In August 2016, a claim was filed in the Russian Court against 50 per cent of the Companys voting stock: or ii there is a 18 tobacco companies including JSC Imperial Tobacco Yaroslavl transfer other than by merger, consolidation, amalgamation or by an individual claiming RUB 523,480,297 and other amounts other combination of all or substantially all of the Companys related to the profits of the defendants.
Imperial was notified assets and those of its subsidiaries to any person as such term is of the claim by the Russian Court in February 2017.
The claim used in the Exchange Act : or iii a majority of the members of was dismissed in full at a hearing in April 2017.
The claimant the Companys Board of Directors is not continuing in such appealed the decision.
The appeal was heard on 18 July 2017 by capacity: and b as a result of the change of control, there is a Moscow Courts Judicial Panel for Civil Cases.
The appeal was reduction to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the dismissed in full and the claimant has until 18 January 2018 to investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, appeal the decision.
reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during the change of control period specified in the final terms.
THE NETHERLANDS Reports in the public media indicate that a complaint has been The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: lodged with the Public Prosecutor in the Netherlands directed 11 February 2013 $1,250 million 2.05 per cent guaranteed notes at the four major tobacco manufacturers, including Imperial due 2018: Tobacco Benelux.
Neither Imperial Tobacco Benelux nor any of its employees has been charged by the Public Prosecutor in the 11 February 2013 $1,000 million 3.5 per cent guaranteed notes Netherlands, but we are monitoring developments.
due 2023: POLAND 21 July 2015 $500 million 2.05 per cent guaranteed notes On 9 October 2017, Imperial Tobacco Polska SA Imperial Polska due 2018: received notice that a claim has been filed against it in the 21 July 2015 $1,250 million 2.95 per cent guaranteed notes Regional Court in Pozna by an individual claiming PLN due 2020: 1,000,000 by way of compensation for alleged smoking related health effects.
Imperial Polska has not yet filed a Statement of 21 July 2015 $1,250 million 3.75 per cent guaranteed notes Defence but it intends to deny liability.
due 2022: and USA 21 July 2015 $1,500 million 4.25 per cent guaranteed notes A number of smoking and health-related claims have been due 2025. brought against ITG Brands in the state courts of Massachusetts.
ITG Brands has the benefit of an indemnity from another UPDATE ON TOBACCO-RELATED LITIGATION manufacturer in respect of each of these claims.
As a result, ITALY ITG Brands either has been dismissed, or is expected to be We are currently facing two claims in Italy.
The first is against dismissed, without prejudice from each of the claims.
Logista, which is the subject of a challenge on grounds of jurisdiction and the admission of evidence.
This challenge To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of was heard in 2006 but judgment is still awaited.
any claimant in any tobacco-related litigation against Imperial Brands or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Brands has been The second claim has been brought in the Court of Messina advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the against Imperial Tobacco Italia and Reemtsma by two legal proceedings set out above.
We will continue vigorously individuals claiming 800,000 in total.
to contest all such litigation against us.
The parties have filed their pleadings.
The next step in the proceedings is a hearing at which the Judge will hear the UPDATE ON E-VAPOUR-RELATED LITIGATION parties arguments regarding their requests for oral and We are currently defending one e-vapour-related claim in the expert evidence.
This is a consolidation of two purported class actions Diek and Whitney seeking to recover unquantified damages, MOROCCO including punitive damages.
The parties have reached a In June 2015, a claim was filed in the Casablanca Court by the framework for settlement of the claims which will not involve heirs of a deceased individual against our Moroccan subsidiary, payment of any monies to plaintiffs or any class, subject to court Socit Marocaine des Tabacs SMT.
The total amount of approval.
The parties are discussing plaintiffs counsels claims compensation sought was not specified.
On 9 February 2016, for legal fees, which, if not agreed, will be determined by the the Casablanca Court found in favour of SMT and dismissed the court through a contested hearing.
A claim that had been brought by the Center for Environmental ARGENTINA Health alleging violations of the California Safe Drinking Our subsidiary, Socit Nationale dExploitation Industrielle des and Toxic Enforcement Act has been settled and the action Tabacs et Allumettes SAS SEITA, has been notified of a claim is concluded.
filed in the Court of Buenos Aires against Nobleza Piccardo by an individual smoker.
Nobleza Piccardo has denied liability.
Nobleza Piccardo manufactures and distributes two brands of cigarettes owned by SEITA in Argentina under the terms of a Licence Agreement.
Nobleza Piccardo has sought to invoke an 52 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 50 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS OTHER INFORMATION LISTING RULES make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found on the pages set out below: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Section Information Page unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited Not applicable The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting financial information records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 4 Details of long-term 52, 57, 58, 64, 65, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time incentive schemes 67, and 68 the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director 56, 57, 63, 69, Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, and 70 as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable IAS Regulation.
8 Non pre-emptive issue by major Not applicable subsidiary undertakings The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 9 Listed subsidiary Not applicable the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
10 Contracts of significance 49 and 50 11 Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity shareholder of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends See below governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends See below statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and In respect of LR 9.8.
4R 12 and 13 the trustee of the Imperial provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and Group and Companys position and performance, business model the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust and strategy.
agrees to waive dividends payable on the Groups shares it holds for satisfying awards under various Imperial Brands PLC share Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed plans.
In accordance with Section 726 of the Act no dividends on pages 34 and 35, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: can be paid to the Company in respect of the shares it holds the Group and Company financial statements, which have in treasury.
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and United Kingdom Accounting Standards respectively give STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, and profit of the Group and Company: and the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair company financial statements in accordance with applicable law review of the development and performance of the business and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare and the position of the Group and Company, together with financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements it faces.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved company financial statements in accordance with United and signed by order of the Board.
Kingdom GAAP United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and Applicable Law.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the parent company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the JOHN DOWNING Directors are required to: 7 November 2017 select suitable accounting policies and then apply Imperial Brands PLC them consistently: Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: www.
