Our Business Model A business model designed for growth Resources and relationships How our clients access our services We rely on our resources and relationships in order to run our business.
We actively engage with our stakeholders throughout our business cycle.
Brewin Portfolio Service Risk rated model portfolios with no advice Employees Our strength is in our 1,614 people, both client-facing colleagues and those who provide support to them.
We have a strong commitment to development and we use initiatives such as the employee engagement survey to understand what is working well and what can be improved.
Private Individuals Clients We help to protect and grow wealth for ourclients and maintaining close personal relationships with Wealth & Investment them is key toourbusiness.
Charities Management & Direct Corporates Financial Planning Full advice either from a Investors Brewin Dolphin adviser or an intermediary We engage with our shareholders and potential investors at events such as the Companys AGM Caters for all Indirect and roadshows.
clients needs Full suite of solutions Suppliers Intermediaries We actively engage with our suppliers at different stages of our business model, which ensures commitment and transparency between allparties.
Regulators We ensure a regular dialogue with regulatory bodies and can therefore adapt to the changing regulatory landscape and identify where these changes can Managed Portfolio Service provide opportunities forthebusiness.
Actively managed risk rated model portfolios for clients who receive advice from an intermediary For more information see page 9 Brewin Dolphin 10 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information How we meet our How our business creates How this value is clients needs value for our stakeholders reinvested in the We seek to employ and develop The creation of value for our clients business to drive the best people to help our is inextricably linked to our business growth clients manage the financial interests.
The value we complexities of life and support creategenerates financial intermediaries.
additionalcapacity for us to invest further Brewin Dolphin advice For Brewin Dolphin in our business.
Ourpeople take time toestablish strongclient We earn income from services basedon the amount of relationships based on a full understanding of funds wemanage, fees charged for financial planning individual circumstances.
This enables us to orthe investment business we transact on behalf of build a tailored financial solution.
This may include our integrated wealth Our personalised approach to client service combined management service, just financial planning or with the expertise of ourprofessionally qualified and just our investment solutions, depending on experienced staff drives the value ofour services and client needs and how theyaccess ourservices.
helps us earn the trust of clients and creates loyal client relationships.
This creates value through brand enhancement and the generation ofnew leads via referrals.
Investment solutions We are an independently owned business Our client relationships are a key source of long-term value which means we can look across a wide range for the Group.
of financial products to choose the best and most appropriate options fromthe For Clients market place.
Clients with advice Our direct portfolios and our model portfolio We help clients achieve their long-term goals by managing services are underpinned by our in-house their wealth for key stages in their life.
Every client is research as well asour Group-wide asset different so we individually assess their needs and develop allocation framework.
We guide them through todays complex financial services environment, helping them nurture their wealth inthe most tax-efficient manner we can.
We deliver the right Clients without advice services through our Our Brewin Portfolio Servicegives clients a low-cost alternative to the full wealth management service whilst eight key enablers enablingthem to still benefit from the research and An evolving proposition based on trust investment expertise of Brewin Dolphin.
Investing in talent Our business Intermediaries Using technology to support relationships model is Both our discretionary investment management service and managed portfolio service allowintermediaries to Client-focused leadership underpinned by: effectively outsource the investment management of their We are always there for our clients clients portfolios whilst retaining the full client relationship.
Our strategy p 22 Building long-term relationships Our national business development team and network Risk management ofoffices mean we can support advisers and their clients A progressive business with a framework p 26 face-to-face across the UK.
distinctive culture Our high standards A focused strategy for growth of corporate For more information see pages 2-5 governance p 44 Brewin Dolphin 11 www.
