Our Strategy Delivering our strategy for growth Our vision is to become the UKs leading provider of personalised wealth and investment management services, delivering a compelling client proposition, rewarding careers and sustainable shareholder returns.
1 Objective Revenue growth Grow the business in both absolute and market share terms, by increasing the number of clients and the proportion of their wealth that we manage.
What we said we would do 2017 progress Future focus Further new services targeting a range Net new discretionary funds flow of Develop an advice-led proposition of discrete segments, based on client 8%, with approximately 90% from for clients with sophisticated and and intermediary research.
Continued investment in client-facing Achieved 3.4 billion gross fund Continued development of new hires.
inflows into our core business taking intermediary relationships.
our total funds to more than Actively develop our already strong Further segmentation of clients to 40 billion.
increase relevance and increase Continued to hire the best available fundsflow.
Further training in business advisory and financial planning development capabilities for our people.
Continued evolution of focused professionals.
Continued investment in technology Invested further in training to help to improve accessibility for clients.
Continued investment in our Financial advisers get to the root of our Planning Academy.
Rollout of WealthPilot, our low-cost Approved the development of an advice platform.
advice-led proposition designed around the needs of clients with sophisticated and complex needs.
Launched pioneering Financial Planning Academy apprenticeship scheme.
Broadened dialogue with intermediaries, and introduced services based on their stated requirements.
Continued investment in technology to improve client communications and service delivery.
Brewin Dolphin 22 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Performance against strategy is a factor in remuneration decision making, see page 59 For measurement of progress see our KPIs on page 24 For discussion on priorities and progress see the Chief Executives Review on page 16 and for an evaluation of our principal risks see page 26 2 Objective Improved efficiency Maintain an efficient and scalable operating model enabling investment, developing greater productivity and sustaining competitive pricing.
What we said we would do 2017 progress Future focus Invest in technology and process Embedded new order management Increase efficiency and reduce costs improvement to increase efficiency system, maximising the time advisers through continued investment in and reduce costs.
Continued to improve collaboration and knowledge-sharing across offices.
Embedded and further enhanced internal management systems for HR and financial reporting and analysis.
Used our scale to enhance our unit purchasing power when negotiating with institutional funds.
3 Objective Capital sufficiency Maintain sufficient capital to maximise opportunities and cover risks.
What we said we would do 2017 progress Future focus Continue to maintain capital at a level Maintained sufficient capital to enable From a position of strength, continue that enables investment in emerging investment opportunities, reduce risk to maintain capital at a level that opportunities from a position of and provide comfort during periods of enables investment in emerging strength.
Acquired DLAM, gaining experienced wealth and investment managers and strong client relationships, while maintaining capital sufficiency.
4 Objective Dividend growth Grow our dividend in line with earnings.
What we said we would do 2017 progress Future focus Continue policy of target payment of Dividend payout ratio of 77% of Maintain policy of target payment of 60% to 80% of adjusted diluted EPS adjusted diluted EPS.
60% to 80% of adjusted diluted EPS to ensure we grow our dividend in line to ensure our dividend grows in line with earnings.
