Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our Services The table below outlines the servicesprovided by the Group.
Further information on these and our clients can be found in the Business Model overleaf.
Available to Private Direct private individuals via individuals intermediaries Corporates Charities Core services Wealth Management Integrated approach to protecting and growing wealth that combines both Financial Planning and Investment Management.
Investment Management Designed for clients who want to benefit from a personal focus on their investment portfolio but do not require financial planning.
Financial Planning This service helps address our clients wider financial planning needs including advice on investment, protection or retirement requirements.
Managed Portfolio Service MPS This service is provided for financial advisers who offer a suite of risk rated model portfolios designed for their clients who do not require, or for whom it is not cost effective to have, a personalised solution.
Brewin Portfolio Service BPS A cost effective service for clients with smaller sums to invest and who do not need advice.
It combines the investment expertise of Brewin Dolphin with the freedom for individuals who are happy making their own risk decisions and investment choices.
It gives access to six risk rated portfolioswhich areprimarily invested in passive funds.
Execution Only Custody, trade execution and settlement servicesfor clients who have no need for advice and prefer to make their own investment decisions.
This service is limited and we no longer provide it on a standalone basis to new clients.
Core funds 22.5bn 10.4bn 1.6bn 2.9bn Non-core services Advisory The service provided is either Advisory Managed, where we provide advice on both the structure of theportfolioand the individual investments within it, or Dealing with Advice where advice is provided ona transactional basis only.
We no longer offer this service for new clients, other than on an exceptionalbasis.
Discretionary, BPS and execution only funds.
