Our Investment Proposition Why invest in Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC?
As a leading UK wealth manager, we are invested for the future of our stakeholders.
We exist to protect and grow our clients wealth.
Brewin Dolphin is The future direction of Our brand, scale and We are making good recognised and well our market place is investment in our people progress with our known for providing positive enable us to stand out strategy and investing trusted advice and for the future As the role of the state We are one of the largest investment expertise diminishes, people need wealth management We have significantly increasingly to take companies.
We attract, strengthened our operations During our long history as a responsibility for their financial develop and retain the best and improved our operational respected provider of affairs such as savings, talent to strengthen existing efficiency in recent years.
Now high-quality financial services investments, retirement relationships, win new clients we are progressing with our to clients, we have earned a planning and long-term care.
and help us build an even strategy for growth, constantly reputation for integrity and Demand for financial advisory stronger organisation.
investing to increase the trustworthiness that stands us services and investment number of clients we serve in good stead for the future.
For more information management is growing as a and the proportion of their see page 38 result, creating good longwealth that we manage.
term prospects for continued growth.
For more information see page 16 For more information see page 12 Brewin Dolphin 1 www.
co. uk Invested for the future These eight enablers ensure we can deliver the services our clients need and support our growth strategy.
Investing in talent We invest in attracting, developing and retaining the best talent.
In doing so, we enable our employees to be as good as they possibly can be, providing high-quality advice and An evolving consistently doing more for clients.
By ensuring our people are highly engaged we can rely on their commitment and expertise proposition for the long-term.
based on trust Clients needs and ambitions evolve over time, influenced by changing circumstances and shifting economic trends.
We are there to track every change, drawing on our flexible business model, market-leading research and innovative culture to ensure our advice is constantly relevant and tailored to their needs.
That is how we earn and preserve our clients trust.
2 Brewin Dolphin Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Using technology Client-focused to support leadership We are driving our strategy for growth by placing client needs at the forefront of our business relationships thinking.
That is why our Executive Committee We are a people business that is enabled by includes client-facing specialists who represent technology.
Our investments in technology help our services financial planning, advice and us to spend more time with clients and meet investment management.
This is how we ensure growing demand for wealth and investment that client needs are an important part of strategic management services.
communication channels, apps and portals, we are constantly improving efficiency and expanding contact options.
co. uk Were always there for our clients We are growing our presence in our market place in an increasingly competitive environment.
Our availability, via technology and our network of 29 offices across the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands and the Republic of Ireland, helps us to grow our client base and the share of their wealth that we manage.
4 Brewin Dolphin Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information A progressive business with a distinctive Building longculture Our values Genuine, Expert and Ambitious help term relationships us develop and sustain client relationships.
As we advance and innovate, our culture and values Strengthening existing client relationships and winning continue to guide us in growing and protecting new ones that last are key to sustainable long-term our clients wealth, helping them to achieve value for both clients and shareholders.
mutually rewarding relationships and understanding every clients lifetime goals and ambitions we can deliver individually tailored, expert planning and advice that precisely meets their needs.
A focused strategy for growth We are delivering on our strategy to grow our core revenues by expanding the proportion of wealth we manage for increasing numbers of clients.
We continue to invest for the future in our people, services, technology, infrastructure, culture and above all our client relationships.
