Our strategy in action B UILDING A MORE BALANCED BUSINESS Last year we completed a full estate review of our nearly 1,700 managed predominantly freehold sites and we now have a comprehensive plan for each of our businesses to ensure we have the right brand in the right location.
Our aim is to invest in each of our sites every 6-7 years to ensure we upgrade and maintain the look and feel in an ever more competitive market.
We therefore completed 252 projects in the year with 32 Miller & Carter new sites as well as 34 Harvester remodels bringing a fresh, contemporary design to the brand.
Inevitably the plan discovered that certain sites did not offer long-term growth potential.
We therefore sold 79 sites in the year with limited long-term growth potential.
24 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 25 Our strategy in action continued IN STILLING A M ORE C OMMERCIAL C ULTURE Engaged people with the right skills to delight guests and deliver long-term growth are essential to our strategy.
Last year we introduced four new operating divisions containing similar customer types and brands.
These have greatly improved our guest focus.
This, coupled with the workstreams we put in place to support our strategy, have contributed to the growth in like-for-like sales and market outperformance during the year.
This improvement is evidenced by net promoter score growing by almost 8 percentage points in the year.
We are continuing our focus on the delivery of efficiencies.
This focus will remain given the continuing significant external cost pressures on the business.
26 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 D RIVING AN INNOVATION AGENDA We maintained our focus on the delivery of our digital strategy over the last year.
For example, significant progress has been made on our mobile order at table facility, enabling guests to order food and drinks from their devices.
Our social media consolidation tool, reputation.
com, introduced last year has started to benefit our General Managers and guests with 83% of online comments now being responded to, an improvement of 24 percentage points versus last year.
We have also increased the number of sites with food delivery capability with 61 now using Deliveroo, whilst Harvester and Toby Carvery are trialling JustEat as well as offering click and collect.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 27
