Our business model CREATING VALUE F OR OUR S TAKEHOLDERS Value proposition In the long term, we aim to maximise the We create value for our various stakeholders through the delivery opportunity from these guest experiences of eating and drinking experiences to our guests.
Every year we serve more than 130 million meals and 400 million drinks across our brands, through the use of our largely freeholdproviding us with the opportunity to engage with guests on a daily basis.
backed estate, the teams of people working With our focus on guest experience, we currently collect more than within the Company, and the high-quality 46,000 individual pieces of feedback per month providing us with insight to develop our brands and offers across the business, ensuring that we practices which we adopt.
provide the range of experiences our guests are looking for.
In the long term, we aim to maximise the opportunity from these guest experiences through the use of our largely freehold-backed estate, the teams of people working within the Company, and the high-quality practices which we adopt.
Estate In total we trade from more than 1,750 pubs and restaurants, of which over 80% are owned under a freehold or long-leasehold.
The estate is predominantly UK-based, and is nationwide although most heavily concentrated in London and the South East, the West Midlands and the North West.
This array of high-quality locations, matched with our diverse brand portfolio, enables us to match the right concept to the right trading asset, as well as offering a strong pipeline for future conversions as growth concepts are identified.
Our property has a value of 4.4bn as at the end of FY 2017, offering a stable and long-term opportunity for value creation.
People We have 46,000 employees across our pubs and restaurants and in our Retail Support Centre, who are critical to delivering outstanding experiences to our guests.
Being in the hospitality sector our people are key to delivery and evolution of our business and also provide us with a key point of differentiation from our competitors.
Our people include those with strong business and sector experience, as well as new and enthusiastic young talent who we look to develop through our apprenticeship programme.
Adopting a structured approach to recruitment, driving high levels of engagement with our existing teams and offering development and learning opportunities are key elements of our people strategy.
Practices Practices refer to the way in which we operate to best generate value throughout the business.
This encompasses our use of scale for purchasing and operational efficiency: sharing of ideas between similar brands and concepts within the portfolio: adherence to the highest operational standards: and an increasing use of technology to enhance guest experiences.
We continuously strive to move forward in all of these areas in order to maximise the value of the Company.
20 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 ESTATE PEOPLE Our estate comprises We have 46,000 employees more than 1,750 pubs across our pubs and and restaurants, of which restaurants and in our Retail over 80% are freehold Support Centre, who are or long-leasehold.
critical to delivering outstanding experiences to our guests.
Building a balanced business See page 24 GUESTS Instilling a commercial culture See page 26 BRANDS PRACTICES Practices refer to the way in which we operate in the best way to generate value throughout the business.
Driving an innovative agenda See page 27 CREATING VALUE OUR BUSINESS MODEL CREATES SUSTAINABLE VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS.
FOR SHAREHOLDERS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR SUPPLIERS FOR EMPLOYEES Total shareholder return Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility See page 84 See pages 30 to 35 See pages 30 to 35 See pages 30 to 35 Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 21
