Board of Directors Creating sustainable value for the benefit of our shareholders Chairman Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors N R E D E D N A RK Simon Miller David Nicol, CA, Chartered FCSI Andrew Westenberger, FCA Kath Cates Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Senior Independent Director Simon Miller was appointed David Nicol joined the Board Andrew Westenberger joined Kath Cates was appointed Chairman in March 2013. as a Non-Executive Director in the Board in January 2013. as a Non-Executive Director He joined the Board in 2005 March 2012 and was He was group finance director on 18 December 2014 and became Deputy subsequently appointed Chief of Evolution Group PLC from and became Chair of the Chairman and Senior Executive in March 2013.
2009 until August 2011 and a Risk Committee on Independent Director in 2012.
He trained and qualified in director of its principal 1 September 2015.
At the He read law at Cambridge 1980 as a chartered subsidiary, Williams fide Broe February 2017 AGM, she was and was called to the Bar.
accountant with EY and spent Limited.
Andrew qualified as a appointed as the Senior He subsequently worked for two years working for KPMG chartered accountant with Independent Director.
Kath has Lazard Brothers and County in Hong Kong.
From over 20 years experience in NatWest.
He is also chairman Morgan Stanley in 1984, 2000 to 2008, he held various international financial services, of Blackrock North American where he worked for 26 years senior finance roles in London latterly as chief operating Income Trust PLC and in a number of operations and and New York with Barclays officer, wholesale banking for JPMorgan Global Convertibles finance roles.
He is a non-executive Standard Chartered Bank.
She Income Fund and a nondirector and CAO of Morgan director of the Chartered is currently a non-executive executive director of STV.
Stanley International PLC from Institute of Securities and director and chair of the risk 2004 to 2010.
David was a Investments and was committee for RSA Insurance non-executive director of appointed as a non-executive Group plc and a non-executive Euroclear plc from 1998 to director of Schroder UK director of Threadneedle 2010 and was on the board Growth Fund plc in May 2017.
of the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investments until September 2015.
He is on the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and is chairman of the appointment committee of the Hermes Property Unit Trust.
Brewin Dolphin 42 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information RK R N A R N A RK R Key to our committees A Member of the Audit Committee N Member of the Nomination Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee RK Member of the Risk Committee Paul Wilson Caroline Taylor Ian Dewar, FCA D Member of the Disclosure Committee Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director E Member of the Paul Wilson was appointed as Caroline Taylor was appointed Ian Dewar was appointed as a Executive Committee a Non-Executive Director in as a Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in Denotes Committee Chairman December 2013.
Paul has May 2014 and is the NonNovember 2013.
He retired over 25 years experience of Executive Board member from KPMG in 2012 after a the financial services industry.
responsible for Corporate 32-year career, including 19 Until February 2014, he was Responsibility within Brewin years as a partner.
During that an advisory partner at Bain & Dolphin.
Caroline has over 25 time, he performed a wide Company, previously being years experience in the variety of roles, both within responsible for their financial financial services sector with a KPMG and as a non-executive services practice.
Paul is the strong background in trustee in the charity sector.
senior independent director of investment management and An accountant by training, his XL Catlin UK and chair of their in-depth knowledge of all experience has been in audit, risk and reserving committee.
aspects of investment advisory, client relationship and He is also CEO of the World management operations, practice management roles.
Platinum Investment Council compliance and legal issues.
He has spent the last 28 years and is a group board Caroline was a director of working in the financial services independent director at Goldman Sachs Asset sector.
Ian is a non-executive Unigestion Holding SA, based Management International director of Manchester Building in Geneva.
Paul is chairman of from 2005 to 2012 and is Society, Arbuthnot Banking Action Against Hunger UK.
currently a non-executive Group PLC and The He holds an MBA from director of Ecclesiastical Aldenham Foundation.
Length of tenure of Directors Balance of Executive and Balance of male and female at 30 September 2017 Non-Executive Directors at Directors at 30 September 2017 30 September 2017 1 1 1 2 Chairman 0-3 years Executive 3-6 years Male Independent Over 6 years 4 Female Non-Executive 2 5 5 Brewin Dolphin 43 www.
