Our Market Challenges and opportunities Societal change How people save and invest to meet their needs is directly affected by societal influences, from changing Government policy to evolving consumer preferences.
As the Governments long-term personal As the UK population ages, many Consumer demands are changing too, care policies change and employers people approaching retirement have as individuals increasingly seek increasingly withdraw from offering final benefited from a positive property outcome-oriented solutions that help salary pension schemes, people are market over recent decades and them fulfil their personal ambitions.
becoming more self-reliant in planning generous pension provision.
This means As a result, our emphasis is shifting to and securing their long-term futures.
that many have generated substantial embrace a range of priorities besides This has created the opportunity for personal and familial wealth that they investment performance alone.
The fully Brewin Dolphin to help growing now wish to protect and grow.
By bespoke, advice-led wealth numbers of individuals fulfil their basing our client relationships on management service we offer is ambitions via our advice-led, in-depth knowledge and understanding enabling us to take advantage of this relationship-based and needs-driven of individual client goals, we can design trend.
Critically, our continued focus on proposition.
Our focus on long-term tailored solutions that fulfil their goals addressing individual client needs relationships is enabling us to meet our and needs.
ensures that our offering remains clients life-time needs.
A dynamic economic environment The global investment environment and competitive landscape cannot be separated from economic forces, which in turn are influenced by world events.
In the UK in particular, a decade of low Geopolitical uncertainties across the Closer to home, the UK wealth interest rates has created challenges for world are also highly influential, with management industry is fragmented and people seeking low-risk means of shifting political relationships and other constantly changing, as new entrants maintaining and growing their capital.
uncertainties having the potential to arrive, others depart and consolidation Even slight rises, such as the one disrupt the global investment continues.
Within this environment, announced on 2 November 2017 by the environment.
Heightened risk and Brewin Dolphins trusted brand and Bank of England, are unlikely to make a volatility can have negative short-term established reputation for delivering substantial positive difference in the impacts on business and stock market sound advice and consistent short term.
At Brewin Dolphin, we performance enable us to sustain numbers of people are seeking advice plan for the long-term.
By doing so, long-term client relationships.
During on how to grow their investments we seek to ensure that the interests of 2017, we further extended and without taking undue risk.
Our ability to our clients, employees and shareholders strengthened our own market presence adapt rapidly to changing client needs are always upheld.
with the acquisition of DLAM.
and market environments helps us to optimise investment performance.
We are significantly broadening the range of clients we can help in this area with the design and test implementation of the WealthPilot service.
See page 17 for more information See page 28 for more information See page 16 for more information Brewin Dolphin 12 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Social, economic, legislative and technological forces are constantly creating challenges and opportunities throughout the financial services market place.
Here, we look at how our ability to find the right response to these forces is enabling us to invest for the future.
Regulatory developments The 2008 financial crisis continues to exert its influence over the global financial services industry, most particularly in the form of evermore stringent legislation to protect consumers.
One effect of this is the rising cost of Fees for services are set to become Other material legislative factors include compliance, with many companies more transparent during 2018 with the the growing levels of choice and facing significant and escalating cost introduction of the EUs MiFID II.
This will complexity that people face as pension challenges in areas including enable clients to more easily gauge the freedom rules and other changes come recruitment, training and restructuring.
value of the services they receive.
into effect, leading more individuals to As one of the largest players in the UK At Brewin Dolphin, we believe we can seek professional financial advice.
wealth management industry, Brewin clearly demonstrate the value of our We have a vital role to play in enabling Dolphin not only has the scale to absorb advice-led proposition.
In addition, clients to receive the advice they need, the costs of change and allocate wherever possible we continue to ensuring through our recruitment and resources appropriately we also have leverage our scale to reduce the cost of development practices that our people the expertise to adapt fast and efficiently investments within our client portfolio.
can advise on complex needs.
See page 20 for further details Technological forces Technology is a differentiator in many areas of the business and complements the way we interact with clients.
New technology can be both a As increasing numbers of people use We also continue to offer new ways of powerful enabler and a threat, digital channels to communicate and enabling clients to communicate in the particularly in financial services where engage whenever they wish, we have ways that suit them best, such as using it has the potential to transform many embedded digital solutions that increase Skype in our new WealthPilot proposition aspects of the wealth management client choice to complement our see page 17. industry.
Our overriding emphasis on 29-strong branch network.
client relationships, however, makes communication the most important of these.
