Nomination Committee Report Chairmans overview The main focus of the Nomination Committee is to consider Committee composition the composition of the Board and to review and manage The Committee comprises the Board Chairman, Simon succession planning.
Miller, and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive and Group Human Resources The Company has in place succession plans for the Board, and for Director are standing attendees at Committee meetings: senior management, to ensure there is the appropriate balance of the Chief Executive will exclude himself from discussions skills and experience within the Board.
relating to his own appointment.
Angela Knight was a During the year we strengthened further our focus on Committee member in her capacity as Senior developing talent throughout the Group.
This included the Independent Director and was succeeded by Kath Cates launch of our Group Executive Leadership Programme, which during the year.
Details of membership and attendance draws upon our values to ensure its relevance to our growth can be found on page 46. strategy and culture.
Angela Knight retired at the AGM last year and Kath Cates became the Senior Independent Director.
During the summer The role of the Committee we commissioned external consultants to help identify nonexecutive candidates and Mike Kellard will join the Board on The purpose of the Committee is to ensure that the 1 December 2017.
A copy of his biography will be included in Board retains an appropriate balance of skills to support the Notice of AGM.
The external search consultancy retained the strategic objectives of the Group and that there are by the Board in respect of the appointment of Mike Kellard was appropriate procedures in place for the nomination, Odgers Berndtson, who have no connection to the Company.
selection, training and evaluation of Board members as We are presently conducting a search for an additional nonwell as to ensure that there is an effective framework for executive director and we have asked our external adviser to succession planning.
focus on candidates who will ensure that the Board continues The responsibilities of the Committee are defined in the to represent a diversity of views.
Committees Terms of Reference, a copy of which can During the year there was an externally facilitated performance be found at www.
evaluation of the Board by a London based board consultancy, Lintstock.
This evaluation looked at the workings of both the Board and the Board Committees and formed the basis for the annual Board appraisals.
In overall terms the outcomes of these assessments confirmed that progress was being made.
Simon Miller Chairman of the Nomination Committee 28 November 2017 Brewin Dolphin 48 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk Committee Report Chairmans overview The Committees key roles are to oversee the Groups Committee composition identification of its principal risks, the setting of risk appetite and The Committee is made up of three independent to recommend these to the Board.
The Committee provides Non-Executive Directors.
There is cross-membership oversight of the Group Risk Management Framework to ensure between the Committee and the Audit and that the risks are appropriately managed within the Group.
Remuneration Committees to ensure that agendas are aligned and key information is appropriately shared During the year the Committee attended a risk workshop which across the Board Committees.
The Chairman of the Risk was hosted by the Risk Management Committee, an Executive Committee is also a member of the Audit Committee.
At the meeting the current key risks were reviewed and Standing attendees at Committee meetings include the discussed at length and in light of our strategy and risk appetite.
Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Group Risk & Emerging risks were also discussed to determine whether any of Compliance Director.
Further details on membership and these risks should now be considered as a key risk to the Group.
attendance can be found on page 46.
The results of the risk workshop helped the Group to refresh and update its key risks.
For further information please refer to the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on page 26.
The Committee regularly receives updates from management The role of the Committee on risk management practices and this year particular areas of The purpose of the Committee is to provide oversight of focus were IT risk, including change management and the Risk Management Framework of the Group and cyber risk.
assist the Board with its responsibilities for ensuring the The Committee also receives regular updates on regulatory integrity of the Groups internal control and risk changes, and how the Group plans and implements these to management systems.
Throughout the year special focus has been The responsibilities of the Committee are outlined in the on MiFID II to ensure the Group is ready for the January 2018 Committees Terms of Reference, a copy of which can implementation date.
In addition, we continued to examine the key risks which are relevant to the Groups strategic objectives.
Kath Cates Chairman of the Risk Committee 28 November 2017 Brewin Dolphin 49 www.
co. uk Risk Committee Report continued Committee activities during the year Risk Management and Regulatory change Key risks Investment Governance The regulatory changes in relation to The Committee reviewed and MiFID II, GDPR and SMCR and the recommended the risk appetite Frameworks implications they will have on the statements and tolerance for key The Committee reviewed and Group were assessed.
These were challenged key components of the management responses to these monitored on an ongoing basis to Risk Management Framework and were discussed to ensure the Group ensure they remained relevant and monitored the implementation of the adopts the regulations and that the appropriate, adding any emerging updated Investment Governance right behaviours will be embedded in risks if necessary.
Framework, and enhancement to the business.
In depth discussions on cyber risk client money controls.
and change management took place.
9% 16% 45% Internal Capital Adequacy Training Performance evaluation Assessment Process Training sessions were held on the The Committee conducts a ICAAP and SMCR.
performance evaluation every year ICAAP and this year Lintstock distributed a The key components of the ICAAP questionnaire for anonymous were challenged in a six monthly 4% completion to all Committee review, exploring scenarios and members and those executives who stress tests to determine an regularly attend the Committees appropriate regulatory capital meetings.
This was at a joint discussed by the Committee and meeting with the Audit Committee helped to inform next years prior to recommendation to the forward-looking agenda.
2% 24% Brewin Dolphin 50 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee has worked closely with the Risk Committee on key risks and the control environment, reviewing areas in depth and receiving reports on issues raised by all three lines of defence: the business, the Risk Department and Internal Audit.
We monitor those issues and the timeliness and effectiveness in which they are dealt with by management.
During the year the Committee has received an in-depth report on how revenue is recognised as well as a presentation on the effectiveness of controls in the Groups new Order Management System.
We took part in a whistleblowing training session during the year which was facilitated by our in-house Legal Department.
The Committee approved a new Whistleblowing Policy during the year and training was provided to assist Committee members in discharging their duties under the policy.
Chairmans overview Angela Knight stepped down from the Committee in As an Audit Committee, our focus throughout the year has been February 2017 and I would like to thank her for her wise on quality: the quality of our financial reporting, the quality counsel, input and challenge at Committee meetings.
I am also of our internal and external audits and the quality of our grateful for the enthusiasm and insight that Kath Cates and control environment.
Caroline Taylor bring to the Committee.
We have taken note of the various papers issued by the Ian Dewar Financial Reporting Council FRC during the year and remain Chairman of the Audit Committee committed to ensuring that our Financial Statements are clear, balanced and understandable.
Our 2016 Financial Statements 28 November 2017 were subject to an in-depth review by the FRC and they had no points to raise.
This years Financial Statements are built on that firm base and reflect both changes in reporting requirements and the changes in our business.
Committee composition Our internal audit is outsourced to BDO and Christian Bellairs, The Committee comprises only independent Nonour partner, reports to the Audit Committee.
There is always a crosscomprehensive programme of internal audit work and the membership with the Risk Committee, to help ensure Committee follows up on the actions taken by management in that agendas are aligned and key information is shared response to issues raised.
The Committee recently held a appropriately across the Board Committees.
Further workshop with BDO to review areas of risk and to finalise the details on membership and attendance can be found on internal audit plan for 2018.
BDO have now completed two page 46.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and years as our Internal Auditor and we have recently completed Group Risk & Compliance Director are invited to attend a comprehensive assessment of their effectiveness.
at the Committees request and, in addition, all NonExecutive Directors including the Chairman are entitled As I mentioned last year, the FRCs Audit Quality Review team to attend.
The External Audit partner and our Internal reviewed the audit of the 2015 Brewin Dolphin FInancial Audit partner are standing attendees.
We have Statements as part of their 2015 annual inspection of audit considered the FRC requirement for the Committee to firms.
Following that review an action plan was agreed with have competence relevant to the financial services Deloitte for changes to be made to the 2016 audit which sector and have concluded that the Committee as a included a change of partner.
The 2016 audit was reviewed by whole satisfies this requirement.
the FRC and no matters arose from that review which required action.
The Committee has also conducted a review of the effectiveness of the External Auditor and concluded that Deloitte LLP continues to provide an effective audit.
It remains the Role and responsibilities intention of the Committee to hold a formal external audit tender during the course of Robert Topleys audit partner five-year The Committee helps the Board meet its responsibilities term.
He has just completed his second year.
for the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, including the effectiveness of its internal financial control system, and for monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The responsibilities of the Committee are outlined in the Committees Terms of Reference, a copy of which can be found at www.
co. uk Audit Committee Report continued Committee activities during the year Financial reporting Internal Audit External Auditor Reviewed the Annual Report and Assessed the effectiveness of the Approved the plan, terms of Accounts, the Interim Management Internal Auditor and reviewed and engagement and fees to be paid to Statements, the Half-Year Report and approved the new internal audit the External Auditor for the audit of the the investor presentation to ensure plan for the year.
that, taken as a whole, they were fair, Received internal audit reports, Assessed the independence, balanced and understandable and that challenged the robustness of objectivity and effectiveness of the they provided the necessary their findings and agreed External Auditor.
information for shareholders to assess appropriate actions.
Enforced the policy relating to the Groups performance, its business Reviewed how issues identified non-audit services provided by the model and strategy.
for action, whether arising from External Auditor and approved Reviewed reports from the external internal audit reports or from non-audit services in accordance auditor on both the Financial internal control processes, are with the policy which can be found Statements: including the significant identified, progressed and on our website.
audit risks, areas of audit focus and the reported: this ensures there is Reviewed a letter of recommendation appropriateness of the significant an effective framework for the from the External Auditor for improving management judgements used in management of issues within the systems of internal control.
preparing the accounts, and on the the Group.
effectiveness of systems of internal financial control.
18% Reviewed reports from management on 21% the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Half-Year Report, including both the key judgements and accounting policies followed in their preparation, as well as updates on changes to guidance regarding financial reporting.
Reviewed the Groups going concern assumption and Viability Statement.
37% ICAAP Control Oversight Reviewed the ICAAP jointly with the Reviewed year-end reports providing Risk Committee.
After review and assurance on the effectiveness and challenge of the ICAAP and its key robustness of the Groups system of components, recommended its internal controls.
Financial Crime approval to the Board.
The Committee conducted a deep There was a formal report from the dive on the controls around the Groups Money Laundering Order Management System.
Reporting Officer on the operation 9% Participated in whistleblowing and effectiveness of systems and refresher training.
controls relating to anti-money laundering AML and the Maintained oversight of regulatory prevention of financial crime.
6% 9% Brewin Dolphin 52 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Performance evaluation The evaluation of the Committees performance was captured as part of the wider, externally facilitated Board effectiveness review.
The results of the Committee evaluation were discussed at the meeting in October 2017.
Ian Dewar met regularly during the year with the Board Chairman, Finance Director, Chief Executive, Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner to review the Groups governance processes and discuss the effectiveness of the internal and external audit functions.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty related to the Financial Statements We reviewed the significant issues set out below in relation to the Groups Financial Statements for the year ended 30 September 2017.
We discussed these issues with management at various stages during 2016 17 and during the preparation and approval of the Financial Statements.
Having reviewed the presentations and reports from management, we are satisfied that the Financial Statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates, in respect both of the amounts reported and the disclosures made.
We also reviewed these issues with the auditors during the audit-planning process and at the conclusion of the year-end audit.
We are satisfied that our conclusions in relation to these issues are in line with those drawn by the auditors.
Issue Key considerations Role of the Committee Conclusion Business combinations Appropriate application of IFRS We considered managements We concluded firstly, that it was see notes 4. a. i and 4. b. i to in relation to the acquisition of proposed accounting treatment appropriate to account for the the Financial Statements DLAM, specifically: of the DLAM acquisition acquisition as a business see note 27 to the Financial combination given a separate establishing whether the Statements including the legal entity was acquired and all acquisition of DLAM determining factors with regard of the value of the business was constituted a business or a to whether the transaction transferred and secondly, that the group of assets: and should be accounted for as a determination of the fair value of establishing the fair value of all business combination or as a the assets was appropriate.
the assets liabilities acquired purchase of a group of assets in the business combination.
under IFRS 3 and we satisfied ourselves as to the fair value attributed to the client relationships shown in the Financial Statements as an intangible asset.
Goodwill and client Impairment review of goodwill We satisfied ourselves as to the We concluded that the relationships see note 4. b. ii and client relationships, including valuation assumptions used in assumptions and judgements to the Financial Statements the valuation assumptions the calculation of the fair value of used were reasonable and that used in the calculation of the the cash-generating units.
the carrying values of goodwill fair value of the relevant and client relationships in the We considered the paper cash-generating units.
financial statements were prepared by management on appropriate.
Determination of the useful the average client tenure and economic life of client useful economic life relationships, which establishes expectations.
the quantum of the amortisation expense.
Assumptions underlying the Determination of the actuarial We considered managements We concluded that the calculation of the defined assumptions such as discount paper explaining the assumptions and judgements benefit pension scheme rate, the life expectancy of assumptions used in the used in determining the defined asset liability see note 4. b. iii scheme members and the calculation, the resulting impact benefit pension scheme asset to the Financial Statements inflation rate used when on the Balance Sheet and the were appropriate.
calculating the defined benefit movement in the deficit during pension scheme asset liability.
co. uk Audit Committee Report continued Issue Key considerations Role of the Committee Conclusion Likelihood of meeting Determining the likelihood of We considered managements We concluded that the performance conditions for meeting the performance paper explaining the assumptions used in calculating the Long Term Incentive Plan conditions which impact the assumptions for the likelihood of the expense were appropriate.
see note 4. b. iv to the quantum of the expense in the meeting the performance Financial Statements period.
Assumptions underlying the Appropriate application of We reviewed managements We concluded that the estimation of the provision IFRS and underlying recognition paper explaining the assumptions provisions were appropriate and relating to onerous leases principles.
and calculation methodologies complete for obligations that see note 4. b. v to the applied in the determining existed at the year end.
We also Determining the best estimate of Financial Statements provisions.
This included ensuring confirmed that there had been the likely cash flows and other that the provisions represent no new information following the assumptions.
present obligations arising from year end that would result in an past events.
We satisfied ourselves that the procedures performed by management to identify the requirement for provisions were robust and comprehensive.
External Auditor The Audit Committee is responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy sets out the categories of any pre-approved non-audit services which the External Auditor is authorised to undertake.
It also provides an approval process for the provision of any other non-audit services.
This policy is available to view on the Investor Relations section of the Groups website, under the Board Committees subsection.
The Board generally only uses the auditor for audit and related activities.
If there is a business case to use the External Auditor to provide non-audit services, prior permission is required from the Committee.
In such an instance, the Committee will review the proposal to ensure that it will not impact the auditors objectivity and independence.
The majority of tax advisory and similar work is carried out by another major accountancy firm.
An analysis of the auditors remuneration is provided in note 8 to the Financial Statements.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the External Auditor on an annual basis, taking account of the following factors: Factor Assessment The role of That information provided by management to the External Auditor is timely and correct, that it has management proper supporting papers and that accounting systems and internal controls work effectively.
The audit partner The extent to which the partner demonstrates a strong understanding of the business, the industry and the challenges faced by the business.
The length of time the partner acts as the lead engagement partner.
The audit team The extent to which the audit team understands the business and industry and is properly resourced and experienced.
The audit approach That the audit approach is discussed with management, targets the significant issues early, is communicated properly, is appropriate for the business and industry and includes an appropriate level of materiality.
The communications That management and the Committee are kept appropriately informed as the audit progresses and that and formal reporting the formal report is appropriate and contains all relevant material matters.
by the auditor The independence and That the auditor complies with the FRCs ethical standards, has the required degree of objectivity objectivity of the including their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest, and that the overall auditor extent of non-audit services provided by the External Auditor does not compromise independence.
The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP has conducted an effective audit for the 2016 17 financial year.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that Deloitte be reappointed at the 2018 AGM.
The Committee has considered the Competition and Markets Authority CMA and EU requirements for mandatory tendering and rotation of the audit firm.
As previously stated, the Committee had previously intended to initiate a re-tendering process during 2017 18 in line with the previous audit partners rotation.
However, as we changed the audit partner during 2015 16, we did not believe that a re-tendering process would be beneficial during 2017 18.
As stated last year, the intention remains to re-tender prior to the end of the Robert Topleys five-year term.
This will be kept under review and the Committee will use its regular reviews of auditor effectiveness to assess the most appropriate time for re-tendering during that period.
Brewin Dolphin 54 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Committee has considered the likelihood of the External Auditor withdrawing from the market and has noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of replacement external auditor.
The External Auditor meets privately with the Committee at least twice a year without senior executive management being present and regularly with the Audit Committee Chairman.
Internal Audit BDO was appointed Internal Auditor in January 2016.
The Committee approves an internal audit plan at the start of the financial year and then receives quarterly reports on all internal audits.
The plan is reviewed every six months to ensure it fully covers the Groups key risks.
The Committee appraises the Internal Auditors processes to determine the effectiveness of their findings.
Fair, balanced and understandable Report and Accounts The Committee has performed a review of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
What is meant by these terms, and the questions that the Committee considers as part of this review, are shown below: Term: Description: Questions: Fair Not exhibiting any bias.
Is the whole story being presented?
Have any sensitive material areas been omitted?
Performed according to the rules.
Term: Description: Questions: Understandable Having a meaning or nature that Is there a clear and cohesive framework for the Annual Report?
Is the report written in accessible language?
Able to be accepted as normal.
Are the messages clearly drawn out?
Term: Description: Questions: Balanced Even-handed.
Is there a good level of consistency between the front and back sections of the Annual Report?
Taking account of all sides on their merits without prejudice or Does the reader get the same message from reading the two sections favouritism.
Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reports and the significant issues reported in the Audit Committee Report consistent with the disclosures of key estimates and uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the financial statements?
This report has been prepared in compliance with the CMA Order in relation to mandatory audit tendering and the responsibilities of the Audit Committee.
