Our strategy M AXIMISING 1 B UILD A MORE BALANCED RE TURNS BUSINESS Our strategy aims to deliver long-term sustainable shareholder value through organic growth.
Our priority is to maximise the return generated from our existing Rationale assets, through ensuring we have a balanced To generate maximum value from our estate of largely freeholdbacked properties.
estate: instilling a more commercial culture: To ensure we are exposed to the right market segments by having and growing through innovation and use the correct trading brand or concept in each outlet, based on of technology.
location, site characteristics and local demographics.
To maintain the amenity level of the estate such that we operate safely and remain competitive to guests, alongside meeting cash flow commitments.
FY 2017 progress Implementation of the results of the full estate review completed in FY 2016 which provided a plan for each individual site by year, until 2020.
Invested in growth concepts: Miller & Carter increased from 52 to 84 sites through conversion and acquisition with average EBITDA returns of more than 40%, and we converted 46 sites to our Stonehouse format.
Enhanced the amenity through our remodel programme with Harvester evolution investment delivering sales uplifts of 10% post investment.
Completed sufficient projects to remain on track to achieve a six to seven year investment cycle.
Accelerated the level of investment in capital activity to 169m FY 2016 167m.
We acquired 13 sites and disposed of 79 sites which did not fit into our estate strategy.
FY 2018 priorities Continue to increase the premium element of the estate.
Remain on course for a six to seven year investment cycle through our investment in remodels and conversions.
Make further selective acquisitions where we feel they add value to the estate, and disposals where we feel we have extracted maximum value.
Link to KPIs Key performance indicators 2, 3, 4, 5 See pages 28 to 29 22 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 2 I NSTIL A 3 GROW THROUGH MORE COMMERCIAL I NNOVATION AND C ULTURE TECHNOLOGY Rationale Rationale To ensure we focus on the delivery of profitable sales.
To ensure that our brands and formats remain fresh and relevant within their market segments.
To engage our teams in delivering outstanding guest experiences.
To leverage the increasing role technology can play in improving To act quickly and decisively to remain competitive in our fastefficiency and guest experience.
To execute a digital strategy to engage with consumers across a variety of platforms.
To facilitate new product and concept development.
FY 2017 progress FY 2017 progress Embedded the new organisational structure, consisting of four Developed and opened two new concepts, Chicken Society operational divisions, each of which is represented by a Divisional and Son of Steak, with further new concepts under development.
Director on the Executive Committee.
Enhanced the guest experience through technology, for instance Progress made on KPIs of all identified workstreams which were through pay at table and order at table facilities.
set up in order to speed up decision making.
Positioned ourselves to benefit from growth in home delivery Mitigation of 26m of cost headwinds through efficiency, removal with number of sites offering Deliveroo up from 25 to 61 and of non-guest facing costs, and pricing and promotional initiatives a trial of JustEat in Harvester and Toby as well as click and collect.
with time and attendance and updated stock control systems Developed a range of digital marketing activity, from further brand introduced in the year.
apps and enhanced websites, to refining the way we work with Focus on guest engagement through launch of online feedback affiliate partners to attract new guests.
consolidation tool, with online responses up from 59% to 83% Upgraded WiFi to improve guest experience and enhance in the year, and engagement from managers, with net promoter speed for teams.
Secondary wireless device rolled out to all sites to allow Food safety and health and safety improved with 97.5% of our sites managers to complete back office tasks whilst interacting rated good or very good for food hygiene, the highest for a national with guests and team.
FY 2018 priorities FY 2018 priorities Expand sales channels, including the extension of home delivery Open additional new concepts and continue to evolve and develop with partners, and takeaway.
Continue to focus on guest engagement and to build on the Continue to evolve existing brands though new design and benefits gained using the online feedback consolidation tool.
Continue to focus on mitigating cost headwinds through efficiency, Roll our order at table facility to those brands where it is appropriate the removal of non-guest impacting costs and pricing and to the offer.
Further develop guest loyalty initiatives and extend roll out to more brands.
Link to KPIs Key performance Link to KPIs Key performance indicators indicators 1, 2, 3, 5 2, 3, 5 See pages 28 to 29 See pages 28 to 29 Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 23
