Corporate governance Directors report other statutory information The Directors present the Annual Report and financial statements statements.
During the year 345,704 shares were issued inrespect toshareholders for the year ended 30 September 2017. of options exercised under employee share schemes.
Details of these schemes are summarised in note 18 to the financial statements.
Theinformation in notes 17 and 18 to the financial statements is Principal activity incorporated into this report by reference and is deemed to form The Company is a public limited company, incorporated in England, part of this report.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture and sale of high performance polymers.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys Annual Report, to attend Strategic report and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies The Strategic report required by the Companies Act 2006 can be found and to exercise voting rights.
The report sets out the business model, strategy and likely future developments, contains a review of the business and There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding describes the development and performance of the Groups business ofordinary shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval to any during the financial year and the position at the end of the financial transfer except where the Company has exercised its right to suspend year.
It also contains a description of the principal risks and uncertainties their voting rights, withhold a dividend or prohibit their transfer facing the Group.
Such information is incorporated into this report following failure by the member or any other person appearing to by reference and is deemed to form part of this report.
be interested in the shares to provide the Company with information requested under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors Research and Development may, in certain circumstances, also refuse to register the transfer of a The Groups spend on Research and Development is disclosed in share in certified form which is not fully paid up, where the instrument note 9 to the financial statements.
Such information is incorporated of transfer does not comply with the requirements of the Articles into this report by reference and is deemed to form part of this report.
ofAssociation, or if entitled to do so under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
No shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights Results and dividends except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a share Group profit after tax for the year was 111.0m 2016: 82.5m.
unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid and except The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 41.60p also where the Company suspends voting rights as referred to above per ordinary share that, subject to shareholder approval at the in the event of non-disclosure of an interest as permitted by the Companys Annual General Meeting being held on 9 February 2018, Articles of Association.
There are no known agreements between will be paid on 16 February 2018 to all shareholders on the register holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of members as at 6pm on 2 February 2018.
Together with the interim ofsecurities or on voting rights and no known arrangements under dividend paid in July 2017, this makes a total regular dividend of 53.80p which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder per ordinary share for the year 2016: 46.82p per ordinary share.
In addition to the final dividend, the Directors are recommending the Shares acquired by employees under employee share schemes rank payment of a special dividend of 68.00p per ordinary share that, subject equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
to shareholder approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting being held on 9 February 2018, will be paid on 16 February 2018 to all Own shares held shareholders on the register of members as at 6pm on 2 February 2018.
As at the date of this report, the Company does not hold any The proposal to pay a special dividend reflects exceeding the trigger sharesas treasury shares.
Details of the Companys share capital point set by the Company under the capital allocation policy.
aregiven in note 18 to the financial statements.
A summary of the The Company has established employee benefit trusts EBTs in Directors powers in relation to buying back shares is set out below connection with the obligation to satisfy future share awards under in the paragraph entitled Powers of the Directors in relation to certain employee share incentive schemes.
The trustees of the EBTs share capital.
As part of routine resolutions which are proposed have waived their rights to receive dividends on those ordinary shares toshareholders, the Directors will be seeking to renew the authority of the Company held in the EBTs.
Such waivers represent less than allowing the Company to purchase its own shares, which is set out 1% of the total dividend payable on the Companys ordinary shares.
in Resolution 22 of the Notice of Annual General Meeting AGM and which can be found on page 107.
Post balance sheet events No market purchases of the Companys own shares were made There have been no post balance sheet events that either require during the year.
adjustment to the financial statements or are important in the A total of 222,070 ordinary shares are held by the EBTs in order understanding of the Companys current position, financial tosatisfy the exercise of options by Directors under the Companys performance or results.
2009 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
No shares were purchased bythe EBTs in the financial year to 30 September 2017.
The Directors Related party transactions are beneficiaries of the EBTs.
During the year ended 30 September 2017, the Company did not have any material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature with, AGM and did not make loans to, related parties in which any Director has The Notice of the 2018 AGM of the Company and explanatory notes or had a material interest.
Share capital The Company has a single class of shares in the form of ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1 pence per share which are listed onthe premium segment of the Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority.
Details of the Companys share capital and reserves for own shares are given in note 18 to the financial Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 67 Corporate governance Directors report other statutory information continued Major interests in shares The following information has been disclosed to the Company on request, in respect of interests in the Companys issued share capital as at 1 December 2017.
Number of ordinary shares held Percentage 1 Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 4,577,677 5.33% 1 Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 4,505,563 5.25% Prudential plc group of companies 4,061,840 4.72% 1 T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. and its affiliates 3,863,134 4.50% 1 Baillie Gifford & Co 3,334,938 3.88% 1 BlackRock, Inc. 3,291,728 3.83% D R Hummel 3,014,895 3.51% Janus Henderson Group plc 2,844,486 3.31% 1 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 2,596,214 3.02% 1 The positions stated above represent the holdings in shares either in their Appointment and replacement of Directors own right or on behalf of third parties and may not represent the total The Articles of Association of the Company limit the number voting rights or authority to vote as at 1 December 2017. ofDirectors to ten.
This maximum can be changed by Ordinary Resolution of the shareholders.
A resolution will be proposed at the Directors forthcoming AGM, to increase the maximum permitted number of The following served as Directors during the financial year: Directors to twelve.
The details of the resolution and explanation for u Larry Pentz this change is set out in the notes to Resolution 15 on page 112 of the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
u Louisa Burdett Directors may be appointed by an Ordinary Resolution of the u Tim Cooper shareholders or by a resolution of the Directors.
A Director u Martin Court appointed by the Board during the year must retire at the first AGMfollowing their appointment and such Director is eligible u Patrick fide Smedt tooffer themselves for election by the Companys shareholders.
u Andrew Dougal Additionally, the Companys Articles of Association require the retirement at each AGM of i any Director who has held office u David Hummel atthe time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire u Pamela Kirby ateither: and ii any non-executive Director who has been in office fora continuous period of nine years or more.
Notwithstanding u Jane Toogood theretirement provisions in the Companys Articles of Association, Details of the Directors of the Company are given on pages 42 itis the Companys current practice that all Directors retire from and43.
Details of Directors interests in shares are provided in the office at each AGM in accordance with the recommendations Directors remuneration report on page 64. oftheUK Corporate Governance Code.
Mr Hummel and Mr fide Smedt are standing down from the In addition to the statutory power, a Director may be removed Boardatthe AGM and therefore will not be seeking re-election.
bySpecial Resolution of the Company.
A Director must also MrSigurdsson has been appointed to the Board since the last AGM automatically cease to be a Director if i they are removed from and therefore will be seeking election at the forthcoming AGM.
It is office under the Articles of Association or they cease to be a proposed that Ms Ashdown and Mr Connolly are appointed to the Director by virtue of any law or they become prohibited by law Board as non-executive Directors and therefore offer themselves for frombeing a Director: or ii they become bankrupt or make any election at the forthcoming AGM.
The re-election of the remaining arrangement or composition with their creditors generally: or iii Directors of the Board will be sought at the AGM.
Each election they suffer from mental or physical ill health and the Directors orre-election is in compliance with the Companys Articles of resolve to remove them from office: or iv they resign from office Association and reflects the provisions of the UK Corporate bynotice in writing to the Company, or in the case of an executive Governance Code.
Director, their appointment is terminated or expires and the Directors resolve that the office be vacated: or v they are absent for more than six consecutive months without permission of the Directors from meetings of the Directors and the Directors resolve that theoffice be vacated: or vi they are requested in writing, orbyelectronic form, by all the other Directors to resign.
68 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance or retained as treasury shares.
The Directors will only make purchases Amendment of Articles of Association after consideration of the possible effect on earnings per share, the The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended long-term benefits to shareholders and in consultation with advisors.
bySpecial Resolution of the Company at a general meeting ofitsshareholders.
Notice required for shareholder meetings The Shareholders Rights Directive was implemented in the Powers of the Directors in relation to share capital UKbythe Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companys on3August 2009.
The Regulations implementing this Directive Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company given by the Company in general meeting.
The Companys Directors to21 days, unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
were granted authority at the AGM in 2017 to allot shares in the Onthe basis of a resolution passed at the 2017 AGM, the Company Company or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any securities is currently able to call general meetings other than an annual into shares in the Company up to a a maximum aggregate nominal general meeting on 14 days notice.
TheCompany would like to amount of 285,223 being approximately one-third of the issued preserve this ability and Resolution 23 seeks such approval.
The share capital prior to that AGM and b a further maximum aggregate approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it nominal amount of 285,223 being approximately one-third of the isintended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
In accordance issued share capital prior to the AGM in connection with a rights with the Directive, the Company will offer an electronic voting issue only.
This authority is due to lapse at the 2018 AGM.
At the facility for a general meeting called on 14 days notice.
2018 AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew the authority.
Specific details of the resolution and the number of shares covered by the renewed authority can be found in Resolution 19 on Conflict of interest duties page107 of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Procedures are in place to ensure compliance with the Directors conflict of interest duties set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors were empowered at the 2017 AGM to make TheCompany has complied with these procedures during the year non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal and the Board believes that these procedures operate effectively.
amount of 42,783 being approximately 5% of the issued share During the year, details of any new conflicts or potential conflict capital prior to that AGM.
This power is also due to lapse at the matters were submitted to the Board for consideration and, where 2018 AGM and shareholders will be asked to grant a similar power appropriate, these were approved.
Authorised conflict or potential Resolution 20 of the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 107. conflict matters will continue to be reviewed by the Board on an Resolution 21 is in addition to Resolution 20.
As supported by annual basis.
thePre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, as updated in March 2015, Resolution 21 will enable the Directors to allot shares Environmental matters for cash or sell shares out of treasury up to a further nominal amount Information on our greenhouse gas emissions required to be disclosed of 42,937, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report share capital as at 4 December 2017 the latest practicable date Regulations 2013 is set out in the Sustainability report on pages 28 before the publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting, to 36.
Such information is incorporated into this report by reference other than to existing shareholders without first having to offer them and is deemed to form part of this report.
to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
In respect of the authority under Resolution 21, the Board confirms that it will Directors indemnities only allot shares or sell shares out of treasury pursuant to this The Company has granted indemnities in favour of all of its Directors authority where the relevant acquisition or specified capital under Deeds of Indemnity Deeds.
These Deeds were in force during investment is announced contemporaneously with the allotment, or the year ended 30 September 2017 and remain in force as at the date has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed of this report.
The Deeds and the Companys Articles of Association in the announcement ofthe allotment.
The Directors have no current are available for inspection during normal business hours on Monday intention of exercising this authority.
If this authority is used, the to Friday excluding public holidays at the Companys registered Company will publish details of the placing in its next Annual Report office and will also be available at the Companys AGM from at least and Accounts.
15 minutes before the meeting until it ends.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of Resolutions 19 to 21 to maintain the Companys flexibility in relation Change of control to future share issues, including any issues to finance business None of the Directors or employees service contracts contain opportunities should appropriate circumstances arise.
provisions providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The rules of the Companys The Directors were also authorised at the 2017 AGM under a Special employee share plans set out the consequences of a change in Resolution to make market purchases of the Companys own ordinary control of the Company on participants rights under the plans.
shares up to a maximum aggregate number of 8,556,691 shares being approximately 10% of the issued share capital prior to that AGM Generally such rights will vest and become exercisable on a change and subject to the conditions as to pricing set out in the authority.
ofcontrol subject to a separate determination as to the satisfaction This authority is also due to lapse at the 2018 AGM when it is ofperformance conditions.
proposed that shareholders grant a similar authority.
Employment policies The authority contained in Resolution 22 will expire at theearlier The Groups policies as regards the employment of disabled persons of9 May 2019, or the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
Itisthe current and a description of actions the Group has taken to encourage greater intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually.
Inthe employee involvement in the business are set out on pages 38 and 39. event that shares are purchased pursuant to the authority granted Such information is incorporated into this report by reference and is under Resolution 22, the shares would either be cancelled and the deemed to form part of this report.
number in issue would be reduced accordingly Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 69 Corporate governance Directors report other statutory information continued UK Corporate Governance Code The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 41 to 71.
The Corporate Governance Report forms part of this report and is incorporated into it by reference.
Financial instruments Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk can be found in note 14 to the financial statements.
Such information is incorporated into this report by reference and is deemed to form part of this report.
Branches The Company and its subsidiaries have established branches in a number of different countries in which they operate.
Donations The Group made no political donations in the UK or European Union EU during the year ended 30 September 2017 2016: nil.
FCAs Disclosure Guidelines and Transparency Rules For the purposes of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidelines and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
8R, this report and Directors report Strategic report on pages 67 to 70 and pages 2 to 39 together comprise the management report.
4R There is no information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
4R save in respect of allotments of equity securities for cash and dividend waivers, which can be found on page 67 of this AnnualReport.
Disclosure of information to auditor The Directors in office at the date of approval of this report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor An explanation of the audit tender process which was undertaken during 2017 can be found on pages 52 and 53 of the Audit Committees report.
The Board has decided to recommend to shareholders that  LLP PwC be appointed as external auditor to the Company and PwC has expressed their willingness to be appointed.
Accordingly a resolution concerning their appointment isproposed at the 2018 AGM.
By order of the Board Brett Gladden Group Company Secretary 5 December 2017 70 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017
