Strategic report Going concern and viability statement Acombined sensitivity containing an aggregation of all scenarios Going concern considered was performed and, whilst considered implausible, it The Directors have performed a robust assessment, including review demonstrated the Groups ability to take mitigating actions to of the budget for the year ending September 2018 and longer-term maintain liquidity.
strategic forecasts and plans, including consideration of the principal risks faced by the Company, as detailed on pages 24 to 26.
Whilst each of the risks outlined on pages 24 to 26 has a potential Following this review the Directors are satisfied that the Company impact, the sensitivity analysis has been focused on those considered and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate to have the most significant financial impact.
These are marked as andmeet their liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future, such in the table above.
In addition to the risk mitigation plans, aperiod considered to be at least twelve months from the date theGroups two distinct segments, both with diverse geographic ofsigning these financial statements.
For this reason they continue markets, assist in reducing the risk of regional economic challenges to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial and sector-specific issues.
The strategy of partnering closely with statements.
Details of the Groups policy on liquidity risk and capital customers to develop the right applications and our existing and management are included in note 14 tothe financial statements.
growing list of specified products are also important mitigants.
The mitigation assessment also considered the Groups ability to raise Viability statement new finance and the possibility of delaying capital programmes and In accordance with the provision of section C. 2.2 of the 2014 or restricting shareholder returns over the viability period if required.
revision of the Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a five-year period to September 2022, being the period Approximately 4050% of the Groups revenue is derived from covered by the Groups Board-approved strategic plan.
The impact of Brexit has been considered by the Groups plan, which is updated annually, includes analysis of profit performance Brexit Steering Committee.
There are a wide range of potential including our core business and our Horizon programmes, cash outcomes, including that of a hard Brexit.
No scenario has been run flow, investment programmes and returns to shareholders.
specifically for Brexit given the range of potential outcomes, which could be favourable driven by a further devaluation of Sterling or The Board considers five years to be an appropriate time horizon for adverse for example, tariffs or restrictions of raw material and our strategic plan, being the period over which the Group actively finished product flows, although some of the sensitivities run do focuses on its development pipeline.
Whilst there are projects within translate topotential adverse Brexit outcomes.
The Directors focus the portfolio which will take longer to reach meaningful revenue, a on Brexit is to ensure that the Group remains in the best position to period greater than five years is considered too long given the maintain continuity of supply on raw materials and access for our inherent uncertainties involved.
In making their assessment, the Directors have considered the Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable Groups current strong financial position, including the level of cash expectation, predicated on the assumption that an unforeseen at 30 September 2017 and the Groups ability to generate cash, and event outside of the Groups control for example, an event of undertaken a comprehensive sensitivity analysis over the key trading nature or terror does not inhibit the Companys ability to assumptions combined with the potential impact of crystallisation of manufacture for a sustained period, that the Group will be able one or more of the principal risks detailed on pages 24 to 26 over tocontinue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due the five-year period.
The risks have been assessed for their potential overthe five-year period.
impact on the Groups business model, future trading and funding structure.
The range of scenarios tested was carefully considered bythe Directors, factoring in the potential impact, probability ofoccurrence and effectiveness of the mitigating actions.
