Corporate governance Board of Directors Larry Pentz was appointed to the Board in and chemical companies for Johnson Matthey N 2008 and became Chairman in 2014.
Larry is Plc, and was formerly executive director Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Larry responsible for Emission Control Technologies has over 30 years service within multinational of Johnson Matthey Plc.
corporations in a variety of operational and Larry retired as an executive director of general management positions, with extensive Johnson Matthey Plc during 2016 where he experience in developing strategy for and held board-level responsibility for Johnson successfully leading international growth Mattheys Process Technologies and Fine businesses.
Larry has been instrumental in the Chemicals divisions.
Larry is Non-Executive acquisition and integration of multiple catalyst Chairman of Scapa Group plc.
Larry Pentz Chairman BS ChE MBA Pamela Kirby was appointed to the Board in2011 business development.
She was previously A and as Senior Independent Director inNovember non-executive chairman of Oxford Immunotec 2014.
Pamela has detailed knowledge of the Limited and non-executive director of Novo N international pharmaceutical industry, and was Nordisk A S and Smith & Nephew plc.
R formerly CEO of Quintiles Transnational Corp. Pamela is a non-executive director of DCC plc, based in North Carolina, USA.
Pamela has also Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc, Reckitt Benckiser held a number of other senior positions in the Group plc and Kings Health Partnership and international pharmaceutical industry including serves on the supervisory board of Akzo Nobel.
atAstraZeneca PLC, where she was a regional director, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, where she was director of strategic marketing and Pamela Kirby Non-executive Director BSc PhD Patrick fide Smedt was appointed in 2008. knowledge ofinternational markets, A Patrick is Chairman of the Remuneration technology and diverse industry sectors.
Between 1983 and 2006, Patrick is to retire from the Board of Directors N Patrickheld a number of senior positions at the Annual General Meeting in February R inMicrosoft, during which time he founded 2018. the Benelux subsidiaries, led the development Patrick is Senior Independent Director at ofthe Western European business and in the PageGroup plc, KCOM Group plc and Morgan period 2003 and 2006 served as Chairman Sindall Group plc, where he is also Chairman ofMicrosoft for Europe, the Middle East and of the Remuneration Committee.
Patrick has previously worked with non-executive Director of Kodak Alaris Patrick fide Smedt early stage ventures as well as large, Holdings Limited and Nexinto Holding Ltd. established multinationals.
He has a deep Non-executive Director BSc MSc Andrew Dougal was appointed to the Board in TaylorWimpey Plc and Creston Plc and a A March 2015 and was appointed Audit Committee Non-Executive Director of BPB Plc and Premier Chairman effective from October 2015.
Formerly, Andrew served as Chief N is a chartered accountant and brings a wealth of Executive of Hanson plc, the international R experience to the Board, from a lengthy executive building materials group, following its demerger and non-executive career of over 35 years in from Hanson, the Anglo-American conglomerate, industrial, manufacturing and services companies.
where he was Finance Director, having previously held a number of senior roles in general Andrew is a non-executive director and Chair management and finance.
Andrew is a member ofthe Audit Committee at Carillion plc.
He was of the Council of the Institute of Chartered previously a Non-Executive Director and Audit Andrew Dougal Accountants of Scotland ICAS.
Committee Chair of Taylor Woodrow Plc, Non-executive Director B Acc CA Jane Toogood was appointed to the Board in Jane holds an MA in natural sciences A September 2015.
Jane has a wealth of experience chemistry from the University of Oxford.
across a number of business management, N Jane is the Sector Chief Executive, Efficient senior commercial and business development Natural Resources at Johnson Matthey Plc.
R roles within the global chemical industry, including Borealis, ICI and Uniqema, and also held a Non-Executive Director role with NHS Harrogate and District Foundation Trust.
Jane Toogood Non-executive Director MA Hons 42 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance KEY TO COMMITTEES A Audit Committee N Nominations Committee R Remuneration Committee Committee Chair Jakob Sigurdsson was appointed to the Board Between September 2016 and June 2017, in October 2017.
Jakob has more than 20 years Jakob was Chief Executive Officer of VS, the experience in large multinational companies, largest Icelandic insurance and re-insurance both listed and private, including nine years company.
Jakob holds a BSc in Chemistry with Rohm & Haas now part of Dow Chemical from the University of Iceland and an MBA in the US, as well as Chief Executive of food from Northwestern University in the US.
manufacturer Alfesca in Europe and as ChiefExecutive of Promens.
His executive responsibilities have spanned marketing, supply chain, business development, strategy Jakob Sigurdsson and M&A, with particular emphasis on growth in new or developing markets.
Chief Executive Officer BSc MBA David Hummel assumed responsibility for following his leading of the successful MBO VICTREX PEEK worldwide in 1992 and has ofVictrex from ICI.
He served as CEO of Victrex more than 25 years of experience of the global until the end of September 2017 and will be high performance polymer industry.
Formerly retiring from the Board at the Annual General with Diamond Shamrock, GE Plastics and ICI, Meeting in February 2018.
David was appointed to the Board in 1993 David Hummel Executive Director BSc Louisa Burdett was appointed as Group an M&A Consultant at Charterhouse Bank FinanceDirector in February 2014.
Louisa also andspent four years at KPMG in London.
has overall responsibility for the Group Legal She has a first class degree in biochemistry and Company Secretarial functions, as well as from Imperial College London and is a member IT.
Louisa formerly held the position of Chief of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Financial Officer at Optos plc.
Prior to this, England and Wales.
Louisa was Chief Financial Officer at the Louisa is Chairman of the Currency Committee.
Financial Times Group from 2008 to 2012.
Louisa is a Non-Executive Directorof Louisa has also held roles at Chep Europe, a Electrocomponents plc where she is Chair of division of Brambles Ltd, the Australian listed the Audit Committee and amember of its pallet distribution company, GE Healthcare and Louisa Burdett Nomination andRemuneration Committees.
Louisa has also worked as Group Finance Director BSc ACA Tim Cooper was appointed as an executive Victrex business, Tim was with Umeco Plc, director to the Board in October 2012. initially as Managing Director of Aerovac Timjoined Victrex in January 2010 as Managing Systems Ltd, but later becoming Group Director of Victrex Polymer Solutions.
Tim has Managing Director of Umeco Composites over 30 years of international business Process Materials.
He has been Managing management and commercial experience, Director of Tellermate Plc and of Avery Berkel having held senior leadership positions in a Ltd, having developed his international career number of industries.
Prior to joining the with GEC, BP and Land Rover.
Tim Cooper Executive Director BA Martin Court was appointed to the Board as an Industries, and in a number of senior roles executive director in April 2015.
Martin joined atboth ICI and UCB.
He is an INSEAD alumni Victrex in February 2013 as Managing Director and holds a doctorate in the field of surface of Invibio, Victrexs medical business.
Martin chemistry and fracture mechanics and a BSc has significant proven international experience Eng degree in mineral technology from in the medical and high performance materials Imperial College of Science and Technology.
and chemicals industries, including with Cytec Martin Court Executive Director BSc Eng PhD Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 43
