A4 FUTURE PROSPECTS The Code requires the directors to consider and report on the future prospects of the Group.
In particular it requires that they: Explain how they have assessed the prospects of the Group and whether, on this basis, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation the viability statement State whether they consider it is appropriate for the Group to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements presented in Section D the going concern statement In addition Listing Rule LR9.8.
6 R 3 requires the directors to make these statements and to prepare the viability statement in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014.
The business activities of the Group, its current operations and those factors likely to affect its future results and development, together with a description of its financial position and funding position, are described in the Chairmans Statement in Section A1 and Chief Executives review in Section A3.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the steps taken to mitigate these risks are described in Section B6.5.
Section B6 of this annual report describes the Groups risk management system and the three lines of defence model it is based upon.
Note 7 to the accounts includes an analysis of the Groups working and regulatory capital position and policies, while notes 9 to 11 include a detailed description of its funding structures, its use of financial instruments, its financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to credit, interest rate and liquidity risk.
Critical accounting estimates affecting the results and financial position disclosed in this annual report are discussed in note 6.
Financial forecasts As described under Accountability in Section B3.1, the Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and review.
The Groups planning procedures forecast its profitability, capital position, funding requirement and cash flows.
Detailed annual plans are produced for two year periods with longer term forecasts covering a five year period, which include detailed income forecasts.
These plans provide information to the directors which is used to ensure the adequacy of resources available for the Group to meet its business objectives, both on a short term and strategic basis.
The plans for the period commencing on 1 October 2017 have been approved by the Board and have been compiled taking into consideration the Groups cash flow, dividend cover, liquidity and capital requirements as well as other key financial ratios throughout the period.
Current economic and market conditions are reflected at the start of the plan with consideration given to how these will evolve over the plan period and affect the business model.
The plan is compiled by consolidating separate income forecasts for each business segment and securitisation vehicle to form the top level projection for the Group.
This allows full visibility of the basis of compilation and enables detailed variance analysis to identify anomalies or unrealistic movements.
Cost forecasts and new business volumes are agreed with the managers of the various business areas to ensure that targets are realistic and operationally viable.
During this process, sensitivity analysis is also carried out on a number of key assumptions that underpin the forecast to evaluate the impacts of the Groups principal risks on profit, capital, liquidity, cash flow and other key metrics.
This is further stress tested as part of the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, using a number of severe downside scenarios.
PAGE 42 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Risk assessment During the year, the directors, as members or attendees of the Risk and Compliance Committee undertook reviews on a quarterly basis which included: Consideration and challenge of the ratings applied to the various risk categories to which the Group is exposed Consideration of the principal risks facing the Group Consideration of key regulatory developments During the year the directors also carried out a high level exercise to identify the most significant risks facing the Group and their relative importance.
The results of this exercise were fed back into the Groups risk management process.
The directors specifically considered the impact on risk and viability presented by the reorganisation which took place in September 2017, before it was approved.
This included reviewing risk appetites and concluding ICAAP and ILAAP exercises for the reorganised Group.
At the year end the directors reviewed their on-going risk management activities and the most recent risk information available, including the risk register and risk measures, to confirm the position of the Group at the balance sheet date.
The directors concluded that those activities, taken together, constituted a robust assessment of all of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
These principal risks are set out in Section B6.5 of the Risk Management Report.
Availability of funding and liquidity The Groups retail deposits of 3,615.4 million note 44, accepted through Paragon Bank, are repayable within five years, with 61.3% of this balance 2,215.7 million payable within twelve months of the balance sheet date.
The liquidity exposure represented by these deposits is monitored: a process supervised by the Asset and Liability Committee.
The Group is required to hold liquid assets in Paragon Bank to mitigate this liquidity risk.
At 30 September 2017 Paragon Bank held 615.0 million of balance sheet assets for liquidity purposes, in the form of central bank deposits note 30.
A further 109.0 million of liquidity was provided by the Bank of England FLS, bringing the total to 724.0 million.
Paragon Bank manages its liquidity in line with the Boards risk appetite and the requirements of the PRA, which are formally documented in the Boards approved Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP.
The Bank maintains a liquidity framework that includes a short to medium term cash flow requirement analysis, a longer term funding plan and access to the Bank of Englands liquidity insurance facilities, where an additional 84.1 million has been pre-positioned.
The Groups securitisation funding structures, described in note 10, ensure that both a substantial proportion of its originated loan portfolio and a significant amount of its acquired Idem Capital assets are match-funded.
Repayment of the securitisation borrowings is restricted to funds generated by the underlying assets and there is limited recourse to the Groups general funds.
Recent and current loan originations utilising the Groups available warehouse facilities, described in note 10, are refinanced through securitisation or retail deposits from time to time.
The earliest maturity of any of the Groups working capital debt is in December 2020, when the oldest of the Groups retail bond issues matures.
The Groups cash analysis continues to show strong free cash balances, even after allowing for significant discretionary cash flows, and its securitisation investments produce substantial cash flows.
The Group has demonstrated its ability to raise retail and corporate bond debt when required through its Euro Medium Term Note Programme and other programmes.
The Groups access to debt is also enhanced by its corporate BBBrating, reaffirmed by Fitch Ratings in the year, and its status as an issuer is evidenced by the BB rating of its 150.0 million Tier-2 bond issue.
At 30 September 2017 the Group had free cash balances of 305.5 million immediately available for use note 30.
As described in note 7 the Groups capital base is subject to consolidated supervision by the PRA.
Its capital at 30 September 2017 was in excess of regulatory requirements and its forecasts show this continuing to be the case.
PAGE 43 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Viability statement In considering making the viability statement the directors considered the three-year period commencing on 1 October 2017.
This aligns with the horizons used in the Groups analysis of risk and only includes one year of the less detailed forecasting period.
The directors considered: the Groups financial and business position at the year end, described in Section A3 the Group forecasts, and the assumptions on which they were based the Groups prospective access to future funding stress testing carried out as part of the Groups ICAAP process the activities of the Groups risk management process throughout the period risk monitoring activities carried out by the Risk and Compliance Committee internal audit activities in the year Having considered all the factors described above the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks, including solvency and liquidity risks, successfully.
On this basis, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period commencing on 1 October 2017.
While this statement is given in respect of the three-year period specified above, the directors have no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over the longer term.
However, given the inherent uncertainties involved in forecasting over longer periods, the shorter period has been adopted.
Going concern statement Accounting standards require the directors to assess the Groups ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
In performing this assessment, the directors consider all available information about the future, the possible outcomes of events and changes in conditions and the realistically possible responses to such events and conditions that would be available to them, having regard to the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014.
In order to assess the appropriateness of the going concern basis the directors considered the Groups financial position, the cash flow requirements laid out in its forecasts, its access to funding, the assumptions underlying the forecasts and the potential risks affecting them.
After performing this assessment, the directors concluded that it was appropriate for them to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
PAGE 44 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts
