A2 BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY A2.1 PARAGON OVERVIEW Paragon is a specialist financial services business operating in the UK.
In September 2017 the Group carried out a strategic reorganisation, transitioning to a banking group.
The scope of the regulated bank was increased, while focussing the Groups business around product lines and streamlining governance.
This gives the Group enhanced access to retail funding and opens up new business opportunities, and forms a natural step in our development, supporting further diversification of our funding and income.
Growing Specialist Best-known as one of the countrys leading, independent Through its underwriting and account management experience buy-to-let lenders, the Group is growing its business by over many years, the Group has developed a deep expertise in expanding into broader mortgage, consumer and Small or broader data analytics, together with advanced risk and credit Medium-sized Enterprise SME markets through its management capabilities.
These strengths are complemented banking subsidiary.
by a highly developed loan servicing platform and through the cycle experience in its senior management team.
Paragon is also one of the UKs largest portfolio purchasers through its Idem Capital division, where it purchases, It is this expertise that enables it to tailor lending products co-manages and services secured and unsecured for specialist target markets and effectively manage complex consumer loan portfolios.
Simple The Group has a simple business model, underpinned by a focus on people and a commitment to a single set of values.
Income Assets Funding Profitability The Group generates To grow its income, the The Group funds its assets Profitability is a key measure income from interest, fees Group focuses on building using a variety of sources, of success and the Group and charges earned on its its asset base by originating including savings deposits, manages all aspects of its mortgage, consumer and new loans, developing new securitisation and bond business closely to deliver SME loan assets.
It also earns products and acquiring issuance.
It takes care to sustainable and growing fees from third parties for loan portfolios.
secure competitive funding returns to its shareholders.
administering similar loans over an appropriate term to on their behalf.
underpin its assets, cover working capital requirements and maintain a strong financial position.
PAGE 12 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Operations Paragons operations are organised into three divisions, each with responsibility for achieving asset and profit growth, with new lending funded principally through an online personal savings operation.
The three divisions are supported by the Group through the provision of capital to underpin growth and, where appropriate, with central services including loan servicing, marketing, information technology and legal support.
The Groups central funding is provided by a mix of equity and corporate and retail bonds.
MORTGAGES COMMERCIAL LENDING IDEM CAPITAL First and second charge Asset based loan products for Acquired consumer mortgages SME businesses and consumers loan portfolios Focus on buy-to-let, but also Asset and motor finance, Second charge and unsecured loan targeting underserved sectors in development finance and other portfolios generated by third party owner-occupied market commercial lending products UK lenders 143.3m segment profit 14.1m segment profit 75.9m segment profit Over 65,000 buy-to-let loan accounts 0.4 billion loan assets 0.7 billion loan assets 9.7 billion assets Structured lending business Over 215,000 customer accounts launched in year.
Owner-occupied lending launched in year New lending financed from retail savings balances Over 100,000 savings customers Bank of England funding accessed Segment profits are before central costs of 88.1m.
Paragon Banking Group Fast Facts Over 450,000 12.3 billion Established in Over 1,300 customer of gross 1985 employees loan accounts assets under managed management 145.2 million Headquartered FTSE-250 underlying in Solihull listed operating profit PAGE 13 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts SUCCESS FACTORS Key factors affecting the Groups ability to maintain and grow profits and enhance shareholder returns: CREDIT QUALITY Paragon is a conservative lender.
When underwriting any new loan or portfolio purchase, the Group makes a detailed credit assessment of the customer and the strength of the underlying loan collateral to help minimise the 1. risk of non-payment and portfolio losses.
Buy-to-let 3 months arrears Paragon Buy-to-let industry average 0.08% 0.45% LOAN PRICING Paragon prices all new advances and portfolio purchases to be competitive and achieve an appropriate margin 2. over funding costs.
Net interest margin 2.13% FUNDING The Group ensures that its loan assets are financed using appropriately dated and priced funding.
It seeks to build 3. a broad and diversified funding mix to underpin the business.
Retail deposit growth TFS drawings Rating retained 92.9% 700.0 million BBBSTRONG FINANCIAL FOUNDATIONS Strong cash generation helps to support new investment and growth in each of the Groups three operating divisions.
The Groups conservative capital and debt positions, which rank among the strongest in the UK, give the 4.
Group material balance sheet capacity for further development.
Total regulatory capital ratio UK Leverage ratio 18.7% 6.6% PAGE 14 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts EFFICIENT UTILISATION OF THE GROUPS CAPITAL BASE 5.
Returns increasing whilst maintaining prudent capital ratios.
RoTE CET1 13.4% 15.9% LOAN SERVICING Each loan is serviced to optimise retention and minimise the risk of non-payment.
We also operate a specialist 6. receiver of rent operation for buy-to-let cases.
385 million pieces of customer data collected and analysed each month Behavioural scoring models applied COST CONTROL The Group has a low cost:income ratio and controls costs carefully to maintain this advantage.
It operates mainly from a centralised location, maximising the potential for operating leverage.
Loan products are distributed 7. principally via third party brokers and savings deposits are collected online.
Cost:income ratio 40.5% A CUSTOMER-FOCUSED CULTURE All the Groups employees share a common culture with a single set of core values.
These values fairness, integrity, respect, professionalism, teamwork, commitment, humour and creativity inform the way that we interact with our customers, our colleagues and our wider stakeholders.
Importantly, Paragons employees agree 8. that customers are at the heart of our business and recognise the value of treating customers fairly.
93% 93% 85% of employees feel the service of employees feel the of employees feel there are we give to customers is a clear and consistent set customer is at the heart of improving of values and behaviours everything we do that support the way we do business Source : 2016 employee survey.
PAGE 15 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts MORTGAGES WHAT WE DO The Group offers first and second charge mortgage products with buy-to-let mortgage finance for landlords operating in the UKs Private Rented Sector PRS its largest market.
Paragon was one of the first lenders to develop buy-to-let finance and, since 1996 the Group has originated or acquired just over 20.0 billion of buy-to-let accounts.
It now provides 3.9% of all new buy-to-let mortgages in the UK.
The Group seeks to serve niche markets where its customer focussed approach to lending and its expertise in property valuation and risk assessment can differentiate it from its competitors.
MARKET DYNAMICS Renting in the PRS is the second most common housing tenure in the UK today, after owner-occupation.
Economic, social and demographic changes, together with the flexibility that renting provides, have all combined to make renting in the PRS an increasingly popular choice.
Against a UK backdrop of limited house building, low investment in social housing and mortgage affordability constraints, tenant demand is expected to remain strong.
The owner-occupied mortgage market has become increasingly commoditised, leaving significant customer groups badly underserved.
MARKET OUTLOOK Whilst UK buy-to-let lending contracted sharply following the financial crisis, the market began its recovery in 2009 and had grown to 40.6 billion by 2016 still 11% below its peak.
Government changes to the tax treatment of buy-to-let property and finance, combined with the Prudential Regulation Authoritys PRA introduction of minimum underwriting standards for buy-to-let mortgages are expected to moderate the rate of market growth going forward.
As an established buy-to-let specialist, Paragon is well-aligned with the PRA approach and has the opportunity to grow its market share under the new regime.
Housing tenure Strong demand for PRS property The PRS makes up 20% of the English housing market Tenant demand - landlord perceptions Owner occupiers Private renters Social renters % - Tenant demand is decreasing 17% % - Tenant demand is stable % - Tenant demand is increasing 63% 20% Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Source: English Housing Survey 2015-16 Source: BDRC Continental PAGE 16 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts percent COMMERCIAL LENDING WHAT WE DO Building on the asset finance business acquired in 2015, the division offers motor and asset lease products to consumer, SME and smaller corporate customers, focussing on specialist assets and underserved markets.
It also funds small scale property developments and has recently launched in the structured lending market, offering senior debt facilities to non-bank lenders.
MARKET DYNAMICS The Group aims to bring new competition and choice to UK consumers and SMEs.
While the asset finance market is broad, most participants are focussed on specific asset classes or markets, providing the Group with opportunities to increase its presence through either organic growth or acquisition.
Access to finance for smaller UK corporates has been seen as constrained in recent years and the Group will continue to develop new offerings to address underserved markets.
MARKET OUTLOOK UK SME asset finance market is forecast to continue growing strongly while the motor finance market is expected to remain stable.
UK asset finance originations Forecast gross advances for UK motor finance New Used 31.6 30.2 28.0 24.9 22.1 22.0 21.3 Source: Finance and Leasing Association Source: Verdict Financial - UK Consumer Credit 2016 - Forecasts and Future Opportunities PAGE 17 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017F 2018F 2019F 2020F 2021F billion billion IDEM CAPITAL WHAT WE DO Idem Capital is a leading UK consumer loan purchaser, acquiring and servicing loan portfolios, including first and second mortgages as well as unsecured loan assets.
In addition, it offers servicing of loan portfolios for clients including banks, private equity houses and specialist lenders.
MARKET DYNAMICS Idem Capital acquires loan portfolios from banks that are either restructuring or refocusing their activities.
It focuses on the acquisition and servicing of paying and semi-performing debt.
Idem Capital does not actively compete to acquire non-paying debt.
TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY Idem Capital has managed more than one million customer accounts and we are proud of the reputation we have established for customer service.
We assist our customers in managing their accounts and strive to create fair and affordable repayment solutions should they encounter financial difficulties.
Idem Capitals loan portfolio by value Idem Capital customer satisfaction 2016 17 Loans secured on property Unsecured loans 35% 65% Source: Idem Capital customer survey MARKET OUTLOOK The UKs well-established debt purchase market is worth over 10 billion annually, with further growth forecast as banks continue to fide-leverage and focus on core lending markets and secondary sales come to market.
Market consolidation amongst debt purchasers combined with improved availability of funding has led to greater competition for individual portfolios.
Idem Capital targets those portfolios where it can derive the most benefit from its core credit profiling and administration skills and focuses on disciplined analysis and evaluation of portfolio cash flows on potential acquisitions.
PAGE 18 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts October November December January February March April May June July August September percent FUNDING WHAT WE DO The Groups principal source of funding for new lending is its range of savings products offered to UK households.
All balances are sourced from the internet and the Group seeks to offer simple understandable products at competitive rates.
Other funding for lending is derived from the efficient use of Bank of England funding schemes, while securitisation continues to fund much of the back book and may be used tactically in the future.
Central funding is provided through corporate and retail bonds.
MARKET DYNAMICS The UK household savings market is 1.1 trillion, so provides a deep and liquid source for the Groups funding.
Costs for this funding remain low.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Paragon Bank funds its lending through a range of safe, simple and transparent Easy Access, Notice and Fixed Term savings accounts.
In May 2016, ISAs were added to the range.
Our regular survey of new savings customers demonstrates a high level of satisfaction with our products and our online application process.
of customers opening a savings Net promoter account would probably or score for account definitely consider taking out opening 87% 59 another account.
CENTRAL BANK FUNDING The Group uses facilities provided by the Bank of England under the TFS, ILTR and FLS schemes to support lending growth.
These schemes provide cost effective funding so long as appropriate targets are met.
WHOLESALE FUNDING The Group has a core expertise in securitisation and other debt raising.
While no wholesale funding was raised in the year, such transactions are a strategically important option.
OUTLOOK Following the restructuring, retail deposit balances will form the mainstay of the Groups funding, with the capacity to support significant balance sheet growth.
Use of Bank of England facilities will be optimised, for as long as they are available.
Securitisation and other wholesale debt markets will be accessed on an tactical basis, when appropriate.
PAGE 19 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts A2.2 PRINCIPAL RISKS There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed and which could impact significantly on its ability to conduct its business successfully.
CATEGORY RISK DESCRIPTION Business Economic The Group could be materially affected by a severe downturn in the UK economy given its income is wholly derived from activities within the UK.
This is more difficult to forecast given current uncertainties on the terms on which the UK will leave the EU in March 2019.
This could reduce demand for the Groups loan products, increase the number of customers that default on their loans and cause security asset values to fall.
Concentration The Groups business plans could be particularly affected by any downturn in the performance of the UK private rented sector and or further regulatory intervention to control buy-to-let lending.
Transition Failure to manage major internal reorganisations or integrate acquired businesses safely and effectively could adversely affect the Groups business plans and damage its reputation.
Credit Customer Failure to target and underwrite credit decisions effectively could result in customers becoming less able to service debt, exposing the Group to unexpected material losses.
Counterparty Failure of an institution holding the Groups cash deposits or providing hedging facilities for risk mitigation could expose the Group to loss or liquidity issues.
Conduct Fair outcomes Failure to deliver fair outcomes for its customers could impact on the Groups reputation and its financial performance.
Operational People Failure to attract or retain appropriately skilled key employees at all levels could impact upon the Groups ability to deliver its business plans and strategic objectives.
Systems The inability of the Groups systems to support its business operations effectively and or guard against cyber security risks could result in reputational damage and financial loss.
Regulation Given the highly regulated sectors in which the Group operates, compliance failures or failures to respond effectively to new and emerging regulatory and legal developments could result in reputational damage and financial loss.
Liquidity and Capital Funding If access to funding became restricted, either through market movements or regulatory intervention, this might result in the scaling back or cessation of some business lines.
Capital Proposals by the BCBS to change capital requirements for lending secured on residential property could have adverse financial implications for the Group.
Market Interest rates Reduction in margins between market lending and borrowing rates or mismatches in the Group balance sheet could impact profits.
Pension Obligation Pensions The obligation to support the Groups defined benefit pension plan might deplete resources.
The Group has considered and responded to all of these risks, mitigating the exposure as far as is practicable to ensure that its risk profile remains within the Boards stated risk appetite.
These risks are discussed in more detail in Section B6.5.
PAGE 20 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts
