Strategic report Introduction to strategy Delivering our strategy Victrexs strategy is to be the world leader in value creation through innovative PEEK and PAEK based high performance polymer solutions.
POLYMER & PARTS Dear shareholder, Creating and delivering future value Our focused growth strategy is now well embedded, to further Unlike typical materials companies, Victrex seeks to understand the differentiate Victrex by moving downstream into selected semi-finished end market need, often where existing materials or technologies are product forms and finished products and components parts, not delivering the required performance.
Once wehave proven the complementing our core polymer materials offering.
concept and used our know-how to develop asolution, we then need to deliver the burden of proof for our markets.
Driving Polymer & Parts seeks to capture increased value from each adoption of often disruptive technology means considering M&A application opportunity, for example not only by supplying polymer, and working with partners or Key Opinion Leaders to deliver this but by developing selected parts which deliver a total solution to burden of proof.
As we have shown over many years, particularly our customers.
This enables us to capture not just the material share with our Medical business developed organically into a 50m of an application, but to secure revenue for selected semi-finished revenue business today we have proven our capabilities to deliver parts or components too.
This year we made continued progress with Our core polymer business continues to and will remain integral several key milestones delivered in our growth pipeline.
These toVictrex in the future, but our emerging parts business offers include a supply agreement for PEEK Gears with a major Automotive significant opportunities to deliver the unmet need in specific manufacturer: first meaningful revenue for PEEK-OPTIMA HA applications, typically where no supply chain or capability exists but Enhanced, our next generation Spine product: and a joint venture to where there is an opportunity to solve a problem for our customers build the supply chain for our Aerospace Loaded Brackets application.
I look forward to driving forward our strategy and looking at how we may be able to accelerate the significant growth Underpin: safety, sustainability and capability opportunities that exist for Victrex.
We will continue to underpin our strategy through a safe and sustainable business, including effective recruitment of talent, Driving our core business effective processes and systems, and business efficiency.
Our core business has performed well this year and we continue After only a few months as Chief Executive, Ihave found great togain specification of our product with end users.
Sales volumes, people, a committed team, a highly compelling strategy, a strong excluding Consumer Electronics, increased by over 15% in2017.
technology platform and significant growth opportunities.
During Continuing to focus on cost efficiency opportunities in our business the year we communicated our vision to grow our downstream will also remain important for Victrex and we have some further salesfrom new products and differentiated polymers to be 1020% areas of opportunity here, including within the supply chain.
of Group sales over the medium term.
In summary, our strategy is unchanged, with execution and delivery remaining key for us over Differentiating through innovation the coming years.
Ilook forward to updating you further on our Developing new grades and new product forms using our inherent progress at the end of2018.
innovation capabilities supported by our world-class Polymer Innovation Centre, which came online this year will also help to drive medium-term growth and differentiate our business.
That is why we are aligned to Polymer & Parts, by focusing on a small number Jakob Sigurdsson of selected application areas, which require high levels of innovation Chief Executive Officer and technical know-how.
In short, Victrex is creating new markets for 5 December 2017 our products, extending beyond simply manufacturing polymers.
A great example is in Automotive, where our PEEK Gears proposition can replace metal gears, saving weight, cost from quicker manufacturing, and offering reduced noise and other performance benefits.
Electric vehicles are another emerging area with significant opportunity for us, including e-motors, actuators and other applications.
10 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report When will we start to see the strategy contributing in a meaningful way?
Q&A with the CEO, Many of our new growth programmes are disruptive to metal orincumbent materials, and will take time to be adopted in their respective markets, even if they are technically proven.
Additionally, Jakob Sigurdsson themore bespoke nature of these applications means delivering what we call the `burden of proof to customers is important this includes building the supply chain with manufacturing capability, working with What is your view on the strategy after partners, and gaining support from Key Opinion Leaders to deliver afewmonths at Victrex?
evidence of the performance benefits of new applications using our We have what I believe is a unique and compelling strategy.
Our core polymer business remains in growth and we are Wewillmaximise and grow ourcore materials business whilst continuing to invest in technical and marketing resources to drive usingour inherent innovation capabilities to build and create new adoption and deliver the burden of proof for our pipeline of growth markets for our polymers and our semi-finished products.
In the meantime, we are also continuing to benefit from ofour competitors are doing this.
If you consider that Polymer & foreign currency, whilst our cash generation remains strong, providing Parts positions Victrex as a total solutions provider, we have the the potential for incremental returns to shareholders.
opportunity to capture more value and more revenue than we do today.
Consider also that whether it is Gears, Knee or Dental What will you bring to Victrex?
theseare sizeable markets and the growth opportunities are My experience is diverse, in both private and public companies, and significant.
We may be in the early commercialisation stages but across a number of industry sectors and geographies.
I am also a there is nodoubt that we are delivering on these early milestones Chemist and my education was very science oriented.
Where my and making progress.
experience is relevant to Victrex is in developing growth strategies and importantly delivering them in emerging or new markets with Our strategy and key performance indicators global business development experience, including at Promens, where Pages 12 and 13 the company moved into several new market areas, and Rohm & Haas, a company which had similar innovation strengths to Victrex, and was aligned to excellence and product leadership.
Victrex has several new market areas itself and is at an early stage of commercialisation and further developing its competencies.
Arenewed focus on execution and ways that we can accelerate this whether organically or through M&A and partnerships, or refining our pipeline of projects will be mypriority.
What have you learned so far at Victrex?
That our growth opportunities and the reasons to invest in Victrex are ascompelling as I originally thought and that we have a great team ofemployees globally who are committed to move forward with this strategy, differentiating our business and, as I have said, with execution as our number one priority every day.
I have also learned that we are not short of growth opportunities but that we need to remain focused on executing what we have.
Our investment case remains strong.
Alongside our growth opportunities, our cash generation provides an additional attraction and Im looking forward to continuing the strong track recordVictrex has.
