STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is focused on creating long-term sustainable value for our shareholders, delivered through five key levers.
We made further progress on each of these levers inthe period: by the end of calendar year 2018.
TFS operates over 200 units, with 1.
O ptimising our offer from the positive operations in six of the main airports in India including Delhi and trends in our markets Mumbai, as well as in railway stations.
TFS has delivered a strong financial performance in the ten months since acquisition and has We are focused on the food and beverage markets in travel locations, contributed 2.9% to our revenue.
which benefit from long-term structural growth.
We aim to use our broad portfolio of brands and retailing skills to drive profitable likefor-like sales, ensuring that we benefit from the positive trends in 3.
Optimising gross margins these markets.
Gross margin, excluding TFS, increased by 90 bps in the year at Like-for-like sales growth in the year was driven by the ongoing constant currency.
Approximately 30 bps of this improvement is due roll-out of our retailing programmes which are delivering well.
to higher growth in the air sector, which typically has higher gross We have made further good progress on optimising our product margins but higher concession fees than the rail sector.
As anticipated, ranges and the development of premium products to provide we have started to see some increased food inflation in the business customers with additional choice.
For example, in conjunction with and we expect this to continue in the new financial year.
celebrity chef, James Martin, we have recently introduced a new James Martins Kitchen JMK premium range as part of our UK The roll-out of gross margin initiatives is progressing well across on-board rail offer.
We have a new first class menu, and in standard our regions.
Key areas of focus include procurement disciplines, class we now include JMK premium lines such as Hot Pots and British range and recipe rationalisation and the management of waste and Ham and Barber Cheese baguettes.
This year we have made good progress in the introduction of equipment that automates food preparation processes in our sites.
This helps to improve the product consistency, as well as driving 2.
Growing profitable new space labour efficiency and reducing waste.
To support these initiatives, we continue to invest in both central and local resources.
The travel food and beverage market in airports and railway stations is valued at approximately 14bn and is characterised by long-term structural growth.
It offers excellent opportunities for us to expand 4.
Running an efficient and effective our business across the globe.
organisation Net contract gains were 6.0%, driven by new unit openings and high levels of contract retention.
The higher level of net gains in the We have a multi-year programme of initiatives to improve operating current year was driven by strong performances in North America efficiency, which is important to the Group given the backdrop of and the Rest of the World.
These large and growing markets where ongoing labour cost inflation.
Labour efficiencies contributed a we still have a relatively small share, provide attractive expansion 20bps improvement to our operating margin.
opportunities and the pipeline of new contracts is encouraging.
We continue to develop systems to better align labour to sales, We have strong disciplines around the contract tendering process allowing us to optimise service levels and labour costs.
We have which support our ability to deliver attractive returns from new developed a more standardised, systematised approach to labour business investment.
forecasting and scheduling through a programme called Better Our new business growth is underpinned by our ability to deliver Service Planning.
We have rolled out the new system across the attractive and effective food solutions at travel locations UK and initial results are encouraging.
We are now undertaking internationally.
An important element of this is the brand line up we further pilot studies across a number of other countries.
Our brands include both international brands which we also trialling self-scan and self-serve checkouts at a number of franchise, such as Burger King and Starbucks, our own proprietary units, both of which can contribute to greater efficiency and the brands such as Upper Crust and Ritazza, and bespoke concepts and customer experience.
We have opened a number of units across our range of brands in the year including a new look Ritazza at Euston station, 5.
O ptimising investment utilising best a Camden Food Company in Dubai International Airport and an Upper Crust at Brisbane Airport.
We have further expanded our practice and shared resource relationships with high profile chefs and this year opened our first Paul Hollywood outlet, KNEAD, at Euston station, which has been We have maintained our focus on generating efficiencies to optimise our investments, drive returns and use best practice and shared well received by our customers.
We have also secured a deal with Gordon Ramsay to open a new grab-and-go concept in the air sector.
We are continuing to look at how shared back office services can reduce cost and drive simpler, more efficient processes.
A significant development for us has been our recent entry We have now established two outsourced shared service centres in into India.
India is the worlds second most populous country, Pune in India and Lodz in Poland which are used by a number of SSPs with over one billion inhabitants, and has seen sustained strong countries for financial transaction processing.
We continue to look passenger growth in recent years, which is forecast to continue.
for further opportunities to outsource administration and financial Infrastructure growth is expected to support this and it has been processes.
In addition to this, we have made good progress in driving reported that the government is scheduled to invest USD120bn in energy efficiencies in the year and have introduced a number of airport infrastructure over the next decade.
We acquired 33% of programmes which have helped to reduce overall energy usage.
TFS in India during the year and will acquire a further 16% interest 8
