STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OUR BUSINESS Our marketplace Our operations are managed on a regional basis and are primarily focused on the airport and railway station markets.
During 2017, 61% of our revenues were generated in the air sector and 33% in the rail sector.
We estimate that our core market, comprising food and beverage sales in airports and railway stations, was valued at approximately 1 14bn in 2015.
The travel food and beverage market is highly fragmented with the top three players, of which we are one, accounting forapproximately a third of the global market on the basis of this valuation.
Our market benefits from a number of long-term structural growth drivers: the increasing propensity to travel, driven by rising GDP and disposable incomes: the ongoing trends towards eating out of home and eating on the move: and investment in travel infrastructure, with increasing focus on the provision of food and beverage offerings in travel hubs to drive additional commercial revenue streams.
Air Rail 61% 33% SSP revenue generated in the air sector in 2017 SSP revenue generated in the rail sector in 2017 2 According to Airport Council International ACI, air passenger Rail passengers in our key European markets UK, France 4 numbers are expected to grow at 5.2% per annum to 2029, reaching and Germany were estimated to total 5.8 billion in 2016. more than double the seven billion passengers in 2015.
This growth Passenger numbers within these countries have increased at 4 is underpinned by a number of factors, including: rising disposable an average annual rate ranging from 1.9% to 3.5% since 2013, incomes particularly in developing markets, with the emergence of a withmoderate growth forecast to continue in the medium term.
more affluent middle class : the increasing globalisation of business: Supporting this growth is the ongoing investment in rail infrastructure investment in airline capacity, in particular by low-cost carriers which by governments seeking to encourage passengers to switch from have driven prices down and stimulated demand: and investment in 5 road to rail transport and to also address environmental concerns.
airport infrastructure, most notably in developing markets.
This investment has resulted in a significant expansion in track, As a consequence, further growth in passenger numbers is forecast including in the high-speed rail network, which has increased 13% over the medium-term in all our geographic markets.
Forecasting to since 2010 across the UK, France and Germany, with a further 6 2040, ACI anticipates these increases to be strongest in the Middle 40% already planned or under construction in existing projects.
East and Africa 7.7% and Asia Pacific 6.2%, with India expected The investment in new trains, replacement of existing fleets, and to become the third largest country by total passenger traffic.
the expanded track are all set to deliver increased capacity and to Smaller increases are forecast for the more mature European 3.7% support greater passenger numbers in the future.
1 Company estimate based on third party market research March 2014 Spend per passenger is influenced by several factors: the quality of commissioned for the SSP IPO.
This identified a core market of 13.8bn in 2013, the catering proposition at airports: the rapid growth of low-cost which includes airports and railway stations globally but excludes rail in North airlines with a typically limited catering offer: and the scaling back America.
The equivalent market in 2015 amounts to c. 14bn at average exchange rates, or c. 15bn on a constant currency basis.
of on-board services by major flagship carriers which all help drive 2 spend levels.
4 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Our brands We have over 450 brands in our portfolio, which means we can respond to the specific needs of passengers as they travel around the world.
We make sure that each brand is ideally suited to each location.
International and local proprietary brands are tailored specifically to the travel environment, as are bespoke concepts which we have created incollaboration with clients, brand partners and leading chefs.
Local hero brands International brands Our own brands Bespoke concepts 5
