CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Vagn Srensen Kate Swann Jonathan Davies Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Vagn joined the SSP Board as Kate joined SSP as Chief Executive Jonathan has been the Chief Chairman in June 2006.
Financial Officer of SSP since its formation within Compass Group Board Committees: Board Committees: in 2004.
Member: Nomination Committee None Board Committees: Previous experience: Previous experience: None Vagn was the President and Chief Kate began her retail career with Executive Officer of Austrian Tesco plc before working with Previous experience: Airlines Group from 2001 to some of the UKs best-known Jonathan began his career in the 2006 and held various senior companies, including Homepride food industry with Unilever plc commercial positions and served Foods, Coca-Cola Schweppes and in 1984, before joining OC&C, as Deputy Chief Executive Officer Dixons Retail plc.
She then joined the strategic management with SAS Scandinavian Airlines Homebase in 1997, ultimately consultancy, in 1987.
Over the System from 1984 to 2001. in the role of Managing Director, following eight years he was Other previous roles include and in 2000 was made Managing part of its rapid growth and serving as the Chairman of the Director of Argos.
Kate joined development from a start-up to Association of European Airlines WH Smith plc as Chief Executive becoming a leading international and of British Midland Airways, Officer in 2003.
In 1995 Jonathan as a director of Lufthansa Cargo, received both The Daily Telegraph joined Safeway plc, where he and as a member of the Board of award for Business Leader of the was responsible for strategy and Governors of the International Decade at the National Business planning, before becoming Finance AirTransport Association.
Awards and the Institute for Director on the Executive Board Turnaround Chairmans Special between 1999 and 2004.
Current external appointments: Award for exceptional and Vagn is a Senior Industrial and He has a degree in Chemistry from extraordinary performance in Investment Advisor to EQT Oxford University and an MBA the transformation of WH Smith.
He is Chairman of from INSEAD Business School, Kate also served as a NonScandic Hotels AB, Air Canada France.
Executive Director of Babcock and FLSmidth &Co. A S, and a International Group plc.
board member of Royal Caribbean Cruises Limited, VFS Global, Current external appointments: Braganza AS, Nordic Aviation Kate has been a Non-Executive Capital A S, TIA Technology Director of England Hockey A S, ZEBRA A S, JP Politikens since 2016 and is also a NonHus A S, CP Dyvig & Co A Sand Executive Director of Independent Unilode Aviation Solutions.
In addition, Vagn is a consultant Kate graduated from the Senior Advisor to Morgan Stanley University of Bradford in in the Nordic region.
1986 with a BSc in Business He has an MSc in Economics Management and received an and Business Administration honorary doctorate from the from Aarhus Business School university in 2007 where she is in Denmark.
26 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE John Barton Ian Dyson Per Utnegaard Denis Hennequin Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director John joined the SSP Board as the Ian joined the SSP Board as an Per joined the SSP Board as an Denis joined the SSP Board as senior independent Non-Executive independent Non-Executive independent Non-Executive an independent Non-Executive Director in April 2014.
Board Committees: Board Committees: Board Committees: Board Committees: Chairman: Nomination Committee, Chairman: Audit Committee Member: Remuneration Member: Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee Member: Nomination Committee, Committee, Audit Committee Remuneration Committee, Member: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Previous experience: Previous experience: Previous experience: Pers previous roles include Previous experience: John has served as Chairman Ian was formerly Chief Executive Group Wholesale Director and a Denis began his career at of Next plc, Cable & Wireless Officer and then Non-Executive member of the Group Board at The McDonalds Corporation, Worldwide plc, Brit Insurance Director of Punch Taverns plc, Alliance UniChem plc, Senior Vice becoming President of McDonalds Holdings plc, Wellington Chief Executive Officer of Spirit President, Corporate Business Europe in 2005 where he was Underwriting plc, and Catlin Group Pub Company Plc, Group Finance Development at Danzas Holding responsible for 6,600 restaurants Underwriting.
He was previously & Operations Director at Marks Ltd a subsidiary of Deutsche Post in 40 countries until 2010.
He has Senior Independent Director of & Spencer Group plc and Finance AG and various senior positions at also served as Chairman and Chief WH Smith plc and Hammerson plc.
Director of The Rank Group TNT Post Group.
Executive Officer of Accor S. A. plc.
Prior to this he was Group the worldwide hotel group, and He was also the Chief Executive Per has also been the Group Financial Controller of Hilton as a director of E-house Concept of insurance broker JIB Group plc President and the CEO of International Co.
He joined Hilton Limited, Cojean Limited and the from 1984 to 1997.
After JIBs Swissport International Ltd and from Le Meridien, a division of John Lewis Partnership plc.
merger with Lloyd Thomson in the Chairman of the Executive Forte Group plc, where he had 1997, he became Chairman of the Board of Bilfinger SE.
Current external appointments: been Finance Director.
Ian has also combined group, Jardine Lloyd Denis has been a Non-Executive been a Non-Executive Director of Current external appointments: Thompson Group plc, until 2001.
Director of Eurostar International Misys plc.
Per has been the Vice Chairman of Limited since 2012.
His other Current external appointments: Swissport International Ltd since His early career was spent directorships include The Green John has been Chairman of easyJet 2015.
Since April 2017 he has also with Arthur Andersen, where Jersey Limited and Bakkavor PLC since 2013 and is a Nonbeen a Board Member of Xouis he qualified as a chartered Group Limited.
He is also a partner Executive Director of Matheson & Holding AG.
accountant in 1986 and was at French Food Capital.
Co. Limited and Luceco plc.
promoted to a Partner of the firm in 1994.
John is a qualified chartered accountant and received an MBA Current external appointments: from Strathclyde University.
Ian is Senior Independent Director of Paddy Power Betfair plc and ASOS plc, and a Non-Executive Director of Intercontinental Hotels Group plc.
