STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is focused on meeting the food and beverage needs of our clients and customers in the complex and challenging travel environment.
We are able to achieve this through a combination of international scale and local expertise.
Our proposition to clients is The Food Travel Experts.
This has helped us achieve our leading market position and retain our clients over the long term.
It will also provide a strong platform for profitable growth in the future.
This business model is founded on five key elements: 1 2 Leading market Local insight and positions international scale We have leading positions in some of We combine local insight into markets the most attractive sectors and regions and customers with international scale of the travel food and drink market.
A strong local presence These sectors have a number of longenables us to understand local customers term structural growth drivers, such as tastes and needs, as well as allowing us to increasing passenger volumes and rising maintain close relationships with clients spend per passenger, and are supported and brand partners.
by clients increasingly seeking to develop Our international reach enables us to and commercialise their sites.
benefit from economies of scale, such as We have outlets in over 30 countries in procurement and corporate functions around the world with experienced and systems, as well as being able to share and established teams in all of best practice across regions, countries these countries.
6 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 3 4 5 Food travel Long-term client Experienced expertise relationships management team We provide a compelling proposition for Our principal clients are the owners Our senior management team has both clients and customers based on and operators of airports and railway deep experience and is supported our food travel expertise, which includes stations, with these locations generating by high-quality local management.
a deep understanding of customers c. 94% of our revenues in 2017.
They have substantial expertise within food and beverage needs, an extensive Other locations we operate in include the travel food and beverage market and range of brands and concepts, a track motorway service areas, hospitals, sports broader retail industry.
record of innovation and operational stadia and shopping areas.
expertise in logistically demanding We have demonstrated an ability travel environments.
to win, build and maintain strong, profitable client relationships.
We have long-standing relationships with many of our clients, and have maintained high success rates in retaining our contracts.
