Strategic Report The Strategic Report provides a review of the Companys business, the operating performance during the year to 30th September 2017, and its strategy going forward.
It also considers the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company.
References to other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts are provided where appropriate.
Strategy in the year to 30th September 2017 and Strategic Review Throughout the year under review the Company continued to operate as an approved investment trust, following its investment strategy and policy which is intended to achieve a rate of return on equity of between 10% and 15% per year over the long term, by investing in a portfolio of private equity assets.
In the period to 31st May 2017, the business and affairs of the Company were managed on an exclusive and fully discretionary basis by Epiris.
From 1st June 2017, the Board and a newly developed internal executive function assumed all strategic and administrative activities, working closely with G10 Capital LLP G10, who were appointed as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM from 1st June 2017 to fulfil relevant regulated activities such as risk management.
Throughout the period to 31st May 2017, a combination of favourable market conditions and structural incentives for Epiris resulted in a significant number of asset realisations and the accumulation of substantial cash balances.
Subsequently, the Board initiated a number of actions to return excess cash to shareholders.
These comprised: 94 million tender offer initiated on 8th November 2016 1 billion Special Dividend announced on 24th March 2017 350 million second Special Dividend announced on 25th May 2017 350 million third Special Dividend announced on 23rd October 2017 On 23rd October 2017, the Company announced the key outcomes of activity undertaken since Phase I of the review.
The Company has: Completed the handover of the investment portfolio and operational responsibilities from its former external manager Developed the requisite resources to pursue its new corporate strategy Reduced recurring annual management expenses from approximately 33 million to approximately 5 million Agreed or completed the disposal of all of its Funds, Secondaries, Debt, and Listed assets Created a focused corporate investment portfolio Implemented a robust and sustainable corporate governance structure with the Board responsible for continued delivery for shareholders Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review At the same time the Company announced the key outcomes of Phase II of the strategic review to be: Focus on the existing corporate portfolio, in the belief that current market conditions do not support new investments outside the existing portfolio.
However, should conditions change, the Board will consider new investments In line with a capital allocation strategy that optimises returns on shareholder capital, the Board declared a further Special Dividend of 350 million, or 914p per share.
This was paid on 1st December 2017 Subject to shareholder and regulatory approval, the Company will in due course update its investment policy to reflect a focus on shareholder returns Actions will be taken to further simplify the Groups corporate and underlying partnership structures, realising further cost and efficiency benefits The Companys intention to change its name to remove the words Private Equity to better reflect its revised strategic focus Subsequent to the 23rd October 2017 announcement, the Company has engaged in discussion with the UKLA in relation to reclassification of its listing category.
Subject to the necessary shareholder approvals, the Company intends seeking reclassification from Listing Rule 15 closed-ended investment funds in due course.
Until that time, the Company will continue to operate as an investment trust company under its existing Investment Policy.
The Board will convene a General Meeting of shareholders when appropriate in order to consider the relevant proposed changes.
The Company continues to create value and optimise returns for shareholders through maximising the benefits at each stage of the buy, improve and sell model for investment holdings.
As announced, the Company will consider investments in new holdings when market conditions are conducive.
Each of these steps drives improvements in the Companys key performance metrics, which are Return On Equity, Net Asset Value per share total return and Total Shareholder Return.
Principal Risks and Risk Management The Board considers that the risks detailed below are the principal risks facing the Company currently, along with the risks detailed in Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
These are the risks that could affect the ability of the Company to deliver its recently announced strategy.
The Board can confirm that the Principal Risks of the Company, including those which would threaten its future performance, solvency or liquidity, have been robustly assessed throughout the year ended 30th September 2017, and that processes are in place to continue this assessment.
Further detail of Risk Management processes that are in place can be found in the Directors Report on pages 76 to 88.
Macroeconomic Risks The performance of the Companys investment portfolio is materially influenced by economic conditions.
These may affect demand for products or services supplied by investee companies, foreign exchange rates, the price of commodities or other input costs, interest rates, debt and equity capital markets and the number of active trade and financial buyers.
All of these factors could be influenced by the outcomes of the Brexit 6 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 negotiations, and all have an impact on the Companys ability to realise a return from its investment portfolio and cannot be directly controlled by the Company.
The Board does not consider the level of these risks to be significantly higher or lower than at the same time last year.
Strategy Implementation Risks The Company is subject to the risk that its long-term strategy and its level of performance fail to meet the expectations of its shareholders.
The Board has undertaken a thorough review of the Companys investment strategy and policy and its structure, with the objective of maximising long-term shareholder value.
One of the aims of this review was to mitigate this risk and put in place appropriate procedures.
A robust and sustainable corporate governance structure has been implemented with the Board responsible for continued delivery for shareholders.
An executive team and operational infrastructure have been established in order to deliver the strategy.
The key outcomes of the second phase of the strategic review were announced on 23rd October 2017.
The Board announced its intention to continue its strategy of optimising return on shareholder capital.
Options for reclassifying the current listing category are being explored and, subject to shareholder and regulatory approval in due course, the Investment Policy will then be updated to reflect a focus on shareholder returns.
The Board also considers that current market conditions do not support new investment.
If these conditions remain for a prolonged period or the Board does not see good investment opportunities, the Company will be reliant upon the existing portfolio to generate long-term shareholder value.
Investment Risks The performance of the Companys portfolio is influenced by a number of factors.
These include, but are not limited to: i the quality of the initial investment decision: ii reliance on co-investment parties: iii the quality of the management team of each underlying portfolio company and the ability of that team to successfully implement its business strategy: iv the success of the executive team in building an effective working relationship with each team in order to agree and implement value-creation strategies: v changes in the market or competitive environment in which each portfolio company operates: and vi the macroeconomic risks described above.
Any one of these factors could have an impact on the valuation of an investment and on the Companys ability to realise the investment in a profitable and timely manner.
The executive team has put in place a rigorous investment process which ensures disciplined investment selection and portfolio management.
This includes detailed due diligence, regular portfolio reviews and in many cases an active engagement with portfolio companies, by way of Board representation.
This level of risk is considered broadly similar year on year.
Portfolio Diversification Risk The Company is subject to the risk that its portfolio may not be diversified, by being heavily concentrated in any one sector or industry, particularly in relation to the UK economy where the majority of its investments are located.
Electra attempts to mitigate this risk by making investments in accordance with the Objective and Investment Policy.
In addition, the Board has conducted a thorough review of the portfolio companies as part of the strategic review to maximise long-term shareholder value.
This has sought to mitigate risk in this area.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review Cash Drag Risk Returns to the Company through holding cash deposits are currently low.
As investments are realised and proceeds retained as cash deposits, there is increasing risk to future achievement of the targeted rate of return on equity of between 10% and 15% per year.
This risk is managed through the return of capital to shareholders, in line with the Investment Policy, and mitigated as much as possible through the investment of liquid resources in money market funds.
The distributions to shareholders over the course of the year have reduced this risk.
Valuation Risk The valuation of investments in accordance with IFRS 13 and International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation IPEV guidelines requires considerable judgement and is explained on pages 59 to 61.
This risk has not materially changed in impact from the prior year.
Operational Risk The Company is exposed to a range of operational risks including those relating to human resources, legal and regulatory matters, financial reporting, information technology systems, business disruption or shortcomings in internal controls.
The Companys investment management, custody of assets, control systems and many administrative systems are overseen by the new executive management team.
Appropriately qualified and experienced staff have been recruited for this, and reviews of the implemented controls were carried out by independent parties.
Given the recent transition from Epiris, the risk in this area remains more elevated than in other similar businesses.
Gearing Risks Gearing is used across the Companys investment portfolio.
One of the principal risks of gearing is that it can cause both gains and losses in the asset value of portfolio investments to be magnified.
Another significant risk associated with gearing is the potentially severe impact on portfolio investments of any breaches of their banking covenants.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of gearing is too high and whether the contracted terms of the gearing, including those relating to the terms of borrowings, is appropriate.
Gearing is actively monitored across the investment portfolio, including working closely with management teams to ensure that the terms of any borrowing facilities are being forecast, and through maintaining relationships with the lenders who make facilities available.
Given the smaller size of portfolio this year, the levels of cash held and the lack of borrowing at the Company level, this risk is considered to be lower than in the past.
Foreign Currency Risks A small proportion of the Companys assets are denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
Movements in foreign exchange rates may therefore affect the Companys net assets, as detailed in Note 19 of the Financial Statements.
The Board regularly reviews the Companys foreign exchange exposure together with the most cost-effective approach to hedging such exposure.
At the year end the risk is considered lower than at the prior year end and the Company had no foreign exchange hedges in place.
Foreign exchange exposures also exist across the Companys investment portfolio as a result of the denomination of revenues, costs, assets and liabilities in different currencies.
The executive team works with the Companys investment portfolio to make use of natural, financing and derivative hedges to mitigate these exposures.
8 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Viability Statement The Directors have carefully assessed the Companys current position and prospects as well as the Principal Risks stated above and have formed a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three financial years.
The particular factors the Directors have considered in assessing the prospects of the Company and in selecting a suitable period in making this assessment are as follows: The Company presently invests primarily in long-term illiquid investments which are not publicly traded.
When making a new investment the anticipated holding period is expected to be three years as a minimum The Board reviews the liquidity of the Company and regularly considers commitments to private equity investments, long-term cash flow projections and the use of gearing As detailed in the Directors Report, the Valuations Committee oversees the valuation process.
Typically, the medium-term prospects of each portfolio company form an important part of the valuation process A thorough review of the Companys investment strategy, investment policy and structure with the objective of maximising long-term shareholder return has recently been undertaken Taking account of the above factors of anticipated investment holding periods, the term periods of gearing facilities of the portfolio companies, the liquidity of the Company and the valuations and medium-term prospects of its portfolio companies, the Directors have formed a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three financial years.
In making this assessment, the Directors have assumed that the threats to the Companys solvency or liquidity incorporated in the Principal Risks will be managed or mitigated as outlined there.
Community, Social, Employee, Human Rights and Environmental Issues In carrying out its activities and in its relationships with the community, the Company aims to conduct itself responsibly, ethically and fairly, including in relation to social and human rights issues.
As an investment trust with limited internal resource, the Company has little impact on the environment.
However, the Company believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, the Groups investment process ensures that social, environmental and ethical issues are taken into account and best practice is encouraged.
Diversity There are currently eight male Directors and one female Director on the Board.
The Company aims to have a balance of relevant skills, experience and background amongst the Directors on the Board and believes that all Board appointments should be made on merit and with due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender.
Not including Directors, the Company employs ten people, six women and four men.
The senior management team comprises one woman and two men, excluding Directors.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review Performance and Prospects Performance The summary of performance of results can be seen on the Income Statement on page 25.
A number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs are considered by the Board in assessing the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
These KPIs are: Return On Equity ROE over the long term ROE is calculated as the total return divided by opening shareholder funds.
Electras ROE has been calculated by taking the annualised percentage change in diluted NAV per share after adding back dividends paid per share.
The Companys objective is to achieve a Return On Equity of between 10% and 15% per year over the long term.
Over the 10 years to 30th September 2017 the Companys annualised ROE was 11%.
The Net Asset Value NAV per ordinary share total return This is the aggregate of income and capital profits of the investment portfolio for the period less all costs.
It is expressed as a percentage of the opening NAV.
Electra compares its NAV per ordinary share total return over 12 months and 10 years to the Morningstar Private Equity Index.
The Companys NAV per share total return was 9% over the 12 months and 190% over the 10 years to 30th September 2017.
These compared with 15% and 20% respectively by the Morningstar Private Equity Index.
The Total Shareholder Return TSR This is expressed as a percentage and is calculated by dividing the sum of the closing share price and adjusted for dividends paid in the period by the opening share price.
Electra compares its TSR to the FTSE 250 Index over 12 months and 10 years.
The Companys share price total return was 21% over the 12 months and 230% over the 10 years to 30th September 2017.
These compared with 14% and 139% respectively by the FTSE 250 Index.
A detailed reconciliation from IFRS values to ROE, the NAV per ordinary share total return and the TSR can be found on pages 118 and 119 of the Glossary.
Prospects The Companys current position and prospects are described in the Chairmans Statement pages 2 to 4, the Portfolio Highlights pages 11 and 12, the Portfolio Review pages 13 to 21 and the CFO Review pages 22 and 23 sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 6th December 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Neil Johnson Chairman 6th December 2017 10 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017
