Directors Report To the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC The Directors present the audited Financial Statements of the Group for the year ended 30th September 2017 and their Report on its affairs.
In accordance with the requirement for the Directors to prepare a Strategic Report and an enhanced Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30th September 2017, the following information is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 5 to 10: a review of the business of the Company including details about its objective, strategy and business model, future developments, details of the principal risks and uncertainties associated with the Companys activities including the Companys financial risk management objectives and policies, information regarding community, social, employee, human rights and environmental issues and the Companys policy regarding Board diversity.
Information about Directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares is included within the Annual Report in the Remuneration section of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 89 to 103.
Results and Dividends A revenue profit attributable to shareholders of 7,281,438 2016: profit of 5,154,998 was transferred to Revenue Reserves.
A second Interim Dividend of 110p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30th September 2016 2015: nil, making a total payment for the year ended 30th September 2016 of 154p per ordinary share 2015: 116p, was paid on 19th January 2017 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 16th December 2016.
Three Special Dividends of 2,612p, 914p and 914p were paid on 5th May 2017, 14th July 2017 and 1st December 2017 respectively to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 7th April 2017, 9th June 2017 and 3rd November 2017 respectively.
The 914p dividend paid on 1st December 2017 was declared post year end.
Given the high level of special dividends the Directors do not intend to declare a final dividend in respect of the year ended 30th September 2017.
Management Arrangements Since 1st June 2017, the Company has been managed by an internal team of employees, led by Edward Bramson, the CEO, and Gavin Manson, the CFO.
G10 Capital Limited was appointed as the AIFM on 1st June 2017.
Under the terms of the Management Agreement with the Company, the AIFM is entitled to a fee of 20,000 per month for full scope AIFM services to the Company, and a further 750 per month for management and operators services to investment holding subsidiaries of the Company.
The terms of the Management Agreement between the Company and the AIFM are that the agreement may be terminated by the Company giving 30 days notice to expire on the final date of any calendar quarter being 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st December in any year and by the AIFM giving notice of not less than 6 months.
Epiris was previously appointed as the Manager of the Company under an agreement dated 12th October 2006 and amended on 11th July 2014 to facilitate compliance with AIFMD regulations and as further amended to facilitate Electras review of its capital structure, distribution policy and fee arrangements with Epiris on 10th February 2015 Management and Investment Guideline Agreement MIG.
The agreement was terminated with effect from 31st May 2017 as explained below.
On 26th May 2016, the Board announced an interim update on the review of the Companys investment strategy and policy and its structure, which had been announced on 25th January 2016 with the objective of maximising long-term shareholder value the Review.
As part of this, the Board announced that, in order to provide the Board with the flexibility to put in place any potential changes as an outcome of the Review without any undue delay, it had served notice of termination of the MIG and the related limited partnership agreement under which management of the Companys operations and investments was wholly outsourced to Epiris.
The Board stated that it continued to explore a range of options including retaining the services of Epiris as investment manager under a mutually acceptable agreement.
The MIG provided for a notice period of 12 months the Notice Period during which time Epiris continued to provide the same administrative and investment management services as previously, although there were some constraints on the rate of new investments.
76 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 On 14th October 2016, the Board announced that termination of the contracts with Epiris would become effective on 31st May 2017 and that the Board would return control of all executive and investment functions to the Board with a future migration to a corporate structure and related consolidated financial reporting.
Under the MIG, Epiris received a management fee equal to 1.5% per annum on the gross value of Electras investment portfolio, except that there was no management fee payable on cash and the management fee on Non-Core Listed and Primary Fund Investments was 1% per annum.
In addition, members of Epiris received a carried interest of 18% of net profits on Direct Investments and 9% on Primary Fund Investments, subject to Electra receiving a return of 8% per annum on the relevant investment pool.
Details of the carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of Epiris are contained in Note 23 of the Financial Statements.
The terms of the agreement with Epiris were that the agreement could be terminated by either party giving notice of not less than 12 months.
Since the Company gave notice to terminate the MIG, Epiris was entitled to receive additional compensation equivalent to 12 months priority profit share determined by reference to the previous 12 months priority profit share.
As part of the Board Review which was announced in February 2015, it was agreed that by way of a transitional arrangement, on 12 months notice being given up to and including 31st May 2017, compensation payable to Epiris under the termination provisions would be calculated on the basis of the fee structure existing prior to 1st April 2015.
These arrangements applied up to the date of termination at 31st May 2017.
During the year, the Company continued to operate carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of Epiris and details of these schemes are contained in Note 23 of the Financial Statements.
Epiris was also responsible for the investment management of a number of limited partnership funds to which the Company subscribed.
Epiris managed the Companys investments in accordance with guidelines determined by the Directors and as specified in limited partnerships and the management and investment guideline agreements.
Share Capital At 30th September 2017, there were 38,282,763 2016: 40,270,531 ordinary shares of 25 pence each in issue.
The shares are in registered form.
On 8th November 2016, the Company announced its intention to return up to 200 million of capital to shareholders by way of a tender offer, subject to shareholder approval to be sought at a General Meeting on 2nd December 2016.
A circular was sent to shareholders in November 2016 with full details of the tender offer and the General Meeting.
The proposal was approved by shareholders at the General Meeting on 2nd December 2016 and 1,987,768 ordinary shares were bought back and cancelled on 28th December 2016.
During the year, the Company did not purchase any shares for cancellation, other than the shares bought back under the tender offer referred to above.
Directors The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 108 and 109.
Neil Johnson, Edward Bramson, Ian Brindle, Paul Goodson, David Lis and Roger Perkin served as Directors throughout the year ended 30th September 2017.
Linda Wilding was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 1st December 2016 and John McAdam was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and the Senior Independent Director with effect from 1st January 2017.
Gavin Manson, who was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 8th August 2016, was appointed as a Director of the Company at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 23rd March 2017.
No other person was a Director of the Company during any part of the year to signing on 6th December 2017.
All of the Directors intend to retire at the AGM in 2018 and, being eligible, offer themselves for election or re-election as appropriate.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review Directors Conflicts of Interest Directors report on actual or potential conflicts of interest at each Board meeting.
The Board has agreed that the Nominations Committee is responsible for considering and reviewing conflicts of interest.
Any Director or Directors with a potential conflict would be excluded from such a review.
After consideration, if required, the Nominations Committee would subsequently make a recommendation to the Board of Directors.
Directors Indemnity Directors and Officers qualifying third party liability insurance has been put in place.
In addition, the Company provides, subject to the provisions of applicable UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors in respect of costs incurred in the defence of any proceedings brought against them and also liabilities owed to third parties, in either case arising out of their positions as Directors.
This was in place throughout the financial year under review, up to and including the date of the Financial Statements.
Substantial Interests At 30th September 2017, the Company had received the following notifications of interests of 3% or more in the voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares: Voting Rights Notified Percentage of Voting Rights Direct No.
Direct % Indirect % Sherborne Investors Management Guernsey LLP and its associates 11,446,086 29.90 Prudential PLC Group of Companies 3,628,754 9.47 Fidelity International 1,970,041 5.15 Witan Investment Trust plc 1,566,733 4.09 Percentage shown as a percentage of 38,282,763 ordinary shares, being the number of shares in issue at 30th September 2017 and 6th December 2017.
As at 6th December 2017, the latest practicable date before the publication of this Directors Report, the following notifications had been received.
Prudential PLC Group of Companies now holds 3,830,188 ordinary shares 10.00% and 1,000 ordinary shares through a financial instrument.
Witan Investment Trust plc now holds 1,928,429 ordinary shares 5.04%.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Year Ended 30th September 2017 At the date of this report, Electra has a staff of 11 individuals, operating from small office premises.
Accordingly, it does not have any significant greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Company, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013, including those within its underlying investment portfolio.
Statement of Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the Directors confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Independent Auditors As reported in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee in the Annual Report for the year ended 30th September 2016, the Company put the audit contract out to tender during 2016 and, on the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board agreed to appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company with effect from the audit of the Companys Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2017.
The appointment was approved by the members at the AGM held on 23rd March 2017.
Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys Auditor and authorising the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 1st March 2018.
78 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Going Concern The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements.
The Viability Statement of the Company is in the Strategic Report on page 9.
Risk Management and Internal Controls Details of the Companys risk management and internal control arrangements, including the Boards annual review of the effectiveness of the system of the Companys risk management and internal control arrangements are contained in the Corporate Governance Statement below.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held on Thursday 1st March 2018 at 2.00pm.
The formal notice of the AGM is set out in a separate circular, which will be posted to shareholders with the Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2017.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares As at 30th September 2017, the Company had authority to purchase for cancellation up to 5,738,586 shares.
This authority will lapse at the 2018 AGM.
It is intended that a special resolution will be proposed to renew the Boards authority to purchase its own shares, so as to permit the purchase of up to 5,738,586 of the Companys ordinary shares or such other number of shares as is equal to 14.99% of the total number of ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution subject to the constraints set out in the special resolution.
The Directors would intend to use this authority to purchase shares only if this would result in an increase in NAV per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Should any shares be purchased under this authority, it is the intention of the Board that such shares be cancelled.
The Directors believe that the renewal of the Boards authority to purchase shares, as detailed above, is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and therefore recommend shareholders to vote in favour of this resolution.
4 requires the Company to include certain information in a single identifiable section of the Annual Report and Accounts or a cross reference table indicating where the information is set out.
The following disclosures are made in accordance with this requirement: i details of the Companys proposed Long-Term Incentive Plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 89 to 103. ii details of Directors fees waived by Mr Bramson are set out in the Remuneration Policy on pages 89 to 103.
The Directors confirm that there are no further disclosures to be made in this regard.
Additional Information for Shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
Alteration of Articles of Association Any change to the Companys Articles of Association needs to be approved by shareholders by means of a special resolution.
Dividends and Distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review Voting Rights Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed has one vote.
However, if the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution, and is instructed by one or more of those members to vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, or is instructed by one or more of those members to vote in one way and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
Every corporate representative present who has been duly authorised by a corporation has the same voting rights as the corporation would be entitled to.
On a poll, every member present in person or by duly appointed proxy or corporate representative has one vote for every share of which he is the holder or in respect of which his appointment as proxy or corporate representative has been made.
A member, proxy or corporate representative entitled to more than one vote need not, if he votes, use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses the same way.
In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior who tenders a vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders, and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register of members.
A member is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend and to speak and vote at a meeting of the Company.
The appointment of a proxy shall be deemed also to confer authority to demand or join in demanding a poll.
Delivery of an appointment of proxy shall not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting or at any adjournment of it.
A proxy need not be a member.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
Restrictions on Voting No member shall have the right to vote at any general meeting or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition if a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006 the member shall not be entitled to vote.
Deadlines for Exercising Voting Rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of a proxy form in hard copy and electronic form of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
In the case of a poll taken subsequently to the date of the meeting or adjourned meeting, the proxy form must be received not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the Directors may determine before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
Variation of Rights The Articles specify that if the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, rights attached to any class may be varied, either in such manner if any as may be provided by those rights, or in the absence of any such provision, with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as Own Shares Held, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class, but not otherwise.
At every such separate meeting other than an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons together holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class in question excluding any shares of that class held as Own Shares Held.
At an adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding shares of the class in question other than Own Shares Held or his proxy.
80 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Transfer of Shares The instrument of transfer of a share in certificated form may be in any usual form or in any other form which the Directors approve and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
Where any class of shares is, for the time being, a participating security, title to shares of that class which are recorded on an operator register of members as being held in uncertificated form may be transferred by means of the relevant system.
The transfer may not be in favour of more than four transferees.
Transfers of shares in uncertificated form are effected by means of the relevant system.
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid provided that if the share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority such refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: a is lodged, duly stamped, at the Office or at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where a certificate has not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: b is in respect of only one class of share: and c is in favour of not more than four transferees.
If the Directors refuse to register a transfer of a share, they shall as soon as practicable and in any event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company in the case of a transfer of a share in certificated form or the date on which the Operator-instruction was received by the Company in the case of a transfer of a share in uncertificated form to a person who is to hold it thereafter in certificated form send to the transferee notice of the refusal together with reasons for the refusal.
The Directors shall send such further information about the reasons for the refusal to the transferee as the transferee may reasonably request.
Nothing in the Articles shall preclude the Directors from recognising a renunciation of the allotment of any share by the allottee in favour of some other person.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors Unless otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution the number of Directors disregarding alternate Directors shall not be less than 3 nor more than 15.
At the AGM in every year all Directors who held office at the time of each of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them shall retire from office by rotation and such further Directors if any shall retire by rotation as would bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of Directors in office at the date of the notice of the meeting or, if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not greater than one third.
The additional Directors to retire shall be those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment, but, as between persons who became or were last reappointed Directors on the same day, those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
Any Non-Executive Director other than the chairman who has held office as a Non-Executive Director for 9 years or more shall retire from office at each AGM and shall be eligible for reappointment.
A Director who retires at an AGM may be reappointed.
If he is not reappointed or deemed to have been reappointed, he shall retain office until the meeting elects someone in his place or, if it does not do so, until the close of the meeting.
If the Company, at the meeting at which a Director retires under any provision of the Articles, does not fill the vacancy the retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be deemed to have been reappointed unless at the meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or a resolution for the reappointment of the Director is put to the meeting and lost.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review The office of a Director shall be vacated if a Director: i becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: ii is prohibited by law from being a Director: iii has a court order made in respect of his mental health which wholly or partly prevents him from exercising powers or rights which he would otherwise have: iv sends a notice to the Company that he is resigning or retiring from his office and such resignation or retirement has taken effect: v sees his appointment at an executive office terminated or expiring and the Directors resolve that he should cease to be Director: vi is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for 6 consecutive months and the Board resolves that the office is vacated: or vii notice is served upon a Director in writing by all other co-Directors.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Directors shall restrict the borrowings of the Company and exercise all powers of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to secure that the aggregate principal amount including any premium payable on final repayment outstanding of all money borrowed by the Company and its subsidiaries shall not at any time, save with the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, exceed i the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the share capital of the Company and ii the total of any credit balance on the distributable and undistributable reserves of the Company and its subsidiaries, subject to certain adjustments.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may be paid in such currency as the Directors may determine.
The Directors may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any presently payable by him to the Company on account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The Directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
Corporate Governance The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide both of which were issued in July 2016.
The AIC Code as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all of the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, which was issued in April 2016, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code during the year to 30th September 2017 except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes a provision relating to the need for an internal audit function.
The Board has considered and concluded that an internal audit function in not required given the size of the Company.
82 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The Board of Directors The Board comprised 9 Directors as at 30th September 2017, all of whom were Non-Executive apart from Gavin Manson, the Chief Financial Officer, who was appointed as an Executive Director on 23rd March 2017.
Linda Wilding was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1st December 2016 and John McAdam was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1st January 2017.
The other Directors were in office throughout the year.
Neil Johnson has been Chairman and Director of the Company since 12th May 2016.
Roger Perkin was nominated by the Board as the Senior Independent Director until 1st January 2017, when John McAdam was appointed to the role.
The Directors terms of appointment are available for inspection on request from the Company Secretary.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, which includes a regular review of the Companys management arrangements with G10 Capital Limited with effect from 1st June 2017 Epiris until 31st May 2017.
Management Agreements between the Company and G10 Capital Limited formerly Epiris until 31st May 2017 set out the matters for which the Manager is responsible and those over which the Manager has authority in accordance with the policies and directions of the Board.
Regular Board meetings are held to consider, as appropriate, such matters as overall strategy, investment performance, gearing, share price performance, share price discount, the shareholder profile of the Company and communication with shareholders.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion on all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
The number of meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board held during the year and the attendance of the individual Directors at those meetings is shown in the table below.
All the Directors of the Company who were members of the Board at the time attended the 2017 AGM.
Directors Attendance at Meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board Audit and Risk Valuations Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 8 3 2 2 1 N Johnson 8 1 E Bramson 8 I Brindle 8 D Lis 8 2 2 1 P Goodson 8 3 2 R Perkin 8 3 2 L Wilding 7 7 3 1 1 2 J McAdam 6 6 1 1 1 G Manson 5 5 In addition to its scheduled Board meetings, the Board met on a number of other occasions during the year to discuss a number of exceptional matters, including the tender offer in December 2016.
The Board receives information that it considers to be sufficient and appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Directors receive Board papers in advance of Board meetings and are able to consider in detail the Companys performance and any issues to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 108 and 109.
Independence of the Board Edward Bramson is a managing member of Sherborne Investors and Ian Brindle has held Non-Executive Directorships in a number of companies in which Sherborne Investors has had an interest.
Ian Brindle was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Sherborne Investors Guernsey C Limited, a Guernsey domiciled investment fund that is managed by Sherborne Investors, on 12th July 2017.
Both of these Directors were nominated to become Directors of the Company at the General Meeting requisitioned by Pershing Nominees on behalf of Sherborne Investment Management Guernsey LLC and its associates in September 2015.
On the basis of these relationships to the Companys largest shareholder neither of these Directors is considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board has carefully considered the independence of each Director under the provisions of the AIC Code and has concluded that, apart from Edward Bramson, Gavin Manson Executive Director and Ian Brindle, each Director is wholly independent.
Therefore, the majority of the Board are independent.
The Board carries out a formal appraisal process of its own operations and performance and those of its Committees each year.
The Boards policy is that this review should be externally facilitated every 3 years, as required by the Code.
During the year, the Board commissioned Korn Ferry to carry out an  evaluation of its operations and performance and those of its Committees and the results of that evaluation are set out below.
Korn Ferry advised the Board on the appointment of a number of Directors during the year.
However separate teams within Korn Ferry are responsible for Director recruitment and Board evaluation.
In the years in which there is not an  review, the Board carries out an annual evaluation of its operations and performance and those of its Committees through questionnaires which are completed by Directors, the results of which are discussed by the Board.
The Board completed this process during the Autumn of 2017.
In addition, the Chairman has regular meetings with each Director individually which allows them to discuss any matters of concern.
The Board also meets informally on a number of occasions during the year, which facilitates more general discussions about the Company, the Board and its effectiveness.
Together, these processes are considered by the Board to be constructive in identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and its Committees.
Korn Ferry Report In line with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board conducted an external evaluation of its performance during the year ended 30th September 2017.
The services of Korn Ferry were retained for the purposes of conducting the Board evaluation process.
Board Evaluation Process Korn Ferry undertook a formal evaluation by: Having preliminary conversations with the Chairman as to the scope of the review and to the governance and strategic context of Electra Defining six areas to be assessed throughout the process Preparing interview guidelines that were submitted to each member of the Board Discussing those six areas during in-person interviews with each Director and Recommending actions for continuous improvement to the Board.
The areas reviewed were: alignment with the strategy and near-to-medium term direction of the Company: alignment on Board responsibilities and overall mandate: nature of the conversation and discussions: future competency gaps: effectiveness of secretariat paper flow: team dynamics.
These topics were appropriately addressed and will be regularly reviewed as a matter of good governance.
84 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Outcomes The Board, in its current membership, had been operating for less than a year at the time Korn Ferry commenced their review.
Nonetheless, their observations and the comments received from executive and Non-Executive Directors alike, point to an effective Board with healthy interpersonal dynamics.
The interactions among Non-Executives and between Non-Executives and executives were deemed to be positive, and allowed for sufficient candour, with each Director able to exercise independent judgement.
The Chairmanship of the Board was unanimously considered effective.
Korn Ferry concluded from their conversations with Board members that the Chairman facilitates contribution from all Directors and adequately interfaces with executives and external shareholders.
The review also found that all of the Directors are aligned with the strategic course chosen by the Company: and the aggregate set of Directors skills and experiences provide adequate support to strategy execution, particularly through the appointment of two additional NEDs in John McAdam and Linda Wilding.
Overall, the Board is considered to be effective and working well with a high level of engagement by Board members.
As a result of the recent evaluation of the Board and his own discussions with each of the Directors during the year, the Chairman has confirmed that all of the Directors, all of whom intend to retire and offer themselves for election or for reelection at the AGM to be held in 2018, continue to be effective and that all of them continue to show commitment to their role.
The Senior Independent Director has also confirmed the continuing effectiveness and commitment of the Chairman.
Directors Terms of Appointment The Companys Articles of Association require that Directors shall retire and be subject to appointment by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board and be subject to re-election at least every third year thereafter.
Directors who have served for more than 9 years and who wish to continue in office are required to submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Board does not believe that length of service disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election.
In accordance with the AIC Codes provisions on the re-election of Directors, which state that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders, the Boards policy is that Directors should be re-elected annually.
In accordance with this policy all the then Directors were elected or re-elected at the AGM held in March 2017.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Boards policy on Directors Terms of Appointment, all the Directors intend to retire at the AGM to be held in 2018 and to offer themselves for election or for re-election.
Biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 108 and 109.
Independent Professional Advice Individual Directors may seek independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense within certain parameters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Company Secretary Frostrow Capital LLP acted as the independent Company Secretary in addition to its role as Board Advisor during the year under review.
The Audit and Risk Committee The Board is supported by the Audit and Risk Committee, which was established on 1st June 2017 in place of the Audit Committee, to reflect the increased responsibility of the Board for risk management following the termination of the agreement with Epiris.
The members of the Committee are Roger Perkin Chairman, Paul Goodson and Linda Wilding.
The Committee met three times in the year under review and the report of its activities is contained in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 104 and 105.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
Refer to Note 4 in the Notes to the Financial Statements for details of auditors remuneration.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review The Remuneration and Nominations Committees The Board agreed that separate Remuneration and Nominations Committees should be established with effect from 2nd December 2016.
Remuneration Committee The Committee members are David Lis Chairman, John McAdam from 1st January 2017 and Linda Wilding.
Roger Perkin, the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, attends once a year to discuss the possible clawback of bonuses.
The Committees duties include determining and agreeing with the Board the policy for remuneration of the Directors.
Where appropriate, the Committee will consider both the need to judge the position of the Company relative to other companies regarding the remuneration of Directors and the need to appoint external remuneration consultants.
The Committee met twice in the year, including meetings to determine the Companys remuneration policy and to set up the LTIP.
A report on its activities is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 89 to 103.
Nominations Committee The Committee members are Neil Johnson Chairman, David Lis, John McAdam from 1st January 2017 and Roger Perkin.
The Committees duties include identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies based on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board including gender.
The Companys policy on diversity is further detailed in the Strategic Report.
The Committee met once during the year.
It reviewed the current composition of the Board and its Committees and concluded that no changes were required at present, particularly given the fact that almost all the Directors were appointed recently and in light of the Boards discussions regarding the future of the Company.
The Valuations Committee The Valuations Committee adds a further level of oversight to the valuation process carried out by G10 Capital Limited under its contractual arrangements with the Company.
With effect from 2nd December 2016, the members of the Committee have been Paul Goodson Chairman, David Lis, Roger Perkin and Linda Wilding.
The Committee met twice to review the valuation of investments as at 31st March 2017 and 30th September 2017.
Induction and Training New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee and which includes being briefed fully about the Company by the Chairman, CEO, CFO and the Company Secretary.
Following appointment, the Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with Directors their training and development needs as necessary to enable them to discharge their duties.
The Companys Relationship with its Shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Company endeavours to provide the fullest information on the Company to its shareholders, maintaining a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and City analysts, as well as making a number of presentations and visits throughout the year.
Meetings are held with principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the AGM and have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
The notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including receipt of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, the level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published on the Companys website.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Valuations Committees are normally available to answer questions at the AGM each year.
86 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director can be contacted either at the Companys registered office, First Floor, 50 Grosvenor Hill, London, England, W1K 3QT or through the Company Secretary, Frostrow Capital LLP, at 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1AL.
Risk Management and Internal Controls The Board maintains responsibility for the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
It has established an Audit and Risk Committee, to oversee risk management, monitoring and reporting.
The Audit and Risk Committee is also supported by the work of the executive management team.
From 1st June 2017, the Company has put in place an Investment Management Agreement with G10 Capital Limited G10 or the Manager for the provision of risk management services as required by the AIFMD rules.
The Manager has oversight of risk management and the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing the risks facing the Company in accordance with AIFMD.
Prior to 1st June 2017, the responsibility for risk management was delegated to Epiris, the former AIFM of the Company, under the supervision of the Board.
The year under review has been one of transition from the arrangements which were in place with Epiris to the arrangements which are now in place.
For the year ended 30th September 2017 the processes which have been in place accord with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published in September 2014.
The Board has kept the performance of these responsibilities under review as part of its overall responsibility for the Companys risk management and internal control processes.
Executive management commissioned an external review of the operating effectiveness of the internal controls related to the financial reporting process and has reported the findings of this review to the Audit and Risk Committee, which has delegated authority for oversight of the internal controls system.
The current risk management and internal control processes were developed as part of the transitional arrangements and implemented with effect from 1st June 2017.
Prior to 1st June 2017, Epiris was responsible for the majority of the internal controls.
The Boards role was in respect of its oversight of the Manager, which included reviewing the performance of the Manager and the effectiveness of the controls being operated.
The Board received reports confirming the operating effectiveness of documented controls in place under Epiriss control.
Risk Appetite During 2017, the Board has been undertaking a strategic review, the objectives of which are to maximise long-term shareholder value by assessing the Companys investment strategy and policy, as well as the structure of the Company.
On 23rd October 2017, the Board announced its intention to update the investment policy to reflect the Companys focus on shareholder returns.
The Boards view is that the current market conditions do not support new investments.
However, the Board and its Investment Committee will continue to monitor the market and should conditions change then the Board will consider this further.
In addition, new opportunities and investment needs across the existing portfolio will also continue to be considered.
The strategy to optimise returns on shareholder capital will be a key consideration in any investment decisions made.
When investments are made, the risk of each investment is assessed before any commitment is made.
New investments, including additions to existing investments, in accordance with Company Investment Procedures, are reviewed and approved by the Board.
Operation of Risk Management and Internal Controls As detailed in the Strategic Report, the Principal Risks facing the Company are considered by the Board to be Macroeconomic Risks, Strategy Implementation Risks, Investment Risks, Portfolio Diversification Risk, Cash Drag Risk, Valuation Risk, Operational Risk, Gearing Risks, and Foreign Currency Risks and along with the risks detailed in Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
The Board regularly reviews the Principal Risks faced by the Company.
In particular, consideration is given to any changes in the nature, likelihood and impact of the Principal Risks along with the Companys ability to respond to changes in its business and external environment.
Mitigating actions and controls are in place to manage the Companys exposure to risk.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review The valuations of investments are carried out in accordance with the Companys Principles of Valuation of Investments as detailed on pages 59 to 61.
The Valuations Committee of the Company provides oversight of the valuation process undertaken by the Valuations Working Group and G10s Electra Valuations Committee.
The Board considers the Companys system of risk management and internal control to be integrated with the Companys Business Model and Investment Strategy.
During the year, G10 performed its initial review of compliance procedures and regulatory documentation as part of its ongoing monitoring programme.
The findings of this review were reported and noted by the Board.
Public Reporting The Companys consolidated annual Financial Statements, along with the half-yearly Financial Statements, and other RNS releases are prepared in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
Voting Policy Under the investment management agreements Electra has complete discretion in relation to all voting issues in respect of the Companys investments.
Electra has adopted the UK Stewardship Code and has made disclosures regarding its policies on stewardship on its website www.
The Companys policies on stewardship have been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
By order of the Board of Directors Frostrow Capital LLP, Company Secretary 6th December 2017 88 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017
