Board of Directors Neil Anthony Johnson Chairman Neil is currently Chairman of Synthomer plc and Motability Operations plc and Senior Independent Director of Business Growth Fund.
He was formerly CEO of the RAC.
He chaired telematics company Cybit PLC through IPO and ultimate sale to a US private equity house in 2010 and was chairman of e2v PLC until its takeover by Teledyne in 2016.
After directing the European automotive interests of British Aerospace, he served a term as Director General of the Engineers Employers Federation and later set up a transatlantic trade and business promotion body, British-American Business, Inc.
Following an early career in the Army, he began his business career with a series of roles within Lex Service Group, British Leyland, Jaguar and Land Rover.
He was, until 2012, an Independent Member of the Metropolitan Policy Authority.
Neil was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman and Director of the Company on 12th May 2016.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Edward John Michael Bramson Edward is a managing member of Sherborne Investors, which he founded in 1986.
Sherborne Investors currently invests in publicly traded companies principally in the United States and United Kingdom.
Previously, he co-founded New York-based Hillside Capital in 1977, which was one of the first specialist private equity firms in the United States.
Edward has served as Chairman of F&C Asset Management plc, Spirent Communications PLC, Nautilus, Inc. Elementis PLC, 4imprint Group PLC and Ampex Corporation.
Edward was appointed a Director on 5th November 2015.
He is a Director of a number of the Companys portfolio companies.
Ian Brindle Ian was a Senior Partner of Price Waterhouse from 1991 to 1998 and Chairman of  until 2001.
He was also a member of the Accounting Standards Board between 1992 and 2001 and Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel between 2001 and 2008.
Ian Brindle is a Non-Executive Director of Sherborne Investors Guernsey C Limited and has served as a Non-Executive Director on the Boards of a number of other companies including Spirent Communications PLC, Elementis PLC, F&C Asset Management plc and 4imprint Group PLC.
Ian was appointed a Director on 5th November 2015.
Paul Andrew Goodson Paul was Executive Chairman of Great Bear Distribution, a leading independent third-party logistics business which provides a range of warehousing, distribution and added value services to blue chip organisations.
He stood down in February 2016 after having successfully sold the business to Culina to create a 400 million group.
Prior to Great Bear, he spent 13 years with Barclays PE, latterly serving as MD of the UK business.
In this role, he had responsibility for the UKs investment team and shared responsibility for BPE Europe with the Heads of France and Germany.
Prior to this, he held a number of senior investment and general management roles both with BPE and 3i after beginning his career with IBM as a Sales Representative.
He is a Non-Executive Director of DX Group PLC.
Paul was appointed as a Director on 26th May 2016.
He is Chairman of the Valuations Committee.
David George Lis David retired from his role as CIO of Equities and Multi-Assets at Aviva Investors, the global asset management business with 267 billion AUM, in 2016.
Prior to this, he was Head of Equities at Aviva Investors, with overall responsibility for 33 billion of active and passive funds across all major markets and direct day to day responsibility for the active management of the 5.5 billion Institutional UK Equity Fund, 1.1 billion Global Income Fund, 200 million Aviva Investors UK Growth OEIC and 100 million UK Smaller Companies OEIC.
Before joining Norwich Union now Aviva in 1997, David spent a number of years as Head of Investor Relations at Ludgate Communications, advising a number of major UK and international companies on their financial communications.
Earlier in his career, he co-founded Windsor Investment Management, and also spent a number of years as a fund manager at both Morgan Grenfell and J Rothschild Investment Management.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Melrose Industries PLC, BCA Marketplace PLC and The Investor Forum.
David was appointed as a Director on 26th May 2016.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
108 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Gavin Maxwell Manson Gavin first joined the Company as Chief Financial Officer in August 2016.
Prior to joining the Company, he was the Finance Director of Thomas Cook Group PLCs tour operator and hotels and resorts division.
He joined Thomas Cook in 2013 from the FTSE 250 international electronic component distribution and software business, Premier Farnell PLC, where he was the Finance Director for 5 years.
Before this, he worked at Merck GmbH group as the Finance Director for Seven Seas Ltd before becoming Finance Director of the Merck Consumer Healthcare division in UK and Ireland, and latterly leading the consolidation of the back-office activities of Mercks four operating divisions across the UK and Ireland.
Prior to joining Merck, Gavin trained as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG in Edinburgh and held Finance Director roles within Drambuie Group and Lees Group where he focused on the delivery of operating improvement and strategic change.
Gavin was appointed as a Director on 23rd March 2017.
John David Gibson McAdam John has extensive experience of senior leadership of global businesses in a wide range of industry sectors gained from his career with ICI and Unilever over more than 30 years and his other Board and advisor appointments.
He joined Unilever PLC as a management trainee in 1974 and went on to hold a number of senior positions in Birds Eye Walls, Quest and Unichema before joining ICI PLC, where he was Chief Executive until 2007.
He is Chairman of Rentokil Initial PLC and United Utilities PLC and also a Non-Executive Director of Cobham PLC.
He was a Senior Independent Director of J Sainsbury PLC until July 2016 and a Non-Executive Director of Sara Lee Corp 2008-14, Severn Trent PLC 2000-05 and Rolls-Royce Group PLC 2008-2017.
John was appointed a Director and the Senior Independent Director on 1st January 2017.
Roger Kitson Perkin Roger is a former senior partner at Ernst & Young with extensive global accounting experience and financial services expertise.
He spent 40 years at Ernst & Young and its predecessor firms, including over 30 years as a Partner, working with a wide range of clients before specialising in financial services.
He is a Non-Executive Director of AIB Group UK plc.
TP ICAP p. l. c and Hargreaves Lansdowne PLC, and previously served as a Director of Nationwide Building Society, Friends Life Group PLC and Evolution Group PLC.
Roger was appointed a Director in 2009.
He is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Linda Wilding Linda Wilding has extensive experience in the private equity investment and healthcare sectors.
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young, she worked in the private equity division of Mercury Asset Management from 1989 to 2001, rising to the position of Managing Director.
She has served as a Non-Executive director including as Chairman on the boards of a number of companies.
She is currently a Non-Executive Director of Touchstone Innovations PLC and UDG Healthcare PLC.
She was a Non-Executive Director and latterly Chair of Corin PLC from 2006 to 2012.
Linda was appointed a Director on 1st December 2016.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive As the Company and the Investment Manager which, inter alia, acts as the Companys alternative investment fund manager or AIFM are each domiciled in the United Kingdom, the FCA Handbook rules require that, among other things, the AIFM makes available the following information to shareholders of Electra under the AIFM Directive as implemented in the UK and to notify them of any material change to information previously provided.
Investment Policy, Leverage and Liquidity AIFMD 23 1 a b h The investment strategy and objectives of Electra, the types of asset it may invest in and the investment techniques it may employ, associated risks and any investment restrictions are laid out in the Objective and Investment Policy, Strategic Report and other sections of the Annual Report.
For information about the circumstances in which the Company may use leverage, the types of sources permitted and the associated risks and any restrictions on the use of leverage and any collateral and asset re-use arrangements, shareholders are directed to the disclosures contained in the Objective and Investment Policy and the Strategic Report of the Annual Report as well as specific AIFMD related disclosures further below.
Under the UK Listing Authority listing rules to which the Company is subject it needs the prior approval of its shareholders to make a material change to its Investment Policy.
Since the Company is closed-ended without redemption rights, liquidity risk management is limited to the liquidity required to meet the Companys obligations in relation to its financing arrangements and on its ability to meet calls on unfunded liabilities to third party funds and other investments.
The Investment Manager utilises various risk assessment methods to measure the risk of portfolio illiquidity to meet the Companys obligations.
This measurement enables the provision of management information to the Investment Manager and the Board of the Company to enable these risks to be monitored and managed.
Legal Relationship with Investors AIFMD 23 1 c The Company is a public limited company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.
The constitutional document of the Company is its articles of association Articles which may only be amended by way of a special resolution of its shareholders.
Upon the purchase of shares, an investor becomes a shareholder of the Company.
A shareholders liability to the Company will be limited to the amount uncalled on their shares.
The Company has one class of share, namely ordinary shares, with standard rights as to voting, dividends and payment on winding-up and no special rights and obligations attaching to them.
Transfers to US persons are restricted but otherwise, there are no material restrictions on transfers of shares.
No redemption rights attach to the ordinary shares in the Company.
As the Company is incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, it may not be possible for a shareholder located outside that jurisdiction to effect service of process within the local jurisdiction in which that shareholder resides upon the Company.
All or a substantial portion of the assets of the Company may be located outside a local jurisdiction in which a shareholder resides and as a result, it may not be possible to satisfy a judgement against the Company in such local jurisdiction or to enforce a judgement obtained in the local jurisdictions courts against the Company.
AIFM and its Delegates AIFMD 23 1 d, e and f The Investment Manager is a limited company with its registered office at 136 Buckingham Palace Road, London SW1W 9SA and which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FRN 648953.
It has been appointed by the Company to manage the Company under an Investment Management Agreement with effect from 1st June 2017 the Investment Management Agreement.
The Investment Manager is responsible for portfolio management and risk management and monitoring of the assets of the Company and has discretionary authority over the acquisition and disposition of the Companys assets, with power to give guarantees and undertake other transactions on behalf of the Company subject to the provisions of the Investment Management Agreement.
The Investment Manager is also responsible for ensuring compliance with the AIFMD.
The Investment Managers duties under the Investment Management Agreement are owed to the Company as a whole rather than directly to the shareholders, whether individually or in groups.
The Board of Electra is responsible under the Investment Management Agreement for representing the Company in its dealings with the Investment Manager.
110 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 In accordance with the Investment Management Agreement, the liability of the Investment Manager and its members, officers and employees is limited and capped at 350,000 in aggregate, and subject to certain limitations they are entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company.
In order to comply with its regulatory obligations, the Investment Manager holds professional indemnity insurance.
Depositary and its Delegates AIFMD 23 1 d and f Ipes Depositary UK Limited the Depositary has been appointed as the Depositary of the Company under a Depositary Agreement agreed in accordance with AIFMD requirements.
The Depositary is a company incorporated in England registered number 08749704 whose registered office is at 9th Floor, No 1 Minster Court, Mincing Lane, London EC3R 7AA.
It is authorised to act as a Depositary by the FCA FRN 610203.
The Depositary is responsible for safekeeping of the Companys investments, including holding in custody those investments which are required to be held in custody and verifying ownership on the basis of evidence provided by the AIFM and keeping records of the Companys other investments, and for cash monitoring.
The Depositarys duties under the Depositary Agreement are owed to the Company as a whole and not directly to shareholders, whether individually or in groups.
The investments of the Company are not of a kind required to be held in custody by the Depositary.
The Depositary has appointed a custodian, RBC Investor Services Trust, in respect of the holding of custody assets belonging to the Company.
The Depositary has contractually discharged itself of liability in respect of the assets held by RBC Investor Services Trust.
Independent Auditors AIFMD 23 1 d The independent auditors of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2017 were Deloitte LLP.
The Auditors duties are owed to the Company as a whole.
They have a statutory responsibility to report to the members of the Company as a whole in relation to the truth and fairness of the Companys state of affairs and profit or loss.
Valuation AIFMD 23 1 g The assets of the Company are valued by the Investment Manager in accordance with the provisions set out in the Principles of Valuation of Investments as set out in the Notes to the Financial Statements in the Annual Report.
The Valuations Committee which has been set up by the Investment Manager in respect of the Company adds a further level of oversight to the valuation process as set out on in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
Fees and Expenses AIFMD 23 1 i The Investment Manager is paid a base fee of 20,000 per month by the Company in consideration for its provision of full scope AIFM services to the Company.
Such fee may be increased to the extent new investment holding subsidiary entities of the Company are established or reduced to the extent any such existing subsidiary entities are wound up.
In addition, a further fee of 750 per month per entity is payable by the Company to the Investment Manager in respect of the provision by the Investment Manager of management and operator services to investment holding subsidiary entities of the Company.
Additional services not included within the scope of the above may be payable based on the Investment Managers hourly rates, and the Investment Manager is entitled to reimbursement for reasonable fees and expenses properly incurred by it in connection with the services it provides to the Company and its subsidiaries.
All fees are exclusive of any VAT.
In addition the Company operates carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of the Companys former investment manager and details of these schemes are contained in the Notes to the Financial Statements in the Annual Report.
With effect from 31st May 2017, the amount payable under such schemes shall be reduced by 20%, which reduction reflects the change of manager effective on such date.
In addition the Company incurs costs in the form of depositary fees, custodian fees, bank fees and charges, marketing fees, auditors fees, lawyers fees and other fees.
Given the nature of all these fees and expenses it is not possible to provide a maximum fee payable.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review Fair Treatment of Investors and Preferential Treatment AIFMD 23 1 j No preferential rights have been granted to any existing shareholder.
The Company and the Investment Manager are committed to ensuring that all shareholders are treated fairly and in accordance with UK company law.
They have not and will not enter into any arrangement with one shareholder which could result in any overall material disadvantage to the other shareholders.
Issue and Redemption of Shareholder Interests in the Company AIFMD 23 1 l The Company is closed-ended and does not provide for redemption or repurchase of the interests of ordinary shareholders at their request.
Reporting and Performance AIFMD 23 1 k, 23 1 m and 23 1 n The historic performance of the Company, to the extent available, has been disclosed to shareholders in the Companys Annual and Half Yearly Reports, which will be sent to shareholders and are available from www.
The latest NAV of the Company is published in the latest Annual or Half Yearly Report.
Prime Broker AIFMD 23 1 o The Company does not have a prime broker.
Method of Making Ongoing Periodic Disclosures AIFMD 23 1 p, 23 4, 23 5 Information about the Companys risk profile and risk management, total leverage and any material change to the arrangements for managing the Companys liquidity, the proportion of assets if any subject to special arrangements arising from liquidity, the maximum permitted leverage or the grant of rights of re-use of collateral or guarantees in relation to leverage will be provided in the Companys Annual Reports.
Risk Profile and Risk Management AIFMD 23 4 c The appointment of the Investment Manager as the AIFM of the Company under the AIFMD means that it is responsible for risk management and the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing the risks facing the Company in accordance with the requirements of the AIFMD.
The Board keeps the Investment Managers performance of these responsibilities under review as part of its overall responsibility for the Companys risk management and internal controls.
The principal risks of the Company are set out in the Strategic Report and in the Notes to the Financial Statements in the Annual Report.
The Investment Managers risk management system incorporates regular review of these risks and the establishment of appropriate risk limits and internal control processes to mitigate the risks.
The sensitivity of the Company to relevant risks is further detailed in the Notes to the Financial Statements in the Annual Report.
The risk limits currently put in place for the Company by the Investment Manager are in relation to the parameters for diversity of investment set out in the Objective and Investment Policy, for Credit Risk set out in the Notes to the Financial Statements in the Annual Report and the limits on the Companys leverage set out below.
Restrictions on the Use of Leverage and Maximum Leverage AIFMD 23 5 As specified in the Objective and Investment Policy in the Annual Report, the Company has a policy to maintain total gearing below 40% of its total assets and the Investment Manager oversees the use of leverage to ensure that the use of borrowing and derivatives is consistent with this requirement.
The Company does not have any asset re-use arrangements in relation to collateral and has not granted any guarantees.
Under AIFMD, the Company is required to calculate leverage under the two methodologies specified by the Directive, the Gross Method and the Commitment Method, the difference being that the Commitment Method allows certain exposures to be offset or netted.
Leverage is calculated using gross assets, with various adjustments, divided by net assets.
The Investment Manager has currently set a limit of 230% on the use of leverage based on the Gross Method and a limit of 230% on the use of leverage based on the Commitment Method which the Investment Manager considers consistent with the gearing limit set out in the Objective and Investment Policy.
112 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017
