246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:18 Page 13 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 13 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review Nick Train Lindsell Train Limited Portfolio Manager Perhaps the most unusual thing about Lindsell Trains The company not only has a wonderful heritage, we also think investment approach is how little we actually do.
We almost we Brits underestimate the international appeal of the culture never initiate new holdings, almost never sell existing holdings and image of this country, an appeal Burberry represents well.
and we do as little trimming of holdings as possible.
Portfolio Next, Media Content Intellectual Property.
We are sure the turnover for Finsbury Growth & Income PLC Finsbury value is going up of whatever it is that attracts eyeballs to the remains extremely low, at c. 1.0% pa. We remind you of this screens of electronic devices.
Amazon, Apple, Netflix, YouTube because we have added a new holding over the financial year, all of them are bidding up to get proprietary access to the first in two years and an investment which I discuss below entertainment or information that will draw viewers to them, as a case study.
We make no exaggerated claims for our low rather than their rivals.
Were keen to invest in UK companies impact approach.
Outperforming an efficient equity index like with unique Intellectual Property: the kind individuals or the FTSE All-Share is difficult and there are many valid ways to companies feel they cant do without.
One example is RELX, go about it: ours is just one.
What you can say about it though, the former Reed Elsevier and one of the top three holdings in is that it tends to keep costs down.
Consistent with this your portfolio.
I understand the risk of hyperbole in the aspiration we have recently announced that Lindsell Train following comment, but it seems to us that RELX is as Limited intends to pay for third party investment research itself important to the users of its services scientists, lawyers, after January 2018 rather than pass these costs on to its clients, insurance industry executives as Google is to you and me.
thereby further reducing the cost to shareholders of running And like Google RELX has new commercial opportunities their company.
Commendably, many of our peers have made opening up for it, as its technology infrastructure allows it to the same client-friendly decision.
aggregate Big Data and to provide Artificial Intelligence This low portfolio turnover suggests we take a very long term products to its customers.
And in confirmation of that, the truth In the context of this Media Content theme I must discuss two is we have only really had three investment ideas over the last holdings which have come to require much more patience 15 years - admittedly big ones - and your portfolio is still built from us and Finsbury shareholders than I originally hoped.
Long term performance will be driven by the For Daily Mail and General Trust we know, as does the success or otherwise of these three thematic ideas.
company, that the days of the print newspaper are numbered, The first, by proportion of portfolio, is Consumer Brands but we still wonder if investors have properly registered the.
success of MailOnline in reaching a bigger and more global We observe globally resonant consumer brands are rare and audience than the newspaper has, or ever could.
100 million theyre sadly very rare in the context of the UK stock market.
According to Interbrands annual survey of the 100 most hours every month is now spent by readers or watchers of valuable brands in the world today only five are owned by MailOnline, which gives it, as the company says with some UK-listed companies and two of those five are Diageos degree of understatement lots of opportunity to sell Johnnie Walker and Smirnoff.
But such brands, those which advertising.
And indeed advertising revenues for the really can be sold across the world, are also extraordinarily combined Mail businesses are growing again, for the first time valuable.
Kraft Heinz merger proposal to Unilever, one of our in many years, as the continuing declines for the print biggest holdings, earlier this year is a reminder of that value.
newspaper are more than offset by digital advertising growth.
While we strongly supported the Unilever boards rebuff of We hope this is a significant inflexion point.
Kraft, we think it inevitable there will be future very substantial Next: Pearson.
That companys woes intensified over the last combinations and acquisitions in the consumer sector.
Indeed 12 months, with one result being the necessity to cut its Unilever itself is busily both disposing of and acquiring dividend by up to 70%.
This dividend cut has constrained the businesses right now.
Elsewhere for this theme, we remain pace at which your Board is able to grow Finsburys own enthusiastic about Burberry up 27.6% over the period and dividend this year and next although this years dividend is up turning out to be a big winner for Finsbury, which is the UKs 8.4% nonetheless.
Right at the heart of only global luxury brand and one of those Interbrand top 100.
Lindsell Trains investment approach is a preference for reliably FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:18 Page 14 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 14 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review cash generative companies, where dividend cuts should be We note that Facebook is known to have been a recent, failed inconceivable.
To this extent our investment for you in bidder for streaming rights to Indian IPL cricket matches.
Pearson has clearly been a mistake.
And that, at MANUs recent result update, senior executive And objectively we now have to say Pearsons dividend cut is a Ed Woodward predicted it will not be long now before an good thing.
It is so because it improves the chances of the Internet giant bids against an incumbent football rights holder, company pulling through this difficult period.
The cash it retains like Sky or BT.
The ramifications of that for traditional media within its business, rather than pays out as dividends, will allow companies will be massive, but through the turmoil we expect it to reduce debt, but also, and far more important, to continue the value of strongly-franchised football clubs and indeed to invest in its transition from text book publisher to a provider other sports franchises to rise.
of digital software services to educational establishments.
For instance in September 2017 the Houston Rockets, an NBA On balance we still think there are encouraging indications of team, was sold for $2.2 billion.
This was a new record for a revenue growth and market share gains for Pearsons digital basketball team.
The seller had bought it for $85 million in products that justify retaining the shares.
It is worth recalling MANU had a stock market value of has been sobering for me and I suggest you conclude from it below 20 million in 1993, so like the Rockets it too has been that Mike Lindsell and I are by no means infallible and, like radically revalued up just about 100-fold since then.
The everyone else, will be prone to future errors of judgement too.
Rockets generate c$250 million of revenues, meaning the I know this section of my report is already lengthy.
But it is so franchise has been sold at c9.0x annual sales.
If MANU is as because we see the evolution of digital technology as both the valuable as the Rockets and we think in truth its global reach biggest opportunity but also the biggest threat to our makes it far more valuable then it would command a value of investment strategy.
And it is because of this that we well over $6 billion: more than double the current market introduced a new holding to the theme in Q3 17: Manchester capitalisation.
This is the scale of the opportunity we see.
Our third and final investment theme is Stock Market Proxies.
Were always bullish about the outlook for global and UK Case Study: Manchester United MANU equities and that means we like to invest in companies that do We are relieved perhaps an unexpected word - to have made well when markets go up.
We have added significantly to our this investment and look to it becoming, over time, a very holding in Hargreaves Lansdown HL this year.
The company is rewarding commitment of your capital.
now 36 years old, but we still see it as still very young in terms of the value it can bring to ever more customers over The reason for our relief is our awareness that Technology is time.
The growth rates of HLs digital services reinforce this upending the Media industry, but at the same time creating perception and can be seen on Finsburys own share register.
extraordinary new value for some participants.
We badly want Over its most recent financial year there were more than 138 to be involved.
We watch in awe as Amazon and Netflix invest million visits to its website, up over 30% year-on-year.
Trades billions of dollars annually into the commission of new placed at HL via mobile devices were up 72% and top-ups to entertainment content reputedly $4 billion and $6 billion account cash balances made by mobile more than trebled.
This spend has turned into a kind of arms race to short, we think this level of digital engagement will help HLs attract the highest number of subscribers to competing assets under management grow very much higher in 10 years platforms and devices.
In this context and the context of the and its share price should follow.
$100s of billions of market capitalisation in global Internet and Telecommunication companies, we regard the current market cap of MANU, c$2.8 billion, as low.
Certainly low relative to the global following and fascination with the MANU franchise and to the priceless virtually strategic value to broadcasters of live sports.
246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:18 Page 15 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 15 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review Conclusion We know that currently some shareholders worry about Brexit and other macro-economic or political issues, but we continue to believe that the most rational way to respond to these concerns is to work on the following assumption.
Everything will work out just fine in the end.
This may read as complacency, but the truth is that ever since the FT All Share was first calculated, back in 1962, there has always been something to worry about.
The index had a base value of 100 in 1962 and now stands at 4130 thats a 7% pa compound return, excluding dividends.
Those returns, earned from the compounding profits of well-run UK companies, have accrued despite dramatic political, economic and social changes.
We think it sensible to assume steady wealth creation will continue.
And this is why I have continued to add to my own holding in Finsbury throughout 2017.
Nick Train Director Lindsell Train Limited Portfolio Manager 14 December 2017 FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
