26 SUGAR Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report operating review 27 Transforming our business model Innovation in action Germains is one of the Since the 1940s Germains has The recently launched North worlds leading seed technology pioneered the use of seed treatment American product, ProBio technology for sugar beet.
Working SafeGuard, is a great example of suppliers with facilities in closely with seed companies, how Germains introduces innovative the UK, the Netherlands, Germains has developed a range technology with the benefit of of products Advantage, Xbeet customer insight.
By working in Spain and North America.
and Xbeet plus which increase partnership with industry bodies It works closely with partners, crop yield by at least 10% compared and in close co-operation with seed with untreated seed.
companies, growers and distributors, stakeholders and customers to emerging problems can be identified ensure long-term, sustainable While continuing to invest in sugar and addressed.
beet and maintaining its strong and profitable growth.
position in the market, over the last Over the last 10 years, the majority of five years Germains has accelerated organic spinach growers experienced the development of its horticulture problems caused by a soil borne business which now accounts for 50% pathogen, Pythium Ultimum, and of its operations and covers a wide were unable to meet consumer 79 billion range of crops, particularly lettuce, demand for fresh spinach for the In 2016 17 Germains processed onion, celery and Swiss chard.
In infected fields, 79 billion sugar beet seeds and Working closely with its customers, growers were losing 1040% of the 110 billion horticulture seeds the business invests heavily in seed they planted due to the disease.
research and development R&D Working with industry partners, to deliver optimised and unique Germains developed a unique solutions that allow growers to product solution which targets early maximise the potential from plant protection Pythium damage 40 all seeds.
typically takes place in the first Germains treats over 40 14 days after planting.
ProBio Investing in the future different species of seeds SafeGuard establishes a barrier The increased focus on horticulture around the emerging plant has been driven by significant R&D and its developing root system that investment across Europe and North How we started protects the plant during germination America.
In 2012, an R&D centre was Founded in 1871, Germains Seed and first leaf stage.
This allows a established in Enzhuizen, at the centre Technology develops innovative, greater establishment of the plants of the Dutch horticulture industry, industry-leading conventional and resulting in a much improved yield.
organic solutions for sugar beet, There are over 35,000 spinach vegetables and flower seeds.
It In 2015, R&D capability was further seeds in 1 lb and Germains utilises specialises in a range of seed-borne enhanced with investment in the rotary film coating technology technologies including priming, Norwich Research Park in the UK.
to coat a precise application of seed pelleting, filmcoating and health.
Adjacent to many leading research protection chemistry to each one.
Germains offers a wide range of institutions, this facility works The seeds rotate at 3040 rpm and benefits to growers such as faster predominantly on researching the get coated with a fine mist of the seed crop emergence, increased plant molecular development of the seed technology product.
The fast rotation uniformity allowing easier harvest, to understand how this can be and the application of the fine mist higher yields and better protection influenced by novel seed treatments.
evenly distribute the seed coating, against a variety of diseases and This year has seen further investment while the air movement quickly pests.
Using such technologies in people and equipment in the North dries the seeds to keep them from reduces the need for chemical American business and in Growth sticking together.
spraying, controls dust release into Rooms near the Kings Lynn facility the environment and also the amount in the UK.
These are controlled of chemical required to treat the crop.
environment facilities which allow accelerated R&D activity and will further increase the speed to market of Germains new products.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 28 SUGAR Our Malawian sugar business has successfully responded to challenges in European and regional African markets by transforming its commercial and marketing operations to focus on strong sales growth at home.
With EU preferential markets for bulk raws becoming less attractive, and with lower prices per tonne and increasing competition, Illovo Sugar refocused on maximising the best opportunity for growth in the Malawian domestic market by improving the structuring of the product range, pricing and brand execution for the Malawian consumer and retailer customers.
Increasing domestic sales Illovos growth strategy aims to accelerate revenue growth by building stronger links with, and understanding of, domestic retailers and end-consumers.
This is a new direction for the business in Malawi, where we formerly concentrated entirely on large distributors in the fragmented wholesale market.
To gain greater insight into Malawian consumers many of whom have had their already low disposable income squeezed by extreme weather and a deteriorating economy we launched an extensive programme to reshape our brand, products, price points and promotional activity.
In re-engineering our commercial approach, we drew on extensive market research, interviewing hundreds of consumers, retailers and wholesalers, in both urban and rural settings.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report operating review 29 Improving our route to market The repositioning of our Malawian route-to-market approach has included: introducing a larger and stronger commercial team to drive sales, support retailers and resellers and maintain good levels of availability in the market: satisfying demand for smaller, lower-cost bags of sugar by launching 220g and 500g packs, to complement the existing 1kg and 2kg packs: fortifying all products with Vitamin A in line with the Malawian Governments campaign to reduce infant and maternal mortality: and launching a more robust packaging design, backed by high-profile retail displays and nationwide advertising.
The new brand packaging recognises and celebrates Malawians strong sense of national pride and heritage, featuring local language and imagery.
Strategic insights The programmes insights and its impact on the Malawian supply chain will further inform how the Illovo group improves the route to market in neighbouring Zambia and Tanzania.
It will also contribute to our overall strategy of being a world-class and highly efficient organisation, operating in Africa.
The Illovo teams efforts in providing an improved, secure and safe supply of sugar in sizes to accommodate difficult daily challenges won them second place in a Chartered Institute of Customer Managements service excellence award.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Agriculture 30 AB Agri occupies a unique position across the agri-food supply chain.
Its focus is to add value and deliver profit for partners all along that chain by improving the sustainability of food production.
This is achieved by investing in research and development, driving the use of technology and exploring how data can deliver insight and enable real world improvements.
A top three player in almost all the markets in which it operates, it continues to expand its global footprint and is rapidly becoming a major international agri-business.
AB Agris core capabilities include: Specialised feed ingredients Offering pioneering feed ingredients, additive products and technical services to the global animal feed industry as well as high-quality, bespoke, vitamin mineral premixes, starter feeds and micro-ingredients developed through world-class expertise in nutrition and product formulation.
Co-product innovation and marketing The UKs largest and most progressive marketer of food, drink and energy industry co-products.
Finished feed manufacture A major global manufacturer and supplier of pig, poultry and dairy feeds, with 27 production sites in the UK, continental Europe and China.
We work closely with major processors and producers to benchmark productivity and performance and develop tailored feeds and new feeding regimes to improve performance for every customer.
Supply chain solutions Working exclusively with major brands and retailers for more than 15 years, we create value through the implementation of continuous improvement programmes, working across food, agriculture and natural resource supply chains in over 65 countries.
Commodity risk management Providing customers with in-depth insight on global commodity markets, we are also the UKs leading grain trading and crop inputs company through our joint venture, Frontier Agriculture.
33 EVOLUTION THROUGH INNOVATION 34 AGROKORN ALTERNATIVE PROTEINS Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AGRICULTURE Strategic report operating review 31 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
