When AB Agri bought Agrokorn in spring 34 AGRICULTURE The purchase of Danish 2016 it was already a strong player in its company, Agrokorn, has native Denmark.
Since then, AB Agri has helped transform the business brought new vigour to AB Agris and its core alternative protein product, alternative proteins operation, AlphaSoy Agrokorns flagship brand, to reach new levels.
which was formed as an Team members from alternative AB Agri new venture in 2014. proteins and the AB Agri group worked with Agrokorn to improve AlphaSoy Since launch, the small team has to deliver better performance and worked with experts from across the overcome export constraints and AB Agri group to develop a strong open up new markets.
As a result, presence in the fast-growing alternative the business has already expanded its proteins sector.
The acquisition and international reach beyond Denmark development of Agrokorn marked into Asia, the US and Central America.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report operating review The success of Agrokorns 35 development in such a short time since acquisition is an example of AB Agris strength in enabling companies to raise and achieve their ambitions.
By bringing its international experience to local companies, applying its world-leading nutritional expertise to evolve products, and providing the investment to make expansion possible, it is turning exciting opportunities into major business propositions.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Ingredients 36 36 Ingredients comprises a number of businesses that supply a range of ingredients to food and non-food manufacturers.
Together they employ 8,000 people in more than 70 plants in 25 countries.
AB Mauri has a global presence in bakers yeast with significant market positions in the Americas, Europe and Asia, and is a technology leader in, and supplier of, bread improvers, dough conditioners and bakery mixes.
The business employs experts who have extensive knowledge and understanding of the yeast and bakery ingredients business, the equipment, the processes and the raw material.
ABF Ingredients comprises businesses focusing on high-value ingredients for food, feed, pharmaceutical and industrial applications: AB Enzymes enzymes : Abitec speciality lipids and surfactants : Ohly yeast extracts and seasoning powders : PGP International extruded ingredients and speciality rice flours : and SPI Pharma pharmaceutical excipients and antacids.
ABF Ingredients operates a global footprint with production facilities in Europe, the Americas and India and customers in more than 50 countries.
39 EMBRACING TECHNOLOGY 39 ENZYMES EXPANSION Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 INGREDIENTS Strategic report operating review H S E R F A S T N E I 37 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 D E R G N I G N I V I G 38 INGREDIENTS PROVIDING INNOVATIVE, HIGH-QUALITY, INGREDIENTS GLOBALLY ABF Ingredients delivered strong Ingredients revenues and adjusted Revenue sales and profit growth with margin operating profit were again well improvement driven by a higher ahead of last year with a further proportion of revenues from premium increase in margin.
Higher enzyme sales, especially 1,493m AB Mauri delivered another year of feed enzymes to AB Vista, drove high significant improvement with growth factory utilisation and improved overhead 2016: 1,294m achieved in yeast and bakery ingredients.
We completed the capacity North America benefited from successful Actual fx: 15% expansion of the enzymes manufacturing bakery ingredient product launches Constant fx: 2% facility in Finland which has also improved although the market for bakery yeast production efficiency.
The business was well represented at the International Significant growth in food and beverage Adjusted operating profit Baking Industry Exposition held last nutritional applications, as well as October where it promoted its baking branded and generic pharmaceutical technology credentials to attendees from drugs, drove another year of strong more than 100 countries.
The EMEA sales growth at Abitec, our speciality 125m region delivered profit growth and Asias lipids business in North America.
2016: 93m results improved following last years Further investment was made at the rationalisation of production facilities Janesville, Wisconsin plant to meet Actual fx: 34% in China.
Although the economic climate increasing demand and to improve our Constant fx: 18% in South America remains challenging, research capability.
SPI also benefited operating performance was robust.
from developments in the pharmaceutical Capital investment in a new bakery sector with good growth for its functional Adjusted operating profit margin ingredients plant in Buenos Aires excipients and drug delivery solutions.
was completed at the end of the Our US protein extrusion business financial year.
gained from the consumer trend for healthy snacking, and achieved margin In January 2017 we completed 8.4% growth through improvement in the acquisition of Specialty Blending manufacturing yields.
2016: 7.2% based in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
The plant features multiple blending lines capable of handling whole-grain bread concentrates and sweet goods mixes.
Return on average capital employed It also has a speciality mill of a scale suited for ancient and organic grains and custom blends.
Integration of the 15.3% business has progressed well with improvements in its cake and doughnut 2016: 13.1% mixes from the application of our ingredients technologies.
A As ss so oc ci ia at te ed B d Br ri it ti is sh F h Fo oo od ds p s pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Promoting gender diversity across our business FIND OUT MORE AT WWW.
CO. UK RESPONSIBILITY WE ARE COMMITTED TO PROMOTING GENDER DIVERSITY AND SUPPORTING CAREER ADVANCEMENT ACROSS OUR BUSINESS AB Enzymes operates across The Forum has now been running a number of territories, making for two years and has proved very it difficult for its employees to successful.
Issues discussed have participate in centralised activities ranged from how to create an designed to support women.
effective personal development plan, to what to consider if working in a lab The business therefore chose while pregnant.
The Forum has also to establish a Womens Business encouraged women to discuss and Forum with the objective of helping debate issues to be raised with the its female employees advance their senior leadership team, giving them careers.
Meetings are scheduled a stronger voice within AB Enzymes.
quarterly to coincide with other business events to increase attendance and minimise travel.
The Womens Business Members unable to attend in Forum has been running person can join by Webex.
The Forum acts as a focal point for women to come together and gain a years better understanding of the business.
2 It also allows them to build a network and has proved of contacts with whom they can share information and experience.
very successful Strategic report operating review 39 FULL STEAM AHEAD INSIDE OUR Our joint-venture manufacturing INGREDIENTS BUSINESS: facility at Rajamki in Finland, part of the Roal enzymes business, is now at full production following completion of an extensive eight-year, three-phase expansion programme.
The first phase was commissioned EMBRACING TECHNOLOGY in April 2009 to increase fermentation capacity and was followed, in 2013, The International Baking Industry To reinforce our creativity and the by Phase II which focused on delivering Exposition IBIE is held every three relevance of technology, this message utilities and services for future expansion.
years in Las Vegas, Nevada.
At the was communicated at IBIE through an With the completion of Phase III in August most recent event held in October immersive 360-degree Virtual Reality this year, the business has increased 2016, IBIE drew baking industry VR experience.
1,500 delegates put its fermentation capacity further and attendees from around the world on VR goggles, most of whom were significantly reduced its operating costs with more than 23,000 customers, using this new and growing technology and environmental footprint.
manufacturers and consumers for the first time.
They took a journey attending from more than 100 through the world of baking from the Phase III of the project started in September different countries.
first discovery of the properties of yeast, 2015, primarily to meet the ever-increasing through its propagation from a pinheaddemand for Roals enzymes, particularly Promoting its excellent credentials as a sized sample to large scale quantities, animal feed, detergent and bakery enzymes, baking technology company, AB Mauri ending with modern day examples of in a sustainable and efficient way.
New showcased the latest in artisanal bread baking applications that included a ride buildings, additional fermenters, an industrysampling using Aromaferm cereal on baking bread in a conveyor oven.
leading filtration system and increased ferments as well as a documentary storage capacity were added, the ERP highlighting our unique and collaborative system was expanded and downstream AB Mauri Model filmed on location processing equipment was upgraded to at several key industrial and artisanal improve the plants core processes.
This was a complex project requiring the Customers, manufacturers AB Mauri is taking a proactive role in considerable expertise of a dedicated project and consumers attending promoting baked products to consumers.
team and the use of cutting-edge solutions Markets are changing and evolving to overcome a series of technical challenges, rapidly across the globe, and AB Mauri not the least of which was to maintain is keeping pace with these changes production during the project without ensuring that our customers are 1,500 disruption to customer service.
As many as always well-positioned to maximise 125 third-party contractors worked on site at Delegates tried out the new opportunities.
any one time which added health, safety and 360-degree VR experience environmental complexity.
The commitment to planning, and the dedication of the Technical and Health and Safety teams contributed immeasurably to the safety of all those who worked on the project.
With all three phases of Rajamkis expansion now complete, Roal has increased enzyme production capacity, lowered operational costs, created more jobs and made the facility an even safer and more efficient place to work.
A As ss so oc ci ia at te ed B d Br ri it ti is sh F h Fo oo od ds p s pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7
