12 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Five business segments that bring together commonindustry PROVIDING OUR expertise, operational capability and market intelligence.
BUSINESS LEADERS Despite their diversity, each of our businesses has at its heart the core WITH THE FREEDOM principle that the group produces safe, nutritious, affordable food and ANDDECISION-MAKING clothing that is great value for money.
AUTHORITY TO PURSUE OPPORTUNITIES Each of our Grocery businesses pursues an independent strategy, appropriate to its particular market position and stage of development.
Some are focused on developing brands intheir core markets, whilst Jordans, Dorset and AB World Foods for example have had considerable success extending their reach into new and emerging markets.
All of these businesses are committed to the consistent development of their brands, and consumer research is conducted locally and internationally to establish consumer needs and ensure appropriately targeted investment.
Our production facilities are well maintained and we take a long-term approach to capital investment, recognising the merits of building forthe future.
Acquisitions are undertaken when opportunities are presented to either strengthen or complement existing businesses.
14 OPERATING REVIEW, GROCERY Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GROCERY Strategic report 13 AB Sugar is one of the worlds largest Our Ingredients businesses are and most diverse sugar producers and dedicated to understanding the key has a simple vision to be the worlds requirements of their customers leading sugar business.
andtheir end-use markets in order toensure a relevant supply of Whilst sugar is at the heart of what ingredients, systems, products and we do, the sugar production process technology that create value.
They provides opportunities to do more develop partnership relationships than simply manufacture an ingredient.
withcustomers to achieve a genuine We are an innovative and advanced understanding oftheir products, manufacturer, producing a wide range formulations, equipment and processes of sugar and co-products.
Additionally, and the market environment in which we are an energy and power supplier the products are sold.
They aim to grow and, as part of the wider agri-business by providing outstanding customer value chain, we are an important service backed by a high level of contributor to the economy across investment in technology, innovation, all our locations.
Oursuccess has been built on Each business has its own business continued development and innovation model that determines an appropriate to meet the changing needs of our balance of emphasis across the full customers, to improve our operations range of potential sources of competitive and to work with ourgrowers to ensure advantage: innovative anddistinctive sustainable, efficient, agricultural products: an efficient and proprietary set production.
Weseek to drive continuous of production processes: and compelling improvement in everything we do and customer propositions comprising a are committed to developing ourpeople blend of product performance and to build capability and capacity across customer specific services.
all our locations forthe future.
22 OPERATING REVIEW, SUGAR 36 OPERATING REVIEW, INGREDIENTS AB Agri is a unique group of leading Primark offers great value for money agricultural businesses operating across which it achieves by: incurring no the entire food supply chain.
Ithas a advertising costs, instead relying on detailed understanding ofagricultures its customers doing the talking about importance in our changing world and its products: buying in vast quantities the ambition todrive ever greater and passing on the cost savings to production efficiency has been the customers: keeping overheads to a core philosophy for over 30 years.
minimum but investingin state-of-the-art AB Agri operates through individual, logistics toenable its stores to replenish entrepreneurial businesses empowered stocks quickly:and not compromising to grow their interests independently, itshigh-quality standards, rigorously and through astrong network of contacts testing products at the various stages across the entire supply chain.
Organic growth is achieved through In the world of fashion it is critical innovative product development and thatonce a style is seen on the fashion by extending the business already broad show catwalk it reaches thestores geographic reach into new territories asquickly as possible.
Itcan take as and new areas adjacent to its core little as six weeks frominitial design capabilities.
Using the diverse breadth concept to being available onshelf, and of products, services and people within merchandise is sourcedfrom allcorners the AB Agri community, the business of the globe.
Although Primark does develops bespoke solutions tailored toits not own the companies or factories that customers needs.
AB Agri willcontinue produce its merchandise, it recognises its successful strategy ofseeking to its responsibility to the workers in those make complementary acquisitions to factories, and to its customers, to ensure strengthen its portfolio of businesses that its products are made ingood and its technical capability.
It will also working conditions.
continue to collaborate with other businesses inthe ABF groupto harness new contacts and technologies.
30 OPERATING REVIEW, AGRICULTURE 40 OPERATING REVIEW, RETAIL Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AGRICULTURE SUGAR RETAIL INGREDIENTS
