20 GROCERY STEPS TO FLAVOUR PERFECTION Consumers increasingly want to be Pataks is a strong leader of the more involved in cooking meals for ambient Indian category and themselves and for their families, but in has delivered sustained growth many cases they have neither sufficient time nor expertise to deliver a quality over a number of years.
Pataks has therefore launched a range of 3-step kits which include the An important way of ensuring necessary ingredients and step-by-step continuing growth is keeping our instructions to preparing a curry that is brands relevant to consumers guaranteed to taste fabulous.
evolving tastes and needs through the development of new products.
Pataks 3-step kits include a number This includes offering consumers of components: a variety of individual new ways to enjoy authentic tasting dry spices: pastes of blended authentic Indian cuisine that suit them.
spices preserved in oil: and specially developed finishing sauces, which together combine to provide an involving and rewarding experience for home chefs.
Pataks has taken the hard work out of ingredient preparation and because it has expertly blended and balanced all the ingredients, the 3-step kits deliver a fantastic flavoured dish every time.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report operating review 21 A unique blend of English heritage, quality and innovation is keeping Twinings at the top of the tea table.
Much-loved blends The Earl Grey and English Breakfast blends remain the best-known teas behind Twinings worldwide fame.
Earl Grey, created by Twinings in 1831, and English Breakfast, which followed a century later, are now sold in 117 countries.
BEAUTIFUL BLENDS Attracting new consumers Exquisite black teas Another central factor in Twinings Twinings builds on the devotion for its ongoing success has been its ability heritage blends with the introduction 80,000 to attract devotees of non-black tea of other exquisite teas.
January 2017, Public votes cast particularly younger consumers for example, marked the introduction to less traditional brews.
of a new Morning Tea in Australia, where Twinings is already market leader.
Its herbal and fruit infusions and green teas including such combinations as Intense national interest in this full-bodied 1.5m mango and lychee, orange and lotus Ceylon-based tea was boosted by a Shares on social media flower, and ginger and buttermint high profile Twinings Design Challenge, among many new blends have brought which involved 33 inspirational Australian new generations to the ever-broadening women competing to design brand offering.
Innovative promotion The winning pack design, featuring a ballerina, by Australian TV presenter Carrie Bickmore, was revealed at a celebrity-packed Sydney Harbour event and projected across the harbour.
More than 80,000 people voted for their favourite, with around 1.5 million sharing the result on social media.
A contribution from each sale of Morning Tea over the next four years will go to the winners own charity, Carries Beanies 4 Brain Cancer.
Such innovative promotion has been key to Twinings global growth, particularly in conveying the message that, despite its exceptional quality, the 311-year-old brands tea is not just for special occasions.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Sugar 22 AB Sugar is a leading producer of sugarand sugar-derived co-products insouthern Africa, the UK, Spain, andnorth China.
We operate 24 plants in ten countries with the capacity to produce some 4.5 million tonnes of sugar and around 600 million litres of ethanol annually and are a significant employer.
Our products are sold into industry sectors including food and drink, pharmaceutical, industrial, agricultural, power and energy.
In the EU, Azucarera is the largest producer in Iberia and British Sugar is the sole processor of the UK sugar beet crop.
Illovo Sugar is the biggest sugar processor in Africa and in June 2016, ABF acquired full ownership putting both AB Sugar and Illovo Sugar into a stronger position to navigate thecomplex sugar landscape whilst capitalising on Africas growth market.
We have a beet sugar business in north China that has achieved a strong record of performance improvement in agriculture and production efficiencies.
We also operate one of Europes largest bioethanol producers based inthe UK, serving half of the UKs demand for bioethanol.
Our success has been built on continued development and innovation to meet the changing needs of our customers, to improve our operations and to work with our growers to ensuresustainable, efficient .
As a global business, we operate inadiverse and continually changing environment with many opportunities and challenges.
Although we have aglobal portfolio, we operate with alocalheart, working together to dowhat is right for the location and market.
As we evolve to meet the worlds changing needs customers, growers and others it is our role to ensure we useresources responsibly, build strong rural economies and ensure thriving healthy communities.
By drawing upon everything we have learnt over many decades as a sugar producer, we continue to embrace innovation and strive to create more from less by working collaboratively across our group and with our stakeholders.
25 CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT 27 THE SCIENCE OF SEED PROTECTION 28 BUILDING STRONGER LINKS Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 SUGAR Strategic report operating review 23 BUILDING LEADING THE SUGAR WORLDS BUSINESS Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 00 24 SUGAR A WORLD-LEADING SUGAR BUSINESS FOCUSED ON EXCELLENCE for the 2017 18 season was increased AB Sugars revenue and adjusted CONTINUING BUSINESSES by a third.
The crop has developed well, operating profit from continuing with favourable rainfall and temperatures businesses, which exclude the Revenue during the growing season, and the latest results of the south China cane sugar production estimate for 2017 18 sugar business sold during the year, is in excess of 1.4 million tonnes.
were substantially ahead of last 2,174m year.
The main drivers were higher EU sugar prices for 2017 18 will be EU sugar prices, lower UK beet costs, 2016: 1,636m below those achieved this year although increased production and sales the profit impact for British Sugar is Actual fx: 33% volumes at Illovo, and a further major expected, to some extent, to be Constant fx: 21% contribution from the performance mitigated by the higher production improvement programme across the volumes and the benefit of euro strength group.
We changed the Illovo financial against sterling on euro-denominated year end in 2016 to align it with that Adjusted operating profit sales.
Beet costs will be in line with of the group and this years results this year.
therefore included a full 12 months In Spain, profit was well ahead of performance compared to 11 months 223m last year with an increase in sugar last year.
production and higher EU sugar prices.
2016: 35m The performance improvement Although beet sugar production of programme comprises continuous cost Actual fx: 537% 362,000 tonnes was lower than last reduction and business development Constant fx: 374% years 449,000 tonnes, the Guadalete delivered through production efficiencies, refinery produced 300,000 tonnes, capital investment and procurement and imported raw sugars co-refined activities.
The importance of anticipating at the beet factories produced a further Adjusted operating profit margin and responding to the changing needs of 30,000 tonnes.
Next year we expect our customers and their end consumers lower EU sugar prices to reduce the is well understood, and the long-awaited profit at Azucarera.
structural changes to the EU sugar 10.3% In China, we completed the sale industry, which are now upon us, of our five cane sugar factories on have provided an added stimulus over 2016: 2.1% 22 December 2016 for total proceeds, recent years.
Our businesses have been including debt assumed, of 297m.
preparing for this with a thorough review Our continuing operations now comprise of all aspects of their operations, from Return on average capital employed two beet factories in north China at capabilities and processes through Zhangbei and Qianqi.
These factories to routes to market and pack formats.
processed a record beet crop with The programme has generated initiatives 180,000 tonnes of sugar produced across a range of disciplines and there 14.1% although sucrose yields were lower are many still to pursue.
Market prices UK profitability improved significantly.
have been stable and profit was ahead Sugar production of 900,000 tonnes of last year.
Looking ahead to 2017 18, in the 2016 17 year was abnormally low the crop is progressing well with a as a consequence of the reduction in smaller growing area to enable the the contracted growing area in order to optimisation of processing efficiency.
reduce the high level of stocks brought Sucrose yields are expected to improve forward from the prior year.
EU stocks as a result of the work undertaken with were at a low level at the end of this growers to increase mechanisation of marketing year and, in anticipation of the their agricultural operations and improve abolition of quota and export restrictions beet storage methods.
Sugar production from October 2017, our contracted area is estimated at over 170,000 tonnes.
A As ss so oc ci ia at te ed B d Br ri it ti is sh F h Fo oo od ds p s pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Enabling our employees to develop and share insight FIND OUT MORE AT WWW.
CO. UK RESPONSIBILITY AN EXCHANGE PROGRAMME THAT ALLOWS EMPLOYEES TO DEVELOP AND INSIGHT TO BE DISTRIBUTED THROUGHOUT THE BUSINESS AB Sugars International The business also benefits from the Experience Programme IEP is IEP through the transfer of knowledge enriching the capabilities of our between operations, the ongoing businesses and our people.
collaboration enabled by expanded networks and the development and The IEP provides an opportunity increased engagement of employees.
for employees from our core factory Participants identification of operations or agriculture functions to cost-saving or profit-making initiatives work for up to six months in another in their host country, or on return part of our business in a different to their home business, has also country.
It is open to people with delivered significant returns.
development potential at any age Overall, the opportunities that the IEP or career stage.
Reflecting our opens up for individuals and the wider international footprint, since the company are supporting AB Sugars programmes 2012 launch, participants foundations and building capability have come from Africa, China, Spain for the future to deliver even greater and the UK.
performance improvement in a more All-round benefits competitive environment.
The IEP offers major benefits for our people.
Employees learn about a new part of AB Sugar: experience a different culture: develop their language skills, technical ability and personal resilience: and extend and Since the launch in strengthen their internal networks.
Among their new contacts will be a support team established by AB Sugar for each participant, including 2012 home and host line managers and a dedicated local buddy.
participants have come from Africa, China, Spain and the UK S D E E N E H T T E E M Strategic report operating review O T G N I V O R P M I Y 25 Sugar production at Illovo was 1.65 million tonnes, compared with 1.40 million tonnes last year on a comparable basis, following better growing conditions in the new season, particularly in South Africa and Swaziland.
As a consequence, sales were strong and we continued to improve our consumer offering in Zambia, Malawi and Tanzania with we then tackled transformational AB Sugar operates in a diverse an extended range of pack sizes projects that simplified and improved and continually changing and enhanced point of sale materials.
These projects Combined with the continuing tended to be large in scale, had a environment with many performance improvement activities, step-change impact and required opportunities and challenges.
profit was ahead of last year.
The new low capital investment: refining and sugar conditioning plant The period since June 2013, when capital expenditure was our next in Zambia, which was commissioned the European Council of Ministers area of focus.
Deepening our already last year, operated well during the confirmed that existing quota exacting scrutiny of investments, year.
This facility provides the capacity arrangements in the EU would cease we ensured that all capital projects, to meet the growing demand for on 30 September 2017, has been whether related to land, buildings, more refined sugars in the local one of the most significant in the machinery or equipment, all and regional markets.
delivered strong financial returns Further improvement in throughput to the business: and We enter this new era and reliability was made during the we launched a global procurement post-deregulation with confidence, year at the Vivergo Fuels bioethanol process to increase profit through having built upon our continued plant, although an operating loss was the implementation of a variety of development and innovation driven by higher UK wheat costs best practice principles.
This resulted to meet the changing needs of and lower ethanol prices.
The UK in group-wide visibility of purchasing our customers, by improving our Government produced its response which delivered significant economies operations and by working with to the consultation on renewables in of scale.
growers to drive sustainable, transport fuels on 14 September 2017 efficient agricultural production.
and proposed that the percentage A culture of continuous of transport fuel from renewable improvement In part, we have achieved this sources would increase from its By being open minded about just by introducing a performance current level of 4.75% to 9.75% by how much we could possibly improvement programme PIP that 2020.
The crop-based component achieve and by making a long-term we launched in 2009, recognising of this would be capped at 4% until commitment, we have had time that the competitive environment 2020, declining to 3% by 2026 and to embed the PIP process across was only going to get tougher.
Whilst we support the the group.
International employee first step was to determine a template increase in the renewables mandate exchanges, centres of excellence, for the fit and nimble group we aspired we are concerned about the networking and deployment of to be, by benchmarking ourselves reduction in the crop cap after 2020 projects on a group-wide basis have extensively against internal and and will maintain a close dialogue all helped ensure good practice is external models of best practice.
shared consistently and effectively and, as our pipeline of future Setting ambitious goals projects testifies, PIP has become Having established ambitious self-sustaining.
Continuous goals for our group, in 2011 we improvement is now part of our began a four-stage programme culture: we are a more efficient to achieve them: and customer-focused organisation and have delivered substantial cost we empowered our people to and performance benefits across identify, execute and maintain each of our businesses.
local projects that reduced costs, improved processes and enhanced operational performance.
To enable We enter this new era this, we invested extensively in post-deregulation with training, for example in Lean confidence, having built upon production techniques which aimed to increase value for customers by our continued development making businesses more efficient and innovation to meet and responsive to market needs, whilst reducing waste: the changing needs of our customers.
A As ss so oc ci ia at te ed B d Br ri it ti is sh F h Fo oo od ds p s pl lc c Annual Report and Accounts 2017 L S U O U N I T N O C S R E M O T S U C F O
