08 GROUP BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY BUSINESS STRUCTURE ASSOCIATED BRITISH FOODS IS A DIVERSIFIED INTERNATIONAL FOOD, INGREDIENTS AND RETAIL GROUP Our businesses are organised so that they are close to the markets and customers that they serve.
The group is managed as five business segments that bring together common industry expertise, operational capability and market intelligence.
Operational decisions are made locally because, in our experience, they are most successful when made by the people who have the best understanding of their markets and who have to implement them.
Thecorporate centre aims to provide a framework in which our business leaders have the freedom and decision-making authority to pursue opportunities with entrepreneurial flair.
The centre is small and uses short lines of communication to ensure prompt, incisive and unambiguous decisionmaking.
It seeks to ensure that business activities are appropriately monitored andsupported.
AT A GLANCE 02 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 09 STRATEGY ORGANIC GROWTH OUR PEOPLE The corporate centre agrees Organic growth is achieved We believe that an ethical business strategy and budgets with the through investment in marketing, is primarily built by its people, businesses and monitors their in the development of existing not through codes of practice or performance closely.
and new products and technologies words on a page.
and in targeted capital expenditure The group balance sheet is managed We pride ourselves in being a first-class to improve efficiency and toensure long-term financial stability, employer and we work actively to expand capacity.
regardless of the state of capital develop capability and create opportunities markets, and capital funding is made We are committed to innovation, for employee progression.
As a result, available to all of our businesses where the continuous pursuit of improvement people tend to stay with the group for returns meet or exceed clearly-defined and the maintenance of our efficient a long time and build exciting careers.
The centre provides selected manufacturing capability.
Whether through formal training and services where the scale of its apprenticeships, cross-fertilisation We aim to operate in a sustainable, operations enables a more costof skills between roles, or mentoring, ethical, efficient and safe manner.
effective or efficient delivery, where we encourage and support everybody Wehave a strong culture of continuing expertise that might not be available to thrive at work.
operational improvement and focus at abusiness level can be retained ondelivering exceptional quality and Being part of Associated British Foods by the group, or where the provision customer service.
The group takes a means being part of a community that of such services would otherwise long-term approach to investment and respects human rights and celebrates distract business executives.
iscommitted to increasing shareholder diversity.
We recognise the United Such services include investor relations, value through sound commercial, Nations Guiding Principles on Business pensions, insurance, legal support, responsible and sustainable business and Human Rights and aim to adhere taxand treasury management, where decisions that deliver steady growth to the core ILO conventions and all specialist expertise is brought together inearnings and dividends.
relevant laws relating to working inone place for the benefit of the conditions and employment.
We strive Acquisitions are made to complement group as a whole.
The centre also to promote diversity and generate new existing business activities and to co-ordinates selected value-added and equal opportunities, a good example exploit opportunities in adjacent capabilities to support the businesses being our Gender Diversity Task Force markets or geographies.
intheir local markets such as talent which has a clear and simple goal: management and development, No Barriers to Talent.
The task force aims procurement, and the sharing of best to optimise talent by embedding practices practice in, for example, health and into our core processes that enable safety or engineering risk management.
women to develop on an equal footing We operate to high ethical standards as to their male colleagues.
We invest in an organisation and expect the same of our people to ensure they are equipped our employees.
We encourage an open to deliver and excel at work, with a and honest culture in all our dealings key focus on training and development and ensure that our core values are fully across the group.
Business-specific implemented throughout the group.
examples of such activities are highlighted throughout this report and also in our 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report and the 2017 update.
12 BUSINESS STRATEGIES 14 OPERATING REVIEW 50 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
