32 AGRICULTURE ADDING VALUE BY IMPROVING THESUSTAINABILITY OF FOODPRODUCTION AB Agri revenues were well In continental Europe, starter feeds Revenue ahead of last year with growth in imported into Poland from our Primary all businesses and the benefit of Diets business in the UK achieved a full years trading from Agrokorn excellent growth, and construction which was acquired last year.
of the new starter feed factory in 1,203m Adjusted operating profit was, Spain was completed by the year however, lower than last year end.
AB Vista performed well both 2016: 1,084m mainly reflecting reduced margins in Europe and North America, driving Actual fx: 11% in China and UK feeds, as a result strong enzyme sales, and progress Constant fx: 8% of strong competition and higher was made beyond the traditional pig raw material costs, and an increase and poultry sectors in both ruminant in investment in new business and aquaculture markets.
Last years Adjusted operating profit opportunities.
acquisition of Agrokorn, a Danish producer of animal nutrition products, Demand for feed in the UK was premixes and milk replacers, extended weak and the smaller sugar beet crop our capability in alternative proteins and reduced co-product volumes.
New 50m created a platform for further product liquid co-products from Vivergos development and geographic expansion.
2016: 58m biofuel production were developed for This business is now well integrated the animal feed and anaerobic digestion Actual fx: -14% into our existing operations.
AD markets which partly offset the Constant fx: -21% reduced availability of co-products from AB Agris extensive experience across the food and drink industry.
Our AD plant the farming industry, combined with in Yorkshire was commissioned during the greater availability of on-farm data Adjusted operating profit margin the year enabling sales of new AD and the use of proprietary technology, products and services under the Amur are being leveraged to provide greater brand.
A smaller UK wheat crop and insight into on-farm management.
low market volatility adversely affected This is aimed at assisting farmers to 4.2% Frontiers grain trading performance, increase productivity and improve 2016: 5.4% but firmer grain pricing and good growing animal nutrition.
conditions contributed to a strong result from its crop inputs business.
Return on average capital employed In Asia, AB Vista performed well with higher enzyme revenues although the market weakened in the second half after a strong start.
Margin and profit 14.2% reduced in China as a result of a more challenging environment as evidenced 2016: 17.7% by egg prices falling to their lowest level in 20 years.
Our feed mill in Shanghai was relocated to a new site with increased capacity.
Our first standalone feed pre-mix site in China is now operational, addressing the growing demand for specialist, tailored ingredients.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to employee wellbeing FIND OUT MORE AT WWW.
CO. UK RESPONSIBILITY AN AB AGRI WELLBEING PROGRAMME IS GIVING EMPLOYEES THE TOOLS TO BOOST THEIR PHYSICAL, EMOTIONAL AND FINANCIAL HEALTH The new programme brings healthy living practices to the heart of the workplace, focusing every month on different themes from stopping smoking to financial planning.
We are piloting the scheme at our Peterborough site, where up to Following the pilot, 400 of our people work.
Wellbeing the programme will be fairs have enabled employees to find out about local gyms and clubs, rolled out across AB Agris chat to nutritionists, experience taster exercise classes and receive health MOTs.
Following the pilot, the programme will be rolled out 40 across AB Agris 40 international sites, driven by HR teams and wellbeing champions.
international Such local activities are sites complemented by a new global employee wellbeing portal, which sits within our wider benefits Good for people website.
This resource includes This wellbeing focus demonstrates expert advice from our wellbeing AB Agris objective to be good for partners, including Living Sport, people and ensure agriculture is which encourages sports a first choice career, as part of our participation, and healthcare Formula 24 strategic commitment to specialist Bupa.
It also builds on our existing portfolio of colleague benefits, such as our employee assistance programme and private medical insurance offering.
Our wellbeing emphasis also reflects our evolution beyond traditional health and safety although this remains key to more holistic employee support.
This, in turn, mirrors the changing demands of the modern workforce and our efforts to attract, engage and retain great talent.
Strategic report operating review 33 33 Evolution through innovation AB Agri continues to evolve its operations through innovation, as exemplified in its latest venture which uses a co-product from one of ABFs other operations, Vivergo Fuels, to create value and power in another, Amur, an anaerobic digestion business that was launched last year.
AB Agri has an established relationship with Vivergos bioethanol plant in Hull as AB Connect already sells a quality animal feed co-product from biofuel production.
The business is now successfully channelling a liquid co-product from Vivergo to feed a large number of anaerobic digesters through the Amur business.
Environmental and business benefits The liquid, which is made up of wheat proteins, fibres and yeast extracts, is produced during the fermentation distillation stage of bioethanol production.
A proportion of this liquid was previously sent to landfill, at a cost to both the environment and the Vivergo business.
However, using our expertise in livestock nutrition to analyse the liquid, we identified that its nutrient profile would help drive cost-effective gas production in anaerobic digestion.
Since March 2016, in the region of 60,000 tonnes of the co-product has been marketed into a range of anaerobic digestion plants that generate power for the National Grid.
In our own Amur operation we have also produced a new organic fertiliser from the digestate which we now sell.
This provides an offset for some of the carbon produced at our feed mills.
Identification of the potential value of the liquids composition reflects AB Agris ability to adapt its core nutrition expertise to new, developing markets.
It also adds to its track record of deriving profit from co-products and evolving its traditional animal feed business into new markets, thereby helping to maintain its market leadership.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
