06 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Our markets Travel units sell a range of products to cater for people on the TRAVEL move or in need of a convenience offer.
Travels typical customer has less time to browse and is more interested in purchasing Travel units sell a range of products to cater convenience and impulse products such as food, drink and for people on the move or in need of a confectionery, travel accessories and souvenirs, as well as convenience offer.
Travel units are typically located in higher footfall locations than High Street stores, with higher operating and occupation costs with rents paid as a percentage of sales subject to minimum guarantees.
Travel is less affected by the Christmas trading period than high street retailers.
Increased passenger traffic during the summer holiday season, particularly in airports, contributes to a summer peak in sales.
Travel is impacted by macroeconomic trends including any impact arising from the process of exiting the European Union and other factors which influence the number and nationality of travelling customers.
These include levels of employment and investment, the cost of travelling, as well as specific category trends such as the impact of digitisation on printed products and the growth of consumable products.
Where we have reliable data on passenger trends, we see a correlation between changes in passenger numbers and our sales.
Travel faces competition in its product categories primarily from other retailers in air, rail, motorways and hospitals.
The growth of these retailers may take market share from Travel.
Travel operates in 150 air units, 124 rail units, 127 hospital units and in other locations in the UK, and 233 units outside of the UK.
High Street sells a wide range of products in the following HIGH STREET categories: Stationery including greetings cards, general stationery, art and craft, and gifting, News and Impulse High Street sells a wide range of products in including newspapers, magazines, confectionery and drinks the following categories: Stationery including and Books.
High Streets trading is seasonal, peaking at greetings cards, general stationery, art and Christmas and in August September for back to school.
craft, and gifting, News and Impulse including The High Street business operates 611 stores with an newspapers, magazines, confectionery and extensive reach across the UK and a presence on nearly every drinks and Books.
significant UK high street and mainly in prime locations.
High Street also includes our online business www.
co. uk which sells a range of Stationery, Books, Magazines and Gifts.
Our online personalised greetings card sites www.
ie are part of the broader greetings card market and have grown strongly.
High Streets performance is dependent upon overall growth in consumer spending including any impact arising from the process of exiting the European Union, growth in the non-food, non-clothing sector, its ability to take share in its product markets as well as specific category trends such as the impact of digitisation on printed products.
Additionally, trends in the book market are impacted mainly by the strength and quality of publishing in any year.
High Streets competition comes primarily from other high street specialists, discounters, supermarkets and online retailers.
The growth of these formats may take market share away from the High Street business.
