Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 39 Directors biographies Henry Staunton Stephen Clarke Robert Moorhead Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer Henry Staunton joined the Board of WH Stephen Clarke is Group Chief Executive Robert Moorhead is Chief Financial Smith in September 2010 and became and joined the Board of WH Smith in June Officer and Chief Operating Officer CFO Chairman on 1 September 2013.
2012, becoming Group Chief Executive COO and joined the Board of WH Smith He is also Chair of the Nominations on 1 July 2013.
He joined WH Smith in in December 2008.
He has extensive finance, August 2004 as Marketing Director for Accountant and joined WH Smith in 2004 media and retail expertise and is WH Smith High Street.
In 2006 he was as Retail Finance Director.
Previously, Chairman of BrightHouse Group PLC appointed Commercial and Marketing he was Group Finance Director at and Phoenix Group Holdings and a nonDirector and in 2008 became Managing Specsavers Optical Group and Finance executive director of Capital and Counties Director of WH Smith High Street.
and IT Director of World Duty Free Properties plc.
He was previously the He began his career at the Dixons Group Europe.
He also held a number of roles Finance Director of Granada and ITV, where he carried out a number of store, at B&Q and Kingfisher Group.
He started Chairman of Ashtead Group and Vice product and marketing roles.
his career at Price Waterhouse.
Chairman of Legal and General PLC.
Suzanne Baxter Drummond Hall Annemarie Durbin Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Suzanne Baxter is a non-executive Annemarie Durbin is a non-executive Drummond Hall is a non-executive director and joined the Board of WH director and joined the Board of WH director and joined the Board of WH Smith in February 2013.
She is a Smith in December 2012.
She is a Smith in September 2008.
He is the Chartered Accountant having trained at non-executive director and Chair of the Senior Independent Director and Chair Price Waterhouse, and is Chair of the Remuneration Committee of Santander of the Remuneration Committee.
She was formerly the UK plc and a non-executive director of non-executive director and Chair of the Group Finance Director of Mitie Group Ladbrokes Coral Group plc.
She has 25 Remuneration Committee of The Sage Plc.
She has also been the Chair of the years international banking experience Group plc and is the Senior Independent Business in the Community South West particularly across Asia, Africa and the Director of First Group plc.
He spent the Strategic Advisory Board, Deputy Chair Middle East operating at Board and early part of his career with Procter & of Opportunity Now and Chair of the Executive Committee level.
She is also Gamble, Mars and PepsiCo Inc, and from Business Services Association.
Chair of the Listing Authority Advisory 2002 to 2006 was Chief Executive of Dairy Panel.
In addition to her directorships, Crest PLC.
Annemarie is an executive coach, a conflict mediator and provides Board governance consultancy services.
Ian Houghton is Company Secretary and Legal Director and was appointed in September 1998.
BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Suzanne Baxter Chair Henry Staunton Chair Drummond Hall Chair Annemarie Durbin Suzanne Baxter Suzanne Baxter Drummond Hall Stephen Clarke Annemarie Durbin Annemarie Durbin Henry Staunton Drummond Hall
