Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 25 Other disclosures WHSmith is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative, an CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME alliance of companies, trade unions and NGOs that promotes At WHSmith, we have a long-standing commitment to high respect for workers rights around the globe.
standards of corporate responsibility CR.
Our programme is comprised of four key areas of CR: Environmental management, We have an in-house ethical audit team based in China who Responsibility in the marketplace, Workplace practice and conduct audits of our own-brand suppliers in Asia at least every Community impact.
Accountability for each area rests with two years assessing compliance with our Code of Conduct and named members of our Board, who, in turn, are supported grading suppliers Black, Bronze, Silver and Gold.
A factory by senior executives responsible for delivering our objectives.
must be graded Bronze or above if we are to work with them.
In this way we ensure our CR work is embedded across our We use a mix of announced and unannounced audits.
The Board carry out annual reviews to ensure increasing the number of unannounced audits to ensure that we the successful implementation of the CR strategy and to are seeing as true a picture as possible of the factory conditions.
monitor performance against our CR targets.
The following Last year, around a third of factory audits by overall spend pages provide an introduction to our CR work during the year.
We have joined the Supplier Ethical Data More detailed information, including performance data and Exchange SEDEX to provide additional risk assessments and future targets, is available in our full CR report, available at audit data, which will allow more detailed ethical risk analysis of www.
Our team spend a significant part of their time leading our CUSTOMERS engagement work to support suppliers as they seek to improve Excellent customer service is a core part of our business working conditions.
Engagement focuses on resolving specific objectives and we recognise and reward staff who meet the issues identified during audits, as well as wider projects working highest standards.
We use mystery shoppers to monitor with a range of suppliers on a key issue, for example, worker customer service and reward employees who perform well.
representation or health and safety.
We also operate a gold badge recognition scheme in our High Street stores awarded to store staff who have delivered excellent We continue to develop our understanding of modern slavery customer service.
In our Travel business, we continue to build risks within our business and supply chain.
We have reported upon and grow our Customer First initiative to drive a culture of on this area in detail in a separate Modern Slavery Statement.
excellent customer service standards throughout the business.
A copy of our Ethical Trading Code of Conduct and Human Rights Policy is available at Our Marketing Code of Practice sets out the standards we follow www.
co. uk corporate responsibility our policies.
in our promotional activity, marketing and advertising and seeks to ensure that the products we sell are safe, fit for purpose, FOREST SOURCING meet legal standards and are not described in a misleading Paper-based products are a core part of WHSmiths business manner, particularly when marketing to children.
and sustainable timber sourcing is therefore one of our key CR We aim to offer our customers a choice of healthy options when priorities.
We are committed to minimising the environmental they buy food or drink from WHSmith, and our healthy ranges impact of the paper used in own-brand products, and to do continue to grow.
We launched our Munch Better chilled food so we work to a continuing objective that all virgin i. e. nonrange in October 2016 and this sub-brand now accounts for recycled material used in our products is from known, legal, nearly a quarter of our chilled food sales.
All of our Munch well-managed and credibly certified forests.
As part of our Better lines are under 400 Kcals and amber or green on the work towards this objective and in line with the requirements traffic light system.
Our queuing system now features a range of the EU timber regulations, we carry out an in-depth and of protein bars, Graze products and own brand Munch lines that rigorous assessment of supplier forest sourcing systems.
include raw nuts and fruit.
Initiatives like this, together with our We have set certified FSC PEFC or recycled as a minimum improved ranges, have contributed to healthier snacking sales standard, which gives additional assurance that pulp is from growing by over 30 per cent within Travel last year.
In July, WWF released the results of their 2017 Timber Scorecard, a survey of retailer timber sourcing policies.
ETHICAL TRADING AND HUMAN RIGHTS WHSmith was praised for making very good progress and we were pleased to be one of a group of businesses that were WHSmiths Ethical Trade Code of Conduct, based on the awarded their top rating.
More than 90 per cent of the pulp used ETI Base Code, underpins our ethical trade strategy and in our own-brand stationery products now comes from certified programmes.
We will only place orders with suppliers who sustainable forest sources, and we have set a target to get to at are committed to working towards compliance with this least 95 per cent by 2020.
A copy of our Forest Sourcing Policy Code.
Our objective is to work with our suppliers to bring is available at www.
co. uk corporate responsibility about incremental change through our programme of factory our policies.
Over the last year, we have also completed a detailed review of our ethical trade policies and audit process, benchmarking WHSmith against other ETI members to ensure that our approach is in line with best practice.
26 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Other disclosures continued Global greenhouse gas emissions data for period 1 September ENVIRONMENT 2016 to 31 August 2017 in tonnes of CO e 2 We recognise that good environmental management also makes good business sense.
We are committed to reducing Percentage the environmental impact of our business, and measure our of carbon performance each year.
A copy of our Environmental Policy is 2016 17 footprint 2015 2016 available at www.
co. uk corporate responsibility Scope 1 emissions our policies.
Combustion of fuel for 8,537 27% 8,320 Greenhouse gas emissions the transport of WHSmith We have been working for many years to reduce the amount of products from distribution energy we use, recognising the opportunity both to reduce our centre to store using overall carbon footprint and also to reduce operating costs for vehicles owned by third the business.
We are on track to meet our objective to cut CO e 2 parties.
Also combustion emissions from stores and distribution centres by 45 per cent of gas to heat and cool WHSmith stores, offices per square foot by 2020 from a 2007 baseline.
The ownership and distribution centres for energy consumption sits with our store managers who have direct accountability for energy costs, therefore driving high Scope 2 emissions levels of awareness and engagement among our store teams.
Electricity purchased 21,419 69% 25,582 for WHSmiths own use During the year, we have been working on a project to roll out used to power, light and energy efficiency best practice across the Group.
The project heat stores, offices or involves, firstly, understanding what energy a store should distribution centres be using, and then making changes to the settings of key Scope 3 emissions energy using systems, and, in larger sites, the installation of WHSmith employee 1,120 4% 1,374 additional control equipment and automation to ensure things business travel by air, rail are controlled efficiently.
These improved energy efficiency and owned and non-owned measures have now been implemented in 220 High Street stores motor vehicles and 430 Travel units.
On average we expect to see a saving of 31,166 100% 35,276 Total around five per cent in a typical store.
Intensity measurement WHSmiths transport delivery network is a long and complex Total emissions Scopes 7.28 8.03 one, covering well over a thousand stores across the length and 1, 2 and 3 reported above breadth of the UK.
The emissions from our fleet of lorries make normalised per 1,000 up a significant part of our carbon footprint and we work hard square feet to maximise efficiency wherever we can.
Since 2007, we have reduced our CO e emissions per pallet moved by 21 per cent.
2 Scope and methodology In the above table we have reported on all of the emission We work with our transport providers to carry out regular sources required under the Large and Medium Companies and in-depth reviews of our transport operations to help us to and Groups Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008 as optimise routing and delivery frequency.
The addition of double amended, as well as Scope 3 emissions, which are reported deck trailers which are suitable for both High Street and Travel on a voluntary basis.
These sources fall within our consolidated distribution centres has helped to achieve greater efficiencies by financial statements.
This data covers the continuing activities creating a more integrated fleet across the Group.
In addition, undertaken by our retailing operation in the UK and Ireland.
our transport management system provides real-time data to The impacts resulting from franchise operations are excluded monitor driver behaviour.
from this report as we are not responsible for the operations of these stores.
The impacts resulting from international stores are also excluded from this report because it is not practicable to collect the base emissions data at the current time.
We have used data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the GHG Protocol, and recommended DEFRA conversion factors.
We do not believe there are any material omissions.
Waste management Waste is not only damaging to the environment but also costly for our business, so we are focused on reducing waste and maximising recycling wherever we can.
In our High Street stores, we operate a dry mix recycling system which enables the stores to recycle most forms of waste, including plastics and metals.
Waste is also carefully separated in our distribution centres and offices.
Overall 89 per cent of our waste was recycled during 2016 17.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 27 Eliminating food waste is a priority for our Travel business.
SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY MATTERS This is a complex area however, and we need to develop different As a leading bookseller and stationer we focus our community strategies for chilled food versus ambient food.
We have made investment on supporting education and life-long learning.
good progress in improving our forecasting of chilled food sales, Over the year we invested a total of 1,865,690 into local so that we only stock the chilled food that we expect to sell, and communities 2016: 1,602,675.
Included in this figure are therefore reducing waste volumes.
We have been able to deliver cash donations, staff time and gifts in kind.
The full extent of a 28 per cent reduction in sandwich waste, and we are targeting our community investment activity, measured according to the further reductions in the year ahead.
London Benchmarking Group model, is outlined in the Groups CR report, available at www.
In recent years, we have been working hard to reduce the number of single-use plastic carrier bags we hand out.
To mark WHSmiths 225th anniversary, we have partnered This year, we introduced a Bag for Life which is available in with three charities this year, Cancer Research UK, Mind and all of our High Street and Travel stores and has resulted in a the National Literacy Trust, with all of our employees across dramatic drop in single-use bag consumption, down by around the Group coming together to support our charity fundraising.
For the few single-use bags we still Highlights of the year include World Cancer Day in February use, we donate the proceeds from the UK carrier bag levies to when WHSmith stores raised over 150,000 for Cancer Research good causes.
During the year, we have donated almost 220,000 UK.
In March, our stores celebrated World Book Day for the to our charity partners, with our Travel business supporting National Literacy Trust, with hundreds of school children coming Shelter, the homelessness charity, and our High Street business in for storytelling and behind the scenes tours.
In May, stores giving the proceeds of the levy to our new WHSmith Community marked Mental Health Awareness Week for Mind and WHSmith Fund, which makes grants to hundreds of customer-nominated Waterloo station store was wrapped in Mind logos to mark the schools and charities across the UK.
Over the summer, employees across the country have been taking part in Race for Life events for Cancer Research HEALTH AND SAFETY UK and a National Three Peaks Challenge, and our fundraising will continue into the autumn with a gala charity ball and a wide We are committed to maintaining high standards of health range of commemorative charity Christmas products.
The management team, supported by professional safety advisers, monitors key safety performance indicators Promoting literacy is a priority for us as a business.
WH Smith and an annual report detailing trends, performance and PLC and the WHSmith Group Charitable Trust have supported recommendations is presented to the Board.
The business also the National Literacy Trusts Young Readers Programme has a Health and Safety Committee that comprises employee since 2005.
Our partnership is now award-winning, having representatives and professional health and safety advisers.
been recognised with a bronze award for Most Effective Long The Group Safety team continue to provide an ongoing training Term Programme at the Corporate Engagement Awards 2017. programme for staff in stores, consisting of modular courses During 2016 17, we worked with the National Literacy Trust focusing on key issues such as fire safety, manual handling to develop a new three-year partnership, continuing our core and slips, trips and falls.
A copy of our Health and Safety at support for the Young Readers Programme model, but also Work Policy is available at www.
co. uk corporate introducing live literature events to bring children into direct responsibility our policies.
contact with authors, storytellers and illustrators, with the objective of really bringing books to life and inspiring children to want to discover the world of books and reading.
Over the year, the project has worked with 1,500 children in 24 primary schools across the UK, allowing them to choose more than 4,500 free new books to keep.
During autumn and winter 2016, WHSmith High Street stores worked in partnership with Save the Children to raise essential funds for children in need.
WHSmith employees were proud to raise over 175,000 for Save the Childrens Christmas Jumper Day 2016.
As well as selling Christmas cards, Christmas giftwrap and teddy bears, all in aid of Save the Children, WHSmith employees across the UK were champions of the charitys Christmas Jumper Day campaign.
A copy of our Community Engagement Policy is available at www.
The WHSmith Group Charitable Trust, an independent registered charity, actively supports employees that are involved with charitable organisations in their local communities, as well as working in partnership with the Group to support literacy projects.
