24 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued ASSESSING THE IMPACT OF OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS ON OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The table below maps our strategic priorities with our principal risks, to demonstrate which of these risks could have an impact on the ongoing achievement of these strategic priorities.
Economic, political, Key suppliers Treasury, competitive and supply financial and Cyber risk and market Brand and chain Store Business Reliance on International credit risk and data risks reputation management portfolio interruption key personnel expansion management security 1.
Winning new space developing new formats in UK and internationally ii.
Managing our space to meet the changing needs of our customers iii.
High Street i. Optimise returns on space ii.
Margin growth from mix management iii.
Utilising our assets and third party partnerships 3.
Focused use of cash BREXIT Following the UK referendum to leave the EU, there will be a period of uncertainty until an agreement on exit has been agreed between the UK and EU.
In the circumstances, the extent to which our operations and financial performance are affected in the longer term will only become clear as details of this agreement emerge.
We have considered the possible consequences that Brexit could have upon our business and have concluded that it does not raise any new principal risks, although it does have the potential to impact a number of our existing risks, for example, regulatory changes and economic uncertainty, including impacts from changes in foreign exchange rates.
We will continue to monitor the risks and uncertainties arising from Brexit as part of the Companys risk management and control processes which are described on page 20.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, the directors are required to issue a viability statement declaring whether we believe the Company is able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities over a period greater than 12 months, taking into account its current position and principal risks.
The directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a three year period, taking into account its recent historical performance, forecasts, principal risks and mitigating factors.
A three year period is considered the appropriate timeframe to assess the Groups prospects as it is consistent with the Groups strategic planning and review period, management incentive schemes and medium term financing considerations.
The strategic review incorporates plans at both the Group and Operating Division level.
The plans consider the Groups cash flows, committed funding liquidity positions, forecast future funding and key financial metrics.
Using the strategic plan as a base, we have modelled a range of severe but plausible scenarios reflecting the Groups principal risks to establish their effect on the Groups cash and bank facilities.
Taking account of the above matters, and the Groups current position and principal risks, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period ending 31 August 2020.
