04 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Our business model and strategy to create value BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY WHSmith is one of the UKs leading retailers Our business model explains what we do and withtwo distinct businesses Travel and how we create value.
We aim to do this through High Street.
At the heart of both our businesses improving our profitability and cash flow, and areour people and our customers.
OUR GOALS Travel High Street Our goal is to be the leading retailer in news, Our goal is to be Britains most popular high street books and convenience for the worlds stationer, bookseller and newsagent.
We aim to deliver our goals through our strategic priorities and initiatives.
These are detailed on the following page.
Travel and High Street are run by separate management teams reflecting the different customers, strategies, operating models and cost structures.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 05 Travel High Street Delivering sustainable Driving like for like sales, profit growth and high levels of cash generation with a profit growth and cash generation growing International business Forensic focus on space and category returns to Optimise returns Margin growth meet the changing needs of our customers from a forensic from category focus on space mix management Improved execution Cost efficiency and service Utilising our assets and Winning new space and Delivering third party partnerships to developing new formats enhance our customer offer shareholder and channels in the UK e. g. Post Offices and internationally returns Focused Use of Cash Investing in the business where returns are greater than our cost of capital Value accretive acquisitions Return surplus cash to shareholders through a progressive dividend policy and share buybacks Right Operating Our people responsibly customers and skills You can read more about You can read more about You can read more about our values, employees and our approach to corporate our markets on page 6. diversity on pages 28 and 29. responsibility on pages 25 to 29.
