About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Strategic Report Going Concern and Long-Term Viability Statements The land bank consists of land with Going Concern Statement DPP to meet our land requirements After conducting a full review, for the short and medium-term the directors have a reasonable needs of the business bolstered expectation that the Group has by a further pipeline of sites which adequate resources to fund its are being progressed through the operations for at least the next planning process.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern In addition, the Group has for the basis in preparing the accounts as last eight consecutive financial years discussed further on page 85. achieved year on year growth in legal completions, revenue and operating margin.
Long-Term Viability Statement Although the triggering of Article 50 is a potential risk for the UK housebuilding As required by provision C. 2.2 of the sector the reservation rate seems to be UK Corporate Governance Code, the unaffected so far.
directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a three-year Having considered all of the factors period, taking account of the Groups described above, the directors have current position and principal risks.
a reasonable expectation that the The directors consider that a threeGroup will be able to continue in year period is appropriate as this is the operation and meet its liabilities as they period covered by the Groups nearfall due over the three-year period of term business plan.
To assess the Groups prospects the directors conduct an annual strategic review of the Groups business model and strategy, to ensure it remains fit for purpose.
A robust assessment was also carried out of the principal risks facing the business that would have an adverse impact on the Groups viability over the three-year period.
The Group has in place considerable flexible bank facilities with three lenders, which provides access to finance in tranches until November 2020.
In advance of each of these facilities expiring, a review will be undertaken to determine whether a facility needs to be renewed based on the strategy, cash forecast and pricing.
21 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
