What we do WE ARE A RESELLER There are many names for what we do and, while we do a lot of reselling, we also design, advise, consult, implement, manage and monitor.
So, call us whatever you like: a reseller, a VAR, an IT solutions company, an IT infrastructure provider we are all of those things.
What is important is that there will always be a need to help organisations and businesses procure and manage IT.
We have made it our mission to do that betterthan anyone else.
OUR OFFERING We provide corporate and public sector organisations with software licensing, Workplace workplace technology, networking and security, and cloud and datacentre.
technology We do not develop bespoke applications or specialise in any industry-specific vertical application but can partner with third party organisations for these requirements.
Our focus is on providing the IT infrastructure and services tokeep these applications performing, highly available and secure.
Networking and security See pages 14 and 15 for more on our markets Cloud and 100% datacentre UK focused OUR TEAM We believe that if people enjoy what they do they will do it better, GREAT PLACE TO WORK soour culture is a vital ingredient to our success.
It is the source UKs Best Large ofthe outstanding service we deliver to customers.
Workplaces 2017 See pages 12 and 13 to read about our people 1,046 employees at 31 July 2017 AWARD-WINNING SERVICE HPE SOPHOS CISCO Partner of the Year Enterprise Partner of the Year EMEAR Partner of the Year UK and Ireland UK and Ireland UK and Ireland 2 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 832m 48 revenue consecutive quarters oforganic growth OUR VENDORS We partner with more than 200 different hardware and software vendors to bring the latest and broadest range of technology to our customers, as well as numerous specialist service providers to augment the services provided by our in-house teams.
Vendor relationships are important to us and we strive to be their partner of choice.
See pages 16 and 17 for more on our partnerships 200 vendors OUR CUSTOMERS SMB mid-market The majority of our business comes from the small to medium-sized business segment, but public sector customers now account for Public sector more than 30% of revenue and continue to grow.
We also have a Enterprise significant number of large enterprise customers and are actively investing in our capability to serve very large accounts.
See pages 18 and 19 for more on our relationships 13,000 customers MIMECAST ADOBE VEEAM SNOW SOFTWARE Partner Partner SMB Partner New Business of the Year of the Year of the Year Partner of the Year Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 3
