Directors report The Directors present their report for the year to 31 July 2017.
Directors interests The interests of the Directors in the issued shares of the Softcat plc is a public company limited by shares, incorporated Company at 31 July 2017 are disclosed in the Remuneration in England and Wales, and its shares are traded on the Premium Report on page 56.
The Remuneration Report also sets out segment of the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
details of any changes in those interests between the year endand 18 October 2017.
Disclosures incorporated by reference The following disclosures required to be included in this No Director had a material interest in any contract of significance Directors Report have been incorporated by way of reference with the Company at any time during the financial year.
to other sections of this report and should be read in conjunction with this report: Appointment and replacement of Directors The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors Corporate Governance Statement refer to pages 30 to 59 are contained in the Articles.
They provide that Directors may be ofthis report: appointed by ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution strategy and relevant future developments refer to of the Directors.
Any Director so appointed must retire and put pages6to 10 of the Strategic Report: and themselves forward for election at the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
Directors wishing to continue to serve as financial risk management objectives and policies refer to members of the Board will seek re-election annually in the Risk Management Report included in the Strategic Report accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
on pages 24 to 25 and note 20 to the financial statements on pages 91 to 92.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code, at the 2017 AGM each Director will stand for re-election.
Directors of the Company The following Directors have held office since 1 August 2016: Indemnification of Directors The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity provision contained Name Position Date of appointment in the Articles.
The provision was in force during the year ended M J Hellawell Chief Executive Appointed 31 July 2017 and remains in force and relates to certain losses 24 March 2006 and liabilities which the Directors may incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company.
In addition, Directors B Wallace Chairman Appointed and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by 8 May 2013 directors and officers liability insurance.
G L Charlton Chief Financial Officer Appointed 19 March 2015 Compensation for loss of office and change of control L Ginsberg Senior Independent Appointed There are no agreements in place with any Director that would Director 16 September 2015 provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting P Ventress Independent Appointed from a change of control.
Change of control provisions for the Non-Executive Director 1 October 2015 Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted V Murria Independent Appointed under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Non-Executive Director 3 November 2015 The Company is not party to any other significant agreements that take effect after, or terminate upon, a change of control.
Directors biographies can be found on pages 32 to 33.
Articles of Association Powers of Directors The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the The general powers of the Directors are contained within members.
At the AGM held on 12 November 2015, shareholders UKlegislation and the Companys Articles of Association the approved by special resolution the amended Articles which Articles.
The Directors are entitled to exercise all powers of tookeffect at the date of the initial public offering IPO on theCompany, subject to any limitations imposed by the Articles 18November 2015. orapplicable legislation.
60 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance Share capital and control Special resolutions providing Directors with authority to: The Companys ordinary issued share capital as at 31 July 2017 i allot shares or sell treasury shares for cash up to a was 197,606,143 ordinary shares of 0.05p each, which have a maximum nominal amount of 4,935.15: premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The ordinary ii allot shares or sell the treasury shares for cash up to a share class represents over 99.9% of the Companys total maximum nominal amount of 4,935.15, in connection with issued share capital.
an acquisition or other capital investment In addition to the ordinary shares, the Company also has a class otherwise than to existing shareholders pro rata to of18,933 deferred shares which were created following the theirshareholding.
share capital reorganisation at IPO and which are not admitted to trading on a regulated market.
These authorities are due to expire at the Companys AGM to be held on 8 December 2017 and proposals for the renewal Shares acquired through the Companys share schemes and ofthe authority to allot ordinary shares are set out in the Notice plans rank equally with the other shares in issue and have no of the Annual General Meeting.
The Company has no intention special rights.
The Company has an Employee Benefit Trust to complete a market purchase of its shares and will not seek EBT and a Share Incentive Plan Trust SIP Trust for the this authority at the 2017 AGM.
benefit of employees and former employees of the Company.
At31 July 2017, the EBT holds nil ordinary shares and the SIP The ordinary shares are freely transferable.
Lock-up arrangements Trust holds 777,234 ordinary shares in the Company.
pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement dated 13 November 2015 and deed polls of election entered into prior to the IPO placing During the year ended 31 July 2017, share options were exercised the following restrictions expired during the year: pursuant to the Company Share Option Plan, resulting in the additional listing and allotment of 200,000 new ordinary shares.
each Director and each of his or her family members and each trustee of a trust, the beneficiary of which is a Director Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak and or a family member of a Director undertook not to sell atgeneral meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more any further ordinary shares, other than at IPO, for a period proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate representatives of365 days after the date of the IPO: who are entitled to attend general meetings and to exercise voting rights.
each selling shareholder, other than the core selling shareholders as such term is defined in the IPO prospectus, The deferred shares carry no voting rights or rights to receive who was an employee of the Company and who had a holding any of the profits of the Company available for distribution by of ordinary shares of 0.5% or more of the Companys issued way of dividend or otherwise.
On a return of capital on a winding share capital, in each case as at the date of the IPO Prospectus, up of the Company but not otherwise, the holder is entitled undertook not to sell any further ordinary shares, other than only to the repayment of the amount paid up on that share after atIPO, for a period of 365 days after the date of the IPO: and payment of the capital paid up on each other share in the capital of the Company and the further payment of 10,000,000 on certain non-selling shareholders undertook not to sell any each such share.
The deferred shares represent less than 0.01% ordinary shares for a period of either 180 or 365 days after of the Companys total issued share capital.
Further information on the Companys issued share capital There are no further restrictions on the transfer or limitations canbe found in note 16 to the financial statements.
onthe holding of ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain approval prior to any transfers other than: certain restrictions The Company passed the following resolutions on 8December 2016: which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations An ordinary resolution providing the Directors with authority to: for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Market Abuse Regulation and the Companys own rules whereby Directors i allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of and certain employees of the Company require the approval of 32,901.02, to be reduced by the nominal amount allotted the Company to deal in the ordinary shares: and pursuant to the or granted under paragraph ii below in excess of such Articles where there is default in supplying the Company with sum: and information concerning interests in the Companys ordinary ii allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of shares.
There are no special control rights in relation tothe 65,802.04 in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way Companys ordinary shares.
of a rights issue, such amount to be reduced by any There are no agreements between holders of securities that are allotments made under paragraph i above.
known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Directors report continued Substantial shareholders The substantial shareholdings in the table below represent those interests notified to the Company as at 31 July 2017 in accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and those holdings may have changed since notification to the Company.
The ordinary shares held by Peter Kelly, Martin Hellawell and John Nash include shares held beneficially via various entities or connected persons.
Principal shareholder and Relationship Agreement has agreed that for a period of two years from 18 November 2015, he shall not be entitled to operate, establish or acquire an In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4R 14, the Company has set undertaking which constitutes a competing business: and out below a statement describing the Relationship Agreement entered into by the Company with its principal shareholder the has agreed that for a period of two years from 18 November 2015, Relationship Agreement.
As at 18 October 2017, Peter Kelly, the he shall not and shall procure that each of his Connected founder of Softcat plc, held 32.91% of the issued ordinary share Persons shall not solicit or encourage for service or employment capital of the Company.
any of the Executive Directors or members of senior management.
On 13 November 2015, the Company and Peter Kelly entered Furthermore, the Company and Peter Kelly have agreed that for into the Relationship Agreement.
The principal purpose of the so long as Peter Kelly together with any of his Connected Persons Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company will be holds 10%.
of the Companys issued share capital, he shall be capable of carrying on its business independently of Peter Kelly entitled to appoint one Non-Executive Director of the Company, and certain persons deemed to be connected with him although no such Director has been appointed as at the date of Connected Persons.
Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, Peter Kelly, inter alia: The Relationship Agreement will remain in effect for so long as: a Peter Kelly and or any of his Connected Persons holds at shall procure that all transactions, agreements or arrangements least 10%.
of the Companys issued share capital: and b the entered into between the Company and Peter Kelly or any ordinary shares are admitted to the premium listing segment of ofhis Connected Persons are conducted on an arms length the Official List maintained by the Financial Conduct Authority.
basis, on normal commercial terms and in accordance with the related party transaction rules set out in Chapter 11 of the The Company has and, in so far as it is aware, Peter Kelly and Listing Rules and Peter Kelly shall abstain from voting on any his Connected Persons have complied with the independence resolution to which LR 11.1.
7R 4 of the Listing Rules applies provisions set out in the Relationship Agreement from the date relating to a transaction with Peter Kelly or any of his of the agreement.
Connected Persons as the related party: Risk regarding financial instruments shall and shall procure that each of his Connected Persons shall i not take any actions that would reasonably be expected The financial risk management objectives and policies are disclosed to have the effect of preventing the Company from complying in note 20 to the financial statements on pages 90 to 92. with its obligations under the Listing Rules or be prejudicial to the Companys status as a listed company or the Companys Research and development eligibility for listing: ii not propose or procure the proposal of The Company did not carry out any research and development ashareholder resolution that would circumvent or appear to activities during the year 2016: none.
circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules: and iii not exercise his voting rights or other rights to procure any Political donations amendment to the Articles which would be contrary to the The Company did not make any political donations during the maintenance of the Companys independence, including its period 2016: nil.
ability to operate and make decisions independently from A resolution to authorise the Company to make political Peter Kelly, or otherwise inconsistent with the provisions payments up to 50,000 has been included for shareholder ofthe Relationship Agreement: 62 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance consideration in the Notice of AGM.
The Company does not wherever possible, continued employment on normal terms and intend to make any payments to political organisations or to conditions.
Adjustments will be made to the environment and incur other political expenditure: however, this resolution has duties or, alternatively, suitable new roles within the Company been proposed to ensure that the Company has authority under will be secured with additional training where necessary.
the wide definition used in the Companies Act 2006 of matters Details of the Companys gender breakdown are given in the constituting political donations.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 29.
Greenhouse gas emissions The Company places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and continues to keep them informed on matters Information relating to the Companys greenhouse gas affecting them as employees.
This is undertaken through a variety emissions is detailed on page 27 of the Corporate Social of methods including, but not limited to, weekly all-Company Responsibility Report.
meetings, team briefings, Company days, email and the intranet.
At team meetings, managers are responsible for ensuring that Corporate social responsibility information sharing, discussion and feedback take place on a Details on our commitment to corporate social responsibility regular basis.
As a result of these meetings management can canbe found on pages 26 to 29 of the Strategic Report.
communicate the financial and economic factors affecting the Company and ensure that the views of employees are taken Equality and diversity into account in Company decisions which are likely to affect The Company operates an equal opportunities policy which their interests.
endeavours to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate onthe basis of gender, disability, race, national or ethnic origin, Postbalance sheet events sexual orientation or marital status.
Applications for employment Dividend are fully considered on their merits, and employees are given The Board recommends a final dividend of 6.1p per ordinary share appropriate training and equal opportunities for career and a special dividend of 13.5p per ordinary share to be paid on development and promotion.
15 December 2017 to all ordinary shareholders who were on the The Company is committed to ensuring that adequate policies register of members at the close of business on 3 November 2017. and procedures are in place to enable disabled applicants to Shareholders will be asked to approve the final and special receive training to perform safely and effectively and to provide dividends at the AGM on 8 December 2017. development opportunities to ensure they reach their full potential.
The Companys dividend policy is detailed in the Chairmans Where an individual becomes disabled during the course of their Statement on page 4. employment with the Company, the Company will seek to provide, Requirements of the Listing Rules The following table provides references to where the information required by the Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is disclosed: Listing Rule requirement Location in Annual Report A statement of the amount of interest capitalised during the period under review Not applicable anddetails ofany related tax relief.
Information required in relation to the publication of unaudited financial information.
Not applicable Details of any long-term incentive schemes.
Directors Remuneration Report, pages 49 and 55 Details of any arrangements under which a Director has waived emoluments, Not applicable or agreed towaive any future emoluments, from the Company.
Details of any non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash.
Directors Report, page 61 Details of any non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by any unlisted major No such share allotments .
Details of parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary.
Not applicable Details of any contract of significance in which a Director is or was materially interested.
Not applicable Details of any contract of significance between the Company or one of its subsidiaries Not applicable andacontrolling shareholder.
Details of waiver of dividends by a shareholder.
Not applicable Board statement in respect of Relationship Agreement with the controlling shareholder.
Directors Report, page 62 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Directors report continued Auditor Fair and balanced reporting Ernst & Young LLP EY has signified its willingness to continue Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers in office as auditor to the Company and the Company is satisfied the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced that EY is independent and that there are adequate safeguards and understandable and that it provides the information necessary in place to safeguard its objectivity.
A resolution to reappoint EY for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Responsibility statement pursuant to FCAs Disclosure financial statements Guidance and Transparency Rule 4 DTR 4 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Each Director of the Company whose names and functions and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law appear on pages 32 to 33 confirms that solely for the purpose and regulations.
ofDTR 4 to the best of his or her knowledge: The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the financial statements in this document, prepared in each financial year in accordance with International Financial accordance with the applicable accounting standards, give Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European atrue and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the and profit of the Company: and financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the review of the development and performance of the business end of the financial year and the profit or loss of the Company, and the position of the Company, together with a description so far as concerns members of the Company, for the financial of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Disclosure of information to the auditor select and apply accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: The Directors in office at the time of approval of the Directors Report are listed on page 60 and have each confirmed that: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit understandable information: information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any tounderstand the impact of particular transactions, other such relevant audit information and to establish that the events and conditions on the entitys financial position Companys auditor is aware of that information.
andfinancial performance: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance make judgements and estimates that are reasonable with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. andprudent: Going concern state that applicable accounting standards have been The Companys business activities, together with the factors followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and likely to affect its future development, performance and position, explained in the Companys financial statements: and are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 29.
The financial prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis position of the Company, its cash flows and liquidity position are unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will described in the Financial Review on pages 22 to 23.
In addition, continue in business.
note 20 to the financial statements includes the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting financial risk management objectives and its exposures to credit records which are sufficient to disclose with reasonable accuracy risk and liquidity risk.
at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
64 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance Viability statement Annual General Meeting In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 revision of the The Companys 2017 AGM will take place on 8 December 2017 Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Company at the Companys registered office: Softcatplc, Fieldhouse Lane, over a longer period than the twelve months that has in practice Marlow, Buckinghamshire SL7 1LW.
Subject to any restrictions been the focus of the going concern provision.
set out in this section, on a show of hands every holder of ordinary shares who is present in person orby proxy at a general meeting The Board conducted the review for a three-year period, has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every holder of corresponding with the period covered by its strategic level ordinary shares who is present inperson or by proxy has one three-year plan process.
These forecasts are updated on an vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which he she annual basis and reflect the Companys policy of growth, increased is the registered holder.
A proxy will have one vote against a customer offerings and available internal and financial resources resolution on a show of hands in certain circumstances specified without the need for external funding.
They consider profits, in the Articles.
The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising cash flows, funding requirements and other key financial ratios voting rights.
The Notice ofAGM can be found in the investor over the period, as well as the desired minimum cash float.
relations section of the Companys website, www.
com, The principal risks are set out on pages 24 to 25 and the and is being posted at the same time as this Annual Report.
mostrelevant potential impact of these risks on viability TheNotice of AGM sets out the business of the meeting and wasconsidered to be: provides explanatory notes on all resolutions.
Separate resolutions are proposed in respect ofeach substantive issue.
a substantial and sustained decrease in revenue resultingfrom a loss of Softcat culture or inability to A holder of ordinary shares may vote personally or by proxy at satisfycustomer needs: ageneral meeting.
Any form of proxy must be delivered to the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for a substantial fall in achievable gross margins resulting holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person frommargin pressure associated with a fall in levels named in the appointment proposes to vote for this purpose, ofcustomer service: and the Directors may specify that no account shall be taken of any an ongoing increase in the working capital cycle.
part of a day that is not a working day.
A corporation which is aholder of ordinary shares in the Company may authorise such The Board overlaid the potential impact of the principal risks persons as it thinks fit to act as its representatives at any general which could affect the financial position in severe butplausible meeting of the Company.
scenarios onto the three-year forecasts and concluded that the business would remain viable.
As part of this they performed No holder of ordinary shares shall be entitled to attend or vote, sensitivity analyses that flexed the forecasts including reduced either personally or by proxy, at a general meeting in respect of income, profitability and increased working capital cycle, any ordinary share if any call or other sum presently payable to bothindividually and in unison, to reflect these severe but the Company in respect of such ordinary share remains unpaid plausible scenarios.
or in certain other circumstances specified in the Articles where there is default in supplying the Company with information Based on the results of the procedures outlined above, the concerning interests in the Companys ordinary shares.
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will The AGM is the Companys principal forum for communication be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they with private shareholders.
In addition to the formal business, fall due over the three-year period of assessment.
there will be a presentation by the Chief Executive on the performance of the Company and its future development.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the Committees, together with the Directors, will be available to answer shareholders questions atthe meeting.
The Directors Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Graham Charlton Chief Financial Officer 18 October 2017 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65
