Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 50 Directors Report The directors of the company present their report for the year company also maintains directors and officers liability ended 31 July 2017. insurance for its directors and officers.
The Strategic Report set out on pages 3 to 43 of this Annual Share Capital Report, and Corporate Governance Report, committee reports The companys share capital comprises one class of ordinary and the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 54 share with a nominal value of 25p per share.
At 31 July 2017, to 95 of this Annual Report include information that would 152,060,290ordinary shares were in issue.
otherwise need to be included inthis Directors Report.
Relevant items are referred to below and incorporated by Under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors reference into this report.
Readers are also referred to the may allot equity securities only with the express authorisation cautionary statement on page 152 of this Annual Report.
of shareholders which may be given in general meeting, but which cannot last more than five years.
Under section 561 of Results and Dividends the Companies Act, the board may not allot shares for cash The consolidated results for the year are shown on page 102 of otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme the Financial Statements.
The directors recommend a final without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot dividend for the year of 40p 2016: 38p on each ordinary share such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in which, together with the interim dividend of 20p 2016: 19p, proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this makes an ordinary distribution for the year of 60p 2016: 57p requirement is waived by a special resolution of the per share.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at shareholders.
the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM, will be paid on 21 November 2017 to shareholders on the register at At the companys 2016 AGM, the directors were authorised to: 13 October 2017. allot shares in the company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert, any security into shares up to an aggregate Directors nominal amount of 12,497,366: The names of the directors of the company at the date of this allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of report, together with biographical details, are given on pages 24,994,732, for the purposes of a rights issue: 46 and 47 of this Annual Report.
In accordance with the UK allot shares having a nominal amount not exceeding in Corporate Governance Code, all directors will retire at the 2017 aggregate 1,874,604 for cash without offering the shares AGM and offer themselves for reappointment at that meeting.
first to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings: allot shares having a nominal amount not exceeding All the directors listed on pages 46 and 47 were the directors of 3,749,209 for the purpose of financing a transaction the company throughout the year apart from Mike Biggs, who determined by the directors to be an acquisition or other was appointed as a director on 14 March 2017, and Strone capital investment as defined by the Statement of Principles Macpherson and Stephen Hodges, who retired as directors on on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights published by the 30 April 2017 and 17 November 2016, respectively.
Pre-Emption Group: and make market purchases of up to 14,996,836 of the Further details on the directors remuneration and service companys ordinary shares, representing 10% of the contracts or appointment letters as applicable can be found in companys issued share capital at the time.
the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80 and 81 of this Annual Report.
The existing authorities given to the company at the last AGM to allot and purchase shares will expire at the conclusion of the Directors interests forthcoming AGM.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed The directors interests in the share capital and listed debt renewing these authorities will be included in the Notice of AGM.
instruments of the company as at 31 July and 16 September 2017 are set out on pages 92 and 94 of the Directors New issues of share capital Remuneration Report.
During the year the companys issued share capital increased by 1,416,562 ordinary shares of 25p each.
This increase Powers and appointment of directors occurred through the allotment and issue of 1,416,562 ordinary The companys articles of association set out the powers of the shares in connection with the acquisition of Novitas Loans directors, and rules governing the appointment and removal Limited Novitas, as previously announced by the company ofdirectors.
The articles of association can be viewed at on 4 May 2017.
The shares were allotted and issued on 4 May www.
Further details on the powers, and 2017 at the market price on a non-pre-emptive basis to the appointment and removal of directors are set out in the Corporate sellers of Novitas pursuant to authorities granted to the Governance Report on page 57 of this Annual Report.
directors of the company at the companys 2016 AGM.
As a result of the issue, the companys issued share capital Directors indemnities and insurance increased by 0.94%.
In the three year period prior to the issue, In accordance with its articles of association, the company has the company did not issue any other shares for cash on a granted a deed of indemnity to each of its directors on terms non-pre-emptive basis pursuant to disapplications of preconsistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
The deeds emption rights approved by shareholders.
indemnify the directors in respect of liabilities and associated costs and expenses incurred in connection with the No ordinary shares were allotted and issued to satisfy option performance of their duties as a director of the company or any exercises.
Full details of options exercised, the weighted associated company.
Qualifying third party indemnity average option exercise price and the weighted average provisions for the purposes of section 234 of the Companies market price at the date of exercise can be found in note 25 Act 2006 were accordingly in force during the course of the on page 134 of the Financial Statements.
year, and remain in force at the date of this report.
The Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 51 Proposed cancellation of the companys share The existing authority given to the company at the last AGM to premiumaccount purchase Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share At the forthcoming AGM, the board intends to ask capital will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM.
shareholders to approve a special resolution to cancel the companys share premium account in order to increase the The board considers it would be appropriate to renew this companys distributable reserves.
This will provide greater authority and intends to seek shareholder approval to purchase flexibility for the paying of ordinary course dividends which the Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share capital at the board may in the future wish to make or recommend in forthcoming AGM in line with current investor sentiment.
accordance with the companys established dividend policy.
The cancellation will, subject to approval by shareholders and Details of the resolution renewing the authority will be included confirmation by the High Court, increase the companys in the Notice of AGM.
distributable reserves by around 307 million.
The cancellation itself will not involve any return of capital to shareholders.
Awards under the companys employee share plans are met Further details will be set out in the Notice of AGM sent to from a combination of shares purchased in the market and the companys shareholders.
held either in treasury or in the employee share trust as well as by newly issued shares.
Rights attaching to shares The companys articles of association set out the rights and During the year the company made no market purchases of obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares.
It transferred 374,583 shares out of treasury, the ordinary shares rank equally in all respects.
to satisfy share option awards, for a total consideration of 3.7million.
The maximum number of Treasury Shares held at On a show of hands, each member has the right to one vote at any time during the year was 677,826, with a nominal value of general meetings of the company.
would be entitled to one vote for every share held.
The shares carry no rights to fixed income.
No person has any special Employee Share Trust rights of control over the companys share capital and all Ocorian Trustees Jersey Limited is the trustee of the Close shares are fully paid.
Brothers Group Employee Share Trust, an independent trust, which holds shares for the benefit of employees and former The articles of association and applicable legislation provide employees of the group.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a that the company can decide to restrict the rights attaching to number of awards under the employee share plans.
As part of ordinary shares in certain circumstances such as the right to these arrangements the company funds the trust, from time to attend or vote at a shareholders meeting, including where a time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy these person has failed to comply with a notice issued by the awards, details of which are set out in note 25 on pages 134 company under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. and 135 of the Financial Statements.
The trustee has waived its right to dividends on all shares held within the trust.
Deadline for voting rights Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in During the year, the employee share trust made market respect of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM, to purchases of 918,141 ordinary shares.
beheld on 16 November 2017, will be set out in the Notice ofAGM.
Substantial Shareholdings Details on substantial shareholdings in the company are set out Restrictions on the transfer of shares on in the Corporate Governance Report on page 61 of this There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the Annual Report.
companys shares which are governed by the general provisions of the articles of association and prevailing Articles of Association legislation.
The articles of association set out certain The companys articles of association were last amended in circumstances in which the directors of the company can November 2009.
They may only be amended by a special refuse to register a transfer of ordinary shares.
resolution of the companys shareholders.
The articles of association can be viewed at www.
Directors and employees of the group are required to comply with applicable legislation relating to dealing in the companys Corporate Governance Statement shares as well as the companys share dealing rules.
These The company is required by the Disclosure Guidance and rules restrict employees and directors ability to deal in Transparency Rules to prepare a corporate governance ordinary shares at certain times, and require the employee or statement including certain specified information.
Information director to obtain permission prior to dealing.
Some of the fulfilling the requirements of the corporate governance groups employee share plans also contain restrictions on the statement can be found in this Directors Report, and the transfer of shares held within those plans.
Corporate Governance Report, committee reports and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 95 of this The company is not aware of any arrangements between its Annual Report.
This information is incorporated by reference shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of into this Directors Report.
shares and or voting rights.
Strategic Report Purchase of Own Shares The companys Strategic Report can be found on pages 3 to Under section 724 of the Companies Act 2006 a company 43 of this Annual Report.
may purchase its own shares to be held in treasury Treasury Shares.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 52 Directors Report continued Business activities Resolutions at the 2017 AGM The groups business activities, together with a description of The companys AGM will be held on 16 November 2017. future developments including the factors likely to affect future Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM include the renewal of development and performance and its summarised financial the directors authority to allot shares, the disapplication of position, are set out in the Strategic Report.
pre-emption rights, authority for the company to purchase its own shares, the reappointment of the directors and the Employment practices and greenhouse gas emissions appointment of  LLP PwC as the Information on the companys employment practices including auditor of the group.
As described further on page 51, the with respect to disabled employees and employee involvement directors intend to ask shareholders to approve a special and greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the Sustainability resolution to cancel the companys share premium account.
Report on pages 36 to 43 of the Strategic Report.
The full text of each of the resolutions to be proposed at the Significant Agreements Affected by a Change of 2017 AGM will be set out in the Notice of AGM sent to the Control companys shareholders.
A letter from the chairman and A change of control of the company, following a takeover bid, explanatory notes will accompany the Notice of AGM.
may cause a number of agreements to which the company is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
These include certain Auditor insurance policies, bank facility agreements and employee Following a competitive tender process, the board following a share plans.
recommendation from the Audit Committee has recommended that PwC be appointed as the groups auditor The group had committed facilities totalling 1.4 billion at with effect from the 2017 AGM, at which resolutions concerning 31 July 2017, which contain clauses which require lender PwCs appointment and authorising the directors to set their consent for any change of control.
Should consent not be remuneration will be proposed.
Further information on the given, a change of control would trigger mandatory repayment tender process can be found in the Audit Committee Report on of those facilities.
The full text of the relevant resolutions will be set out in the Notice of AGM sent to the companys shareholders.
All of the companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and Disclosure of Information to the Auditor options may vest and become exercisable on a change of Each of the persons who are directors at the date of approval control, subject where appropriate to the satisfaction of any of this Annual Report confirms that: performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and Financial Instruments they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Details of the groups financial instruments can be found in a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant notes 10 to 13, 17 to 19 and 27 to the financial statements.
audit information and to establish that the companys auditor The notes begin on page 109. is aware of that information.
Financial Risk Management This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in The group has procedures in place to identify, monitor and accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the evaluate the significant risks it faces.
The groups risk Companies Act 2006. management objectives and policies are described on pages 59 and 60, and the risks associated with the groups financial Going Concern instruments are analysed in note 27 on pages 137 to 148 of The group has a strong, proven and conservative business the Financial Statements.
model and has traded profitably during the year.
It is well positioned in each of its core businesses, well capitalised, Post-Balance Sheet Events soundly funded and has adequate access to liquidity.
There were no material post-balance sheet events.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable Political Donations expectation that the company and the group have adequate No political donations were made during the year 2016: nil.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the Disclosure of Information Under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
As required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4CR, the table below sets out the location of information required to be disclosed under Viability Statement Listing Rule 9.8.
4R: In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board confirms that it has a reasonable expectation that the group will continue to operate and meet its Subject Page liabilities, as they fall due, for the three year period up to 31 July Non-pro rata allotments See the section headed New issues 2020.
A three year timeframe has been chosen because it is for cash of share capital on page 50 the period covered by the groups strategic planning cycle.
It is Details of shareholder See the section headed Employee also the period covered by the Internal Capital Adequacy dividend waivers Share Trust on page 51 Assessment Process ICAAP, which forecasts key capital requirements and other group-wide internal stress testing.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 53 The directors assessment has been made with reference to: make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as the groups current position and prospects please see the a going concern.
Financial Overview on pages 20 to 25: the groups business model and strategy please see The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Business Model, and Strategy and Key Performance records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys Indicators on pages 10 to 15: and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the boards risk appetite, and the robust assessment of the the financial position of the company and enable them to groups principal risks and how these are managed, ensure that the financial statements comply with the including the results of the ICAAP please see Risk and Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Control Framework on page 59. safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and The directors review the groups strategy and three year plan other irregularities.
The plan considers the groups future projections of profitability, cash flows, capital requirements The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity and resources and other key financial and regulatory ratios of the corporate and financial information included on the over the period.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may The directors also review the groups principal risks and ICAAP differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
on an annual basis, including the results of two separate ICAAP stress scenarios.
Each of the directors confirms that to the best of their knowledge: Directors responsibility statement the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the The directors, who are named on pages 46 and 47, are relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the Strategic Report, together with the Directors Report and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors the Corporate Governance Report, include a fair review of are required to prepare the group financial statements in the development and performance of the business and the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards position of the company and the undertakings included in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a the IAS Regulation.
The directors have elected to prepare the description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they parent company financial statements in accordance with face: and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard the information necessary for shareholders to assess the applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Under company groups performance, business model and strategy.
law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of By order of the Board affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
Alex Dunn In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Company Secretary directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 26 September 2017 consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
In preparing the group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and
