Governance Board of Directors and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary John Watson Ted Ayres Keith Adey Executive Chairman interim Chief Executive Group Finance Director Committee N Committee NR Committee NR Appointed to the Board in 1995, becoming Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on non-executive Chairman on 1 February 1 August 2011.
2013 and Executive Chairman on 14 August 2017 on an interim basis for the duration of the Chief Executives leave of absence.
Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience John, a Chartered Surveyor, joined Bellway in 1978 Ted joined Bellway in January 2002 as a divisional Keith, a Chartered Accountant, joined Bellway and was later appointed Managing Director of Managing Director, becoming Southern Regional in December 2008 as Group Chief Accountant, the North East division, a position which he held Chairman in 2006.
Ted was appointed to the becoming Group Finance Director on 1 February for 12 years.
John joined the Board as Technical Board as Operations Director on 1 August 2011 and 2012.
Prior to joining Bellway he worked at KPMG Director in 1995 and became Chief Executive on succeeded John Watson as Chief Executive on and Grainger plc.
Other appointments down as Chief Executive to become Chairman.
Bellway p. l. c. 1972 Pension Scheme Trustee.
John Cuthbert OBE DL Mike Toms Denise Jagger Senior independent non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Committees A N R Committees A N R Committees A N R Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2009.
Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience John, a Chartered Accountant, worked in the Mike was formerly an executive director of BAA Denise, a solicitor, has been a partner at Eversheds LLP now Eversheds Sutherland LLP since water industry from 1991 to 2010, when he retired plc.
He has also been a non-executive Chairman as Managing Director of Northumbrian Water of Northern Ireland Electricity plc, a non-executive 2004.
Previously she was Company Secretary and General Counsel at ASDA Group plc, later Group plc, having formerly been Managing director of Viridian Group PLC and of UK Coal Director of North East Water plc and Managing PLC.
He is a member of the Royal Institution of part of Wal-Mart, from 1993 to 2004.
Prior to this she worked in the City in corporate finance Director of Essex and Suffolk Water plc.
John Chartered Surveyors MRICS and a member of became senior independent non-executive the Royal Town Planning Institute MRTPI.
Denises previous non-executive directorships include The British director on 1 February 2014.
Olympic Association, Redrow plc, SCS Upholstery plc and Scarborough Building Society.
Other appointments Other appointments North Music Trust Trustee.
Birmingham Airport Holdings Limited nonOther appointments executive director.
Pool Reinsurance Limited non-executive director Amazing Media Group Limited Board Member.
and Chair of Remuneration, Nominations and J Murphy & Sons Limited non-executive director.
Lets Grow Investment Panel Chair.
Oxera Consulting LLP director non-statutory.
Sunderland University Development Committee University of York pro Chancellor.
Newcastle College Group Governor and Audit Y2019 Limited independent director.
36 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration Jason Honeyman Simon Scougall NR Board Committee on Non-Executive Group General Counsel and Directors Remuneration Chief Operating Officer Company Secretary Denotes Committee Chairman NR Committee Appointed to the Board on Appointed on 1 February 2016.
Background and experience Background and experience Jason commenced employment with the Simon, a solicitor, was appointed Group General Company in January 2005 as Managing Director Counsel and Company Secretary in February of the Thames Gateway division, becoming 2016.
Simon joined Bellway in March 2011 and has Southern Regional Chairman in December 2011. held senior positions within the Group including that of Group Commercial Director.
He has over 15 years experience in the housebuilding sector, working either in-house or for clients in private practice.
Paul Hampden Smith Jill Caseberry Non-executive director Non-executive director Committees A N R Committees A N R Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2013.
Background and experience Background and experience Paul is a Chartered Accountant and was Group Jill has extensive sales, marketing and general Finance Director of Travis Perkins plc from 1996 management experience across a number of until his retirement in February 2013, having blue chip companies including Mars, PepsiCo worked for Travis Perkins since 1988.
previously senior independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Clipper Logistics plc and a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Pendragon PLC and Redrow plc.
Other appointments Other appointments Grafton Group plc senior independent nonNorthgate plc non-executive director, executive director, Chairman of the Audit & Risk Remuneration Committee Chair and a member of Committee and a member of the Nomination the Audit and Risk and Nominations Committees.
She also currently runs her own sales and Delapre Abbey Preservation Trust Chairman.
Cumberland Lodge, Windsor Great Park Chairman of the Audit Committee.
37 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
