Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 10 Business Model Our long established and distinctive business model is focused on taking a sustainable approach to managing our business for the long-term.
We call this approach Modern Merchant Banking, which reflects how we apply our traditional values ofservice, expertise and relationships to meet the evolving needs of our clients.
1 2 Build leading Generate strong positions in and sustainable specialist markets returns Expertise Our people are experts in their elds Relationships Service Building long-term Allowing us to provide relationships with clients excellent service and intermediaries Reinvest in Maintain a sound the business financial position to enhance and support our our customer clients through proposition the cycle 4 3 Strategic Report Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 11 How we are different We focus on our core values of service, expertise and relationships, which drive strong employee engagement and customer loyalty and are at the heart of our Modern Merchant Banking approach.
We build leading positions in specialist markets, which are typically not well served by larger, more traditional banking groups.
This approach supports our strong and We consistently apply our lending criteria at all stages in the financial cycle ensuring sustainable profitability, which has sustainability of our lending and continuity allowed us to support our clients, invest for our clients.
in the business and generate returns to shareholders over many years.
Our lending is predominantly secured, with conservative loan to value ratios, and high margin.
We take a prudent approach to the management of our financial resources.
We borrow long and lend short, with diverse sources of funding, and seek to maintain a conservative capital position throughout the cycle.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 12 Business Model continued Consistent application of Driving strong financial our business model performance Strong proposition for our clients Strong net interest margin Our client proposition is built on our core values Our strong client proposition and consistent of service, expertise and relationships.
Our local approach to lending has supported a strong net presence and personal approach mean we can interest margin at all stages of the financial cycle.
offer high service levels and fast, flexible solutions As a result, the net interest margin has ranged for our customers and intermediaries.
from 8.1% to 9.8% over the last 10 years.
Disciplined approach through the cycle Low bad debt ratio We apply the same prudent lending criteria at Our underwriting expertise and prudent lending conservative loan to value ratios, and maintain criteria have resulted in a bad debt ratio ranging prudent levels of funding, liquidity and capital, at from 0.6% to 2.6% over the last 10 years.
all stages of the financial cycle.
Applying the same disciplined approach in our market-facing Loan book growth businesses ensures they remain resilient in The growth in our loan book is a function of the challenging market conditions.
consistent application of our lending criteria, subject to changes in supply and demand.
In the last 10 Continuous investment in people years, it has ranged from 6% to 23%, with an and technology average of 13%.
We aim to be an attractive place to work and continuously invest in recruitment, training and Consistent trading profitability development of our people.
We also invest in Winterflood has a long track record of profitable technology to improve efficiency and deliver a trading in a wide range of market conditions, with loss better user experience for our clients.
days ranging from only one to 17 per annum in the last 10 years.
Growing client assets We generate good organic net inflows through a range of channels, increasing scale and profitability inthe Asset Management division.
Annual inflows have ranged from 6% to 10% of opening managed assets in the last four years.
Strategic Report Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 13 Resulting in good outcomes for clients, employees and investors Support for our clients in all market conditions Our robust financial position and strong 6.9bn profitability mean that we can continue to support our clients in all market conditions, even when Over the last 10 years, our lending to others may pull back.
We are there for our clients small businesses and individuals in when they need us most, and this has contributed the UK and Ireland has more than to high repeat business and strong net promoter tripled to 6.9 billion.
Engaged employees We now have over 3,000 employees across 60 offices in the UK and Ireland.
Our staff value the support and development opportunities we offer 11.2bn and the positive impact we make on our clients and the communities we operate in.
We now manage or advise over 11billion of private client assets.
Strong returns for shareholders Our prudent approach and consistent profitability ensure that we achieve strong returns for shareholders in a range of market conditions.
These strong returns support our progressive 90% dividend policy, which has delivered a sustainable dividend to our shareholders over many years.
Our latest employee survey once again demonstrates strong employee satisfaction across our businesses, with an overall score of 90%.
17.9% Over the last 10 years, return on opening equity has ranged from 10% to 20%.
60.0p Since listing in 1984, our dividend has grown progressively to 60.0p in 2017.
