Strategic Report Strategy Our strategy enables us to maximise the value that our business model creates, soforthis reason, our strategy is closely aligned to our business model.
Selecting the Managing the Constructing the Delivering an excellent Investing in our rightland planningprocess rightproduct customer experience people Overview Acquiring high quality sustainable sites Working with local planning authorities and Providing an appropriate product range on Making sure that our customers receive Providing our people with a rewarding and in areas of strong customer demand that communities in compliance with the NPPF housing and apartment developments, at an excellent experience when purchasing fulfilling career, enabling them to achieve meet or exceed both our financial and in order to deliver effective and sufficient prices that are affordable for our customers a new home, both prior to and following their full potential and deliver high levels of non-financial acquisition criteria is key to planning consents for the business.
and which are built efficiently and to a moving in.
performance, contributing to the success the success of the business.
How we performed in 2016 17 We have continued to focus our land We increased the number of plots Group house types are now being used We regained our HBF 5 star homebuilder We have developed a structured buying in areas of strong customer we own or that are unconditionally in seven divisions in the north.
We will status one of only two national Bellway induction programme.
demand and in sustainable locations.
contracted with DPP by 776 plots consider further roll-out after receiving housebuilders to do so.
We have created a suite of mandatory to 25,655 plots, and the number of more feedback from the business and We secured DPP on sufficient We have continuously refreshed and developmental e-learning courses pipeline plots owned and controlled our customers.
land during the year to meet our our training for all customer-facing and have increased the number of awaiting implementable DPP by 2,100 requirements for 2017 18.
New, more comprehensive employees and are pleased to report training days per employee.
We have an interest assessment processes are in place for that our independent customer We only acquired land which met or We have reviewed, benchmarked and in a number of long-term strategic land Group suppliers.
exceeded our minimum acquisition improved some of our core benefits, holdings, of which 6,900 plots 2016 criteria.
NHBC now undertake an annual inWe have doubled the charitable including holiday entitlement and 6,300 have been identified as benefiting depth construction quality audit on each donation for every completed customer company car scheme.
During the previous year we appointed from a positive planning status.
site in addition to their routine more survey from 5 to 10. three strategic land directors to secure We have developed an employee wellThe number of plots that were converted frequent inspections.
longer-term land interests across Our expanding national network of being plan.
from our medium-term pipeline land the country and secure planning on Inspection of our sites by both internal divisions, together with the development bank to land with DPP in 2016 17 was We have developed a succession strategic land.
During the year we and external specialists ensured of attractive, affordable homes has 5,093 plots 2016 7,265 plots.
planning framework and begun the entered into option agreements to maintenance of high standards of health helped to increase both the number process of reviewing the talent in We invested in sufficient pipeline land purchase 26 sites which fall into this and safety compliance and performance.
of homes sold and the average selling our business.
to provide plots to progress through the category 2016 9 sites.
price to record levels for the Group.
Focused site briefings on how to planning process.
We have developed a series of reduce slips, trips and falls reduced We successfully opened a new division structured apprenticeship programmes, the number of RIDDOR seven-day lost in County Durham which will help which are due to launch in the current time accidents.
The Board paid close attention to our We have increased the number of health and safety performance at each graduates and apprentices we recruit Board meeting, monitoring performance and train by 11%.
against pre-determined targets and objectives.
Our plans for 2017 18 We aim to ensure that plots in our owned We aim to have sufficient plots with The Board will continue to monitor the We will continue to sell a wide range We will launch new apprenticeship or unconditionally contracted land bank DPP at 31 July 2018 to meet our 2018 19 health and safety performance at each of high quality homes to suit a variety programmes and increase the number with DPP at the year end are sufficient volume growth aspirations.
of budgets in locations sought after by of apprentices recruited.
to meet the following years growth our customers.
We aim to invest in sufficient pipeline Our sites will continue to be regularly We will create a new Bellway Site Manager targets and to progress land through the land to provide plots which can be inspected by both internal and external We will continuously refresh our training apprenticeship development programme.
planning system to contribute towards reliably progressed through the planning specialists to ensure high standards for all customer-facing employees.
We will create management development subsequent years growth targets.
process and replenish land being of health and safety compliance and We aim to increase the number of training, guidance and tools.
We will continue to acquire land which actively developed without tying up performance are maintained.
new homes we bring to the market We will implement initiatives to tackle meets or exceeds our acquisition criteria.
We will have focused site briefings on and increase our sales outlets whilst skills shortage.
We will continue to focus our land We aim to increase the number of fire stopping and the quality issues that maintaining our high standards of quality We will make further improvements buying in areas of high demand and strategic option sites to complement the are most commonly reported back to us and service levels.
to core benefits and delivery of wellin sustainable locations at or above other tiers of the land bank.
We will seek to retain our HBF 5 star being plan.
our minimum gross margin and RoCE homebuilder status.
14 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information The metrics we use to measure our performance are on pages 8 to 13.
We also have anumber of additional areas of focus which can be seen on the right of this page.
Additional areas of focus Expand and enhance Selecting the Managing the Constructing the Delivering an excellent Investing in our geographic coverage by rightland planningprocess rightproduct customer experience people opening new divisions principally in conurbations Overview where demand is high.
Acquiring high quality sustainable sites Working with local planning authorities and Providing an appropriate product range on Making sure that our customers receive Providing our people with a rewarding and in areas of strong customer demand that communities in compliance with the NPPF housing and apartment developments, at an excellent experience when purchasing fulfilling career, enabling them to achieve meet or exceed both our financial and in order to deliver effective and sufficient prices that are affordable for our customers a new home, both prior to and following their full potential and deliver high levels of non-financial acquisition criteria is key to planning consents for the business.
performance, contributing to the success Investing further in our the success of the business.
We have created a suite of mandatory to 25,655 plots, and the number of more feedback from the business and Proactively manage our We secured DPP on sufficient We have continuously refreshed and developmental e-learning courses pipeline plots owned and controlled our customers.
land during the year to meet our our training for all customer-facing and have increased the number of balance sheet.
awaiting implementable DPP by 2,100 requirements for 2017 18.
NHBC now undertake an annual inWe have doubled the charitable including holiday entitlement and 6,300 have been identified as benefiting Ensure sufficient resources depth construction quality audit on each donation for every completed customer company car scheme.
site in addition to their routine more survey from 5 to 10. are available in our three strategic land directors to secure We have developed an employee wellThe number of plots that were converted frequent inspections.
specialist Head Office from our medium-term pipeline land the country and secure planning on Inspection of our sites by both internal divisions, together with the development bank to land with DPP in 2016 17 was We have developed a succession teams.
We have developed a series of reduce slips, trips and falls reduced We successfully opened a new division Ensure that robust Groupstructured apprenticeship programmes, the number of RIDDOR seven-day lost in County Durham which will help which are due to launch in the current wide systems are in place time accidents.
to support our expanding The Board paid close attention to our We have increased the number of health and safety performance at each divisional network in graduates and apprentices we recruit Board meeting, monitoring performance and train by 11%.
delivering our growth against pre-determined targets and objectives.
15 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
