Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 4 Our Businesses Specialist Businesses Photographed on location at Matsuura Machinery Ltd. Banking Retail Finance Commercial Finance Property Finance 78.9m 72.6m 92.0m Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit Operating profit The Retail Finance segment provides The Commercial Finance segment lends The Property Finance segment loans to predominantly retail customers, principally to SMEs, both through its specialises in short-term residential through a network of intermediaries.
direct sales force and viabrokers.
development finance, refurbishment and bridging loans in London, the South East The motor finance business provides The asset finance business has 27,000 and selected regional locations.
We lend point of sale finance for the acquisition of customers and provides commercial to c. 800 professional property predominantly used cars, motorcycles asset financing, hire-purchase and developers with a focus on small to and light commercial vehicles.
It operates leasing solutions for a diverse range of medium-sized residential developments.
through a network of c. 7,000 independent assets and sectors, including the motor dealers and has approximately financing of commercial vehicles, Loan book: 1.6 billion 270,000 customers in the UK and Ireland.
machine tools, contractors plant, Average loan size: c. 1.2 million printing equipment, aircraft and medical Loan book: 1.8 billion equipment.
Our highly specialist sales force operates through 16 offices Average loan size: c. 6,500 Read more about Banking throughout the UK and Ireland.
See pages 26 to 31 The premium finance business finances Loan book: 2.0 billion insurance payments for over two million Average loan size: c. 41,500 companies and individuals, via a network of 1,700 insurance brokers, allowing their customers to spread the cost of insurance The invoice finance business provides premiums over a number of instalments.
debt factoring, invoice discounting and asset based lending to 1,700 small Loan book: 941 million businesses.
Average loan size: c. 600 Loan book: 536 million Average loan size: c. 360,000 Strategic Report Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 5 Close Brothers is a leading UK merchant banking group providing lending, securities trading and wealth management services.
We operate principally in the UK and employ over 3,000 people.
Our approach generates high levels of repeat business through our long-term relationships and customerfocused values.
We typically operate in markets which are under-served by larger banks, where our expertise and superior customer service are critical.
Securities Asset Management Winterflood Asset Management 28.1m 17.4m Operating profit Adjusted operating profit Our Securities division comprises Close Brothers Asset Management Winterflood, a leading UK market-maker provides financial advice and investment for retail stock brokers and institutions.
management services to private clients Winterflood deals in c. 15,000 securities in the UK.
We offer financial planning in the UK and overseas, and trades with advice with over 110 professional over 600 retail stockbrokers, wealth advisers across the country.
We also managers, platforms, institutional asset provide a range of investment managers and other market management services including full counterparties, providing continuous bespoke management, managed liquidity through our market-leading portfolios and funds.
execution services, supported by our strong proprietary technology.
Our traders Total client assets: 11.2 billion have extensive experience of executing Managed assets: 8.9 billion orders in a range of market conditions, enabling us to trade successfully and profitably over many years.
Read more about Asset Management See pages 34 and 35 Average bargains per day: c. 65,000 Total counterparties: c. 600 Read more about Securities See pages 32 and 33
