Strategic report WHAT SETS US APART Our people See pages 12 to 13 for more information Markets and offering See pages 14 to 15 for more information Vendor partnerships See pages 16 to 17 for more information Customer relationships See pages 18 to 19 for more information Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 What sets us apart Our people MADE OF THE RIGHT STUFF We believe that Softcat employees are the best in the industry.
They are bright and motivated and they care.
THE SOFTCAT DNA We care passionately about two things outstanding employee satisfaction and world-class customer service.
Webelieve the former drives the latter and this vision hasbeencemented firmly within our Company for the past 24 years.
GREAT PLACE TO WORK Part of the UKs Top Ten Best Large Workplaces 2017 Our Company values are captured in four key words: PASSIONATE INTELLIGENT We are positive and enthusiastic and we want to do an We run our business intelligently and look to continuously outstanding job for customers and partners, delivering improve it for the good of employees, customers and world-class levels of service.
We always strive to improve, shareholders alike.
We strive to keep the business as there is never room for any complacency, and every individual simple as possible, valuing flexibility, and we encourage is passionate about their part in making Softcat a great people to take initiative, challenge how we do things and place to work for everyone.
promote smart ideas, no matter how big or small.
FUN RESPONSIBLE We promote a positive, optimistic and energising environment We conduct our business with a strong code of ethics where our employees can come to work and enjoy it.
We and demand honesty and integrity.
We take social want our customers to enjoy working with our company responsibility seriously, particularly charitable activity.
and our diverse personalities and individuals.
We celebrate We embrace and strive for diversity in gender, ethnicity, success, we value humility, and we respect and embrace religion, sexuality and special needs: every part of society the fact that individuals have different ideas of fun and fulfilment.
is equally welcome, and as a community we look after each other, particularly in times of need and difficulty.
12 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report We recognise the achievements of all andare keen to give praise both informally and formally through company awards.
This effort has culminated in a number ofawards including a top ten place in theGreat Place to Work Institutes Strong employee engagement scores BestWorkplace in the UK 2017. and we continue to be ranked as one of the UKs best places to work.
APPRENTICESHIPS Our Softcat apprentices gain valuable skills, knowledge and experience in their chosen career on bespoke training courses supporting the latest apprenticeship standards for areas including IT, business administration, accounting, IT infrastructure, and cyber security.
In the past year we have recruited 28 apprentices across seven departments on courses ranging from one to two years in duration.
In the last year wewon several apprentice awards including CRN Apprentice Programme of the Year, Im confident that the qualifications, NationalApprentice Awards highly commended and The Learning Awards Apprentice certificates and awards Ive received on Programme of the Year.
the programme will help me develop my career as an account manager, as well as an apprentice manager in the future.
Read more about our apprenticeships Morgan OSullivan www.
com join-us Corporate Sales Apprentice Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 WERE ON IT What sets us apart continued Our markets and offering EXPERTISE THAT IS BROAD, DEEP AND CURRENT Technology has never been more important to businesses.
As the world becomes more connected and more users: in improving their security in a world where digital, organisations need help more than ever to more devices every week are connected to their understand the possibilities, negotiate the market network: and in improving their understanding of and manage the risk of technological change.
Customers what data they hold and where and making that tell us that they need our help in modernising their data work for them.
Every customer has digital infrastructure and understanding how the cloud can aspirations and by getting these things right help them: in doing a better job of delivering devices, wecanhelp them achieve those goals.
applications and services to their increasingly mobile Our offerings are HOT INDUSTRY THEMES SOFTWARE HARDWARE driven by... Infrastructure Flash and hybrid storage automation and The move to cloud and Converged and private cloud subscription hyperconverged CLOUD AND Public and hybrid infrastructure Data privacy legislation GDPR THEDISTRIBUTED Next gen and softwareDATACENTRE Preparing for digitalisation defined networking User demands for mobility and Edge computing modern workplace experience VDI and application delivery Windows 10 and Maximising the business value multi-form factor devices of data Identity and access management The increasing threat landscape MOBILITY AND Device management END-USERCOMPUTING and security... delivered through  Firewalls endpoint protection Datacentre and cloud Encryption SECURITY IN Security event and Networking and security AN OPEN AND information management CONNECTED WORLD Workplace technology Analytics Object and cloud storage Visualisation DATA WHAT, WHERE AND HOW TO MAKE SENSE OF IT 14 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report The requirement for technology is stronger than ever.
All organisations continue to need to procure IT whether physically or virtually, on premises or in the cloud.
Customers need help to manage the complexities of dealing with multiple technology suppliers and vendors do not have the reach or relationships to sell directly to customers.
Softcat UK market share: 1 c. 6.5% 1.
Source: Company information and CRN Top 100 VARS 2016.
Strong performance withgrowth continuing tooutstrip the sector.
SERVICES Cloud adoption Our offerings are services delivered to...
Backup and disaster recovery as a service Public sector Cloud connectivity Central government and security Mid-market Service providers Workplace strategy SMB services Enterprise Office 365 migration Lower enterprise Micro-market Security assessment services Data assessment services 15 WERE ON IT What sets us apart continued Our vendor partnerships MAKING THE RIGHT CONNECTIONS Our aim is to be the most effective reseller to work with andwe are privileged to enjoy outstanding relationships withour vendor partners.
Cylance and Softcat share a mission to cut through the noise and confusion of the security landscape, delivering innovative and highly effective technologies that truly protect customers systems.
Didi Dayton VP of WW Channels Cylance 16 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report MAKING THE RIGHT PARTNERSHIPS Softcat works with a long list of well-known partners MAKING THE RIGHT but also forms close bonds with up and coming vendors.
We are led by the needs of our customers and form the CONNECTIONS partnerships they require from us.
We are constantly 200 on the lookout for exciting emerging players.
In reality, vendors we work with thousands of different vendors from titans of the industry such as Microsoft and HP to emerging technologies such as Nutanix and Cylance.
We take our responsibilities to partners very seriously andare proud of the myriad awards recognising thevalue of the work wedo for them.
Investment in our sales force, services capability and technical expertise.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 17 17 WERE ON IT What sets us apart continued Our customer relationships CREATING COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE If theres one single reason why Softcat has delivered such strong growth over such a long period of time, its the strength of our customer relationships.
DELIVERING THE BEST SERVICE The range of technology offered by Softcat is broad and deep, better thanmost and as good as any.
But what really sets us apart is the passion, intelligence and integrity with which our people serve their customers.
Customers know that when they need something from Softcat, were on it!
CASE STUDY The challenge: Solution highlights: The National Gallery needed a new printing, Softcat listened to the challenges that the National Gallery photocopying and scanning system due to the was facing and suggested solving these issues with a Softcat multiple problems that they were experiencing managed print service.
The first stage of this was forSoftcat withtheir existing setup.
Printing is a large part of to perform an audit on the current printing estate at the gallery thegallerys business and as such the gallery was to assess exactly how the current system was being used.
looking for a partner which could provide a solution Softcat found that the gallery was printing over 100,000 which solved their problems as well as ensuring pages a month, a lot more than the customer had thought.
From this it was clear that the gallery needed a system which would allow it to more accurately monitor itsprinter usage.
The gallerys existing system also had serious security Hugely improved printing security issues.
There was no way for users to track their Large reduction in help desk requests for printers documents once they were sent to the printer, andnoway to guarantee that documents would not Dedicated project manager to assist with implementation getlost in the system.
Continued support from Softcat 18 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report When I started with Softcat eleven years ago Iset about discovering what the Company was already good at.
I spoke to loads of customers and the message was clear: they valued the relationship, passion and intelligence of our 98% people.
Ive never forgotten that and it remains of customers say they value the basis of our model to this day.
thequality of our advice Martin Hellawell Chief Executive HOW DO CUSTOMERS RATE OUR SERVICE?
99% satisfaction rating Winning new customers and selling more to existing customers.
