Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 O UR MAR K E T S W E S E R V E S E V E N MA IN MA R K E T S MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY SECURITY AND DEFENCE W ITH S TR O N G L O N G - T E R M PRO F I T A B L E G R O W T H PRO S PE C T S Through our five divisions, we serve seven markets: medical technology, energy, security and defence, space and commercial aerospace, Our largest single end market is Smiths Detection provides threat detection transportation, construction and medical technology.
The majority of equipment that enhances safety and general industrial.
revenue comes from Smiths Medical, security for airports, ports and borders, while both Smiths Interconnect and urban security, military and emergency Flex-Tek supply components to medical responder markets.
Demand is driven Around half of our revenue is derived from device manufacturers.
The medical in the medium term by growth in air servicing our customers aftermarket technology market is driven over the travel and ongoing geopolitical unrest needs or supplying consumables that are long term by ageing populations, the and associated terrorist and criminal used as part of our customers everyday increasing incidence of chronic diseases threats, although there is considerable procedures.
This gives resilience to our and increasing healthcare spending in variation by geography and end market.
revenues and provides strong cash-flows.
Some 82% of The growing installed base creates Smiths Medicals revenue is from opportunities for aftermarket and software REVENUE MIX single-use devices used in everyday upgrade revenues.
The defence segment hospital procedures.
The remaining is served by both Smiths Detection and Original 18% of revenue is from capital Smiths Interconnect, who provide a equipment sales 45% equipment, such as infusion pumps.
range of trace detection and missionAftermarket critical secure connectivity solutions consumables 55% respectively, and is primarily driven by spending on specific programmes in developed markets like the US.
28 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 ENERGY SPACE AND COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION AEROSPACE This market is primarily served by John Flex-Tek provides hydraulic hoses and Flex-Tek manufactures a range of Crane, with oil and gas representing fuel lines for airframes and aeroengines products such as flexible gas piping and around 55% of its revenues.
Long-term and Smiths Interconnect supplies ducting for Heating Ventilation and Air drivers include increasing global demand connectors, microwave components Conditioning HVAC applications that for energy and increasing environmental and antenna systems for aircraft and are used in the construction of homes and safety requirements.
Aerospace and commercial buildings, primarily in mechanical seals and seal support demand is driven by investment in new the US.
Demand for homes for families systems are primarily used in the process fuel-efficient aircraft and increasing is driven by population growth.
equipment found in downstream eg passenger and freight traffic.
refineries and midstream eg pipelines, gas storage, liquefied natural gas LNG transportation applications.
Demand for original equipment 36% of revenue is affected by customer capital expenditure SPAC TR EA A N ND SP C OO RM TAT ME IO RN CIAL GENERAL INDUSTRIAL cycles, while aftermarket service 64% AEROSPACE of revenue depends on utilisation rates and equipment age.
The drop in oil prices since late 2014 has reduced customer capital expenditure, but we have seen investment in growing areas such as LNG and pipelines and increased aftermarket demand due to pent-up maintenance and upgrade requirements.
In the rail segment, Smiths Interconnect We serve a range of general industrial supplies cable solutions, ferrite sectors including petrochemical, components and connectors for mining, pulp and paper, water treatment, communications, control command semiconductor test, heating elements and and signalling systems in autonomous automotive, through John Crane, Smiths trains.
Growth is driven by increasingly Interconnect and Flex-Tek.
There are sophisticated digital train systems, high different drivers for each of these markets data-rate connectivity for passengers but overall they tend to track GDP.
and the distribution of high levels of electricity to support the power demand of these systems.
In the automotive segment, Flex-Tek supplies hoses for fuel and brake fluid delivery.
29 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 A D V A NC I NG Highly reliable and durable, our Thermopad attenuators help customers reach higher frequencies in the face of congestion in broadcast spectrums for wireless communications and when in orbit for communication satellites.
30 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 CONNECT I V I T Y Our attenuators help ensure the reliability of mission-critical communications systems in telecoms, defence and space applications.
