Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 B O A R D O F DI R E C T O R S SIR GEORGE BUCK L E Y A NDY RE Y NOLDS SMITH BIL L SEEGER C H AI R MAN CHIEF E X ECU T I V E IN T ERIM CHIEF F INANCIAL OF F ICER Committee membership Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 1 August 2013 non-executive 25 September 2015 12 May 2014 non-executive director : director and Deputy Chairman : 19 May 2017 Interim Chief Financial Officer 19 November 2013 Chairman Relevant skills and experience: Andy has extensive experience in driving Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: business strategy, technological innovation Bill has an established career in finance Sir George was Chairman, President and and operational excellence.
Before in the engineering sector, in addition to an CEO of 3M, a US-based global technology joining Smiths Group he was CEO of GKN in-depth knowledge of global markets, long company, until 2012, and he brings his Automotive, serving on the Board since term contracts and strategy execution, extensive experience of large, global, 2007.
Andy joined GKN in 2002 and held supporting his effective contribution multi-industry businesses to the Board.
Sir several senior positions across the Group, to the work of the Board.
Bill has an George has a PhD in Electrical Engineering including leading the Driveline, Powder MBA and a BA in Economics, and was and spent most of his long and successful Metallurgy and Land Systems divisions.
previously Chief Financial Officer at GKN career in the US, including as Chairman In previous roles Andy was Managing plc, retiring in 2014.
Prior to his role at and CEO of Brunswick Corporation and Director Europe for Ingersoll Rands GKN, Bill held a number of senior finance President of Mercury Marine.
His previous Bearings and Components business, posts during a 28-year career with TRW, experience also includes Chief Technology Vice President International Operations a US-based automotive and aerospace Officer for appliances, motors and at Invensys, and UK Country Director group.
Bill chaired the Smiths Group Audit controls at Emerson Electric Company.
and Global Customer Director Japan Committee for almost three years, and Sir Georges track record in strategic for Delphi Automotive Systems.
His past was well placed to assume the role of transformation, engineering and innovation experience includes Chairman of the CBI Interim Chief Financial Officer in May 2017. are invaluable to the Group and support Manufacturing Council, membership of HM Bill stepped down as Chair of the Audit his effective Chairmanship of the Board.
Governments Ministerial Advisory Group Committee following this appointment.
for Manufacturing and Green Economy Other significant appointments: Council, and as non-executive director Other significant appointments: Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. Chairman of Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
Spectris plc non-executive director Hitachi, Ltd. non-executive director PepsiCo, Inc. non-executive director 78 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Committee membership key Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Denotes Chair of the Committee BRUNO A NGEL ICI TA N YA F R AT TO N ON-E X E CU T I V E N ON-E X E CU T I V E DI R E C T OR DI R E C T OR Committee membership Committee membership Appointed: Appointed: 1 July 2010 1 July 2012 Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: Bruno has an MBA from Kellogg School Tanya has a BSc in Electrical Engineering of Management and has held senior and her executive career includes 20 management roles in global medical years at GE.
She brings knowledge of device and pharmaceutical companies manufacturing and operations to the throughout his career.
Bruno has extensive Board, in addition to experience of sales international experience, including at and marketing across a range of sectors.
Baxter, a US-based global supplier of Most recently she was CEO of Diamond medical devices.
At AstraZeneca he held Innovations Inc. a manufacturer of the role of Executive Vice President, products for the material removal industry.
International and was responsible In 2017 Tanya was appointed non-executive for Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin director at Mondi Group, an international America, Middle East and Africa.
Bruno packaging and paper business, and her provides the Board with valuable global exposure to a global industrial company experience of both the medical device further strengthens the contribution she and pharmaceutical industries.
makes to the Smiths Group Board.
Other significant appointments: Other significant appointments: Vectura Group plc Chairman Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. Wolters Kluwer nv Supervisory non-executive director Board member Ashtead Group plc non-executive director 79 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 B O A R D O F DI R E C T O R S A NNE QUINN CBE MARK SEL IGMAN NOEL TATA N ON-E X E CU T I V E N ON-E X E CU T I V E N ON-E X E CU T I V E DI R E C T OR DI R E C T OR DI R E C T OR Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 1 August 2009 16 May 2016 1 January 2017 Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: Anne has extensive global experience in Mark is a Chartered Accountant and has an Noel has a BA in Economics and is the oil and gas sector, enjoying a 25-year MA in Philosophy, Politics and Economics.
currently Managing Director of Tata career with Standard Oil of Ohio and BP.
Mark was previously Chairman of UK International Limited, a global trading Anne has a BCom from Auckland University Investment Banking for Credit Suisse, and and distribution company and a trading and an MSc in Management Science from his career in investment banking brings a arm of the Tata Group, the privatelythe Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
deep understanding of investment strategy owned multinational holding company At BP she held a number of executive and corporate finance to the Board.
Mark headquartered in Mumbai, India.
Noel has positions, including Group Vice President has non-executive experience serving on a successful career in global business, in the US, UK, Belgium, and Colombia.
Audit Committees, which has been valuable and his executive role within the Tata Following her career at BP Anne was to the Board in 2017 as he has been Group of companies provides him with Managing Director of Riverstone LLP, appointed Chair of the Audit Committee current contacts and experience in high an energy private equity group.
Annes following Bill Seegers appointment growth economies, including Asia and experience and knowledge of the oil and gas as Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Africa, which is valuable as the Smiths industry is particularly valuable when the Group continues to grow in these regions.
Board is debating strategy for John Crane, Other significant appointments: as a provider of products and services Kingfisher plc Senior Independent Other significant appointments: to global energy services customers.
Director Tata Investment Corporation Chairman Anne also brings extensive experience Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Kansai Nerolac Paints Ltd nonas chair of remuneration committees.
non-executive director executive director Panel on Takeovers and Mergers Trent Ltd non-executive director Alternate Member Titan Company Ltd non-executive director Voltas Ltd non-executive director Listed on the Bombay and Indian National Stock Exchanges 80 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Committee membership key Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Denotes Chair of the Committee Additional biographical information for each of the directors can be found online at www.
SIR K E V IN T EBBI T KCB, MEL RO W L A NDS CM G COMPA N Y SECRE TA R Y SENIOR INDEPENDEN T A ND DEP U T Y GROUP DI R E C T OR GENER A L COUNSEL Committee membership Appointed: Appointed: 14 June 2006 non-executive 29 May 2015 director : 17 November 2015 Senior Independent Director Relevant skills and experience: Mel holds an MA in Law from Oxford Relevant skills and experience: University and is a qualified solicitor.
She Sir Kevin brings considerable experience joined Smiths in 2013, having previously in the security and defence sectors to held senior roles in BG Group plc and the Board, as well as his expertise and Linde AG.
Most recently, she was the depth of knowledge of Government.
This General Counsel of British Gas and Legal is particularly important when the Board & HR Director of Edwards Group.
Sir Kevin has a BA in History, and over his career has held posts in the Ministry of Defence MoD, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and NATO.
His roles have included Defence and European Counsellor at the British Embassy in Washington, Director of Government Communications Headquarters GCHQ and Permanent Under Secretary at the MoD.
Other significant appointments: Executive Vice President AECOM UK Government and Defence Institute of Security Science and Technology, Imperial College London Advisory Board Member 81
