fdfdfds STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy Employee diversity The Companys strategy is to acquire freehold and The table below shows the breakdown of directors, leasehold buildings and to obtain the necessary senior managers and employees.
permissions to convert them into Wetherspoon pubs.
Male Female The buildings are normally in or near town centres or in Directors 5 3 suburban locations.
Our aim is to increase like-for-like Senior managers 769 487 sales, profits and earnings per share.
All employees 18,348 19,615 Our strategy is to seek a return on capital in excess of Principal risks and uncertainties the cost of the capital which will provide profit for new facing the Company pub developments, dividends and funds for In the course of normal business, the Company reinvestment in the existing business.
continually assesses significant risks faced and takes action to mitigate their potential impact.
Business model Wetherspoon owns and operates pubs and hotels The following risks, while not intended to be a throughout the UK and Ireland and aims to sell highcomprehensive analysis, constitute in the opinion of quality products, at reasonable prices, in attractive and the board the principal risks and uncertainties currently well-maintained premises.
The Company aims to make facing the Company: lots of small improvements to its pubs, once they are open, so that sales and profit are maintained or Strategic risks improved.
Economic outlook The Company aims to recruit and retain a high The Company aims to improve its customer offering standard of employee, partly by allocating a continually, so that it remains competitively placed in considerable percentage of profit as bonuses to pub the market in which it operates.
Adverse economic employees and partly through a number of training conditions can theoretically have an effect on the programmes which help to achieve these objectives.
Companys performance, although, historically, these effects have been muted.
Business review and future trends A review of the Companys business and the Regulation of the sale of alcohol key measures of its performance, sometimes called The pub business is highly regulated, with frequent key performance indicators KPIs, can be found in the increases in alcohol duty and other taxes a feature of chairmans statement under the financial performance the industry for many decades.
The chairmans statement also discusses trends and factors likely to affect the future Succession-planning development, performance and position The Company is reliant on the knowledge and of the Company.
The Companys KPIs are listed experience of its executive management team.
The in the financial highlights section of this report.
Company involves the broader senior management team in decision-making to provide it with Environment and human rights sufficient exposure, so that, if the need to replace a As regards human rights, our policy is to observe a member of the executive management team wide range of legislation, designed to encourage and were to arise there are well-qualified internal promote equal opportunities and protect human rights.
Wetherspoons main contribution in this area relates to creating jobs for large numbers of people, paying a Commercial risks reasonable percentage of its profits as bonus for those working in our pubs and head office, training large Cost increases numbers of staff and paying a significant percentage of Inflationary pressures on the Companys costs our sales as taxes to the government.
All of these pose a risk to profits, although the Company has been factors help to create income for employees and able to achieve satisfactory arrangements with its the government, contributing directly and indirectly suppliers, up until now, in both good and difficult to the promotion of human rights.
Further information about the Companys environmental, employee and social policies is published on the Companys website: jdwetherspoon.
com J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational risks Information technology The Companys daily operations are increasingly reliant Recruitment and retention on its information technology systems.
Any prolonged Ensuring that our pubs are sufficiently staffed is crucial or significant failure of these systems could pose a risk to their successful operation.
Reductions in the pool of to trading.
The Company seeks to minimise this risk by available labour will make it harder for the Company to ensuring that there are technologies, policies and staff its pubs.
procedures to ensure protection of hardware, software and information by various means, including a To attract and retain employees, the Company offers disaster-recovery plan, a system of backups and bonuses, free shares, long-services awards, paid external hardware and software.
training, staff discounts and a genuine opportunity to progress within the business.
The Company recognises that cyber threats pose a significant risk to the hospitality industry.
Health and safety The Company continually assesses the risks posed by The Company endeavours to ensure that cyber threats and makes changes to its technologies, all reasonable standards of health and safety are met, policies and procedures to mitigate identified risks.
by trying to identify risks and taking action to avert problems.
Reputational risk The Company is aware that, in operating in a Supply chain risks consumer-facing business, its business reputation, It is fundamental to our operations that we should built over many years, can be damaged in a be able to supply our pubs with the required goods significantly shorter timeframe.
therefore, in its daily business, maintains substantial efforts in this area to improve operational controls.
It is important that we understand our supply chain and have accurate information relating to provenance, Financial risks ingredients and ethical practices.
Capital risk management We work closely with our suppliers and central The Company aims to maintain reasonable levels of distribution partners, in order to maintain availability capital and debt.
Debt always involves risk, although of products, at all times.
the Company has always been able to fulfil its obligations under its loan agreements.
The Company conducts audits of its supply chain and standards are assessed in accordance with Sales, profitability, debt requirements and our Supplier Charter.
cash flow are reviewed weekly by a team which includes the chairman, chief executive, finance director Food safety and senior finance managers.
Achieving and maintaining food hygiene standards are critical to any organisation which prepares Interest-rate risk food for public consumption.
Ensuring the safety of our The Company has dealt with the risks of an increase customers and employees is a priority for the in interest rates by swapping the majority of its floatingCompany.
The Company takes food hygiene very rate borrowings into fixed rates which expire in 2026 seriously: extensive operational procedures have see note 23. been implemented to embed best practice in our pubs.
The Company monitors the results of food hygiene During the 53 weeks ended 30 July 2017, if the interest audits and provides its pubs with the necessary rates on UK-denominated borrowings had been 1% resources and support to ensure that standards are higher, with all other variables constant, pre-tax profit met at all times.
for the year would have been reduced by 1,584,000 and equity increased by 49,869,000.
The movement Head office and national distribution centre in equity arises from a change in the mark to market Any disasters at the Companys head office valuation of the interest-rate swaps into which the in Watford or its national distribution centre Company has entered, calculated by a 1% shift of the in Daventry could seriously disrupt its daily market yield curve.
The Company considers that a operations.
Various measures have been undertaken 1% movement in interest rates represents a reasonable by the Company, including a comprehensive disastersensitivity to potential changes.
However, this analysis recovery plan, seeking to minimise the impact of any is for illustrative purposes only.
42 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC STRATEGIC REPORT Credit risk The Company does not have a significant concentration of credit risk, as the majority of its revenue is in cash.
At the balance sheet date, the Company was exposed to a maximum credit risk of 0.7m, of which 0.5m was overdue.
Cash deposits with financial institutions and derivative transactions are permitted with investment-grade financial institutions only.
The Company receives a small amount of income from properties which it has sublet to third parties, but the sums involved from any one letting are immaterial.
Liquidity risk The Company regularly monitors cash flow forecasts and endeavours to ensure that there are enough funds, including committed bank and finance lease facilities, to meet its business requirements and comply with banking covenants.
The risks in this area relate to miscalculating cash flow requirements, being unable to renew credit facilities or a substantial fall in sales and profits.
Foreign currency Foreign exchange exposure is currently not significant to the Company.
The Company monitors the growth and risks associated with its overseas operations and will undertake hedging activities as and when they are required.
By order of the board Nigel Connor Company Secretary 14 September 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 43
