DIRECTORS REPORT Directors In the event of a change of control, the Company is The directors of the Company who were in office obliged to notify its main bank lenders.
The lenders during the year and up to the date of signing the shall not be obliged to fund any new borrowing financial statements are listed on page 50. requests: facilities will lapse 10 days after the change of control, if the terms on which they can continue have Dividends not been agreed on.
Any borrowings, including The board proposes, subject to shareholders consent, accrued interest, will become immediately repayable to pay a final dividend of 8.0p 2016: 8.0p per share, on such lapse.
on 30 November 2017, to those shareholders on the register on 27 October 2017, giving a total dividend for There are no other significant agreements to which the the year of 12.0p per share.
Company is party which may be subject to change-ofcontrol provisions.
Return of capital At the annual general meeting of the Company, held on There are no agreements with the Companys directors 10 November 2016, the Company was given authority or employees which provide for compensation for loss to make market purchases of up to 16,929,275 of its of office or employment which occurs because of a own shares.
During the year to 30 July 2017, 4,656,300 takeover bid.
shares were purchased, with a nominal value of 93,000, for a total consideration of 43,887,000, Statement of directors responsibilities including stamp duty.
This represented 4.1% of the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual called-up share capital.
report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements, in accordance with applicable law Directors interest in contracts and regulations.
No director has any material interest in any contractual agreement, other than an employment contract, Company law requires the directors to prepare financial subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the or may be significant to the Company.
directors have prepared the Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Takeover directive disclosures Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the The Company has an authorised share capital European Union.
Under company law, the directors comprising 500 million ordinary shares of 2p each.
must not approve the financial statements, unless they As at 30 July 2017, the total issued share capital are satisfied that they give a true, fair and balanced comprised 108,998,535 fully paid-up shares of 2p view of the state of affairs of the Company and each.
The rights to these shares are set out in the of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
There are In preparing these financial statements, the directors no restrictions on the transfer of these shares are required to: or their attached voting rights.
select suitable accounting policies and Details of significant shareholdings at year end then apply them consistently.
and as at 16 August 2017 are given on page 69. make judgements and accounting estimates which are reasonable and prudent.
No person holds shares with specific rights regarding state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the control of the Company.
European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the The Company operates an employee share incentive financial statements.
However, no specific rights with respect to the prepare the financial statements on the goingcontrol of the Company are attached to these shares.
concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume In addition, the Company operates a deferred that the Company will continue in business.
bonus scheme, whereby, should a takeover occur, all shares held in trust would be transferred to the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate employee immediately.
accounting records, sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and which disclose, with The Company is not aware of any agreements among reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the holders of securities known to the Company which may Company, at any time.
The accounting records enable result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or the directors to ensure that the financial statements voting rights.
and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and that the Companys financial The Company has the power to issue and buy back statements comply with article 4 of the IAS regulation.
shares as a result of resolutions passed at the The directors are also responsible for safeguarding annual general meeting in 2016.
It is the Companys the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable intention to renew these powers: the resolutions steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and approving them are found in the notice of the other irregularities.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 51 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors are responsible for the maintenance and The directors assessment has been made with integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the reference to the Companys current position, financial United Kingdom governing the preparation and plan and its principal risks and uncertainties set out dissemination of financial statements may differ from on pages 41 to 43, specifically economic, legislation in other jurisdictions.
regulatory, reputational and interest-rate risks.
To assess the impact of the Companys principal risks The directors consider that the annual report and and uncertainties on its long term viability, accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and scenarios were applied to the Companys financial understandable and provide that information necessary forecasts in the form of reduced like-for-like sales, for shareholders to assess the Companys reduced margins and increased borrowing costs.
It is performance, business model and strategy.
assumed that the Companys financial plans would be adjusted in response to each scenario.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the section headed directors, officers In making this statement, the directors carried out and advisers, confirms, to the best of his or her a robust assessment of the principal risks and knowledge, that: uncertainties facing the Company, including those which would threaten its business model, future the Companys financial statements, which have performance, solvency or liquidity.
Principal risks and been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted uncertainties set out on pages 41 to 43 are the by the European Union, give a true and fair view of result of internal risk management and control the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of processes, with further details set out in the the Company.
audit committees report on pages 65 and 66. the strategic report includes a fair review of the Going concern development and performance of the business and the The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy position of the Company, together with a description of of the Companys financial resources, through a review the principal risks and uncertainties which it faces.
of the Companys budget and medium-term financial plan, including capital expenditure plans and cash flow so far as he or she is aware, there is no forecasts: they have satisfied themselves that the relevant audit information of which the Companys Company will continue in operational existence for the auditors are unaware.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going-concern basis, in preparing the he or she has taken all steps which he or she ought Companys financial statements.
to have taken as a director, in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information Greenhouse gas GHG emissions and to establish that the Companys auditors are The table below shows the Companys annual B aware of that information.
CO emissions: 2 Directors indemnities GMG Emissions Unit Quantity As permitted by the Articles of Association, the 2017 2016 directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a Scope 1 Tonnes CO e 2 50,805 51,342 qualifying third-party indemnity provision, as defined by Scope 2 Tonnes CO e 2 138,864 157,190 section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity Tonnes CO e 2 Intensity 114.2 130.7 was in force throughout the last financial year and is m revenue currently in force.
The Company also purchased and maintained, throughout the financial year, directors Conversion factors for electricity and gas are and officers liability insurance, in respect of itself those published by the Department for Environment, and its directors.
Viability statement Reported data is in respect of the year ended In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate 31 March 2017, to align with the period under which Governance Code 2014, the directors confirm that they carbon emissions are reported.
have a reasonable expectation that the Company will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall Scope 1 emissions result from the combustion due, for the next three years.
of gas: scope 2 emissions result from the purchase of electricity.
The directors have determined that a three-year period is an appropriate period over which to assess Refrigerant emissions from our pubs are viability, as it aligns with the Companys capital not reported, as they are immaterial.
investment plans and gives a greater certainty over the forecasting assumptions used.
52 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds DIRECTORS REPORT Overseas branches The Company has an overseas branch in the Republic of Ireland.
4 R cross-reference table Information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R starting on page indicated : Interest capitalised Not applicable Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable Details of long-term incentive schemes Page 17 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable Contracts of significance Not applicable Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Pages 54 to 62 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable Agreements with controlling shareholders Pages 54 to 62 Corporate governance DTR 7.2.
9 R Pages 63 to 68 Events after the reporting period The details of events after the reporting period can be found in note 29 on page 34.
By order of the board Nigel Connor Company Secretary 14 September 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 53
