Our Vision & Strategy WHAT WE ARE SETTING OUT TO DO OUR VISION IS TO BE THE CUSTOMERS NUMBER ONE CHOICE Getting our product must be easy Our customers are anytime, anywhere.
Our stores must changing, we have to FOR HOMEWARES AND be worth visiting, providing inspiration, continually adapt and advice, product trial and a window on FURNITURE.
evolve our offer our entire range.
Our websites must be We have done well.
We are the number easy and inspiring to shop, with painless one in the UK Homewares market and delivery and collection options.
We will FAMOUS FOR STYLE, we are loved by customers today.
always look out for ways to make homes VALUE, QUALITY AND and shopping for them better.
The world around us is changing fast.
The web is part of almost every We will broaden our appeal.
customers shopping journey whether will feel at home in our home starting for inspiration, research or purchasing.
out, settled down, well off, hard up, Dunelm Stores now play lots of roles in a classic tastes, bling-loving, sofa surfer multichannel world.
The Home of Homes Our competitive set is evolving rapidly This is Dunelm, The Home of Homes for from discounters who are opening lots tomorrow, as well as today.
of stores to online pure-play retailers How we will get there who offer huge ranges and slick service.
Some of them have very different To us, this will feel like continual approaches to profit and this can be adaptation and evolution.
customers, it will just be what they expect of us.
We have to set our business up to sell more in the future whilst sticking to our We will focus on four Business Goals: principles of lean, low cost and doing Create new reasons for things our own way.
1 customers to shop with Dunelm We must continue to give customers Easy and inspiring for clear and more reasons to shop with 2 customers to shop Dunelm.
We will be famous for style, value, quality and ease of shopping.
A simple and low cost 3 This means well designed, brilliant operating model quality, own label products at the best A great place to work possible prices.
We must offer more 4 for colleagues than today more newness, choice and seasonality and desirable brands in Dorma, Fogarty and Kiddicare.
Our range must be ten times as big as it was in the past, with hundreds of thousands of products available to order online.
indd 12 06 10 2017 12:13:29 Strategic Report The detail of what we will deliver To achieve these goals, we will make big changes for customers and colleagues.
These are things we have been working on in our Business Plans.
Goal One Goal Two Goal Three Goal Four Create new reasons for Easy and inspiring A simple and A great place customers to shop with for customers low cost to work for Dunelm to shop operating model colleagues 2016 17 Achievements 2016 17 Achievements 2016 17 Achievements 2016 17 Achievements z Acquired Worldstores, z Opened seven new stores z 1-man, Kiddicare and z Took steps to align our Kiddicare and Achica and completed 11 major Achica supply chain terms across the business new format rets fullment consolidated into to ensure a fair employment z Increased the quantity of our Stoke DCs deal for all colleagues new products to 16.0% z Rolled out 89 in-line tills, including our new for Autumn Winter 2017 reducing queues and z Completed paperless Worldstores, Kiddicare and FY16: 14.6% freeing up seasonal space project and improved Achica colleagues process through use of z Introduced bigger z Launched tablet-based technology in our ofces z Increased store manager Christmas and Summer selling in-store internal appointments from Living ranges, with sales z Revised people structures z Acquired a two-man 25% to 73% growth of 48% and 76% in-store to re-organise and fleet capability allowing respectively streamline workload, and z Relaunched our key nominated and next day business principles and create more customerwhite-glove delivery service 2017 18 Objectives facing time further embedded them in z Started a seven-day made z Continue to develop our our business z Developed new stock to measure curtains service market leading homewares management routines 2017 18 Objectives offer with more new and 2017 18 Objectives in-store seasonal products z Focus on improving z Introduce Click & Collect 2017 18 Objectives processes, to provide more z Transform customer choice service rewarding jobs z Work with our key suppliers with over 300,000 products z Implement mobile point of to improve efficiency z Continue to develop our on Dunelm.
com sale technology with chip through the supply chain home-grown talent and pin enabling us to sell z Develop our Dorma, Fogarty z Continue to improve our z Provide more leadership our whole range, in every and Kiddicare brands processes to ensure we training and support store z Focus our furniture offer deliver the right stock, right z Continue to build a z Offer improved home on occasional items, beds, time, right place, right route commitment to Dunelm delivery options, with our mattresses and upholstery through our business z Continue to simplify store own fleet z Improve our Made to operations, freeing up time principles z Offer an even better Measure M2M blinds and for service Dunelm.
com with the best curtains online offer z Focus on right first time of Worldstores and Dunelm z Introduce Kiddicare to our delivery for stores z Complete at least ten rets Dunelm stores a new with our latest concepts category bringing new customers How our goals join up with our 8 Business Plans NEW STORE MADE TO SUPPLY DIGITAL STORE PRODUCT FURNITURE OPERATING KIDDICARE CHAIN MEASURE FORMAT MODEL CREATE NEW Goal REASONS One TO SHOP EASY AND Goal INSPIRING Two TO SHOP A SIMPLE AND Goal LOW COST Three OPERATING MODEL A GREAT PLACE Goal TO WORK FOR Four COLLEAGUES Dunelm The Home of Homes 13 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Front.
