Directors' Report The Directors present their report together with the audited z Not exercise any of their voting rights or other powers financial statements for the period ended 1 July 2017. to procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company which would be inconsistent with or Where reference is made to other sections of the Annual undermine any of the provisions of the Relationship Report and Accounts, these sections are incorporated into this Agreement report by reference.
z Abstain from voting on any resolution to which LR11.7.
R 4 Strategic Report of the Listing Rules applies involving Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley or Will Adderley or any of their associates as the The Groups Strategic Report is set out on pages 8 to 38.
This related party contains an indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company and the Group.
z Not carry on other than through their holding of securities of the Company or have any financial interest other than a Results and Dividends financial interest in securities which are held for investment The consolidated profit for the year after taxation was 73.1m purposes only in any person who carries on a business 2016: 102.3m.
The results are discussed in greater detail in as a homewares retailer, to the extent that it would be the Financial Review on pages 23 to 27. inconsistent with or undermine any provisions of the Relationship Agreement A final dividend of 19.5p per share 2016: 19.1p is proposed in respect of the period ended 1 July 2017 to add to an z Only enter into, amend or terminate any transaction, interim dividend of 6.5p per share paid on 13 April 2017 agreement or relationship between themselves or any of 2016: 6.0p.
The final dividend will be paid on 24 November their associates and any member of the Group with the 2017 to shareholders on the register at 3 November 2017. approval of a majority of the independent Non-Executive Directors Shareholder and Voting Rights WA Capital Limited and Nadine Adderley, to whom All members who hold Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend Will Adderley transferred shares by way of a gift, have and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands subsequently become party to this agreement.
at a general meeting every member present in person shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person In July 2014, the Relationship Agreement was amended so as or by proxy shall have one vote for every Ordinary Share held.
to comply with Listing Rule LR 9.2.
2A 2 a, which came into effect on 16 May 2014.
The following additional undertakings On 2 October 2006, Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley and Will were given by the parties: Adderley all shareholders entered into a Relationship Agreement with the Company, pursuant to which each of z No action will be taken that would have the effect Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley and Will Adderley undertook of preventing the Company from complying with its to the Company that, for so long as, individually or together, obligations under the Listing Rules they are entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, z No resolution will be proposed, or procured to be 30% or more of the rights to vote at general meetings of the proposed, which is intended to, or appears to be intended Company or they are able to control the appointment of to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules Directors who are able to exercise a majority of votes at Board In addition, the Articles of Association of the Company meetings of the Company, they will: provide that the election and re-election of independent z Conduct all transactions and relationships with any Directors must be conducted in accordance with the election member of the Group on arms length terms and on a provisions set out in LR 9.2.
This means normal commercial basis that the election or re-election of each independent Director z Not take any action which precludes or inhibits any at the Annual General Meeting will be subject to an additional member of the Group from carrying on its business separate resolution upon which parties controlling 30% or independently of Jean and Bill Adderley and their more of the voting shares of the Company are not eligible associates as dened in the Listing Rules to vote.
indd 102 06 10 2017 12:12:07 Governance The Company confirms that it has complied with its Share Capital and Treasury Shares obligations under the Relationship Agreement during the The Company has only one class of shares, Ordinary Shares of financial period under review, and that so far as it is aware, all 1p each.
other parties to that agreement have complied with it.
The issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company has not The Company confirms that there are no contracts of changed during the period.
signicance between any member of the Group and any At 1 July 2017, the Company held 1,150,369 Ordinary Shares of the parties to the Relationship Agreement, with the in treasury 2016: 846,455. exception of Will Adderleys service agreement as a Director of the Company, the terms of which are outlined in the During the period the Company purchased 500,000 Ordinary Remuneration Report.
195,813 shares were transferred to employees who exercised options under a share incentive There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by scheme or Directors under the LTIP scheme.
Details of option exercises by Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
laws and regulations such as insider trading and marketing requirements relating to closed periods and requirements Since the financial year end, nil Ordinary Shares have been of the Listing Rules whereby Directors and certain employees moved out of treasury to employees who exercised options of the Company require Board approval to deal in the under a share incentive scheme.
Substantial Shareholders UK Listing Authority Listing Rules LR At 1 July 2017 the following had notied the Company of a compliance with LR 9.8.
4C disclosable interest in 3% or more of the nominal value of the The majority of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.
4 are Companys Ordinary Shares: not applicable to Dunelm.
The table below sets out the location of those requirements that are applicable: Ordinary Percentage of Shares share capital Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4 Disclosure provided Will Adderley 54,161,779 26.9 14 A statement made by the Board See above Bill Adderley 48,070,000 23.8 that the Company has entered into an section headed Royal London Asset Management agreement under LR 9.2.
2A, that the Shareholder and Limited 6,190,630 6.07 Company has, and as far as it is aware, Voting Rights.
the other parties to the agreement have, Will Adderley is also deemed to hold a legal interest in complied with the agreement.
967,250 Ordinary Shares held by The Stoneygate Trust formerly known as The Leicester Foundation and 172,750 Change of Control Ordinary Shares held by the Paddocks Discretionary Trust, by The Company is not party to any significant agreements which virtue of the fact that he is a trustee of those trusts.
take effect, alter or terminate solely on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Since the period end date, we have been notied by Royal London Asset Management Limited that their holding is now There are no agreements between the Company and 10,075,612 Ordinary shares, 5.0% of the issued share capital.
its Directors or employees providing for additional compensation for loss of ofce or employment whether There have been no other changes in the holdings of through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that occurs substantial shareholders between the period end date and because of a takeover bid.
103 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 103 06 10 2017 12:12:08 Directors' Report CONTINUED Directors Independent Auditors The Directors of the Company and their biographies are set In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act out on pages 50 to 52.
Details of changes to the Board during 2006 and the recommendation of the Audit and Risk the period are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on Committee, a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the page 54. reappointment of  LLP as auditor of the Group.
Powers of Directors Disclaimer Specic powers of the Directors in relation to shares and the Companys Articles of Association are referred to in the This Directors Report, Strategic Report and the Financial Corporate Governance report on page 54.
Statements contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, operations Employee Information and business of Dunelm Group plc.
These statements and Information relating to employees of the Group is set out in forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to the Corporate Responsibility report on page 40. events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause Share incentive schemes in which employees participate are actual results or developments to differ materially from those described in the Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 78. expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Nothing in this Directors Report and Strategic Donations Report or in these Financial Statements should be construed The Group does not make any political donations.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Annual General Meeting The Corporate Responsibility report on page 47 sets out The Annual General Meeting will be held at 9.30am the greenhouse gas emissions disclosures required by the on Tuesday 21 November 2017 at the Dunelm Stoke 2 Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Distribution Centre, Whiterock Road, Prologis Park, Regulations 2013.
A formal notice of meeting, Treasury and Risk Management explanatory circular and a form of proxy will accompany this The Groups approach to treasury and financial risk annual report and financial statements.
management is explained in the Principal Risks and This report was reviewed and signed by order of the Board Uncertainties section on page 35 and note 18 to the annual on 13 September 2017. financial statements.
Dawn Durrant Company Secretary 104 dunelm.
