GROUP Q&A CONTINUED OUR STRATEGY You delivered Target 100 Our objective is to generate value for our investors, successfully lastyear: building a sustainable business that meets the Q what other targets doyou needs of our customers and communities, and have in each business division?
delivers our vision: a world where every journey We were pleased to deliver our bus profit target on schedule last year, istaken care of achieving operating profit growth of 43% over the target period.
When we launched our bus division profit target, we were clear that the level of growth we were Will be delivered by our targeting wouldnt continue and we expected it to plateau, as it has done during the year.
three strategic objectives Our focus is on improving efficiencies through the adoption of lean processes, andattracting more people to our services tosupport this stable, core division.
Protect and 1 grow the core In rail, the model is different as we operate franchises which come up for renewal Safeguarding and through a bidding cycle.
We are currently developing our core working on our bid for the new South Eastern bus and rail businesses franchise and will continue to bid for other contracts we consider to be attractive.
Youre developing a business outside the UK: Q what is your international growth strategy?
We have three decades of Win new bus and experience operating complex 2 transport networks in the UK, so rail contracts Our vision were in an excellent position to Securing contracts leverage that expertise in new international in UK and international bus markets, offering considerable value to and rail markets, in line passengers and tendering authorities.
A world where every with our appetite for risk Werobustly assess all opportunities journey is taken care of againstcriteria to achieve a balance of risk, reward and capital intensity that fits within our established business model mode and riskappetite framework.
Were focused onmarkets with stable political and legal systems, where theres appetite for public transport use, and the tendering authorities are committed to introducing international expertise.
Our target markets have visable Develop for the 3 pipelines of contracts and present future of transport opportunities to develop in other areas once Using our skills, a local platform has been established.
knowledge and assets Were making good progress in our target in new ways to deliver markets, having won contracts in Singapore, sustainable growth Germany and Ireland.
for the long term 14 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Measuring our performance Our key performance indicators KPIs Enabled by a focus Underpinned by presented in this report are the measures weuse in the business to assess the on five change themes our core beliefs Groupsperformances.
The majority of and attitudes ourKPIs relate to performance against our strategic objective to protect and grow the core.
Our KPIs are under review to ensure Lean processes greater alignment with all areas of Delivering what our customers our strategy.
Our beliefs want in more efficient ways We currently report our KPIs under four key performance areas: Read more on page 39 We believe in Trusting people Being can-do Technology people Using technology to improve Building processes, increase customer relationships satisfaction and drive revenue Society Our people Being one stepahead Read more on page 24 See page 32 See page 36 Customer experience Considering every aspect of peoples journeys to continually improve customer experience Read more on page 23 Customers Finance Our attitudes Culture change See page 34 See page 38 Operating with aligned values and common goals We are Accountable Read more on page 37 Down-to-earth Collaborative Agile Leadership Developing the Groups current Evolving our strategy and future leaders This year we have evolved our strategy, focusing on three strategic objectives: protect and grow the core, win new bus and Read more on page 19 rail contracts and develop for the future of transport.
Five key themes have been identified through which change will be delivered across our businesses.
