OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED Customers Providing high quality, locally focused passenger transport services of trains that arrive at their final destination media attention and our reputation can be What are our key performance within five minutes of their scheduled harmed if they are low.
Our rail franchise indicators KPIs ?
contracts also include satisfaction targets Our customer KPIs monitor how well were and our operating companies could face serving our customers, how reliably were penalties if these targets are not achieved.
running our buses and trains, and how For London bus, poor performance could Providing high quality service is a strategic satisfied our passengers feel.
We measure result in lower Quality Incentive Contract priority for the Group and customer the number of passenger journeys taken on QIC bonus payments and prevent satisfaction is a key measure of our our regional bus and rail services compared contract extensions.
Punctuality is important to our with the previous year, adjusting for passengers and is the strongest indicator of significant acquisitions and new franchises.
passenger satisfaction, so is key to helping Customer satisfaction surveys are conducted us grow passenger numbers and increase In regional bus, passenger numbers twice a year for our rail franchises and customer satisfaction.
London bus contract remained broadly flat year on year, while rail annually for our regional bus operations.
extensions are also based on performance.
numbers fell slightly, reflecting industrial As we are contracted on the basis of bus We earn additional revenue through Quality relations issues at GTR and changing travel mileage in London, we do not consider Incentive Contract bonus payments if we patterns of Southeastern customers.
passenger numbers as a KPI for that exceed TfLs punctuality targets.
PPM Our focus on delivering high quality locally division.
Customer satisfaction is measured performance forms part of our franchise focused services has enabled us to maintain by the independent passenger watchdog agreements with the DfT.
We closely track our sector-leading position on customer Transport Focus.
Our primary customer in trends in passenger numbers as changes in satisfaction in regional bus, with slightly London bus is TfL.
We measure satisfaction demand can affect financial performance as improved scores of 90%.
All our regional bus and punctuality by performance against TfLs well as indicate potential issues.
Monitoring companies scored highly in Transport Focus excess waiting time target, which is the time this allows us to take timely action to improve annual survey.
Satisfaction with our rail passengers have to wait for a bus above the our services.
services also increased in the year, despite average scheduled waiting time.
The lower ongoing industrial relations issues impacting the excess waiting time, the better What are the risks?
strong improvement, up from 72% to 82%: Decreasing volume numbers could be an The punctuality of our regional bus the greatest improvement ever delivered in indicator of performance issues within our operations is measured as the percentage of UK rail.
London Midlands performance operations or of changes in economic or buses which arrive at their stop between one declined to 82% from a high base of 86% in market conditions, any of which has the minute before and five minutes after their the previous year.
potential to impact the Groups scheduled time.
Therefore, the higher the overall performance.
We saw a mixed performance against our percentage the better the performance.
While congestion Punctuality is a key driver of customer The punctuality of our rail operations is continues to be an issue in London, satisfaction.
If customers are not satisfied measured on the basis of the DfTs Public punctuality of our bus services has improved with the service they receive, they may switch Performance Measure PPM on a moving as some road improvement works in our to other operators or other modes of annual average basis.
PPM is the percentage operating areas were completed.
These satisfaction figures receive Like for like passenger Customer satisfaction % Regional bus punctuality % volume growth % Regional bus Rail Regional bus Rail 5 100 100 4.8 92 91.2 90.0 90 90 90 89 86.9 4 86.2 84.9 3.9 82 80 80 78 77 76 75 3.1 3 60 60 2 2.0 1.9 1.1 1 40 40 0.0 1.9 0 0.2 20 20 -1 1.4 -2 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 34 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information bus punctuality fell slightly, as did punctuality Customer satisfaction of our rail services.
The decline in rail was due to a negative impact of maintenance The National Rail Passenger Survey and the Bus Passenger Survey conducted by works at GTR.
Transport Focus, provide valuable information about customers satisfaction with the journey theyve just taken.
While we use the results of these surveys to help us improve, we also use Net Promoter Score NPS as an alternative indicator of loyalty and overall What are we targeting?
advocacy of our bus and rail services regularly.
We measure NPS of our bus and rail Were aiming to grow bus and rail passenger operators regularly through the year to understand how likely regular and occasional numbers beyond current levels.
customers as well as people who dont use our services are to recommend us.
This is In London bus, our target is to achieve low agood indicator of how much they trust us.
average excess waiting time of below one Together with NPS monitoring, a number of our train operators have signed up to a new minute, in line with TfLs targets.
In regional passenger-focused to the minute punctuality monitoring.
Our trains are currently bus, we aim to maintain our sector-leading considered on time if they arrive at their final destination within five minutes after their bus passenger satisfaction scores and schedule.
The new measure records the number of trains arriving within a minute of their achieve punctuality of over 95% in line with scheduled time at every station.
By adopting this right-time railway we have a more transparent measure of train We target improvement in levels of customer punctuality often the greatest priority for passengers.
This measure combined with satisfaction in the rail division, bringing them theNPS indicator improves our ability to map our customers experience.
in line with the industry average for the London and South East network and increase levels of punctuality across all our franchises to meet 90% PPM in accordance with the Office of Road and Rail ORR, Network Rail and London and South East operators 2019 target.
