GROUP Q&A CONTINUED OUR MARKETS Youve lost the London Drawing on our considerable experience of Midland franchise: does operating in bus and rail, we are well positioned Q UK rail continue to be an to respond to market changes attractive market for Go-Ahead?
Our environment In the 20 years since the privatisation of rail operations, Regional bus Regional bus market share Go-Aheads rail division has This market comprises all our UK delivered profitability, strong bus operations outside London.
cashflow and good returns on capital: 29% 25% While most services are operated Others andcontinues to do so.
We understand Stagecoach on a commercial basis, some themarket well and have a long term track tendered services, such as school record of delivering good service, meeting bus contracts, are operated on contractual obligations and delivering behalf of local authorities.
change on busy and complex networks.
7.1% 8% Weconsider each new bid on its own Operators are responsible for their merits, conducting thorough due diligence own vehicles and depots, as well as 6% 17% and applying price discipline.
If we think a setting routes, fares and National FirstGroup franchise can deliver attractive returns with Express service frequency.
an acceptable level of risk, well bid for it: if 8% 15% we dont, we wont.
Were not in UK rail for Go-Ahead Arriva For more information see page 25 the sake of being in UK rail and we dont want to win a bid at any cost.
If a time comeswhen its no longer an attractive market, we will consider better uses London bus London bus market share of capital.
Transport for London TfL tenders 5% 1% contracts to bus operators which Others Tower Transit run individual bus routes in London How is Go-Ahead for five to seven years.
Operators, 8% 24% positioned for the Abellio Go-Ahead Q which are responsible for their own end of internal 11% vehicles and depots, are paid RATP through gross cost contracts on a combustion engines?
TfL sets Electrification of transport is a hot 7.1% routes and service frequency, while 24% topic, driven by climate change and the Mayor of London is responsible concerns about air quality.
18% moving rapidly towards Euro 6, 15% Comfort DelGro hybrid buses and pure electric power through Stagecoach For more information see page 26 a combination of fleet replacement and 18% Arriva planned retrofits of diesel buses to match clean Euro 6 standards.
Our electric fleet in London makes us the largest electric bus operator in the UK.
This experience is Rail Rail market share extremely useful to the rest of our operations Within this market, train operators and the transport authorities with which we run rail services through contracts 14% work.
So, Go-Ahead is very well placed for Others tendered by the Department for the increasing role of electric and hybrid road 17% Transport DfT.
We are part of the solution to 7% have some similar features, they improve air quality.
We aim to reduce the Abellio can vary in scale, scope and length.
number of cars on the road and increase the number of people using less polluting buses.
Trains are leased and rail infrastructure is largely owned and 13% 7.1% To improve air quality, its important that 28% Arriva managed by Network Rail, with governments and local authorities also train operators paying for access.
28% consider other measures, alongside The Government is responsible for Govia technology.
More active traffic management Go-Ahead setting peak fares, routes and to reduce urban congestion and incentives 21% 65% service frequency.
FirstGroup Keolis 35% for the use of public transport also have a big part to play in improving air quality and For more information see page 27 addressing climate change.
10 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Ensuring we have the most efficient transport network and services is not only important to the economic wealth of the country but also important to ensuring that people can make the best use of their time, travel is affordable and that everyone can access the transport network.
We need to continue to put people at the heart of the transport system.
1 The Department for Transport, July 2017 Key market trends Political landscape Go-Ahead is engaging As the UK adapts to a newly structured government and prepares to exit the European Union, the political with policy makers on environment is uncertain.
This, together with changes to public policy, creates both challenge and opportunity air quality issues.
We for public transport operators.
Public transport featured heavily in the manifestos of the major political parties believe strongly that ahead of the June 2017 General Election, reflecting the importance of good transport systems in supporting a public transport is part growing economy and a thriving society.
We work collaboratively with local authorities and engage with local and central government stakeholders, using our experience and expertise in bus and rail to influence public policy.
Technology The number of people Technology is facilitating great innovation in transport: with advances in vehicle automation, electrification and registered on London digitalisation affecting automotive, bus and rail industries.
The growing use of mobile technology also has a Midlands customer significant impact on bus and rail markets.
Customers now expect contactless and mobile ticketing options database increased by and up-to-the-minute travel information as standard.
500,000 following the launch of free WiFi on We capitalise on technological developments to enhance customer experience and build knowledge of travel its trains.
habits to better inform our decisions.
Congestion and air quality In collaboration with a Congestion is a growing problem with an additional 1.6 million cars on the UKs roads in the last six years logistics company, we 2 alone.
As traffic increases, journey times get longer and air quality declines.
Congestion costs UK businesses are piloting a scheme in 3 over 765m in lost productivity and contributes significantly to carbon emissions.
The Government has London which will responded to the environmental impact by proposing a ban on diesel and petrol cars and vans from 2040. reduce the volume of traffic on the road, We are part of the solution in reducing congestion and improving air quality.
Travelling by bus is ten times 4 reducing congestion and better for the environment than taking the same journey by car.
By attracting people from their cars to our improving air quality.
services, we reduce congestion and carbon emissions.
We always look for ways to reduce our environmental footprint by investing in greener vehicles and reducing water use and waste.
Competition Go-Ahead has a UK transport markets are highly competitive with long-standing peers and new market entrants competing for presence in three new market share.
international markets and is exploring We also face competition from other modes of transport, particularly the private car.
opportunities in other Go-Aheads approach is to provide high quality transport services that our customers value.
We dont rely solely target markets, on existing markets to provide future growth opportunities.
including Australia and the Nordic regions.
Social and demographic changes Southeastern conducted Developments in the way people work, shop and socialise mean the way people travel is changing.
As research into travel home-based working rises, internet shopping dominates the retail landscape and social media connects habits which provided people instantly, people are travelling less overall.
Despite this trend, public transport remains vital to useful insights into supporting local economies, enabling social inclusion and access to work and education.
This knowledge helps Our local teams are well placed to respond quickly to changing customer habits.
ln regional bus, we have the us better tailor services flexibility to make changes to our services to meet changes in demand.
TomTom Telematics, November 2016 4. International Council on Clean Transportation www.
