Our Corporate Responsibilities HOW WE OPERATE Our business principles provide a guide to how the Group, Our business principles the Board and all of our colleagues should behave towards our customers, other colleagues, our suppliers and our local, Do things Be Keep it national and international community.
They are set out in Sell more our own committed simple our little book of house rules which all of our colleagues way receive on induction, and all colleagues are appraised against them.
We also use our business principles in our colleague communications.
WASTE CUSTOMER As well as forming part of our business principles, the MERCHANDISE FOCUS BE THE ENVIRONMENT individual corporate responsibility topics which we report SUPPLIER UNDERDOG MOTIVATE against below form part of the role accountabilities of our RELATIONSHIPS KEEP OUR OUR TEAMS LONG TERM COST Executive Board members and are regular agenda items for KEEP LISTENING DECISIONS STRUCTURE DEVELOP the Board and Executive Board.
AND LOOKING LEAN OUR PEOPLE The diagram below illustrates how we ensure that our responsibilities are discharged: Board Executive Board z Overall responsibility for our corporate responsibilities z Role models for the business principles z Oversight of the key business principles z Members have line responsibility for managing specic topics z Approves policies z Approves policies prior to submission to Board z Executive members have line responsibility for managing specic topics z Regular Executive Board meeting agenda items z Monitors progress through KPIs and Board reports z Monitors progress through KPIs, Board reports and customer and colleague feedback z Annual presentations on people, Health and Safety and ethical sourcing How we engage Colleagues z Appraised by reference to our business principles Customers: through customer care, online surveys and social media z Provide feedback of customer and colleague suggestions via our engagement survey, Yammer Colleagues: weekly email from the Deputy Chairman, and colleague council in-house magazine, Colleagues Council, Yammer, instant communication from stores, and always on engagement survey Suppliers: annual conference and meetings throughout the year Others: social media, corporate website 38 dunelm.
indd 38 06 10 2017 12:14:21 Strategic Report Customers Executive responsibility: 2016 17 achievements Customer Director z We opened seven new stores z Further improvements to our website, Link to business goals: and completed 11 major rets, all including frequently refreshed get the incorporating our refreshed formats look features 1 2 z Customer friendly changes, such as z Home delivery standard lead time Link to business principles: queue-busting in-line tills, made to a reduced to 3-5 working days and more larger number of stores next day nominated day services Be introduced Sell more z Store teams restructured to increase committed service-related activity and specialist z New customer feedback mechanism training launched, enabling customers to quickly feed back freehand comments z Extended our product offer more on our service seasonal items and thousands Why?
more products via our Worldstores We want to be the customers number acquisition one choice for homewares and furniture the Home of Homes.
We welcome all customers, whatever their age, taste or z We will meet our customers budget, and offer them the widest range Whats next for 2017 18 expectations for safety and ethical of products for their homes, whenever z We aim to open ten new stores, and sustainable sourcing and however they want to shop.
relocate two new stores and z Our marketing will always be fair and complete ten store rets in our new What?
truthful formats We will always look out for ways to make z We will offer our biggest ever Awards homes and shopping for them better Christmas range, and continue to for our customers.
Recommended Provider for develop and improve our product Furnishings and Homewares High z Well designed, brilliant quality, own offer Street Shop, June 2016 label products at the best possible z Launch of our Dunelm Extra website prices z Readers of House Beautiful Magazine offering a wider range of products awarded us Gold Home Retailer z The widest possible range of online, the majority available for next of the Year 2016 and Silver Online products, offering choice, newness, day delivery Retailer of the Year 2016 seasonality and desirable brands z Equip our store colleagues with chip z Caf Chain of the Year Caf Life z Easy access to our products, however and pin enabled tablets, making our award 2017 they choose to shop in-store, home entire online portfolio accessible for delivery, delivery to store z Runner up British Sandwich ordering in-store for home delivery Association Sammies award Caf z Stores which are worth visiting z Launch Click & Collect customers Coffee Bar Sandwich Retailer of the inspiring, conveniently located, safe can order products for collection Year 2016 and accessible in their local store as well as home z Websites that are inspiring and easy delivery to navigate, with painless delivery z Roll out of Kiddicare in store xtures, and collection options offering a complementary product z Friendly and knowledgeable range to existing and new customers colleagues, in-store, in our contact z Our online offer of Made to Measure centre and delivering our products curtains and blinds will be expanded and lead times reduced substantially 39 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Front.
indd 39 06 10 2017 12:14:22 Our Corporate Responsibilities CONTINUED People Executive responsibility: 2016 17 achievements People Director z Aligned employment terms and z We changed our graduate scheme to Link to business goals: conditions across our operations, improve our focus on fewer individuals, 2 3 4 including Worldstores to ensure ensuring that each receives dedicated consistent terms to all our colleagues training, mentoring by a member of the Link to business principles: Executive team, and close involvement z Delivered training to colleagues, in strategic project work including nationally accredited modern Do things Be Keep it Sell more our own apprenticeships and NVQs: our z Our new store management structure committed simple way sell more programme: support for has provided a clearer development colleagues studying for professional path in the year we have lled 73% of qualications in finance, HR and IT: Retail Management positions internally.
management and leadership skills Why?
z We relaunched our business principles workshops: and interactive computer and took steps to ensure that they are We believe that a great place to work based learning tools embedded in our ways of working, as is a great place to shop we can only described below deliver great products and services to our customers through the hard work and commitment of our colleagues.
Invest in our home-grown talent z Our always on colleague feedback develop our people is one of our key mechanism allows us to act on issues What?
business principles providing training quickly.
A number of key concerns We employ over 9,000 colleagues and development opportunities helps affecting colleagues have been across our business: in stores, our us retain talent in the business.
identied and addressed this year distribution and manufacturing z We held a company-wide new operations, our contact centre in Living our business principles during year celebration at the end of June Radcliffe, and our store support centres the year we relaunched the business 2017, a fun event to celebrate our in Leicester and London.
principles first written over ten years ago achievements over the year by our Deputy Chairman, Will Adderley.
Our people strategy has three elements: Whats next for 2017 18 All new colleagues receive our Little Deliver the basics provide fair Book of House Rules explaining z Continue to work at aligning our employment to all colleagues, our principles.
These principles are employment proposition consistently regardless of disability, race, religion or used in recruitment and appraisals, across all of our sites and businesses belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender and embedded into our colleague z Continue to develop our people, reassignment, marital status or age.
including those on our graduate At the end of June 2017, the breakdown scheme, and participating in the Some of the ways we bring our business of male and female colleagues was as launch of the first retail degree principles to life include: follows: apprenticeship z Housewarming induction for new % z A company-wide engagement starters, to introduce them to us, Male Female Female survey in addition to the always our products and our way of doing on survey, using this to better Group Board 7 2 22% things inform the way we communicate and Executive z Communication through regular engage colleagues throughout their huddles: a weekly topical email: Board 7 4 36% career our quarterly Gazette: and our Senior z Do things our own way in In touch and Yammer intranet Management recruitment, targeting varied communications Team 16 7 30% candidate pools for selection.
Linked z We hold colleague councils where to this we are developing a new All other our colleagues can raise and discuss careers website to better reect our colleagues 2,988 6,033 67% issues meetings are attended employment brand by senior management and the z Issue our reports under the gender outcome is fed back to the Executive pay gap requirements Board 40 dunelm.
indd 40 06 10 2017 12:14:24 Strategic Report Health and Safety Executive responsibility: 2016 17 achievements Chief Executive z Health and safety processes at z Continued review of the current Health Link to business goals: Worldstores premises brought in and Safety processes with specic line with Dunelm standards.
New focus on areas of highest risk such as 2 3 4 procedures implemented for new the new Stoke warehouse, and where distribution fleet needed, provide further training Link to business principles: materials and support z Store xture and furniture safety Be Keep it reviewed following widely publicised z Provided Institution of Occupational Sell more committed simple Top Shop customer accident Safety and Health IOSH Managing Safety training to Area People z Programme started to eliminate forklift Managers and Shift Managers at our truck usage in store warehouses Stoke and Workroom operations z Strengthened procedures relating to Why?
z Implemented a simplied and focused contractors working in stores, with a We want to ensure the safety and wellinduction DVD and validation quiz for focus on working at height and roof being of our customers, our colleagues all store colleagues working and all our visitors.
We have a Group Health and Safety manager who ensures that the appropriate policies and centres we have a dedicated Health and Whats next for 2017 18 procedures are in place, and regularly Safety Adviser.
Risk assessments are in z Launch Clean As You Go policy in reports to the Group Board and the place at all Company sites and updated all stores to help mitigate the risk of Executive Board.
trips, slips and falls What?
We have an in-house Health and Safety z Support and strengthen distribution The Board is responsible for the creation audit, which monitors compliance to Health and Safety procedures and implementation of our Health and policy and procedures and is reviewed within the Home Delivery Network Safety policy and procedures, which annually to ensure that it meets best management framework.
include an effective system of upward practice industry standards and to z Launch half day Health and Safety and downward communication, address any specic risks identied.
training course for new managers appropriate standards for monitoring Our stores and distribution centres and store premises key holders performance and ensuring that complete an online self-audit monthly z Continue to focus on safety within sufficient resources are available to and area managers audit each of our distribution network which support this activity.
their stores at least once a year.
This is now includes the addition of four backed up by our in-house operational Health and safety is a standard agenda Worldstores sites audit team and followed up by the item at every Board and Executive Health and Safety Manager.
Regular z Continue to provide Health and Board meeting and each of these Safety training and development to review meetings are held between the receive a monthly report and a formal Groups Health and Safety Manager and senior management throughout the annual presentation from the Groups business senior management from operational Health and Safety Manager with functions.
z A new trailer fleet for Stoke DC will accident risk analysis, review of previous be operational in January 2018 which objectives and agreement of new We have a proactive approach to safety, will allow additional forklift trucks to objectives for the next year.
and colleagues are encouraged to be removed from stores report all potential hazards and risks.
In our stores, each store manager We have an ongoing programme is responsible for ensuring the of education and training, including implementation of Health and Safety DVDs and interactive computer based policy and procedures in his or her learning, and we ensure colleague store, supported by the area manager involvement through the Colleague and the Group Health and Safety Council.
At our Stoke distribution 41 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Front.
indd 41 06 10 2017 12:14:27 Our Corporate Responsibilities CONTINUED Suppliers and Human Rights Executive responsibility: 2016 17 achievements Product Director z Worked with suppliers to remove those z Worldstores suppliers brought on to Link to business goals: operating from any shared multi-storey Dunelm trading terms facilities in view of the heightened risk 1 3 4 z Assessment made of high risk z Modern slavery awareness training countries of origin and materials for provided to colleagues in our Stoke provenance and slavery issues Link to business principles: distribution centre and our distribution z Timber policy adopted and feather partners: all management colleagues Be Do things Keep it and down policy and processes Sell more our own committed simple completed online training strengthened way z Worldstores technology team joined the Dunelm team and work started to harmonise procedures and standards Why?
We do not manufacture the vast majority of the products that we sell: therefore factories to improve quality and ethical Our audits of suppliers of our Dunelm we need to maintain relationships with standards.
Our Far East sourcing branded products also covers modern suppliers and manufacturers worldwide partners monitor standards and work to slavery.
Our statement made pursuant who can meet our high standards.
They improve them on our behalf.
to the Modern Slavery Act 2015, must demonstrate that they operate in which contains further information, is accordance with recognised standards All suppliers of Dunelm branded available at www.
In the that uphold human rights and safety, products must have a satisfactory audit coming year, we will extend this to prohibit modern slavery and promote in place which is no more than two years the Worldstores business which we sustainable sourcing.
old, and a valid building and re safety acquired in the year.
two Pillar SMETA audits, which cover Provenance We are raising our Fair and consistent One of our the Dunelm code and a wider range of provenance requirements, with business principles is to deal with our qualitative measures.
During 2017 18 particular emphasis on timber sourcing, suppliers in an open and honest way.
we will establish these standards for cotton, animal welfare, feathers and We ask all of our suppliers to sign suppliers of our Worldstores, Kiddicare down, polyester and use of microbres.
our standard terms and conditions in and Achica branded products.
Supplier We will be strengthening our policies advance of commencing trade, and we branded products are not subject to and practices in these areas.
have signed up to the Prompt Payment audits but suppliers sign our Code Whats next for 2017 18 Code.
The number of days purchases of Conduct or equivalent and an outstanding for payment at 1 July 2017 z Dunelm quality, ethical sourcing and assessment is made of their standards was 38 days 2016: 38 days.
audit standards to be extended to all and capability.
Worldstores, Kiddicare and Achica Human rights Suppliers of products Where non-compliance is discovered own branded products, and to Pausa for resale with whom we trade directly we work with a supplier to help them coffee shop suppliers are asked to sign our Code of Conduct, achieve compliance, usually within three z Implement supply chain mapping based on the Ethical Trading Initiative months.
Critical non-conformances solution to obtain greater visibility of ETI base code, with a strengthened such as use of child labour, working risk beyond the first tier of suppliers section on slavery.
Suppliers must against choice slavery or absence of provide a clean and safe work z FastForward audits to be valid Building or Fire Certicates are environment, workers must be treated introduced for all UK manufacturers escalated immediately, and supplies with respect and earn a reasonable of own brand products to assess for cease until the issue has been resolved.
wage, and relevant local laws and modern slavery risk Ultimately, if progress is inadequate, we regulations must be met.
will cease to trade with the supplier.
z Assess our non-stock and Pausa supply base for slavery risk Effective management of human rights Modern slavery In 2016 we assessed throughout our supply chain is built into our own facilities and supply base our product procurement procedures.
products and services for modern Our in-house technology team has slavery risk and have required the major extensive experience of working with providers to sign our Code of Conduct.
indd 42 06 10 2017 12:14:31 Strategic Report Community Executive responsibility: 2016 17 achievements Customer Director z Colleagues participated in a number z The total value of charitable donations Link to business goals: of events, including the London made by the Group in the period Marathon, the Three Peaks Challenge, ended 1 July 2017 was 35,998 2016: 1 4 fancy dress end of year party, as well 58,541. as raising money through rafes, bake Link to business principles: z Total funds raised for charity by the sales and sample sales Group and colleagues were 365,774 Be Do things z Charity cupcakes have been sold in 2016: 231,328.
Of this, 340,776 Sell more committed our own Pausa coffee shops.
Home-Start UK was raised for Home-Start UK way merchandise boxes and donation tins are in each store, and discontinued stock has been donated via Home-Start UK to families in need Why?
We aspire to be responsible members of our community, as this reects our We also support colleagues who are and the environment together with aim to always do the right thing: it also raising money for charities of their practical local action to build stronger matters to our shareholders, customers choice, often by matching the sums communities.
They aim to create more and colleagues.
All colleagues are entitled to, green spaces, and get people back into What?
and are encouraged to take, an extra work through creating green jobs.
days paid leave to undertake charitable We are proud to support HomeThe Group pays corporation tax on its Start UK as our charity of the year.
activities, either individually or as a operations in the United Kingdom and team.
Collections are made in-store, specic does not operate in any tax havens, or fundraising events are organised both We donate funds raised from English use any tax avoidance schemes.
by individuals and business areas and and Scottish carrier bag sales to the Group makes its own donations.
Whats next for 2017 18 Home-Start UK, our charity of the Each store has a Charity Champion and z Second year of our partnership with year, and from Welsh carrier bag amounts raised by store are reported Home-Start UK sales to GroundWork, a charitable monthly, with the top three recognised organisation which brings people z Continue to support our colleagues in the Dunelm Gazette each month.
in their charitable fundraising efforts by offering an annual days leave to support charitable activities z Continue to support local causes and community focuses where possible to ensure we help the communities around our entire estate 43 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Front.
indd 43 06 10 2017 12:14:35 Our Corporate Responsibilities CONTINUED Environment Executive responsibility: 2016 17 achievements Chief Financial officer z All sites have been audited in 2016 17 z Store Manager Conference Link to business goals: and an ongoing compliance review presentations, and frequent Area process has been built into our existing Manager briengs have supported this 1 2 3 4 operational audit procedures throughout the year z A new audit tool has been developed to z Recycling now features regularly in our Link to business principles: record levels of compliance and allow monthly colleague Gazette publication, Be Do things action planning and improved response and new posters in colleague rest Keep it Sell more our own committed simple follow-up in the future rooms, store warehouses, and training way academies have been introduced z Audit results highlighted compliance concerns which has led to the z We successfully launched a coffee introduction of mixed dry recycling see cup recycling collection at SSC Why?
next page in September 2016, recycling At Dunelm we always try to do the approximately 100,000 paper cups in z Internal marketing campaigns in 2017 right thing, and we are committed to the remainder of the year have been held to ensure a consistent minimising the impact of our business promotion of recycling on the environment.
Our Environment & Sustainability Committee is responsible for the We have further mixed recycling Key objectives development and implementation of collections from our stores for paper, z Our approach to recycling and environmental strategies to continually plastic bottles and cans which is then waste more generally is to adopt improve our recycling and waste sorted and recycled offsite.
We also the following prioritisation: Reduce, management and reduce our energy recycle wooden pallets and metal Reuse, Rework, Recycle consumption and carbon CO 2 xtures.
All electrical waste is recycled z To minimise general non-recyclable emissions.
We have recently recruited through a WEEE compliant scheme.
waste across the business and an Environment & Sustainability Any remaining waste that is not sorted reduce use of landll and other Manager who will lead and co-ordinate for recycling within the business is sent adverse environmental impacts these efforts across our business.
z To be fully compliant with all relevant Last year Dunelm recycled 79% 2016: Recycling & Waste waste legislation 78% of waste and reduced general Management waste volumes by over 200 tonnes Whats next for 2017 18 -6.5% in stores despite new store z Continue to improve recycling What?
Through collaboration with performance aiming towards 100% We aim for high levels of recycling our waste partners, we have improved landll diversion over the medium across our business.
All stores total Company landll diversion to 92% term have cardboard balers and colour- 2016: 89% and achieved 100% landll coded bins to segregate waste for z Undertake at least ten show and diversion from our Distribution Centres recycling.
Training programmes and tell waste audits at Dunelm sites in Stoke.
We continue to work with our communication to increase colleague to assess recycling performance waste partners to identify alternative awareness and compliance are and engage colleagues across the solutions to eliminate use of landll for undertaken frequently.
business the remainder of our operational waste z Explore greater opportunities of Our Distribution Centres in Stoke and we expect to achieve at least 94% working with charities the reuse recover and process our product landll diversion next year.
sector to make more donations of packaging from our DC and unsellable stock store operations cardboard and polypropylene ready for recycling.
z Explore new business opportunities around the circular economy and assess potential opportunities for Dunelm 44 dunelm.
indd 44 06 10 2017 12:14:37 Strategic Report Waste recycled % KEEPING IT SIMPLE FOR OUR colleagues AND THE environment 83 82 79 78 78 76 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 REUSE REDUCE Reduce, Reuse and Rework Initiatives RECYCLE What we discovered Reduce z Our compliance audits highlighted that multiple segregation of z Our paperless ofce waste reduction initiative has recyclable items in-store was causing confusion.
We had seven reduced paper usage by over 60% year on year different recycling bins in-store as well as general waste bins z New less than perfect stock selling guidance to z Colleagues found it confusing to choose the correct bin.
This colleagues has helped reduce general waste collection impacted compliance and led to contamination of waste weight by 20kg per week per store z Our colleagues in Stoke who previously sorted plastic bottles, Reuse paper and cans were faced with mixed refuse which was timez Partnering with the Furniture Reuse Network and our consuming and a dirty job to work through Charity of the Year Home-Start UK, has enabled us Our response to donate products which cant be sold such as quilts, z We introduced a new mixed dry recycling service in-store, pillows and some furniture which was collected direct from store by our waste contractor z We now work with over 100 local charities on this z A training video and new marketing materials accompanied reuse initiative the programme Rework z New permanent plastic bins were introduced to replace the z In 2017, we have signicantly improved the processing cardboard versions that were used previously for recycling, of returned furniture and electricals which had a very short lifespan z These are now fully inspected, tested and if suitable, How this has helped reworked into brand new condition products for z Operations are now simplied saving colleague processing time in onward re-sale.
Alternatively parts are used for spares store and at our DCs or sent for WEEE recycling z Recycling compliance has improved signicantly.
We anticipate an improvement in landll diversion due to reduced contamination 45 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Front.
indd 45 06 10 2017 12:14:39 Our Corporate Responsibilities CONTINUED Environment Waste recycled % Energy Use 2016 17 achievements Year on year What?
z We continued the LED programme reduction in Dunelm manages energy usage and and re-tted 37 stores with LED energy reduction initiatives on a siteenergy usage % lighting, taking the total number of our stores with LED lighting to by-site basis.
Smart meters are tted to 125 stores electricity and gas supplies and energy z Our focus on energy consumption consumption is measured frequently FY12 1.2 1.1 FY15 FY16 FY17 in stores continued, and despite with analytics tools available to help FY13 FY14 the warm weather in Summer 2016, identify issues and opportunities to -3.2 requiring higher use of power for air reduce usage.
Building Management conditioning, we achieved a 9.0% Systems BMS, designed to optimise reduction in electricity consumption -5.8 energy use, are tted as standard across in LFL stores and a 13.7% reduction in gas usage in LFL stores our estate.
-10.0 z Combining electricity and gas, Energy consumption is monitored by our consumption reduced by 10% in our Energy Manager in conjunction LFL stores with a specialist energy partner.
We z We continue to monitor the target underperforming sites alongside -14.2 performance of our stores and assess the implementation of various energy future investments.
We currently reduction initiatives to maximise have 1 site identied for FY18 where solar power will be introduced energy efficiency, while maintaining a comfortable trading environment for our customers and colleagues.
We have prioritised a programme to Whats next for 2017 18 invest in full LED lighting at all sites.
All z Review the capability and new stores are 100% LED and in total functionality of Building we have retro-tted 69 stores to this Management Systems across the more efficient equipment.
125 stores store estate 77% of the estate now have LED z Reduce like-for-like energy lighting tted.
consumption by a further 5% z Assess investment potential for more solar powered sites z Raise awareness of energy consumption across the business through internal communications 46 dunelm.
indd 46 06 10 2017 12:14:44 Strategic Report CO e emissions were as follows: 2 2016 17 achievements Greenhouse Gas Emissions CO e z We have reduced CO emissions 2 2 by 11.7% year on year compared to Intensity Measure What?
revenue growth tCO e per 1m 2 We have invested in photovoltaic z We are currently trialling electric and Group Revenue systems solar power in four of our low emission vehicles to see if they are suitable for operational purposes stores Leeds, Dunstable, Bristol and Cambridge.
These systems replace z Our work to roll out more LED stores has helped reduce energy usage and energy sourced through the national lower emissions grid with local renewable energy.
We 40.24 39.93 continue to monitor performance of 34.89 these installations to inform future investment decisions as we assess 29.04 Whats next for 2017 18 additional sites for solar power z Reduce CO emissions relative to 25.64 generation.
2 turnover year on year We continue to source electricity z Identify and trial new technologies to from Green Energy supplies such as reduce greenhouse gas emissions combined heat and power sources where CO emissions are 30% lower z Review and access our company car 2 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 than the national average.
fleet to introduce more zero and low emissions options to colleagues Dunelm also works with specialist z Review Home Delivery Network partners to consult on our energy vehicles and performance, setting buying strategy, investments in energy targets and creating plans to reduce saving technology and to further focus emissions through improving miles on reducing our carbon emissions.
Measuring emissions per gallon and sourcing more Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CO e emissions 2 Our company car fleet is graded on data is reported using the GHG Protocol efficient vehicles Corporate Standard Scope 1 & Scope 2 and emissions and we encourage the use applies to our organisational boundary as of fuel efficient vehicles in all schemes.
dened by the operational control approach.
Average emissions in 2017 were 108 The methodology used to calculate our CO g km 2016: 108 CO g km.
2 2 emissions is based on the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
Dunelm uses Tonnes of CO e per 1m of 2 turnover as its intensity measure, reecting the link between growth, activity and performance.
47 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Front.
indd 48 06 10 2017 12:11:40 Governance Contents Directors and Ofcers 50 Chairmans Letter 53 Corporate Governance Report 54 Governance in Action 62 Letter from the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 64 Audit and Risk Committee Report 65 Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 70 Remuneration Report 72 Letter from the Chair of the Nominations Committee 98 Nominations Committee Report 99 Directors' Report 102 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 105 49 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
