GROUP Q&A CONTINUED OUR BUSINESS MODEL The Labour partys Creating value for all our stakeholders through manifesto called for oursustainable business model Q public transport renationalisation.
Are you concerned about the viability 1 ofyour business model in the long term?
Revenue and profit We have operated in UK bus and rail are generated since both markets were privatised through our three in the 1980s and 1990s respectively, operating divisions delivering improvements for 5 in two main ways 2 passengers and value for taxpayers.
I strongly believe that the best outcomes are achieved through partnership working To build a between private operators and public Enabled by our key entities, such as the DfT, TfL and sustainable relationships with local authorities.
business for stakeholders the long term Despite new legislation enabling local and resources authorities to take responsibility for bus operations, they are increasingly turning to private operators, like Go-Ahead, to deliver reliable services.
During the second half of the year, Go-Ahead acquired a bus company, Thamesdown Transport, from Swindon 4 3 Borough Council.
Since bringing it into the Group a short time ago, we have invested in new buses and systems, introduced contactless payments, engaged with Creating value for Driving employees and modernised working a broad range performance against practices, all increasing service reliability of stakeholders our strategy for passengers.
This is a great example of the benefits the private sector can bring.
What visibility of future revenues Q do you have?
Go-Aheads regional bus business, which is 100% owned, has Economic contribution consistently delivered steady growth in revenue over the last six years.
Total revenue 3,481.1m In addition to our commitment to generating shareholder value, we also create London is a contract business in which we wider economic value.
Around 90% of Group revenue is spent paying our people have high retention rates and have held a and suppliers, enabling further economic activity.
Over 6% is paid directly stable market share of around 24% for seven to the Government.
Revenue growth is expected to slow in the coming year as a result of competitive pressure.
Payments to suppliers 1,887.4m Staff costs 1,130.4m Rail revenue will decline in 2017 18, National insurance costs 107.2m reflecting the loss of the London Midland franchise.
The outcome of the South Eastern Net rail contributions to DfT 77.6m franchise bid could further impact revenue Dividends paid to shareholders 41.8m expectations beyond December 2018.
Capital expenditure 141.9m Increased competitive pressure in this Corporation tax payments to government 34.1m market has resulted in some recent contract Finance costs 13.4m losses which will have a slight impact on Retained in equity 47.3m performance in 2017 18.
This position is expected to improve when the market stabilises.
12 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Revenue and profit are generated through our three operating divisions: 1 regional bus, London bus and rail, in two main ways: 1.
The provision of transport services to fare-paying raised and therefore revenue risk.
This includes the passengers whose revenue covers the cost of service and UK London bus market and the GTR rail franchise.
Most bus operations in the UK outside Net cost contracts where our revenue is a combination London operate on this commercial basis.
of income from fares and payments from transport 2.
The provision of passenger transport services on behalf authorities.
Most UK rail franchises are run on this of public sector transport authorities.
and operate contracts in two main sub-categories: Gross cost contracts where our entire revenue comprises payments made by the transport authority Read about our divisions on pages 4 and 5 to us with the authority retaining all fare revenue Enabled by our key relationships with stakeholders and resources: 2 Our relationships Infrastructure We pay for the use of public sector infrastructure such as Read about our relationships with stakeholders on page 6 and 62 railway tracks or local authority bus stations.
We own the majority of our bus depots, but rail depots are rented from Our resources Network Rail or similar providers.
Fuel Our people Our vehicles are mainly powered by a combination of We directly employ almost all the people involved in diesel, electricity and gas.
Finance Buses and trains We are financed through a combination of investment from All our trains are leased and we own our regional bus our shareholders, bank and other debt and also through fleet.
In our London bus business, around half of our fleet profits generated by our operations.
After payments to is leased and half is owned.
transport authorities and infrastructure providers, our largest costs are those of employing our people, funding our vehicle fleets and fuel.
Driving performance against our strategy: Creating value for a broad range 3 4 of stakeholders: Our key performance areas At Go-Ahead, we believe it is important to deliver shared value.
Our bus and rail operations create value for our passengers, the communities we Society Customers Our people Finance serve and our people.
We deliver high levels of services to our transport authority customers Read about our strategy on page 14 and strive to be a reliable partner to our industry colleagues.
Through our robust business model, Supported by we are committed to delivering sustainable Robust governance shareholder value.
While we also create benefits Read our corporate governance report for the UK economy by enabling access to work, on page 52 education, retail and leisure, as well as through the employment of 28,000 people in the UK, the Our approach to risk taxes we pay, payments to our suppliers and the Read our approach to risk on page 40 contribution our rail franchises make to the Government.
To build a sustainable business for the long term: 5 We reinvest profits into our services to maintain our position as a leading provider of passenger transport, also ensuring that our business activities and contribution supports the economy.
