GROUP Q&A Topical questions answered Go-Aheads Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer answer topical questions from shareholders Bus volumes look subdued nationwide Q for all operators.
Is bus travel entering a new phase ofdecline?
There are many reasons for subdued volumes, not a single cause.
In London, theres been a boost to cycling but removing road space to facilitate this has slowed down buses as well as cars, and reduced overall capacity for the city.
Research shows that a 10% rise in congestion results in a 10% decline in passenger journeys.
More work is needed to prioritise the vehicles which make the most productive use of road space and have the David Brown, most positive impact on improving air quality.
Group Chief Executive Outside London, some areas have regional growth issues and theres some economic uncertainty.
Significant changes in travel patterns are materialising: with more home working and home deliveries, less town centre shopping, but increased leisure activity at weekends and late evenings.
Longer term, there are good reasons to believe car use will be less attractive in big city regions and the market for mobility services will increase over time.
Buses can Andrew Allner, and will be a competitive part of that, as road Chairman space is limited.
As long as large groups of people move from place to place, there will always be a need for large passenger carrying vehicles.
As the UK prepares to exit the European Q Union EU, how will changes inthe labour market Patrick Butcher, impact your business?
Group Chief Financial Officer Its still early in the process and the full implications of Brexit arent yet known but, of course, were already planning ahead and preparing for changes we are already planning ahead andpreparing for changes to the UK labour market.
Improving our labour supply through hiring Go-Ahead online and training apprentices will mean our For more information about The Go-Ahead Group and employee numbers remain at a sustainable our operating companies, visit: www.
com level as well as ensuring the skills and competences for effective business performance.
8 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Were proud to have a diverse workforce.
Does the business Are you facing cost Particularly diverse in London, where we have adequate depth pressure as a result employ people from over 85 different Q Q of management to plan ofthe fall in the countries, including every EU country.
Will you still be able to Succession at all levels of the Long term changes in the value of business is a key focus of the sterling have the potential to affect bid for German rail Q nomination committee and we have our costs, so we do, of course, keep contracts when the UK is robust plans in place to meet short an eye this.
One of the biggest no longer part of the EU?
There is a potential impacts is on fuel, but were wealth of experience and expertise within the extensively hedged to lock in todays low Non-EU members are currently able Group which, in line with our talent strategy, prices until 2021. to bid for rail franchises within the is assessed annually in a leadership review.
EU, so theres no reason for us to The significant fall in sterling following the This process highlights succession strength believe that would change.
Of Brexit vote happened more than a year ago to business critical roles, leadership course, weve considered the potential and consumer inflation has risen slightly.
performance and functional expertise, as effects of Brexit on our business both outside Outside the UK, revenue and most costs of well as identifying those with longer term the UK and within.
These potential effects our business are in the same currency.
It also incorporates a include changing travel patterns and while they might appear to get larger or diversity review as we seek greater female passenger volumes, and labour market smaller in relation to sterling, this doesnt representation at a senior level, while basing andsupply chain implications.
really affect their ability to make all hiring and promotion decisions on merit.
Last year we recruited the current Group Regional bus is a Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Butcher, from challenging market: Given rising concern Q outside the organisation.
This demonstrates why are you continuing about credit markets, there is merit in fully exploring wider pools of Q talent to bring a fresh perspective to our to invest in it?
what shape is the business as well as preparing for While overall passenger volumes in business in to withstand internal succession.
the regional bus market have been another credit crunch?
declining for decades, some areas Whatever happens in the wider have seen passenger numbers How does diversity market, our financing position is rising each year.
This applies to the majority contribute to improving very robust.
Our net debt remains of Go-Aheads regional bus operations.
Its Q very modest in relation to cash business performance?
important we continue to meet, and aim to generation and weve recently refinanced exceed, customers expectations, introducing Go-Aheads commitment to diversity, oursterling bond with a seven year 250m more features like WiFi, USB charging points which starts at the top, makes our facility, at the lower rate of 2.5%, so were and mobile apps.
Our investment is targeted, business stronger, smarter and ina strong position.
focusing on areas and routes where more sustainable.
passenger demand is highest, providing the We offer an inclusive environment best return on our investment.
Were also Why is culture change regardlessof ethnicity, religion, gender, investing in newer, greener vehicles.
important to your sexual orientation, age or disability and seek Q No one would dispute this is a challenging to have a workforce reflecting the diversity of business?
market at the moment, but its also a the societies in which we operate.
Developing a collaborative, forward sustainable market.
Unrestricted car use in looking culture that is built on trust As Go-Ahead continues to expand into new cities is untenable.
As roads become busier international markets, in addition to inherent and accountability is one of our key and the air quality in our towns and cities priorities.
We believe that a positive diversity such as gender and race, we will deteriorates, buses provide the best solution.
begin to seek acquired diversity such as culture will support us in attracting, engaging and retaining great people which global experience and language skills.
How sustainable inturn drives improvements in customer A diverse workforce offers a variety of experience and business performance.
is your dividend viewpoints and a wider range of knowledge, Q Culture change is taking place throughout policy?
which improves decision-making and our entire business, including at Board level.
problem-solving, which are critical to Our current dividend policy is Its important that the Board sets the right improving business performance.
tomaintain dividend cover of tone from the top.
approximately two times earnings through a five year cycle.
This policy is underpinned by the stable performance of our bus division.
The Board understands the importance of the dividend to shareholders and regularly reviews the policy, ensuring it remains appropriate.
