Directors and Officers Andy Harrison Will Adderley CHAIRMAN DEPUTY CHAIRMAN A N A NN R Chair of the Nominations Committee Key strengths: A former CEO with considerable experience of Key strengths: Has worked in, and is familiar with, all parts of the leading large consumer facing organisations with a strong service Group.
Specic strengths in buying and trading with strong and longoffer.
Long-standing plc experience and shareholder understanding.
Has been instrumental in growing the Group to its current size having developed the out-of-town format in Dunelm role: Chairs the Board, which is responsible for Group the late 1990s.
strategy, performance, risk oversight and good governance.
Regularly visits stores to meet colleagues Dunelm role: Director and major shareholder, who spends his and members of the senior management team.
Participates in investor time on strategic activities which protect and enhance shareholder presentations and some shareholder meetings.
value and preserve the Groups culture and values.
Member of the Nominations Committee.
Joined Dunelm Board: 1992, and has worked for Dunelm for his Previous experience: Chief Executive of Whitbread plc from 2010 whole career.
He took over the day-to-day running of the Group from to 2016.
Chief Executive of easyJet plc from 2005 to 2010.
Remained as Chief Executive through the Groups Executive of RAC plc between 1996 and 2005.
Became Deputy Chairman in February 2011 and was and Chair of Audit Committee at EMAP plc from 2000 to 2008. reappointed Chief Executive in September 2014.
Resumed his role of Other commitments: None.
Deputy Chairman when John Browett became Chief Executive on 1 January 2016.
Previous experience: All parts of Dunelms business.
Other commitments: WA Capital Limited.
Liz Doherty William Reeve NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AA NN R AA NN R Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Key strengths: A serial entrepreneur and investor with deep digital Key strengths: A former Finance Director with extensive operational experience.
experience in international consumer and retail businesses, specifically with brands, marketing and online.
Long-standing plc experience and Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, shareholder understanding.
monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, the senior management team.
Attends investor presentations and monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of the senior management team.
Attends investor presentations and Joined Dunelm Board: July 2015. shareholder meetings.
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Previous experience: Co-founder of three internet-related Joined Dunelm Board: May 2013. businesses: Fletcher Research, LOVEFiLM.
Non-Executive Director of numerous others including Graze.
com, Previous experience: Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Paddy Power plc and Zoopla.
Finance Director of Reckitt Benckiser plc 2011 to 2013, Brambles Limited Australia 2007 to Other commitments: None.
2009 and Group International Finance Director of Tesco PLC from 2003 to 2007.
Other commitments: Non-Executive Director of Corbion NV and Novartis International AG.
indd 50 06 10 2017 12:11:46 Governance Committee memberships A Audit and Risk Committee member A N Nominations Committee member N R Remuneration Committee member Keith Down Simon Emeny CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR AA NN R Chair of the Remuneration Committee Key strengths: Finance background and extensive plc experience Key strengths: A current CEO with extensive general management in retail and consumer businesses.
Understanding of investor experience in a retail model, customer service and hospitality community.
Strategic and financial perspective across a number of expertise.
Long-standing plc experience and shareholder Group functions.
Dunelm role: Leads the finance department, as well as taking Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, responsibility for a number of strategic and cross-functional initiatives.
Participates in Audit and Risk Committee meetings by invitation and Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of sits on the Executive Board.
Attends investor presentations and shareholder meetings.
Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Joined Dunelm Board: December 2015.
Previous experience: Chartered Accountant who, after qualifying at Joined Dunelm Board: June 2007.
KPMG, held a number of senior finance roles in convenience retailing and at Tesco PLC.
Finance Director of JD Wetherspoon Plc between Previous experience: Sales and marketing, customer service and 2008 and 2011 and Chief Financial officer at The Go-Ahead Group Plc general management in the brewing and hospitality sector.
Other commitments: Chief Executive of Fuller Smith and Turner plc.
Other commitments: Non-Executive Director of Topps Tiles plc.
Peter Ruis Marion Sears NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AA NN R A N Key strengths: A current CEO with deep experience in retail Key strengths: Extensive City, investor and banking experience and brands, working for both large and more entrepreneurial including mergers and acquisitions.
organisations, with a particular expertise in marketing and product.
Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of the the senior management team.
Attends investor presentations and senior management team.
Now non-independent, as dened by shareholder meetings.
tenure, but asked to remain on the Board by the Board members and Adderley family.
Attends investor presentations and shareholder Joined Dunelm Board: September 2015. meetings.
Previous experience: Senior positions at John Lewis Partnership Joined Dunelm Board: July 2004.
Marion was Senior Independent 2005 to 2013, Levi Strauss 2001 to 2004 and Ted Baker 1997 to Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee 20062015 and Chair 2001. of Nominations Committee until 2016.
Other commitments: Chief Executive of Jigsaw.
Previous experience: Robert Fleming, JP Morgan Investment Banking.
Other commitments: Non-Executive Director of Persimmon plc, Fidelity European Values plc, Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust plc and Director of WA Capital Limited.
51 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 51 06 10 2017 12:11:51 Directors and Officers CONTINUED Dawn Durrant Bill Adderley COMPANY SECRETARY FOUNDER AND LIFE PRESIDENT Bill, together with his wife Jean, founded the business in 1979.
Key strengths: Extensive plc company secretarial and legal Although no longer on the Board or actively involved in management, experience including corporate governance, legal and regulatory Bill and Jean remain major shareholders and frequently visit stores.
compliance, mergers and acquisitions, company and commercial, retail and consumer law.
Dunelm role: Responsible for governance, legal and regulatory matters.
Member of the Executive Board.
Previous experience: Qualied as a solicitor at Allen & Overy 1988 to 1994.
Company Secretary of Geest plc between 1994 and 2005.
Note: John Browett was Chief Executive during the financial year to 1 July 2017.
He resigned from the Board on 29 August 2017.
