EMIT pp24-37 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 26 Directors Report continued DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited financial will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange through a primary statements for the year ended 30th June 2017. information provider.
The Companys leverage and JPMFs remuneration disclosures are Management of the Company set out on page 64.
The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF, a company authorised and regulated by the FCA.
The active Management Fee management of the Companys assets is delegated by JPMF to an The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum of affiliate, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The the Companys total assets less current liabilities up to 800 million Manager is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank and at the rate of 0.75% thereafter.
The fee is calculated and paid which, through other subsidiaries, also provides marketing, banking, monthly in arrears.
Investments on which JPMAM earns a fee are dealing and custodian services to the Company.
excluded from the calculation and therefore attract no additional The Manager is employed under a contract which can be terminated management fee.
on one years notice, without penalty, unless notice is given as a result of poor investment performance, in which case the contract Directors can be terminated on six months notice, without penalty.
If the Nigel Kenny retired from the Board on 16th November 2016.
Ruary Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the Neill was appointed a Director on 1st January 2017.
The Directors of balance of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
the Company who held office at the end of the year are detailed on The Board, through the Management Engagement Committee, pages 24 and 25. conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an annual basis.
Details of Directors beneficial shareholdings in the Company may be The evaluation includes consideration of the investment strategy found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page35.
No changes and the process of the Manager, performance against the have been reported to the Directors shareholdings since the year end.
benchmark and a relevant peer group over the long term and the support the Company receives from JPMF.
The Company has In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all Directors consistently outperformed its benchmark index over the long term will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, with the and as a result of the evaluation process, the Board confirms that it exception of Alan Saunders who will stand down from the Board, is satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment.
The interests of shareholders as a whole.
Nomination Committee, having considered their qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and its committees, confirms that each Director continues to be effective and The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive demonstrates commitment to the role and the Board recommends AIFMD to shareholders that they be reappointed.
JPMF is the Companys alternative investment fund manager AIFM.
It is approved as an AIFM by the FCA.
For the purposes of Director Indemnification and Insurance the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment fund AIF.
As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day management have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party of the Companys portfolio to JPMAM.
The Company has appointed indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited BNY as its The indemnities were in place during the year and as at the date of depositary.
BNY has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the this report.
BNY is responsible for the oversight of the custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its cash flows.
An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain liabilities The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material fraudulent or dishonest actions.
changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of each AIF.
An Investor Disclosure Document, which sets out Disclosure of information to Auditors information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the of interest and other shareholder information is available on the Company at the time when this report was approved: Companys website at www.
co. uk There have a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant been no material changes other than those reflected in these audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of financial statements to this information requiring disclosure.
Any which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD 26 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp24-37 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 27 b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he or she The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of ought to have taken as a Director in order to make him or Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers herself aware of any relevant audit information and to to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are contained in establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies information.
The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to Act 2006. securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover bid: Independent Auditors and no agreements between the Company and its Directors  LLP have expressed their willingness to concerning compensation for loss of office.
continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment and authorising the Directors to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R requires the Company to include certain shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
information in the identifiable section of the Annual Report or across reference table indicating where the information is set out.
The Directors confirm that there are no disclosures to be made in Companies Act 2006 Requirements this report.
The following disclosures are made in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting Capital Structure NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside front IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action cover of this report.
you should take, you should seek your own personal financial Voting Rights in the Companys shares advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the date of financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual General Markets Act 2000.
Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM : At the year end, the following had declared a notifiable interest in i Continuation vote resolution 11 the Companys voting rights: The Directors recommend that the Company continues in existence Shareholders Ordinary shares % as an investment trust for a further three year period.
ii Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory Lazard Asset Management LLC 28,534,324 22.98 pre-emption rights resolutions 12 and 13 City of London Investment The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to issue Management Company 23,604,975 18.99 up to 6,189,024 new ordinary shares for cash up to an aggregate Wells Capital Management 6,968,032 5.20 nominal amount of 1,547,256 such amount being equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital excluding Treasury The Company is also aware that approximately 5.6% of the shares as at the last practicable date before the publication of this Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through document.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of savings products managed by JPMorgan Asset Management and the Company in 2018 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting rights are not exercised by the beneficial holders, in accordance It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares with the terms and conditions of the savings products, under certain or to sell Treasury shares to investors when the Directors consider circumstances JPMorgan Asset Management has the right to that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
As issues are exercise those voting rights.
That right is subject to certain limits only made at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, and restrictions and falls away at the conclusion of the relevant they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys general meeting.
administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is 27
