EMIT pp24-37 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 24 Directors Report BOARD OF DIRECTORS Alan Saunders Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee A Director since May 2002.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2016.
An Independent Investment Consultant with Allenbridge Epic Investment Solutions Limited.
Mr Saunders was formerly Chief Economist at Royal Dutch Shell and also held senior investment roles in both Lazards and the Private Banking Division of UBS A. G. He is currently independent investment adviser to Dorset County Council Pension Scheme and is a trustee of two corporate pension schemes.
He sits on the With Profits Committee of Scottish Widows and Clerical & Medical insurance companies.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Shareholding in Company: 6,000 Ordinary shares.
Anatole Kaletsky A Director since September 2003.
Chief Economist of Gavekal Dragonomics, a Hong Kong based company which provides economic analysis and asset management services to financial institutions around the world and a board member of the Open Society Foundations.
Formerly Editor at Large at The Times of London.
Economic commentator for Reuters and the New York Times.
Connections with Manager: Mr. Kaletsky is a founding partner and Chief Economist of Gavekal Dragonomics, whose clients include JPMorgan.
Shareholding in Company: 10,000 Ordinary shares.
Sarah Arkle A Director since September 2013.
Non-executive director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc, Janus Henderson Group plc and a member of the finance committee of the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851.
She was previously a member of the Newnham College Cambridge Investment Committee, an advisor to the South Yorkshire Pension Fund and was Chief Investment Officer of Threadneedle Asset Management where she held a number of other senior positions.
24 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp24-37 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 25 Richard Laing A Director since January 2015.
Non-executive director of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, Miro Forestry, Leeds Castle Foundation, 3i Infrastructure plc and a trustee of Plan International UK.
Previously a trustee of The Overseas Development Institute, finance director of fide La Rue plc and from 2000 until 2012 worked for CDC Group plc where he was finance director and latterly chief executive officer.
Formerly a non-executive director of London Metal Exchange, Aureos Capital, Madagascar Oil Limited and Emerging Markets Private Equity Association, where he was chairman of the Advisory Council.
Andrew Page A Director since January 2015.
Chairman of Northgate plc, senior independent director of Carpetright plc and a director of The Schroder UK Mid Cap Fund plc.
He was senior independent director at Arena Leisure plc from 2008 until 2012.
He retired as chief executive of The Restaurant Group plc TRG in September 2014 after thirteen years with TRG.
Prior to joining TRG, he held a number of senior positions in the leisure and hospitality industry including senior vice president with InterContinental Hotels.
Andrew trained and qualified as a chartered accountant with KPMG following which he was a corporate financier with Kleinwort Benson.
Shareholding in Company: 5,000 Ordinary shares.
Ruary Neill A Director since 1st January 2017.
Last reappointed to the Board: n a. Remuneration: 27,000.
Chairman of The Investment Committee, Great Ormond Street Childrens Charity and a member of The Advisory Council, The SOAS China Institute, London University.
Previously worked in investment banking, managing the multi asset sales business at UBS Investment Bank and working closely with chief investment officers and senior asset managers on strategic and tactical asset allocation decisions.
Prior to this he spent a number of years working in the Asian equity markets for UBS Investment Bank and Schroder Securities.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Considered by the Board to be independent 25
