The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Corporate Information Registered Office Independent Auditors 201 Bishopsgate Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London EC2M 3AE  LLP 7 More London Riverside London SE1 2RT Service Providers Alternative Investment Fund Manager Information Sources Henderson Investment Funds Limited For more information about The City of London Investment Trust plc, 201 Bishopsgate visit the website at www.
London EC2M 3AE HGi Corporate Secretary HGi is a content platform provided by Janus Henderson that offers Henderson Secretarial Services Limited online personalisation where you can follow investment experts, 201 Bishopsgate topics and the trusts that are of interest to you.
By creating your HGi London EC2M 3AE profile you will be updated regularly on the topics that interest you Telephone: 020 7818 1818 most, bringing you closer to Janus Hendersons investment expertise.
com Scan the QR code or use this short URL to Depositary and Custodian register for HGi.
co rb 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ Follow the Janus Henderson Investment Trusts on Twitter, YouTube andFacebook UK Stockbrokers Cenkos Securities plc 6-8 Tokenhouse Yard London EC2R 7AS Investing Shares can be purchased in the market via a stockbroker or through share dealing platforms.
They can also be held through share plans, Registrar ISAs or pensions and links to various providers are included on the Computershare Investor Services PLC website.
Individuals holding shares through HalifaxShare Dealing The Pavilions Limited can write to them at Lovell Park Road, Leeds LS1 1NS Bridgwater Road orcontact them via telephone 03457 22 55 25, email Bristol BS99 6ZZ Henderson@halifax.
co. uk or visit their website Telephone: 0370 889 3296 www.
New Zealand Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors Stockbrokers maynot receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may Craigs Investment Partners varyas a result of statutory changes and their value will depend PO Box 13155 onindividual circumstances.
Tauranga 3141 New Zealand Nominee Share Code Registrar Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company will Computershare Investor Services Limited arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided to PO Box 92119 the operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend Auckland 1142 general meetings and speak at them when invited to do so by the New Zealand Chairman.
Investors in Halifax Share Dealing receive all shareholder Telephone New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 communications.
A voting instruction form is provided to facilitate voting at general meetings ofthe Company.
17 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued against the Companys benchmark.
The Board have an annual Status meeting focussed on strategy, in addition to the scheduled meetings The Company is an investment company as defined in Section 833 at which investment performance, the level of gearing and the level of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and operates as an of premium discount is reviewed.
The Board also reviews a schedule investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation of expenses and revenue forecasts at each meeting.
Tax Act 2010 Section 1158 as amended.
The Company is subject to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and also the Tax and regulatory Listing Rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
It is governed by A breach of Section 1158 could lead to a loss of investment trust its Articles ofAssociation, amendments to which must be approved by shareholders by way of aspecial resolution.
The Company is not status, resulting in capital gains realised within the portfolio being a close company.
Abreach of theListing Rules could resultin suspension of the Companys shares, while a breach of the The Company has obtained approval from HM Revenue & Customs Companies Act 2006 could lead to criminal proceedings, or financial HMRC of its status as an investment trust under Section 1158: or reputational damage.
The Company must also ensure compliance the Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted its with the Listing Rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
The affairs in compliance with Section 1158 since approval was granted Manager provides investment, company secretarial, administration and intends to continue to do so.
The Company is liable to and accounting services through qualified professionals.
The Board corporation tax on its net revenue profits but is exempt from receives internal control reports produced by the Manager on a corporation tax on capital gains if it has complied at all times with quarterly basis, which confirm legal and regulatory compliance.
Operational Principal Risks Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers or its administrators BNP The Board, with the assistance of the Manager, has carried out Paribas Securities Services accounting, dealing or payment systems orthe Depositarys records could prevent the accurate reporting and arobust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future monitoring of the Companys financial position.
The Company is also performance, solvency and liquidity.
In carrying out this assessment, exposed to the operational risk that one or more of its suppliers may the Board considered the market uncertainty arising from the result not provide the required level of service.
The Board monitors the of the UK referendum on leaving the European Union.
services provided by the Manager and its other suppliers and receives reports on the key elements in place to provide effective The Board regularly considers the principal risks facing the internal control.
During the year the Board reviewed the Managers Company.
The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the approach to cyber risk.
Company and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment objective and The Board considers the loss of the Fund Manager as a risk but this policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The is mitigated by the experience of the team at Janus Henderson as principal riskswhich have been identified and the steps taken by detailed on page 16. theBoard tomitigate these, and whether the Board considers the impact of such risks has changed over the past year, are as follows: The Board considers these risks to have remained unchanged throughout the year under review.
Portfolio and market price Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities that are Borrowings listed on recognised markets, share prices may move rapidly.
The The Company has a borrowing facility of 120.0m 2016: 120.0m companies in which investments are made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in the market value of the withHSBC Bank plc, of which 10.2m was drawn at the year end Companys portfolio would have an adverse effect on equity 2016: 26.0m.
The Company also has two debentures totalling shareholders funds.
The Board reviews the portfolio at the seven 40.0m 2016: 40.0m and 34.6m 2016: 34.6m of secured Board meetings held each year and receives regular reports from the notes.
Thelevelof gearing at 30 June 2017 was 5.5% of net asset Companys brokers.
A detailed liquidity report is considered on a value 2016: 8.0%.
The Fund Manager closely monitors the portfolio between meetings and mitigates this risk through diversification of On 15 September 2017 the Company agreed to issue 50m of fixed investments.
The Fund Manager periodically presents the rate 32-year secured private placement notes at an annualised Companys investment strategy in respect of current market coupon of 2.94%.
The funding date will be 17 November 2017, with conditions.
Performance relative to other UK equity income trusts, interest payable semi-annually on 17 May and 17 November first the FTSE All-Share Index and UK Equity Income OEICs is also payment on 17 May 2018.
The principal repayment date will be monitored.
The purpose is to secure fixed rate long dated sterling denominated financing at a pricing level the Company considers attractive and to take advantage of the Companys Investment activity, gearing and performance An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms of asset flexibility to utilise both short and long term gearing in order to allocation or the level of gearing may result in underperformance enhance performance.
18 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued viability over five year rolling periods, taking account of foreseeable Viability Statement severe but plausible scenarios.
The Directors believe that a rolling The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code introduced a requirement five year period best balances the Companys long-term objective, for the Board to assess the future prospects for the Company, and itsfinancial flexibility and scope with the difficulty in forecasting report on the assessment within the Annual Report.
economic conditions affecting the Company and its shareholders.
The Board considered that certain characteristics of the Companys Based on their assessment, and in the context of the Companys business model and strategy were relevant to this assessment: business model, strategy and operational arrangements set out above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the The Board looks to ensure the Company seeks to deliver Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its long-term performance.
liabilitiesas they fall due over the five year period to June 2022.
The Companys investment objective, strategy and policy, which are subject to regular Board monitoring, mean that the Company Future Developments is invested mainly in readily realisable, UK listed securities and While the future performance of the Company is mainly dependent that the level of borrowings is restricted.
on the performance of international financial markets which are subject to various external factors, the Boards intention is that the The Company is a closed end investment company and therefore Company will continue to pursue its stated investment objective does not suffer from the liquidity issues arising from unexpected andstrategy explained earlier.
The Chairmans Statement and redemptions.
FundManagers Report provide commentary on the outlook for theCompany.
The Company has an ongoing charge ratio of 0.42% which is lower than other comparable investment trusts.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs Also relevant were a number of aspects of the Companys In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its operational agreements: objective and to evaluate the performance of the Manager, the Directors take into account the following KPIs: The Company retains title to all assets held by the Custodian under the terms of formal agreements with the Custodian and Performance against the Companys peer group Depositary.
The Company is included in the AIC UK Equity Income sector.
TheBoard considers the size weighted average net asset value Long term borrowing is in place being the 10% debenture totalreturn of its AIC peer group at each Board meeting.
During stock2020, 8% debenture stock 2021 and 4.53% secured theyear under review the Company underperformed the peer group notes 2029 which are also subject to formal agreements, by3.3%.
including financial covenants with which the Company complied infull during the year.
The value of long term borrowing is relatively small incomparison to the value of net assets being 5.2%.
Performance against the OEIC sector The Board considers the performance of theportfolio against the Revenue and expenditure forecasts are reviewed by the Directors UKEquity Income OEIC sector.
During the year under review the ateach Board meeting.
Company underperformed the sector by 4.9%.
Cash is held with approved banks.
Performance against market indices The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the performance In addition, the Directors carried out a robust assessment of the of the portfolio as well as the net asset value and share price for the principal risks and uncertainties which could threaten the Companys Company and the FTSE All-Share Index.
During the year under business model, including future performance, liquidity and solvency.
review the Company underperformed the index by 3.6% on a total These risks, their mitigations and processes for monitoring them are return basis.
The principal risks identified as relevant to the viability assessment Premium discount to net asset value NAV were those relating to investment portfolio performance and its effect The Boards aim is for the Companys share price to reflect closely on the net asset value, share price and dividends, and threats to itsunderlying net asset value.
At each Board meeting, the Board security over the Companys assets.
The Board took into account monitors the level of the Companys premium discount to NAV per theliquidity of the Companys portfolio, the existence of the longshare and reviews the average premium discount for the Companys term fixed rate borrowings, the effects of any significant future falls AIC sector.
At 30 June 2017 the Companys shares were trading at ininvestment values and income receipts on the ability to repay apremium of 1.8% to NAV 2016: 0.1% discount with debt at andre-negotiate borrowings, grow dividend payments and retain marketvalue.
The Company publishes NAV per share figures on investors and the potential need for share buybacks to maintain a adaily basis, through the official newswire of the London Stock narrow share price discount.
These matters were assessed over an Exchange and on the New Zealand Stock Exchange where it has initial period to June 2021, and the Directors will continue to assess anoverseas listing.
19 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Ongoing Charge Employees, Social, Community, Human Rights The Board regularly reviews the ongoing charges and monitors and Environmental Matters Company expenses.
For the year ended 30 June 2017 the The Companys core activities are undertaken by Janus Henderson, OngoingCharge as a percentage of shareholders funds was which has implemented environmental management practices, 0.42% 2016: 0.42%.
including systems to limit the use of non-renewable resources and to minimise the impact of operations on the environment, and is The charts and data on pages 2 and 3 show how the Company focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising hasperformed against these KPIs.
The Company has therefore not reported on these, or social, community or human rights issues.
Corporate Responsibility Janus Hendersons corporate responsibility statement is included on Responsible Investment theCompanys website.
In 2012 it was granted CarbonNeutral Janus Henderson is responsible for reporting on its work on company status which it has committed to maintain at least until corporate governance and corporate responsibility or social, theend of 2018. environmental andethical issues in the companies in which it invests on its clients behalf, across all funds as part of its The Companys Annual Report is printed on paper produced using management duties.
In May 2005 Henderson became a founding 50% recycled post-consumer waste and 50% wood fibre from fully signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible sustainable forests with certification by the Forest Stewardship Investment.
The Principles, developed under the auspices of the Council: the printing company used is certified as CarbonNeutral.
UNSecretary-General, are a voluntary andaspirational framework forincorporating environmental, social and corporate governance issues into mainstream investment decision-making and Modern Slavery Act 2015 ownershippractices.
As an investment vehicle, the Company does not provide goods orservices in the normal course of business and does not have The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate customers.
Accordingly, the Directors consider that the Company responsibility can affect their business performance, both directly isnot required to make any slavery or human trafficking statement and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on social responsibility under the Modern Slavery Act 2015. and the environment is considered by Janus Hendersons Risk Team but investments are not necessarily ruled out on social and environmental grounds only.
Board Diversity It is the Companys aim to have an appropriate level of diversity in theboardroom.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity Voting Policy and the UK Stewardship Code generally when making appointments to the Board, taking into The Manager has a responsible investment policy in place which sets account relevant skills, experience, knowledge and gender.
Our out its approach tocorporate governance and corporate responsibility primeresponsibility, however, is the strength of the Board and for all the companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients and its ouroverriding aim in making any new appointments must always policy onproxy voting.
The policy also sets out how Janus Henderson betoselect the best candidate.
Currently the Board comprises implements the Stewardship Code.
The Company has reviewed the fiveDirectors, four male and one female.
The Company has no policy and has delegated responsibility for voting to the Manager.
employees and, therefore, there is nothing further to report in TheBoard receives regular reports on the voting undertaken by the respectof gender representation within the Company.
Manager onbehalf of the Company.
The Board and the Manager believe that voting at general meetings is an important aspect of For and on behalf of the Board corporate stewardship and a means of signalling shareholder viewson board policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations are guided by the best interests of the investee companies shareholders.
The Manager actively votes at shareholder Philip Remnant CBE meetings and engages with companies as part of the voting process.
Chairman Voting decisions are made in close consultation with the Fund 22 September 2017 Manager, with regular dialogue between fund managers and corporate governance specialists.
The responsible investment policy and further details of responsible investment activities can be found on thewebsite, www.
