The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Business Model Diversification Strategy The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment risk The strategy of the Company is to pursue its investment objective principally through a broadly diversified portfolio, which at 30 June byoperating as an investment trust company.
The investment trust 2017 contained 115 individual investments 2016: 116 as detailed company structure allows the shareholders, whether institutions or onpages 8, 9, 14 and 15.
At 30 June 2017, the largest single private investors, to access a diversified portfolio of investments that is professionally managed.
The principal activity remained investment was British American Tobacco, which accounted for 4.94% unchanged throughout the year ended 30 June 2017. oftotal investments, while the top 20 holdings totalled 49.04%.
The Company will not invest more than 15% of its portfolio in any single Investment Objective investment on acquisition, nor will it invest more than 15% of the portfolio The Companys objective is to provide long-term growth in income in any other UK listed investment trusts or investment companies.
and capital, principally by investment in equities listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Board continues to recognise the importance Management of dividend income to shareholders.
The Company has an independent Board of Directors which has appointed Henderson Investment Funds Limited HIFL to act as its Investment Approach Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
HIFL delegates investment Our Fund Manager, Job Curtis, has been managing City of London since management services to Henderson Global Investors Limited in 1 July 1991.
He is an executive of Henderson Global Investors Limited accordance with an agreement which was effective from July 2014 and is a member of the Global Equity Income team.
Job is assisted in the which can be terminated on six months notice.
Both entities are management of the portfolio by Alex Crooke, David Smith, Andrew Jones authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
He manages the portfolio in a conservative way, focussing on companies with cash generative businesses able to grow their References to the Manager within this report refer to the services dividends with attractive yields.
The portfolio is well diversified with some provided by both entities.
Both entities are wholly owned subsidiaries 66% invested in well known blue chip UK listed companies but it remains of Janus Henderson Group plc, referred to as Janus Henderson, biased towards international companies invested in economies likely to following the merger of Henderson Group plc and Janus Capital grow faster than the UK.
In times when savers have difficulty in receiving Group Inc. on 30 May 2017. adequate returns on their investments, the portfolio aims to provide shareholders with dividends between 10% and 30% higher than the Janus Henderson and its subsidiaries also provide accounting, FTSE All-Share Index.
company secretarial and general administrative services.
Some of the administration and accounting services are carried out, on behalf Investment Policy of the Manager, by BNP Paribas Securities Services.
Rachel Peat FCIS acts as Company Secretary on behalf of the Corporate Asset allocation Secretary, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
While the Company will mainly invest in equities, there is the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as convertibles, corporate During the year under review the management fee was charged at a bonds or government debt, if it is deemed that these will, at a rate of 0.365% per annum for the first 1bn of net assets reducing to particular time or for a particular period, enhance the performance of 0.35% of net assets above 1bn.
Fees are payable quarterly in the Company in the pursuit of its objective.
arrears based on the level of assets at the relevant quarter end.
The Company has a portfolio invested predominantly in larger companies.
Typically at least 60% of the portfolio by value will be Liquidity and Discount Management invested in companies in the FTSE 100 Index.
The remainder of the The Boards aim is for the Companys share price to reflect closely portfolio will be invested in a combination of UK listed medium-sized its underlying net asset value: and also to reduce volatility and have a and small companies and up to 20% in overseas listed companies.
liquid market in the shares.
The ability to influence this is, of course, There are no set limits on sector exposures, although the Board limited.
However, the Board intends, subject always to the overall regularly monitors the Companys investments and the Managers impact on the portfolio, the pricing of other trusts and overall market investment activity.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom-up conditions, to consider issuance and buybacks within a narrow band value-based investment process to identify suitable opportunities and relative to net asset value.
It is believed that flexibility is important pays particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
and that it is not in shareholders interests to have a specific issuance and buy-back policy.
The portfolio yield will usually be between 10% and 30% above the average dividend yield for the UK equity market.
There may be some At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the holdings, selected for their above average growth potential, which Companys premium discount to NAV per share and reviews the have a dividend yield lower than the market.
average premium discount for the Companys AIC sector.
Gearing The Company will at times utilise limited gearing, both short and long Investing term, in order to enhance performance.
Other than in exceptional market City of London sets out to be an attractive and straightforward long-term conditions, gearing will not exceed 20% of net asset value at the time of investment vehicle for private investors.
As well as investing directly, draw down of the relevant borrowings.
Up to 10% of the net assets can shares can be purchased through various dealing platforms and held in be held in cash.
Selling traded options where the underlying share is share plans, ISAs or pensions.
Links to some of these dealing platforms held in the portfolio can be used to generate income.
Buying and selling FTSE 100 Index Futures can be used to increase or reduce gearing.
can befound on our website, www.
