EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 5 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT Results This was a good year for shareholders in terms of absolute returns, but not a vintage one as far as your manager s relative performance was concerned.
While your Companys NAV per share was up by over 23%, the index did still better, rising by 27%.
Readers will be pleased to note that the return to shareholders, which takes into account the change in the share price and the dividend, was also 27%, more or less matching index return, because the discount between the share price and net asset value narrowed somewhat over the year.
From my perspective as manager of your portfolio, the outcome of the last year has not been a huge surprise.
It was in anticipation of exactly this kind of year that I wrote in my last annual review about what shareholders should expect from us as managers of your Companys assets.
We know that we will not beat the index every year and experience tells us that we will find it harder to do so in periods when the absolute returns are strongly positive, because lower quality companies tend to do better during cyclical upturns: those are exactly the conditions we have seen during the last financial year, notably in markets like Korea, where the Companys lack of exposure has been a drag on performance.
Experience also tells us that we are more likely to achieve good results in the long run by thinking about investment decisions on a long term basis too and so, undeterred by this last year, we will continue to do so.
While this may sound like stubbornness, I hope that it will not be viewed as such by shareholders.
It would be wonderful to outperform our benchmark every year: but constructing an investment approach specifically to achieve that would almost certainly ensure that it did not happen.
Short term fluctuations in relative performance are the price of achieving better results in the long term: in my opinion, its a trade-off which is still worthwhile.
The past year The year has been notable for the lack of real crises in emerging markets: only Egypt and Nigeria suffered major currency devaluations.
There were no banking crises, commodity prices did not halve or double.
Instead, it was a period in which most of the headlines were made by political developments.
Returns for sterling-based investors who owned assets overseas as your Company does were boosted by the weakness of the pound following the referendum on membership of the European Union, and no sooner had that political earthquake started to subside than markets had to deal with the unforeseen result of the presidential election in the United States.
In emerging markets politics also took some unexpected turns.
The Brazilian president was impeached in the wake of a huge corruption scandal which threatened to ensnare many of the countrys senior politicians: this coincided with a severe economic downturn.
Elsewhere, we saw political crackdowns in Turkey which are hard to interpret positively, and continued tensions within the ruling party in South Africa which culminated, for the second time in two years, in the firing of the Finance Minister.
Politicians, it seems, find it very hard to leave things alone.
Yet in spite of this, equity markets have marched to new highs in many countries.
Perhaps the influence of political decisions is not as great as we might fear: perhaps underlying economic trends were such that it would have happened anyway.
We can explain a lot of the general direction of markets by the continuation of low inflation and very low interest rates, combined with a gradual recovery in European economies and continued strength in the US corporate sector.
Most relevant for your Company, a somewhat weaker dollar and an upturn in corporate earnings in emerging markets have come at a time when overall 5 EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 6 Strategic Report continued INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED valuations in the asset class were starting from below-average levels: that is a combination that should lead to rising share prices, and it has done.
Even so, it has not been a wholly smooth ride.
In India, which has long been one of our preferred destinations for the Companys investments, the startling decision last November to demonetise the economy an almost unbelievably well-kept secret caused a sudden contraction in economic activity, which is hardly surprising since it involved the cancellation of a large percentage of the cash in circulation.
The equity market reacted in tandem.
Yet despite the short term squeeze that resulted, this seems a rational move in the long term as it should drive more of the economy into the formal financial system and thus increase tax collection, reduce corruption and lower intermediation costs in general.
Within a few months, economic activity was recovering and the decline in the Indian equity market which followed the initial announcement has also proved short-lived.
For the strongest companies, such periods of challenging conditions often present opportunities to extend their lead over competitors a pattern that we saw repeated in parts of the Indian market on this occasion.
The portfolio As you can see from the more detailed information on page 17, we have made few significant changes to your Companys investments during the past year.
Overall we changed just under a tenth of the portfolio.
While we made sales in a variety of countries, we only added to the Companys holdings in one: China.
We increased some existing investment holdings, but the majority of the addition was accounted for by the purchase of two new investments, Alibaba and Ping An Insurance, both of which are now among the top ten holdings in the portfolio by value.
So far, I am pleased to report, the value of both these holdings is comfortably above our purchase cost.
As a result of this activity, China now rivals India as one of the most important investment destinations for us.
This is a big change from the past and one that may surprise you.
For many years, I have talked about how we have struggled to find many attractive investments in China: the pool of accessible investments, all of them listed in Hong Kong or further afield, was dominated by large state-owned firms in mature and capital-intensive industries which we did not find appealing.
State-owned companies all over the world usually serve their masters in government, whose objectives may understandably diverge significantly from ours, and this is particularly the case in China.
Meanwhile those companies from the private sector that were listed were often immature and plagued by poor corporate governance, or simply obsessed with growing market share without much regard to returns for shareholders.
So China was a frustrating and not very fruitful destination in our search for investments.
But the set of opportunities in China that meet our criteria is evolving significantly because of two important changes, both of them relatively recent: the rise of the countrys importance in the overall portfolio reflects these developments.
The first one is the listing in Hong Kong and the USA of highly successful Chinese companies in the so-called new economy, especially firms in the internet services sector, of which Alibaba is one of the best examples.
Readers may be familiar with this company, which is an e-commerce giant in China whose gross sales are significantly larger than Amazons.
Like Amazon, it is a company built on technology in the internet age.
Together with Tencent, another dominant company in China and also a significant investment in the portfolio, Alibaba shares some characteristics with better-known American companies like Amazon, Facebook and Google, which have emerged over the last decade to become some of the 6 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 7 PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30TH JUNE 2017 %% Contributions to total returns Benchmark 27.4 Asset allocation 4.8 Stock selection 1.4 Currency effect 0.5 Cash 0.2 Investment Manager contribution 3.1 Portfolio return 24.3 Management fee and expenses 1.2 Share buybacks 0.3 Return on net assets 23.4 Return to shareholders 27.3 Source: JPMAM Morningstar.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
A glossary of terms and of alternative performance measures is provided on page68.
worlds most valuable businesses: it is disruptive, innovative and highly competitive and is enjoying strong growth as a result.
In most respects Alibaba and Tencent are the antithesis of the state-owned Chinese enterprises that we have largely shunned over the last twodecades.
Moreover, theirs is an entirely private sector industry because it has developed only recently and so it operates with the normal commercial objectives that you would find in other countries.
The second development, which I anticipate will bring more change to your portfolio in the future, is the opening of the domestic A share market to foreign capital.
Before this, Chinas large domestic stock markets were not really accessible at all for investors from outside China.
Now we can invest, via a scheme which allows us to trade through Hong Kong, in many companies which are listed on the local stock exchanges in Shanghai and Shenzhen.
This is interesting because many of Chinas most competitive manufacturing companies are listed there, and this is also where we find the most prominent businesses which focus on the domestic consumer.
This change in the investment landscape brings both challenges and opportunities for us.
On the one hand, there are hundreds more companies to look at, and 7 EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 8 Strategic Report continued INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED therefore more chances of finding something appealing: on the other hand, the job of sifting the wheat from the chaff increases.
But we are fortunate to have the resources of a large organisation to draw on, and we have enlarged our research team specifically to cover this new ground in China: you should expect that the best of the companies they find there will feature in your portfolio in the future.
The future: staying relevant There are two things that I think about a lot when I consider what I should be doing with your Companys portfolio.
The first, which is a natural preoccupation for anyone taking a long term approach, is whether the companies we own which have been competitive in the past can remain competitive in the future, and whether they can keep producing good returns for shareholders.
The second is whether the Company itself is remaining competitive and whether I can in some way improve what we do for shareholders, or whether I need to change something to respond to a changing landscape.
How do we address the first issue?
We have two types of response.
The first is simply to spend a lot of time thinking about it.
We make consideration of duration a key part of our equity research process: all our analysts address this issue for every one of the 900 and more companies that we analyse and this means we pay particular attention to competitive advantage and whether it is growing or being eroded.
We meet not only the companies that we invest in, but their competitors, their suppliers and their customers and we spend time with new entrants too, whether they are investable or not, in order to understand better how industries are evolving.
In some industries, company life cycles are relatively short and its rare to find businesses that can keep compounding in value: in others, its easier.
But the judgement is complicated, especially now, by a wave of technological innovation that has the potential to disrupt many industries very significantly.
So where an industry is changing we need to be alert to what that may mean for established players.
Finance is a good example: new technology has produced few serious challengers to established incumbents in emerging markets and in my view is unlikely to do so, but we nevertheless see use of technology as a key competitive differentiator for existing players.
Those that use it well to improve the customer experience and lower costs, like HDFC Bank in India or Ping An Insurance in China, are gaining market share: those that are not investing are losing out.
Our second response, which naturally follows from the first, is to concentrate the portfolio in areas where we can be confident that we can identify companies that will be competitive in the future.
As a result, the portfolio is heavily invested on the one hand in industries where disruption is likely to be low finance, consumer products and on the other hand in the beneficiaries of disruption in other industries where incumbents are more vulnerable technology, internet, retail.
I think that if anything this will become more pronounced in the future: the companies we invest in have to stay relevant and we only want to own those that we think will do so.
If we think this way about the companies we invest in on your behalf, it is only logical that we should pose the same question to ourselves about what we do for your Company: what do we need to do to stay relevant?
Since my involvement in the management of your Companys portfolio started, we have never really changed our approach to managing the Companys investments, though I hope we have learnt to articulate it better over the years.
We have deliberately enhanced some 8 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 9 parts of our research activity, for example to make our consideration of environmental, social and governance issues more thorough and more explicit, but this is an enhancement of something we did already.
And of course we have added very significantly to our team since the early days.
Both of these are part of our answer to staying relevant: without the addition of colleagues with specific research expertise, for example, I would have been poorly placed to take opportunities as they have arisen in China: this will only become more important in the future.
We have also tried for many years to exploit some of the advantages of the closed-end fund structure, especially the lower level of liquidity required of a portfolio.
Because closed-end funds do not have subscriptions and withdrawals on a daily basis, liquidity is required only on what we would call the asset side in other words, only investment decisions on the portfolio create the need to buy and sell the Companys investment assets.
This is different from open-ended funds, where in addition to the asset side, investments must be able to cope with liquidity required on the liability side that is, to be able to invest new money subscribed into the fund and especially to meet redemptions when clients withdraw money.
The practical result of this is that we have been prepared to take more risk on liquidity than we would otherwise do.
We concentrated the top end of the portfolio further in our biggest positions and at the same time included smaller companies in the portfolio when we found what we thought were compelling opportunities.
In general, this approach has been justified by results: some of the leading contributors to performance both in this past year, and in recent years, have come from exactly this kind of smaller company: Im referring here to stocks like 51jobs a Chinese online recruitment business, Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services an Indian consumer credit company and Globant an Argentinian software developer.
I think the ability to do this is a key competitive differentiator which continues to make investment trusts attractive vehicles for savers.
But while these aspects of our approach have remained constant, the industry has not stood still.
Index funds, exchange-traded funds, a proliferation of benchmarks, ever greater analysis of technical risks: all these have become more and more prominent aspects of the investment industry.
Against a changing landscape, what do we need to change to stay relevant?
The first thing to say is that we have to be as different as possible, both from the competition and especially from the benchmark: the index never beats itself, so we need to take strong views and express them with conviction in the portfolio.
As you can see on page 14, the ten largest investments account for almost 39% of the portfolio, while their combined representation in the index is less than 14%: I hope this demonstrates that conviction that I refer to.
Meanwhile, I have been reducing, at the margin, the number of companies that the Company owns.
How far to take this is a matter for debate, but also of course a function of how many good investments we think we can find and indeed what kind of companies they are.
Alibaba and Ping An are both very large businesses, with no practical restriction in terms of liquidity to limit our investment.
The same is obviously not the case everywhere.
Concentration of the portfolio brings more bang for the buck where successful ideas are found, but it also makes some ideas impractical because it raises the required size of investment.
I might consider a Bangladeshi mortgage lender a very interesting small company, but if I cannot practically buy a meaningful amount of its shares, it remains an opportunity only in theory.
So the trade-off between concentration and opportunity is an area in which we continue to look for ways to improve.
9 EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 10 Strategic Report continued INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED So maybe I can finish by reiterating a point I made last year: we are not going to run a portfolio that looks like the index and it will not perform like the index.
In the long run I think this is essential if the Company is to remain relevant for its shareholders against the backdrop of an industry that is undergoing significant changes.
If anything I think we need to keep emphasising this point more as time goes by and be prepared to back our opinions to a greater and greater extent, because we should always be trying to accentuate the benefits and indeed the value that active management can offer.
That does not mean that we should stretch for ideas or claim conviction where we see only uncertainty: but where we have strong views, we want as much of the portfolio behind them as possible.
In a world in which indices can be copied with very low costs, active management needs to be active: for us, that does not mean trading vigorously and handing your money to intermediaries in the process: it means seizing the best opportunities and maximising the results we can achieve from them.
Austin Forey Investment Manager 5th October 2017 10 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
