EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 3 Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Performance The year to 30th June 2017 was another positive one for investors in emerging markets, with the Companys benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index with net dividends reinvested, in sterling terms, returning 27.4%.
The return to shareholders was in line with the benchmark at 27.3%, reflecting a narrowing of the discount from 13.2% to 10.5% over the year.
The Companys return on net assets, whilst positive in absolute terms, was behind the benchmark at 23.4%.
The Investment Managers Report on the following pages provides more detail on the Companys performance.
Emerging markets performed well in local currency terms but continuing sterling weakness helped to boost returns to sterling investors.
Stock selection was also a positive factor over the year, whilst asset allocation, which measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark by country regionally, was negative.
It is always disappointing to report a period of short term underperformance but this will happen with active investment managers from time to time.
The Companys long term performance record remains excellent: the Company is well ahead of the benchmark over three, five and ten years, as the graph on page 2 illustrates.
Revenue and Dividends I would remind shareholders that, with effect from 1st July 2015, 70% of the Companys management fees and finance expenses have been charged to capital and 30% to revenue.
Previous practice was to charge 100% to the revenue account.
This change increases the potential for dividend increases over time, but dividends will still fluctuate in line with underlying earnings.
Partly because of this accounting change, the revenue return per share has increased in the past two financial years.
In addition, the impact of sterling depreciation following the EU referendum has boosted earnings per share, allowing us to increase the dividend by 22%, in line with our commitment to increase the dividend over time, in line with earnings.
On the revised basis, the revenue return per share for the year was 12.75 pence 2016: 9.49 pence.
The Board proposes to increase the dividend from 9.0p to 11.0p this year.
This is subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Discount and Share Repurchases We continue to monitor closely the share price and therefore the discount of our share price to the net asset value.
The share price rose 25.7% over the year, from 635.0p to 798.5p at the year end.
The discount ranged between 9.6% and 14.4%, averaging 12.4% through the year.
The Boards policy on discount management remains unchanged it is prepared to take action to try to ensure that the discount does not exceed 10% for an extended period, but only if the discount is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
During the year, we increased the amount of stock bought back in an attempt to reduce the discount, achieving some success in that the discount closed at 10.5%.
Accordingly, the Company repurchased a total of 2,204,765 shares into Treasury at an average discount of 12.5%.
