Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other statutory disclosures Directors Report In addition, details of the Companys approach to dealing with environmental issues in its operations and the impact of and management of risks associated with environmental, The Directors Report for the financial year ended 30 June 2017 comprises pages 45 to 112 social and governance matters are contained in the Strategic Report on pages inclusive, together with the sections incorporated by reference.
Any matters on which the 40 to 44 and in the Sustainability Report available from the Companys website at Directors are required to report on annually, but which do not appear in any other section www.
They can also be found in the sustainability section of this report are detailed below.
The Groups financial assets, financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments are detailed Activities of the Group in sections 3 and 5 within the notes to the Financial Statements.
Details of the Groups liquidity, The Company is the holding company of the Group.
The Groups principal activities comprise market price, credit and cash flow risks are set out in note 5.5 to the Financial Statements.
acquiring and developing land, planning, designing and constructing residential property developments and selling the homes it builds throughout Britain.
These core activities are Post Balance Sheet events supported by the Groups commercial development, urban regeneration, procurement, design On 22 August 2017 the Company issued a Sterling US Private Placement USPP of 200.0m.
This issuance has a ten year maturity with a fixed coupon of 2.77%.
Results and dividends In addition, on 22 August 2017 the Company, utilising the break clause, cancelled the 25.0m 2022 interest rate swap at fair value.
The profit from continuing activities for the year ended 30 June 2017 was 616.0m 2016: 550.3m.
On 23 August 2017 the Group repaid its US$80.0m USPP which had a fixed rate of 8.14%.
An interim dividend of 7.3 pence per share was paid on 19 May 2017 to those shareholders on Annual General Meeting the register as at close of business on 21 April 2017 2016: 6.0 pence per share.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 17.1 pence per share 2016: 12.3 pence per share The 2017 AGM will be held at The Royal College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews Place, Regents in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2017.
Park, London NW1 4LE on Wednesday, 15 November 2017 at 2.30 p. m. The notice convening the 2017 AGM is set out in a separate letter to shareholders.
The Directors also recommend the payment of a special dividend of 17.3 pence per share under the Companys Special Cash Payment Programme see page 15 for further details.
Directors and their interests Both the final dividend and the special dividend will, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM, be paid on 20 November 2017 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business Details of the Directors who held office during the financial year ending 30 June 2017 and as at on 27 October 2017.
If approved, the total dividend including the special dividend for FY17 is 41.7 the date of this report can be found on pages 46 and 47. pence per share 2016: 30.7 pence per share.
The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company, together with the interests of the Executive Directors in share options and awards Strategic Report of shares as at 30 June 2017, and as at the date of this report are disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 99 to 102.
The Groups Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 44 of this Annual Report and Accounts and contains certain disclosures required to be contained in the Directors Report as follows: details At no time during or at the end of the year did any Director have a material interest in a contract of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions page 37 : our approach to diversity and details of of significance in relation to the business of the Group.
diversity within the Group page 33 : our employee engagement page 31 : an indication of likely future developments in the Group including in the field of research and development page 28 Appointment and removal of Directors and the Groups principal risks pages 42 and 43.
In accordance with the Articles there shall be no less than two and no more than 15 Directors The Company also published its first statement in line with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, appointed to the Board at any one time.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary detailing the steps the Group is taking to mitigate the risk of modern slavery occurring in resolution or by the Board.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors its supply chain and business operations.
Bespoke training was delivered to key teams and to hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the Companies Act 2006 supply chain partners in order to build awareness and strengthen due diligence processes.
the Act and on such terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such This statement can be found at www.
Directors are not subject to a maximum age limit.
106 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information In addition to the power under the Act for shareholders to remove any Director by ordinary During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions which, for the purposes ofIAS resolution upon the giving of special notice, under the Articles the Company may, by special 24, is considered to be a related party transaction: resolution, remove any Director before the expiration of their term of office.
The office of Director David Thomas shall be vacated if: i they resign or offer to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer: ii their resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are As outlined in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, in June 2016 David Thomas notified not less than three in number: iii they are or have been suffering from mental or physical ill theBoard that he and one of his connected persons intended to buy one property each at the health: iv they are absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six BDW Trading Limited site at Cane Hill Park, Coulsdon, Surrey the Transactions.
consecutive months and the Board resolves that their office is vacated: v they become bankrupt or compound with their creditors generally: vi they are prohibited by law from being a Director: Property 1 vii they cease to be a Director by virtue of the Act: or viii they are removed from office pursuant David Thomas Chief Executive reserved a property from BDW Trading Limited, at a purchase to the Articles.
price of 579,995 which includes an upgraded kitchen, flooring, lighting, built-in wardrobe and Details relating to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors at each AGM can be found soft furnishings.
The property was purchased on a sale and licence back basis for a period of in the Nomination Committee report on pages 62 and 63. two years with an annual rental of 6%.
A 10% deposit was paid on exchange and the balance on completion on 16 December 2016 in accordance with the Groups normal terms of trade.
Powers of the Directors Property 2 Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is ultimately managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, David Thomas connected person reserved a David Wilson home from BDW Trading Limited at a whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or otherwise.
In particular, purchase price of 545,000 together with a number of customer extras.
A 10% deposit was paid on exchange and the balance was paid on completion on 12 April 2017 in accordance with the the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures Groups normal terms of trade.
and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to Both of the Transactions were conducted at a fair and reasonable market price based on an any third party.
independent market valuation and similar comparable transactions at the time.
On notification by David Thomas of the Transactions, the Board sought advice from its legal advisers and Qualifying third party indemnity provisions Corporate brokers sponsors in respect of the application of Chapter 11 and section 190 of the Act Substantial Property Transaction Section 190 to the Transactions.
The advice At the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, there are qualifying third party indemnity received concluded that the Transactions, both individually and combined, were exempt from provisions governed by the Act in place under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the the provisions of Chapter 11, due to being classified as a Small Transaction.
However, the Directors, former Directors and the Company Secretary, together with those who have held or Transactions were above the threshold prescribed by Section 190 and as David Thomas is a hold these positions as officers of other Group companies or of associate or affiliated companies Director of the Company, which is not a wholly owned subsidiary, shareholder approval was and members of the Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law and the Articles, required before the Transactions could be completed.
The Transactions were therefore approved against all liability arising in respect of any act or omission in the course of performing their by the Board in June 2016 subject to shareholder approval being obtained.
In addition, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance for each shareholders subsequently approved the Transactions at the 2016 AGM.
Director of the Group and its associated companies.
No amounts remain outstanding for either of the above Transactions as at 30 June 2017.
No Director of the Company or of any associated company shall be accountable to the Company or the members for any benefit provided pursuant to the Articles and receipt of any such benefit No other related party transactions that require disclosure, have been entered into during the year under review.
shall not disqualify any person from being or becoming a Director of the Company.
Disclosure of information to auditor Related party transactions So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, The Board and certain members of Senior Management are related parties within the definition information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing its report of of IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures IAS 24 and the Board are related parties whichthe Companys auditor is not aware.
within the definition of Chapter 11 of the UK Listing Rules Chapter 11.
There is no difference between transactions with key personnel of the Company and transactions with key personnel Each Director has taken all reasonable steps that they ought to have taken in accordance ofthe Group.
with their duty as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to ensure that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given andshould be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of the Act.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 107 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other statutory disclosures continued Political donations and expenditure Voting Our policy is that the Group will not make donations to any political party.
However, the definition Subject to any special terms as to voting upon any shares which may be issued or may at the of political donations under the Companies Act 2006 is very broad.
During FY17, it was agreed relevant time be held, every member present in person or by proxy at a general meeting or that the Chief Executive would present to the Conservative Councillors Association annual class meeting has one vote upon a show of hands or, upon a poll vote, one vote for every share of conference about the issues facing the housing industry and take part in a discussion on how which such member is a holder.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who toaddress the countrys housing shortage.
The Company paid 3,840 of the cost of the dinner tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the atwhich this presentation and discussion took place.
other joint holders and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in theregister in respect of the joint holding.
Offices In accordance with the Act, each member is entitled to appoint one or more proxies, and in the case of corporations, more than one corporate representative to exercise all or any of their rights The Group had 29 offices excluding those offices undertaking an administrative function only located throughout Britain at the end of the financial year.
The Group also has a representative to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
The timescales for appointing proxies are set out in the Notice of the 2017 AGM.
office in Beijing and Shanghai, China.
A full list of the Groups offices and their locations can be obtained from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office or from its website No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of www.
any shares held by them if any call or other sum then payable by them in respect of that share remains unpaid or if they have been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles Capital structure after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10pence each.
All issued shares are in registered form and are fully paid.
Details of the Companys issued share capital and of the movements in the share capital during the year can be found in note 5.6 Transfer of shares to the Financial Statements on page 155.
Subject to the Articles, the Act and other shareholders Shares in the Company may be in uncertificated or certificated form.
Title to uncertificated rights, shares are at the disposal of the Board.
At each AGM the Board seeks authorisation from shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system and certificated shares may be its shareholders to allot shares.
At the AGM held on 16 November 2016, the Directors were given transferred by an instrument of transfer as approved by the Board.
The transferor of a share is authority to allot shares up to a nominal value of 33,462,297 representing one-third of the deemed to remain the holder until the transferees name is entered into the Companys register nominal value of the Companys issued share capital as at 30 September 2016, such authority to of members.
remain valid until the end of the 2018 AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 16 February There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares except as follows.
A resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
absolute discretion and without giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be Rights and obligations attaching to shares refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the Subject to any rights attached to existing shares, shares may be issued with such rights and Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of Subject to the Act, the Articles specify that rights attached to any existing class of shares may transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be varied either with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other value of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the one class of share: iii if joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees: or holders of those shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless iv where the transfer is requested by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied if such a person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company bythe creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined inthe Articles.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
108 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Shareholder authority for purchase of own shares Employee share schemes At the Companys AGM held on 16 November 2016, shareholders gave authority to the Company Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 6.3 to the Financial Statements.
Details of to buy back up to an aggregate of 100,386,890 ordinary shares representing 10% of the long term incentive schemes for the Directors are shown in the Remuneration report on pages Companys issued share capital.
This authority is valid until the end of the 2017 AGM or, if earlier, 92 to 105. until the close of business on 16 February 2018.
Under the authority there is a minimum and maximum price to be paid for such shares.
Any shares which are bought back may be held as Employment policy and involvement treasury shares or, if not so held, will be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the Companys issued share capital.
i Employment and diversity No purchases had been made under this authority as at the date of this Annual Report and The Group is committed to seeking to develop the talents of its employees so that they can Accounts.
A resolution renewing the authority will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
maximise their career potential and providing rewarding careers in an atmosphere that engenders equal opportunities for all.
Selection for employment and promotion is based on merit, following an objective assessment of ability and experience of candidates, after giving full Dividends and distributions and fair consideration to all applications including individuals with disabilities.
The Group is Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, from time to also committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from discrimination.
The Group strives time declare dividends for payment to the holders of the ordinary shares of 10 pence each, to ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities in respect of issues such ofan amount which does not exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may as training, career development and promotion for all existing or potential staff irrespective of pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividends, whenever the financial position of the gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical disability, marital status, sexual orientation Company justify their payment in the opinion of the Board.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is or age.
Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become disabled whilst not liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the working within the Group.
Further details on the Groups diversity initiatives are available in the payment of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
The Board may withhold payment of all Sustainability Report which is available from www.
co. uk sustainability or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a our-reports.
person with a 0.25% interest if such person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be ii Employee engagement provided under the Act.
The Board recognises that appropriate employee engagement is a key factor in the long term success of the Group.
It utilises a comprehensive employee engagement programme with the Shareholder arrangements to waive dividends aim of creating a strong, shared culture.
All employees are invited to take part in an online The Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust the EBT holds ordinary shares in the engagement survey each year.
The results of this survey are fed back to each operating division Company for the purpose of satisfying options and awards that have been granted under the who use the results to formulate plans for maintaining or improving engagement in the following various employee share schemes operated by the Company.
Details of the shares so held are set year.
We continue to report high levels of engagement, with scores remaining within the top out in note 5.6 to the Financial Statements.
quartile of IBMs database this year at 78% 2016: 77%.
The EBT has agreed to waive all or any future right to dividend payments on shares held within iii Employee communications the EBT and these shares do not count in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares used to calculate EPS until such time as they are vested to the relevant employee.
A key part of effective employee engagement is communication.
The Company seeks to ensure This waiver will not apply to any shares held under an award to which dividend equivalents apply.
that all significant events, economic factors and financial updates and the impact of these on the performance of the Group are communicated to employees.
This is mainly channelled The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares held in the EBT in any way through the Groups intranet and the use of email alerts, core briefings and regular newsletters.
they think fit and in doing so may take into account both financial and non-financial interests Additionally, the Chief Executive regularly briefs senior and middle management via conference ofthe beneficiaries of the EBT or their dependants.
calls and bulletins which gives them the opportunity to ask questions and enter into dialogue.
Individually and collectively, the Board and the Executive Committee members visit operating Relations with other capital providers divisions and sites frequently in order to assess operational performance, engage with The Board recognises the contribution made by other providers of capital to the Group and employees on a one-to-one basis and gain first-hand experience of employees aspirations welcomes the views of such providers in relation to the Groups approach to corporate governance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 109 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other statutory disclosures continued iv Future talent vi Employee Sharesave Scheme The Group runs a number of programmes for new entrants through our Future Talent strategy.
In April 2017, the Company invited all eligible employees of the Group to participate in the The Group currently has 45 graduates across our two-year and one-year schemes, 15 of which ninth grant under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme the 2017 Sharesave which was commenced their training in September 2015.
In addition, 82 delegates are currently on our approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM held in November 2008.
The invitations for the bespoke Foundation Degree in Residential Development and Construction in partnership with 2017 Sharesave allowed eligible employees to contribute a maximum of 500 per month in one Sheffield Hallam University.
During the year we trained 455 Trade, Technical, Commercial or a combination of Sharesave schemes.
This enabled those individuals who had participated in and other apprentices trainees and 11 undergraduate students on a paid 12-month industrial previous grants under the Sharesave the opportunity to increase their savings and gave other placement programme.
We are now working with the Apprentice trailblazer programmes to employees new and existing the chance to participate and further align their interests with the help develop standards for the sector, and in partnership with Sheffield Hallam University are performance of the Group.
At 30 June 2017, approximately 52% ofemployees participate in one or planning to deliver a Construction and Commercial Degree Apprenticeship programme.
more of the active Sharesave schemes.
v Employee training and development vii Culture and Values The Group has a suite of leadership and management development programmes aimed at all The Company takes its collective culture and values very seriously.
The Board considers levels within the organisation.
The programmes are designed and delivered internally and are feedback from the employee engagement survey in its overview of the management of the tailored to the needs of the business.
The Chief Executive has agreed in FY18 to further analyse, and enhance as necessary, the culture and values of the business.
Any initiatives agreed and implemented during FY18 will The Group also offers the Barratt Academy, a staged programme to enable employee be reported upon in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018. development from apprentice to site manager as well as within the areas of customer service new in FY16, our technical and commercial academies have been enhanced and we are making Articles of Association a significant investment into our IT training provision.
Succession planning is in place across the The Companys Articles of Association the Articles contain regulations which deal with matters Group and the leadership programmes assist with the development of individuals as part of this such as the appointment and removal of Directors, Directors interests and proceedings at process.
In addition, we have continued to provide development centres for those employees with general and Board meetings.
Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with high potential.
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of a special resolution at a general meeting.
We are enhancing our leadership and management development programmes to provide our Directors and project managers with the skills required to manage change and complex projects Approach to tax and tax governance effectively.
We need to be able to successfully introduce and embed changes in our business, For all taxes, it is the Groups aim to ensure it accurately calculates and pays the tax that is due and equipping our people with the skills to manage change successfully is a key priority for us.
Whilst the Group does seek to minimise its tax liabilities through the use We have developed a Project and Change Management toolkit and development programme, of legitimate routine tax planning, it does not participate in aggressive tax planning schemes.
which contains a series of tools and steps we are now using to ensure a robust and reliable The Group also seeks to be transparent in its dealings with HMRC and has regular dialogue with approach to managing projects.
its representatives to discuss both developments in the business and the ongoing tax position.
To supplement our Barratt Academy programmes we have successfully launched a 12 month In accordance with UK law we will be publishing details of our tax strategy by the end of FY18.
transition programme for those leaving the armed forces who want to pursue a career in site The Chief Financial Officer retains overall responsibility for oversight of the tax affairs of the management.
Currently we have 24 on this programme and we are actively recruiting a further Group.
Neil Cooper, Chief Financial Officer was Senior Accounting Officer until leaving the Group 27.
Succession planning continues to be a key priority.
A key focus this year is to understand the on 19 January 2017 at which time, David Thomas assumed the responsibility in his capacity of key development needs for those on the succession plan so that we can fast track development Chief Executive and Interim Chief Financial Officer.
With effect from 1 July 2017 Jessica White for these individuals.
became the Senior Accounting Officer.
The Senior Accounting Officer receives regular updates on the tax position.
In addition, taxation is discussed by the Audit Committee at least annually.
110 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Significant agreements Each of the debt facility agreements based on a proforma agreement agreed in October 2012 between the Company as guarantor, BDW as borrower and developer and the Homes and The following significant agreements as at 30 June 2017 contained provisions entitling the Communities Agency HCA as lender, whereby the HCA has made up to 33m in aggregate counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of of project financing available to fund up to 20 development sites, contains a provision requiring the Company: BDW Trading Limited to obtain the consent of the HCA on a change in control of the Company, The revolving credit facility agreement dated 14 May 2013 as amended on 17 December BDW or any of their holding companies if relevant.
The HCA is entitled to withhold its consent 2014, 30 June 2016 and 29 December 2016 made between, amongst others, the Company, to such a change in control if the new controller does not have sufficient reputation, financial Lloyds Bank Plc as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein standing or organisational standing and capacity.
A failure to: i obtain the HCAs consent to a as lenders the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement contains a prepayment provision at change in control: and ii provide the HCA with notice of the change in control within a specified the election of each lender on change of control.
The Company must notify the facility agent time period, is an event of default under each of these agreements.
On such an event of default promptly upon becoming aware of the change of control.
After the occurrence of a change of the HCA may, by notice in writing to BDW, terminate each debt facility agreement and require control, the facility agent shall if a lender so requests within 20 days of being notified of the BDW to prepay the project financing.
For these purposes a change in control means the change of control by notice to the Company, on the date falling 30 days after the change of acquisition by a person or a group of persons acting together such that they gain beneficial control, cancel the commitment of such lender under the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement ownership of more than 50% of the issued share capital or voting rights of the relevant and declare all amounts outstanding in respect of such lender under the Revolving Credit company, have the right to appoint the majority of the Directors of the relevant company or Facility Agreement immediately due and payable.
The Revolving Credit Facility Agreement also otherwise control the votes at Board meetings of the relevant company.
contains a provision such that, following a change of control, a lender is not obliged to fund The note purchase agreements also impose upon the holders customary restrictions on resale any further drawdown of the facility other than rollover loans.
For these purposes, a change or transfer of the notes, such as the transfer being subject to a fide minimis amount.
of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers gains control as defined in the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Going concern ofthe Company.
In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the Financial Statements, the Directors Each of the note purchase agreements entered into in respect of the Groups privately placed are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the notes being the US$80m of notes issued pursuant to the following note purchase agreements: foreseeable future.
Accordingly, after making enquiries and having considered forecasts i a note purchase agreement in respect of the issue of US$15m notes dated 10 May 2011 andappropriate sensitivities, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving as amended and restated on 14 May 2013 and as amended on 17 December 2014 : and the Financial Statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate ii a note purchase agreement in respect of the issue of US$65m notes also dated 10 May 2011 resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being at least as amended and restated on 14 May 2013 and as amended on 17 December 2014 contains 12 months from the date of these Financial Statements more information on the going concern achange of control prepayment provision.
Each such control provision provides that promptly judgement can be found on page 124.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern after the Company becomes aware that a change of control has occurred, the Company shall basis in the preparation of these Financial Statements.
notify all the holders of the notes of the same and give the noteholders the option to require the Company to prepay at par all outstanding amounts principal and interest under the notes.
If a noteholder accepts such offer of prepayment, such prepayment shall take place on a business On behalf of the Board day that is not more than 90 days after the Company notified the noteholders of the change of control.
For these purposes a change of control means the acquisition by a person or a group of persons acting in concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers such that they gain beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the issued share capital of the Company carrying voting rights.
As explained in the post Balance Sheet event on page 106 the Group refinanced this US Private Placement.
Full disclosure of the new private placement will be Tina Bains made in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
Company Secretary 5 September 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 111
