Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our Strategic priorities We believe that a strongly performing business benefits from a focus on its wider priorities which for us are: Customer first, Great places, Leading construction and Investing in our people.
Each of these priorities has a work plan to drive improvements across the business and they are supported by a set of principles and financial discipline which underpins all of our operations.
Customer first Great places Leading construction Investing in our people See page 18 See page 22 See page 26 See page 30 We place customers at the heart of our Our objective is to be the partner of choice for We continue to focus on a right first time Attracting and retaining the best people is an business by building outstanding homes landowners by demonstrating our ability to approach as the most efficient way of important priority for the business.
We aim and anticipating the changing needs achieve planning permission and create value.
operating across all aspects of our building to have a diverse workforce that reflects the of home buyers.
processes concentrating on improving build communities in which we operate, delivering We are committed to good design and all quality which will reduce remedial costs and excellence for our customers and business We are the only major national housebuilder ofour developments are reviewed against improve customer satisfaction.
by drawing on a broad range of talents, to achieve the HBF 5 Star Customer ourGreat Places design standard at the skillsand experience.
Satisfaction rating for eight consecutive pre-application stage.
years, with over 90% of customers stating that they would recommend us to a friend.
Our principles Building strong Keeping Being a Safeguarding Ensuring the financial community people safe trusted partner the environment health of our business relationships See page 34 See page 35 See page 36 See page 37 See page 38 Delivering sustainable shareholder value Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 17 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Building excellence by putting Customers first 18 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The challenge Key highlights Objectives for FY18 Only major national housebuilder to be awardedHBF 5 Continue to deliver high quality homes and developments Britain needs more homes to address Star status for eight consecutive years Enhance the online experience for our customers, both its housing shortage, with continued Continued investment in our customerjourney before and after they take ownership of their new home demand in the market and continued Investment in customer service training across Develop automated solutions to improve the speed and undersupply of new homes.
Home thebusiness consistency of our servicedelivery buyers are supported by a good Improve the capability of our teams through training mortgage market in terms of both anddevelopment KPI availability and rates, as well as the Use insight gained from customers to drive continuous HBF 5 Star homebuilder improvement to our policies and procedures Governments Help to Buy Equity Loan scheme in England, Scotland andWales.
The industry is seeking to increase volumes, maintain customer satisfaction and build quality and at the same time address the constraint Why we measure created by a shortage of skilled people.
We measure customer service as our customers are keyto our success as a business.
The HBF Homebuilder Strategic priority survey is an industry recognised, independently measured indicator of both our customer service Our priority is building great homes andbuild quality.
and providing an outstanding The survey is designed to provide home buyers with information about housebuilders to help guide their customer experience.
We seek to purchasing decision, and to encourage excellent levels anticipate our customers evolving ofservice to be delivered by housebuilders.
needs by continuously improving thehomes andplaces we build.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 19 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Priorities and principles in action Customer first Customer satisfaction We place customers at the heart of everything we do, with their satisfaction being a key performance indicator at all levels of management.
All of our team are responsible for delivering customer satisfaction and We place customers at the we operate a Customer Service Academy heart of everything we do.
All comprising both classroom and online training to ensure that our employees understand how of our team are responsible for to deliver, right first time, every time.
We achieved the HBF 5 Star homebuilder award for the eighth year in succession which means that more than 90% of our customers stated that they would recommend us to friends and family.
This is more than any other major housebuilder.
We appreciate our customers feedback and our teams are committed to acting upon it.
We continue to improve customer service, investing in technology from developments to our customer service systems and our onsite systems to aid our quality control inspections.
Over 90% We have reviewed our customer journey and automated where possible to speed up and streamline our sales process.
This includes of our customers would recommend how customers reserve homes and us to friends and family personalise their new homes with choices and upgrades.
Will and Hannah Tomsett purchased a property All our site managers perform quality at our Madden Gardens inspections and record each stage of quality development in Letchworth control using mobile tablets, and our customer Garden City.
service operatives use mobile tablets to manage any customer issues following legal completion.
Management throughout the business are responsible for customer service and monitor customer satisfaction survey performance on a weekly basis.
20 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Increasing customer insight We have developed an always on programme to gather insight at every stage of our customer journey.
This will encompass the whole end to end customer experience from initially browsing our website right through to moving in and beyond.
The feedback gained so far has already informed how we support customers online and will continue to drive improvements and decision making as well ashelping us to further align our business withcustomer needs.
Training In support of our commitment to outstanding build quality we have invested in training and support for our site managers to ensure they have all the skills and tools that are required in order to deliver the highest quality homes.
Our Customer Care teams have also benefited from a joint training initiative between us and the NHBC to improve how we manage any issues which occur after customers move in.
The Clark family purchased a home at Butterfly Mill, Horsford, Norfolk.
This was the 500th purchase made using the Help to Buy scheme for our Eastern Counties division.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 21 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Building excellence by developing Great places 22 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The challenge Key highlights Why we measure Transformation of our land bank to more recently The future of our business depends The availability of land is a key input to our business.
We acquired higher margin land has progressed well continually monitor our land bank and the mix of land we upon securing the right land in the have to ensure we have an appropriate land supply.
Detailed or outline planning permission on all of our right place that achieves our investment FY18 expected completions and 96.1% of FY19 We measure and monitor land approvals to monitor our expected completions land intake and ensure we are approving for purchase hurdle rates.
an appropriate amount of land to support our business Maintained progress on volume and margin contribution activities going forward.
from strategic land Strategic priority Objectives for FY18 Our priority is building long term KPI Maintain a regionally balanced land portfolio with relationships to secure good value a supply of owned land of c. 3.5 years and a further Owned and controlled land bank land where people aspire to live.
c. 1.0 year of controlled land Wedesign developments which Maintain the percentage of completions from look great, are a pleasure to live on, strategicland 4.5 years andwill enhance local communities Continue the transformation of our landbank from older, lower margin landto more recently acquired higher 2016: 4.5 years for years to come.
margin land Continue to be recognised for designing great places Land approved for purchase plots which enhance local communities 18,497 24,387 21,478 18,536 18,497 16,956 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Target 16,000-18,000 plots approved for purchase Status: Achieved greater than target Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 23 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Priorities and principles in action continued Great places Securing the best land Our land bank We continue to see high quality land The transformation of our land bank from opportunities that exceed our required hurdle older, lower margin land to more recently rates of a gross margin of 20% and a site acquired higher margin land has progressed ROCE of 25%.
As at 30 June 2017, 95% 30 June 2016: 93% of our owned and controlled land Our success in buying land is based on the Designing great places is is higher margin, newer land.
On the 306 sites extensive local knowledge of our divisional fundamental to our business: our that we have acquired and completed since land teams and strong local relationships 2009 we have achieved an average site gross customers want to live in great with landowners, combined with detailed margin of 20.8%, and an average site ROCE assessments of local market conditions.
places, the vendors of the land of 35.7%, demonstrating sustained delivery We target locations based on the availability we purchase want to work with above our hurdle rates on this more recently of land, housing market conditions and the developers who leave behind a acquired land.
likelihood of obtaining planning consent.
We maintained our progress in relation We continue to target a regionally balanced to strategic land where we see continued land portfolio with a supply of owned land margin progression opportunities in the of c. 3.5 years and a further c. 1.0 year of year.
We approved the purchase of another controlled land.
Our target is for a shorter Preston Grange is a BfL 1,568 strategic acres in FY17.
The planning than sector average land bank reflecting Outstanding development environment remains positive for strategic our focus on ROCE and a fast build and sell of three, four and five bed land.
This, together with the strong local homes in Preston village, model.
At 30 June 2017 we achieved this target relationships developed by our 24 divisions near Canterbury.
with a 4.5 year land supply excluding JVs outside London, mean we continue to see comprising 3.5 years owned land and 1.0 years 35.7% many high quality strategic opportunities.
controlled land, with the owned land bank including land with both outline and detailed Whilst maintaining a first class operational ROCE on completed sites planning consents.
land bank, we remain focused on securing a longer term land pipeline through the acquired since 2009 acquisition of strategic land options.
In the year Land approved for purchase 6,757 plots 2016: 4,558 plots were transferred Year ended Year ended from strategic land to our owned land bank 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 and 25% of our completions 2016: 22% during the year were on strategically sourced land, Total 957.2m 1,095.6m meeting our target.
Total plots 18,497 24,387 We use land creditors to defer payments for land acquisitions where appropriate to drive a 11,737 higher ROCE and as at 30 June 2017, the land creditor position totalled 1,064.0m 30 June 2016: 1,086.8m representing 37% 30 June Acres of strategic land 2016: 38% of the owned land bank.
We are targeting land creditors at 30% to 35% of the owned land bank for June 2018.
24 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Effective planning permission Building for Life 12 is a Government endorsed Our land bank industry standard for creating well-designed Bringing land through the planning system 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 residential places.
It sets out a framework quickly and into production is important to promoting design quality that meets the Owned and unconditional land bank plots 58,965 53,849 support our business objectives.
We support objectives of attractive, functional and the work the Government is currently sustainable urban design.
Conditionally contracted land bank plots 16,078 17,502 doing to speed up the planning process, in Our internal design manual, Great Places, particular in relation to quicker resolution Owned and controlled land bank plots 75,043 71,351 reflects these 12 principles and ensures of planning conditions which can hold up Number of years supply based upon completions in the financial year 4.5 years 4.5 years consistent great design across our progress.
A faster planning process will developments.
The awards reinforce our enable housing supply to increase more JVs owned and controlled land bank plots 5,709 5,309 commitment to better placemaking and a quickly.
The preparation of local plans will Strategic land acres 11,737 11,709 legacy of delivering residential schemes help us unlock strategic sites awaiting local thatwe can all be proud of.
Land bank carrying value 2,895.6m 2,880.2m We have maintained good momentum in Over the years, 56 of our developments have achieved BfL accreditation and 14have achieving planning consents and during the year we secured planning on 19,861 plots attained Outstanding status.
We now have full or outline We are focused upon placemaking planning permission in place for all of our throughout our business and use our internal expected completions in FY18 and 96.1% of Great Places design standards, assessing expected completions in FY19.
every development against these at the preapplication stage.
Our Great Places design Designing great places standards are aligned to the requirements of Building for Life 12 and we run annual awards Designing great places is fundamental to to recognise our best developments.
We also our business: our customers want to live review our development layouts to ensure they in great places, the vendors of the land we achieve both design quality and efficient land purchase want to work with developers who use, and have an internal urban design team leave behind a legacy of design quality and toprovide specialist expertise.
local people want developments that enhance their communities.
We are pleased to announce that 20 of our developments have achieved Built for Life, BfL accreditation this year.
From the schemes awarded, 12 attained the highest accolade of BfL Outstanding, having fulfilled all 12 of the urban design criteria.
Kingsbrook Village, Aylesbury awarded BfL Outstanding.
This new development is pioneering a new nature friendly approach to creating a community.
We are working closely with the RSPB to ensure that nature will thrive at Kingsbrook Village.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 25 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Building excellence by Leading construction 26 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The challenge Key highlights Objectives for FY18 Focused on a right first time approach to drive Modest growth in wholly owned completion volumes The housing shortage has increased operating efficiency Continue to lead the industry in site management demand for new homes, which has Long term relationships with suppliers resulted in pressures upon the Complete modern method of construction MMC trials andsub-contractors availability of materials and skilled Continue to develop sustained business partnerships Considering and implementing new construction with suppliers and sub-contractors labour and sub-contractors.
methods where appropriate KPI Strategic priority Total completions including joint ventures units We deliver the highest quality homes by focusing on excellence across all aspects of construction.
We are 1 7, 395 embracing the best new methods of onsite and offsite construction Total completions including joint ventures units toincrease build efficiency.
17,395 17,395 17,319 16,447 14,838 13,663 2015 2016 2013 2014 2017 Target Disciplined growth in completion volumes Status: Achieved Why we measure Completions are an industry wide measure which reflects the level of activity and growth of the business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 27 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Priorities and principles in action continued Leading construction Delivering high quality homes We put customer satisfaction at the heart of our construction processes with a focus upon getting it right first time, which also drives operating efficiencies in the build process.
We continue to lead the industry, winning 74 We put customer satisfaction NHBC Pride in the Job Awards on our sites.
at the heart of our construction This is the 13th consecutive year that we have won more of these awards than any other processes with a focus upon housebuilder, making us the clear industry getting it right first time, which leader in site management.
also drives operating efficiencies in the build process.
Innovating to improve efficiency The majority of our homes are built with traditional brick and block construction, although we continue to increase the use ofoffsite construction on some of our sites.
During the year we completed successful multi-site trials using a Large Format Block System which is more efficient to put together than traditional construction methods, reduces our reliance on certain sub- 74 contractor trades and allows consistent flow of delivery.
Following last years small scale trial NHBC Pride in the Job Awards using Light Gauge Steel Frames, we have also Cane Hill Park in Coulsdon, Surrey commenced full trials during 2017.
In addition, where we are trialling the use on our sites for 2017 of Light Gauge Steel Frames in we have built 1,270 plots using timber frames the construction of apartments during the year.
and using timber frames in the construction of houses.
We are constantly engaging with our suppliers to find, understand and consider innovative products and services that can be used to increase our efficiency onsite whilst still maintaining our high quality and customer satisfaction requirements.
28 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Partnering with our supply chain Large Format Block We have a centralised procurement team which has built long term relationships with SIG plc our suppliers.
This ensures the consistency We partnered with our supplier, SIG plc, of specification and technical performance of on their Large Format Block System trial the materials used in our homes.
Long term which is part of their SIG I House System, relationships have enabled us to ensure the a large masonry solution which reduces continuous availability of materials as demand the workload of the bricklayer and delivers increased.
We also use many local subspeed benefits similar to our other offsite or contractors in the construction of our homes, panelised systems.
The two key benefits to with whom our divisions partner at a local level this system are that our sub-contractors are to ensure the availability of the skilled trades familiar with the traditional masonry of the that we require.
solution and the I House team deliver the We engage in continuous communication with wall, floor, roof and insulation as a holistic our suppliers and hold regular performance solution.
We have trialled this approach on and business reviews, training days and an five sites and delivered 103 houses within our annual supplier conference.
We are a signatory West Midlands and North Midlands divisions.
of the Prompt Payment Code.
We purchase substantial amounts of timber and have implemented a sustainable procurement and timber sourcing policy.
Since December 2013, all timber and timber products that we purchase via group agreements are FSC PEFC certified and originate from well managed forestry sources.
Further information is available in the Groups Sustainability Report for 2017.
We are also researching smart technologies and their use in future homes to improve the ability of customers to save energy.
Large Format Block being used in construction at our Longford Park development in Banbury, Oxfordshire.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 29 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Building excellence by Investing in our people 30 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The challenge Key highlights Objectives for FY18 Recruited over 979 graduates, apprentices and trainees Maintain upper quartile UK FTSE250 performance The building and construction industry including our intake for FY18 in our engagement survey continues to face a shortage of skilled Maintained upper quartile performance in our Maintain an average of three training days per employee workers and attracting and retaining engagement survey per year the best people is a key priority for Delivered four and a half training days per employee Maintain and seek to reduce staff turnover ourbusiness.
at or below20% Enhanced paid maternity and paternity entitlements Strategic priority KPI We aim to attract and retain the 1 best people by investing in their Upper quartile employee engagement development and success.
We seek to create a great place to work, founded 78% on an open and honest culture that embraces diversity and inclusion.
Why we measure We measure employee engagement because we aim to have a highly engaged workforce across the Group.
We aim to attract and retain the best people and seek to invest in their development and success.
1 Assessed against the UK all sectors comparator group by IBM Kenexa.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 31 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Priorities and principles in action continued Investing in our people Employee retention During the year, employee turnover increased by 1% to 18% 2016: 17%.
There is significant demand and many opportunities for skilled employees elsewhere in the industry.
We therefore continue to focus upon developing We continue to focus upon talent within our business, including succession developing talent within our planning, to ensure that we have the necessary skills within our business for continued business, including succession operational delivery, as well as focusing on planning, to ensure that we remuneration and benefits to ensure retention have the necessary skills within measures are in place and are effective.
our business for continued Talent of the Future operational delivery.
Through the continual running and focus on the quality of our ASPIRE graduate scheme, our construction degree run in partnership with Sheffield Hallam University and our Apprentice programme, we continue to offer a diverse range of options for graduates, apprentices and trainees through our Barratt Future Talent programmes.
In response to the Governments 4.5 Apprenticeship Levy scheme, we have worked with the HBF, Federation of Master Builders, and housebuilding peers on the trailblazer Greig Mills centre with fellow Training days per employee programmes to develop new apprenticeship ex-forces colleagues Ross 2016: 3.0 days Pearson and Ross Carey.
We have worked with our Apprentice champions to ensure our programmes deliver quality Ex-forces tradespeople.
Our 12 month leaver completion rate continues to rise reaching 79% for the year Greig Mills compared to 58% in March 2016.
Greig Mills completed our dedicated The buzz you get from seeing the finishing We have successfully trialled a programme ex-forces personnel training programme touches go on a house is rewarding and its which resulted in the recruitment of ex-forces at the end of last year and is now working great to do a job that has a physical aspect to 184 personnel and a training programme to enable as an assistant site manager at Barratt it too.
Greig found the training programme them to transition into site management.
We have Homes Hawthorn Rise development in so good that he recommended it to his recruited 43 construction trainees via this route, Newton Abbott.
He said: Forward-thinking former colleagues from the Royal Marines, Number of new apprentices, some of whom had little or no construction companies like Barratt Homes really Ross Pearson and Ross Carey.
Both were experience and are proving to be outstanding appreciate the skills that ex-forces personnel trainees, graduates and taken on by Barratt Homes in the latest wave leaders.
We have invested in our employees, have.
There are a lot of attributes you develop of its training programme and are currently undergraduates during FY17 including recruiting 184 new apprentices, in the forces that translate well to the training to become assistant site managers.
trainees, graduates and undergraduates in construction industry, like strong leadership, FY17, bringing our total investment in our Future and its a fun sector to be in.
Talent programmes for the past four years to 979 including our intake for FY18.
32 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Men and women employed Mike Roberts Regional Managing Director PLC Directors Senior Managers Employees Executive Committee Reports to Executive Committee Northern Region.
He was later promoted to Equipping the business with activities.
We have identified broad targets The charts above show the number of men and Managing Director for KingsOak, a new in areas such as gender, family, ethnicity, women employed, as at 30 June 2017, across the relevant skills Barratt Division specialising in executive disability and sexual orientation gender our business.
Also shown is the split between homes.
After a number of key internal To ensure we continue to deliver results we reassignment and our aim is to improve our men and women on the Executive Committee appointments, he became Managing need to enable us to successfully introduce diversity and inclusion in all of these areas in in line with the requirements of the HamptonDirector for the North East Division.
and embed changes in our business, equipping the next three years.
Our senior managers Alexander review.
Mike was involved in major change our people with the skills to manage change have received awareness training and all The diversity policy relating to the appointment programmes early on in his career with the successfully is a key priority for us.
We have colleagues will have access to Diversity and of PLC Directors is set out on page 64.
He has continued to have some level developed a Project and Change Management Inclusion training in the next year.
We have of involvement more or less throughout toolkit and development programme, which reviewed our family friendly policies, updating Human rights all of his career here and is an important contains a series of tools and steps which we our maternity, paternity, adoption and shared operational voice in supporting delivery are now using to ensure a robust and reliable parental leave policies to provide enhanced We support the United Nations Universal of the current major programmes in approach to managing projects.
Around 30 Declaration of Human Rights and have policies benefits to employees who become parents.
people involved in our key business projects We recognise that flexible working can and processes in place to ensure that we act have taken part in workshops to date, which in accordance with our principles in relation help us retain talented employees and can He was promoted to Regional Managing is supporting the changes were making in be particularly beneficial for those with to areas such as anti-corruption, diversity, Director for Northern Region in January our business.
whistleblowing and the requirements of the caring responsibilities, so we are piloting a 2017, a move which allowed him not only new flexible working approach in some of Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Please refer to page to take on a wider operational leadership Diversity and inclusion 106 for further details.
As previously highlighted, in role, but also bring his experience of 2015, we successfully trialled a programme change management to the fore, through We are committed to delivering our Diversity which resulted in the recruitment of exgreater involvement in our Business and Inclusion Strategy and we are working forces personnel.
with a group of employee representatives as well as external consultants, drawing upon a major survey of our employees to inform our Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 33
