30 Galliford Try plc Business review Partnerships & Regeneration The business had an excellent year, as it continued to grow mixed-tenure revenues and increased its contracting order book to a new record.
Securing our largest standalone scheme Great Eastern Quays Earlier this year, we were awarded the contract for the delivery of Great Eastern Quays, Phase 2, the largestever standalone scheme for Partnerships & Regeneration.
Under the new contract, we will build a further 468 homes for Notting Hill Housing, including 164 affordable homes, alongside further landscaping and public amenity works, and 2,400 sqm of commercial, community and retail space.
The award further cements the excellent long-term relationship we have with Notting Hill.
We are already on site delivering the first phase of the project an 85 million project providing 350 new homes.
Drawing on our reputation Earlsdon Retirement Village We have a proven track record in the delivery of extra care schemes for Registered Providers and charitable organisations.
Earlsdon Retirement Village, which we built with our Construction business, represents one of eight retirement villages we have created for key client ExtraCare Charitable Trust.
The development offers 262 apartments for shared ownership and affordable rent, alongside community facilities, as well as a full range of communal facilities for over 55s in Coventry.
The project won Best Customer LABC Partnership for its excellent contribution to construction.
Robert Greshoff Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 31 Financial Statements 2017 Our strategy to 2021 is to: Highlights 1.
Grow our national footprint Strong regional businesses, with excellent local knowledge and Growth Mixed-tenure revenue increased by 23% to relationships, are key to success in our market.
We therefore 82million, from 594 completions 2016: 67 million intend to increase our national footprint by expanding into new geographies, with the aim of establishing a presence in Yorkshire and 526 completions.
East Anglia and Scotland offer the Revenue Contracting revenue increased by 6% to potential for further expansion in the future see page 33.
248 million 2016: 234 million, with growth in the 2.
Drive margin improvement by leveraging second half after some larger contracts concluded in mixed-tenure expertise Mixed-tenure development offers considerably higher margins the first half.
We intend to increase the business blended margin by pursuing further growth in our mixed-tenure Margin improved to 4.5% 2016: 3.9%.
We will do this by continuing to Landbank stable at 2,700 plots 2016: 2,700. partner with our Registered Provider clients and leveraging Linden Homes brand and development skills.
To fund these Order book Contracting order book increased significantly developments, we will use cash generated by our contracting to 1,032 million 2016: 850 million and mixed-tenure activities, along with an appropriate amount of external debt finance.
sales carried forward of 77 million 2016: 45 million.
Unlock partners capacity in sub-markets Expansion New Bristol office opened in July 2016 and We aim to access the markets for specific tenure products presence established in Southern England through the by joining with partners who have the capacity to fund projects, acquisition of the Drew Smith Group.
allowing us to share risk.
Areas of opportunity for us include the private rented sector, private affordable housing providers, public sector direct commissioning programmes and the extra care market, which encompasses housing solutions for older people.
Market The increased investment in affordable housing announced by Performance the government in its Housing White Paper and the renewal of the Affordable Homes Programme promise to create a more 2017 2016 benign environment for our Partnerships & Regeneration Revenue m 330.2 300.6 business.
With certainty of funding and the previous negative Profit from operations m 14.9 11.7 effects of rent changes now fully absorbed, housing associations look set to increase their output over the next 12 to 18 months.
Operating profit margin % 4.5 3.9 The Housing White Paper also looked to further accelerate the Completions 594 526 programme of public land disposal through the Homes and Equivalent contracting units 2,000 1,600 Communities Agency HCA, which is a key route to market for higher margin mixed-tenure regeneration schemes of the type Order book m 1,032 850 that we specialise in.
Further streamlining of the planning framework will also be of benefit to our business.
Indications remain positive from both sectors, with local Revenue Order book authorities continuing to require private sector input to assist them in leveraging their estates.
330.2m 1,032m Contracting 248.0m North 275m Mixed-tenure 82.2m South 537m Central 144m Drew Smith 76m 32 Galliford Try plc Business review Partnerships & Regeneration continued Performance Important contract wins during the year Through Linden Homes and Partnerships Revenue grew by 10% to 330.2 million included our largest-ever standalone & Regeneration, we have more than 2016: 300.6 million, with an important contract, to build phase two of the Great 3billion gross development value of proportional increase in mixed-tenure Eastern Quays development at the Royal joint ventures with Registered Providers.
revenues, which were 23% higher at Docks in London.
The contract with These operations have grown substantially 82.2million 2016: 66.7 million.
Notting Hill Housing is valued at in recent years, as clients have moved Contracting revenues were also higher 128million.
The business also signed towards increasing percentages of at 248.0 million 2016: 233.9 million.
two contracts, each worth 44 million, mixed-tenure delivery.
Over the next to build retirement villages in Bristol and 12 months, we will focus on further Partnerships & Regeneration completed Bedfordshire for the ExtraCare Charitable efficiencies in the management of our joint 594 mixed-tenure units at an average Trust, as we continued to strengthen our ventures to increase the range of services selling price of 186,000 2016: 526 units relationship with this long-standing client.
we provide and strengthen our joint and 166,000.
We also completed Another notable win was a 35 million venture governance.
around 2,000 equivalent contracting units, contract to build 76 homes for real estate compared with 1,600 in the previous year.
From 1 July 2016, we combined our Profit from operations rose by 27% We are making excellent progress with Affordable Housing & Regeneration teams to 14.9 million 2016: 11.7 million, our strategic aim of increasing national with Partnerships.
This brought all our representing a margin of 4.5% 2016: coverage.
Our new Bristol office is already expertise in this market into one business, 3.9%.
The margin improvement came performing well.
In addition to the contract supporting our growth plans, increasing primarily from the increase in higher with the ExtraCare Charitable Trust our efficiency and helping us to share margin mixed-tenure revenues but it noted above, the business unit secured best practice.
Stephen Teagle became also benefited from a higher contracting mixed-tenure and contracting Chief Executive of the enlarged business margin, as we can be selective about the opportunities at good margins and is at the same time.
work we take on, and economies of scale progressing other regeneration schemes, as the business grows.
Outlook which include open-market and affordable Partnerships & Regeneration is benefiting Partnerships & Regeneration ended homes and private rented accommodation.
from a wide range of opportunities to the year with mixed-tenure sales carried There is significant ongoing investment in expand its business, both in the range forward of 77 million, up from 45 million Bristol, which will provide a pipeline of of partners and products, and at the prior year end, and a landbank of further opportunities.
The contracting In May 2017, we announced the remains high on the political agenda.
order book at 30 June 2017 stood at acquisition of the Drew Smith Group, Mortgage availability remains healthy and 1,032 million, up from 850 million a leading contractor and mixed-tenure there is sustained demand for affordable a year earlier.
In total, the order book developer in the South of England.
This housing from individual customers, was 1.1 billion.
is an excellent operational fit with our housing associations and local authorities.
During the year, Partnerships & existing business and opens up the We expect further volume growth in Regeneration secured an award of Southern region for us, in line with our the financial year from organic expansion, 18.8million under the HCAs Affordable stated strategy.
In September we opened including our new East Midlands office Homes Programme, to deliver shared a new office in the East Midlands, and our recent acquisition of the Drew ownership homes.
This allows us to leveraging the excellent position Smith Group, and we enter the new provide with-grant solutions to our established by our West Midlands financial year with a significantly Registered Provider partners.
business over the past five years.
We have been successful in developing and recruiting We were also re-appointed to the We continue to drive operational the right people to achieve the fast growth HCAs Delivery Partner Panel, covering improvement in the business.
This year, we foresee, and are confident of at least all five regional lots over a four-year we established a strategic executive hitting our 2021 targets.
board and appointed a new Business Development and Investment Director to help take our growth plans forward.
We are reviewing our customer satisfaction and customer care strategies, as we seek to improve our customer experience.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 33 Financial Statements 2017 1.
West Midlands We are setting ambitious plans to take 1 advantage of the significant opportunities 4.
East Midlands in the private rental, mixed-tenure, 5.
South West affordable housing and regeneration 6.
West sectors to support our strategy for growth.
South East 4 Potential operating areas 3 8 6 7 5 Being a considerate constructor Improving the image of our industry We are committed to demonstrating the very highest standards of consideration towards the public, environment and our workforce through our membership of the Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS.
This year, the Group received 20 CCS National Site Awards and also celebrated our 2,000th project registration with CCS.
We are proud to have worked in partnership with CCS to pilot its Ultra Site standards on our Protheroe House scheme in East London and are now using it on our Brunel Street Works project formerly known as Silvertown Way.
The projects are currently just two of 11 across the UK to use the scheme.
By adopting Ultra Site principles, we demonstrate and promote the highest CCS standards and actively seek to improve not only our own performance, but that of the wider construction industry, particularly through the supply chain.
Delivering award-winning extra care Protheroe House Our Protheroe House scheme, a 50-home development for over 55s in Tottenham, is demonstrating excellence in the delivery of extra care.
The development for One Housing was named Best Supported Sheltered Housing Scheme at the Housing Excellence Awards and Most Innovative Supported Sheltered Housing Scheme at the Housing Innovation Awards.
Offering new homes all allocated for affordable rent in the form of 36 one-bedroom and 14 two-bedroom flats for individuals and couples, it replaces a dilapidated 1970s-built sheltered housing scheme.
The scheme was recognised for supporting residents to live independently and meeting their individual needs partly through self-contained, well-designed spacious flats that are both accessible and allow for adaption for the changing needs of residents.
