10 Galliford Try plc Value creation continued Construction Creating value through careful selection We create value by carefully choosing the projects we take on and working closely with our clients and supply chain.
This allows us to deliver superior buildings and infrastructure that improve the built We are a leading player in the education environment and create a positive legacy for the people they serve.
We are a key partner for the Education and Skills Funding Agency, and our proven track record and innovative Optimum Schools approach has seen us trusted with the construction of schools of all sizes and scales from revenue rather than the volume, and Manage risk Shetland to Kent.
ensuring that each new project contains Assess and control risk from bid selection sufficient allowances for risk, margin Claire Jackson to delivery and inflation.
Our presence on numerous Education Director.
We look to manage risk at every stage frameworks further reduces our risk of a project, from carefully assessing profile, by allowing us to work opportunities through to maintaining the collaboratively with clients, learn about finished asset.
We are highly selective their needs and become experts in about the type and scale of work we take delivering repeat projects for them.
on, emphasising the quality of our Principal risks p18 communication and gives them insight Work with supply chain into our pipeline of work and our Partner with suppliers to support delivery operations.
It also allows them to benefit We recognise that we are only as good from our training programmes and as our supply chain, so building successful practices, including our award-winning relationships with our partners is vital.
Wherever Our Advantage through Alignment practical, we prioritise working with scheme increases engagement with local businesses.
leading supply chain members, improves construction and Building Information Deliver Modelling, to deliver superior buildings.
Complete projects to the highest standards We also continue to invest in our systems We operate through a network of regional and communication tools to improve our offices, giving us in-depth knowledge of operational delivery further.
We have the local markets, enabling us to build strong technical expertise to deliver sustainable relationships with clients and suppliers, buildings and infrastructure and are and helping us to retain local talent.
Our recognised for the quality of our delivery.
focus is on quality from day one and we increasingly use technology and Modern Methods of Construction, such as off-site We also endeavour to develop strong Client & community focus community relationships, for example Become a long-term partner of clients, by taking part in the Considerate focused on communities Constructors Scheme and Open We seek clients who value a collaborative Doors, which gives people an insight approach and aim to become their into working in the industry, as well long-term partners.
Our approach to as working on a more regional basis to collaboration has been accredited to provide wider benefits to local people, BS 11000, the best practice standard.
Business review p34 Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 11 Financial Statements 2017 Creating Advantage through Alignment Collaborative working with our supply chain Our supply chain is critical to the delivery of our projects and so we have developed Advantage through Alignment, an initiative which helps us to work more collaboratively with carefully selected subcontractors by sharing our vision, values and objectives with them while opening up our training modules to them and providing visibility of works.
Advantage through Alignment centres around adopting shared values and continuous improvement to create strong, mutually-beneficial, aligned relationships that benefit our clients.
Opening our doors to the public Anchorage House We realise there is a skills shortage within our industry and are keen to play our part to promote the numerous and varied roles available within our industry to younger generations.
During Open Doors week, 14 of our sites, including Anchorage House in East London, invited members of the public and young people around the country to come and have a first-hand look at the construction industry in action.
Presentations were held to promote careers in construction and site tours were embarked on, giving the attendees a real flavour of the work we are involved in.
Delivering benefits to motorists and the environment Tollbar End Improvement Scheme We play an increasing role in improving the UKs infrastructure.
Working with Highways England, we delivered this 106 million project to improve traffic flow and alleviate congestion at what was once a historic bottleneck.
The project aims to reduce the volume of traffic using the Tollbar End roundabout by providing a two-lane dual carriageway underpass link and a larger layout designed to reduce congestion.
The work commenced in 2013 and since opening in March 2017, it is already providing the benefits of smoother journeys between the important North-South routes.
