34 Galliford Try plc Business review Construction The underlying business performed well, as Construction focused on selectively bidding for work with robust margins and continued to improve its operating performance.
A key sector Strengthening the nations defences Defence is an increasingly important sector for our business.
We are a key partner on the Ministry of Defences Next Generation Estates Contract NGEC National Capital Works Framework, under which we are already building a new aircraft amphibious vehicle underwater escape and survival training facility at Royal Naval Air Station Yeovilton in Somerset.
The Crown copyright facilities are for training personnel to safely escape from an aircraft or amphibious vehicle in the event of an accident where they are submerged underwater.
Under the same framework, we are undertaking a 60 million contract at Catterick Garrison to rebuild Marne and Bourlon Barracks.
We were also appointed to the RAF Marham contract see picture above to design and build a new aircraft hangar with associated support buildings known as an operational conversion unit as well as reconstruct the two runways, along with our joint venture partner in a project worth circa 150 million.
This, too, was under the NGEC agreement.
In Cranwell, we are also working on the delivery of a high G-force training facility for fast jet RAF pilots which will enable the reactions and tolerance of pilots to be tested at acceleration above that experienced in the Earths gravity.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 35 Financial Statements 2017 Highlights Our strategy to 2021 is to: 1.
Retain our solid platform for sustainable growth Order book of 3.6 billion 2016: 3.5 billion.
Construction has a number of important strengths, including its high-quality people, health and safety, its national coverage Revenue Secured 85% of this years planned revenue with local delivery, its excellent position on frameworks and 2016: 82%.
its focus on the public and regulated sectors.
We intend to maintain and build on these strengths, which provide a solid Margin Pre-exceptional Construction margin of 0.0%, on foundation from which we can grow the business.
Improve our operations to drive margin progression We have identified several areas in which we need to continue Cash affected by one-off charge but underlying strong cash to improve, which will support our margin progression.
These performance, with a year end cash balance of 137 million include: our approach to managing risk in project selection 2016: 161 million.
and our operations: our ability to attract, develop and retain a diverse workforce: further modernisation of our systems: One-off charge of 98.3 million, following a reappraisal of enhancements to our communication tools: and continuing costs to complete and recoveries from legacy contracts to align our supply chain with our operations.
87.9 million reported as exceptional items in respect of 3.
Deliver strong, predictable cash flows and margin two infrastructure joint ventures, see note 3. improvement Ensuring we only bid for high-quality work with appropriate Performance margins, while continuing to improve the way we work, will Pre-exceptional enhance our margins over the period to 2021.
This, in turn, 2017 2017 2016 will help us to deliver consistent and growing cash flows, which Revenue m 1,569.3 1,526.9 1,503.4 will support our investment in growth elsewhere in the Group.
Loss profit from operations m 0.9 88.8 15.8 Market Steady growth in construction output appears to be slowing Operating profit margin % 0.0 5.8 1.1 according to recent ONS figures and Markit PMI surveys, Order book bn 3.6 3.6 3.5 however we believe the outlook remains positive in comparison to 12 months ago.
The output from the public sector pipeline remains positive and is anticipated to grow further in the next year, despite the election result and uncertainty over Brexit.
Our business continued to benefit from areas such as defence Revenue by division Order book by division which are now starting to see long-term capital funding programmes come to fruition and sectors such as education and highways, where longstanding framework positions have allowed us to capitalise on the greater opportunities coming forward.
The main NHS procurement vehicle ProCure22 was renewed in 2017, and already an increase in pipeline is occurring despite the financial pressures on the health service.
Scotland remains a key market for our business with the 1,527m 3.6bn Scottish government and local authorities continuing to provide a consistent pipeline, particularly through our positions on the regional Hub procurement vehicles.
Although there have been some signs of a slowdown in the commercial market in London, regional private sector markets have held up well, particularly in the West Midlands.
We have Building 1,014m Building 2,588m continued to benefit from further opportunities in the Infrastructure 513m Infrastructure 982m manufacturing sector.
36 Galliford Try plc Business review Construction continued Performance Cash remains a prime focus in By questioning everything we do and In May, we announced a one-off charge Construction and we continued to manage cutting out what is no longer needed, of 98.3 million, following a thorough it carefully.
Year end cash balances were we strive to ensure our system is both reappraisal of the costs to complete and 137.4 million, representing 9% of revenue comprehensive and lean.
In October expected recoveries on legacy contracts 2016: 161.1 million and 11%.
2016, we launched the full roll-out of our 87.9 million has been reported as an Advantage through Alignment scheme, At 30 June 2017, our order book was exceptional item, see note 3.
More details which is designed to increase supply chain 3.6 billion, compared to 3.5 billion a year of this charge can be found in the Financial involvement and engagement.
Of this, 74% is in the public sector Review on page 23.
There has been no enables our supply chain to understand 2016: 73%, 13% is in regulated industries material movement in this position since how we operate, the safety, performance 2016: 16% and 13% is in the private we announced the additional provisioning and ethical standards we require and sector 2016: 11%.
The business has in May and we have taken a proactive visibility of our pipeline of work.
It also secured 85% of planned revenue for approach towards managing these legacy increases communication with all parties the 2018 financial year.
contracts through to completion, with and includes review and feedback significant involvement of the executive Frameworks provide 74% of our order processes.
This enables our key supply team.
We have made good progress in book 2016: 74%.
Generating a high level chain partners to align their operations resolving legacy projects during the year of work through frameworks is an to ours, while giving us a better and pleasingly no further contracts have important part of our business model.
understanding of their requirements been added to that list.
Most of these They allow us to work collaboratively and drivers.
The scheme is bedding in contracts are now complete on site, with with clients, gain a deep understanding of well, after a highly successful pilot.
continuing uncertainties relating to final their needs and build expertise through Outlook settlements and claim recoveries.
We have delivering repeat projects.
The construction market remains largely put into place rigorous processes to ensure Managing risk is at the heart of our positive, as the UK continues to require a more disciplined approach towards Construction business.
During the year, substantial investment in its social and project selection.
Today, we are focusing we improved our risk management economic infrastructure.
As a result, the on lower-risk public and regulated sectors process for project selection, increasing order book in our Construction business and two-stage negotiated work, rather our rigour in choosing which projects to remains strong and we have already than large infrastructure projects on take on.
This selectivity is increasingly secured a significant proportion of work fixed-price, all-risk contracts which reflected in our culture and is resulting for the financial year, and much of the these legacy projects were.
As these in more projects being discounted earlier following year 2019.
Our focus is on challenging contracts draw closer to in the selection process.
In addition, contract quality and risk management, completion, we are encouraged by the the new Group intranet helps us and we will continue to be rigorous in our performance of our new contracts.
communicate and share knowledge more project selection, with revenue expected effectively, supporting our approach to Revenue was 1,526.9 million, up to remain broadly stable year-on-year as a risk management.
Our newer work has been operating pre-exceptional loss from operations of under these parameters and performance We continue to streamline our business 0.9 million 2016: profit of 15.8 million.
to date has been encouraging and is management system, which covers the This resulted in a pre-exceptional supportive of our target margins.
As our full range of processes we employ across operating margin of 0.0%, compared with legacy positions close out, we expect Construction, including commercial 1.1% in the previous year.
Reported loss margins to improve as we work towards and quality management processes, from operations was 88.8 million.
best practice and lessons learned.
Leading in infrastructure Building our road networks We have industry-leading skills in transport projects and a strong track record which stands us in good stead for further opportunities that are coming to the market later this year.
The award of a second Smart Motorways scheme to us is testament to our skills and dedication and a strong working relationship with our joint venture partner.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 37 Financial Statements 2017 Building Innovation and value engineering Performance 2017 2016 A Birmingham Conservatoire Revenue m 1,041.1 1,013.8 We are building the first purpose-built music Loss profit from operations m 12.0 9.0 facility of its kind in the UK in 30 years.
The Operating profit margin % 1.2 0.9 new conservatoire is the first ever to be designed for the digital age and will provide Order book m 2,588 2,340 world-class facilities.
Across the five performance spaces, there is a high acoustic requirement but no two rooms or Building won new work totalling two floors are the same, demanding high levels of Key framework more than 1,233 million design, planning and organising of the sequence positions during the year and generated of construction works.
a pre-exceptional loss from To achieve the high acoustic requirement we Education Funding Agency EFA operations of 12.0 million are using an innovative box-in-box method.
This Contractors Frameworks North and 2016: profit of 9.0 million, means constructing a box that is sitting on rubber South and Regional Frameworks with a pre-exceptional margin acoustic pads and then building another box Next Generation Estate Contracts of 1.2 % 2016: 0.9%.
This result outside it so noise cannot break out and, more NGEC Regional Capital Works included 16.0 million of charges importantly, cannot break in and disturb the Framework with Defence performance.
We have also undertaken included in the one-off 98.3 Infrastructure Organisation considerable BIM and value engineering work million announced on 3 May.
ProCure22 NHS Procurement including changes to plant and the lighting Framework In the health sector, the division scheme.
This, coupled with the finishes, enables us to achieve a very high acoustic quality and still won a 72 million contract for hub North Scotland, hub South East stay within the clients budget.
Scotland and hub South West Scotland the East Lothian Community Hospital in Haddington, Scotland.
As a city centre scheme with the footprint of the Southern Construction Framework It was also confirmed as one of building almost equal to the full footprint of the South West, South East and London, site, getting materials in and out of the building is North West Construction Hub six principal supply chain partners a further challenge.
and YORBuild on the Department of Healths new ProCure22 framework.
The framework runs from 2016 to 2020 and has a total pipeline value of 4 billion.
In education, Building was awarded a contract to build the 68 million Park View Student Village for Newcastle University.
It was also appointed preferred contractor to deliver the Knockroon Learning and Enterprise Campus in Cumnock, through a two-stage design and build process, with costs of around 63.5 million.
This is one of Scotlands largest and most ambitious education projects.
In the private sector, significant contracts won included a 49 million apartment development for St Modwen, at the former RAF Uxbridge base: a 40 million, 323-apartment private rental sector scheme for Dandara, on the Arena Central site in Birmingham: and a 47 million contract to build the 50-60 Station Road commercial office space development in Cambridge, on behalf of developer Brookgate.
38 Galliford Try plc Business review Construction continued Infrastructure PPP Investments Performance Performance Pre-exceptional 2017 2017 2016 2017 2016 Revenue m 555.2 512.8 489.6 Revenue m 25.0 25.0 Profit loss from operations m 11.1 76.8 6.8 Profit loss from operations m 2.4 1.4 Operating profit margin % 2.0 15.0 1.4 Directors valuation m 31.3 21.5 Order book m 982 982 1,160 Key framework positions The infrastructure market PPP Investments reported in Aberdeenshire and remained positive across revenue of 25.0 million Cumbernauld Academy.
In total, Highways England Collaborative transport, energy and water, with 2016: 25.0 million, with a profit PPP Investments added more Delivery Framework the business steadily increasing from operations of 2.4 million than 250 million to the order its portfolio of framework 2016: 1.4 million loss.
books of our other divisions.
Manchester Airports Group Capital Delivery Framework positions.
Pre-exceptional profit During the year, we invested In Scotland, public sector from operations was 11.1 million Gatwick Airports Capital 8.6 million in equity and disposed accounting issues led to a hiatus 2016: 6.8million, representing Delivery Framework of investments that generated in new projects coming forward a pre-exceptional margin of 2.0% Environment Agencys Water an aggregate profit on disposal under the Non-Profit Distribution 2016: 1.4%.
Reported operating and Environmental Management of 2.6 million, compared to a Model.
As a result, public sector Framework and Natural loss was 76.8 million.
0.5 million profit on disposal bodies are looking to procure Resources Wales During the year, the division was in 2016. through the existing Hub AMP6 Yorkshire Water, Scottish appointed to Lot 1 of the Natural frameworks.
Galliford Try has The directors valuation of our Water and Southern Water Resources Wales framework, positions on three of these PPP portfolio was 31.3 million North East Procurement Organisation delivering coastal and river frameworks.
Our traditional at 30 June 2017, compared with Smart Motorways Programme defence schemes.
The total project finance markets are now a value invested of 24.3 million value of the framework is up to showing signs of recovery with 2016 valuation: 21.5 million, 70 million over four years, while PF2 in England and the Mutual value invested: 16.2 million.
Investment Model in Wales both In addition to making its own promoting projects.
In the water sector, Infrastructure investments, PPP Investments was confirmed as a Tier 1 alliance During the year, PPP Investments generates work for our Building, partner for Scottish Water, made further progress developing Infrastructure and facilities responsible for delivering its models suitable for the private management businesses.
Quality and Standards IV Capital rental sector and student Significant projects closed during Investment Programme for the accommodation market.
It has the year included East Lothian regulatory period 2015-2021. a number of opportunities in the Community Hospital, West Calder This work has a value of pipeline, which should add to the High School, two health centres approximately 50 million.
Infrastructure has many years experience of working on highways maintenance frameworks.
It was awarded a place on North Yorkshire County Councils carriageway planning and surfacing framework, which is valued at up to 200 million over two years.
Our joint venture with Costain was also awarded a 96 million contract to upgrade 12km of the M1 to a smart motorway.
In addition, Infrastructure was appointed to Gatwick Airports Capital Delivery Framework, on three We celebrated two wins at the Partnerships lots valued at up to 300 million.
Awards 2017, the most prestigious event recognising and rewarding the best in public private partnerships.
Across the Galliford Try business, eight different entries were shortlisted by the awards, reflecting the strength of our offering and the great work we are doing across the UK to continually demonstrate true public private partnership collaboration.
