46 Galliford Try plc Governance Directors and Executive Board Our Board N R E E Peter Ventress Peter Truscott Graham Prothero Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Appointment date: Peter Ventress Appointment date: Peter Truscott was Appointment date: Graham Prothero joined the Board on 30 April 2015 appointed to the Board as Chief Executive joined Galliford Try as Finance Director and was appointed Chairman on on 1 October 2015. on 1February 2013.
Career and experience: Peter was Career and experience: Graham was Career and experience: Peter holds formerly Divisional Chairman, South at previously with Development Securities non-executive directorships with Softcat Taylor Wimpey plc and a member of its plc, a listed property developer and Plc, BBA Aviation Plc and Staples Solutions Group Management team.
Peter joined investor in the UK, where he was Finance B. V. He was Chief Executive Officer of George Wimpey in 1984 and worked at Director from November 2008.
From European textile service business, CALA Homes from 1993 to 1996, before 2001 until 2008, Graham was a partner Berendsen plc, from 2010 to 2016.
Prior rejoining George Wimpey, where he held with Ernst & Young.
Graham is a Fellow to joining Berendsen, Peter spent 10 years a succession of senior management of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in senior management positions in Europe positions.
Aged 55. and previously held the position of and Canada in the office products Finance Director with Blue Circle distribution industry with Corporate Properties and Taywood Homes.
Express N. V. becoming Chief Executive Graham is a Non-executive Director and in 2007.
In 2008, he was appointed head Audit Chair of Marshalls plc.
Aged 55. of all Staples activities outside the United States and Canada.
Executive Board A N R E E Gavin Slark Kevin Corbett CEng MICE MIStructE Andrew Hammond Non-executive Director General Counsel and Company Secretary Divisional Chairman of Linden Homes Appointment date: Gavin Slark joined the Appointment date: Kevin Corbett joined Appointment date: Andrew Hammond Board on 13 May 2015. the Executive Board of Galliford Try plc was appointed to Galliford Trys Executive on 1 February 2012 and was appointed Board as Chairman for the West Division Career and experience: Gavin is currently General Counsel and Company Secretary of Linden Homes on 6 September 2016.
Chief Executive Officer of Grafton Group on 1 March 2012. plc, an independent company operating in Career and experience: Andrew joined the the merchanting, DIY retailing and mortar Career and experience: Kevin was company in April 2015 from Persimmon manufacturing markets in Britain, Ireland, previously Chief Counsel Global for Homes where he held the position of Belgium and Netherlands.
Grafton Group in April 2011 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer in July 2011.
He was previously Group Chief Executive of BSS Group plc, a leading UK distributor to specialist trades including the plumbing, heating and construction sectors.
Board composition Balance of non-executive vs Length of appointment Diversity executive directors 0-2 years 1 Non-executive 5 2-5 years 5 Male 5 Executive 2 5-10 years 1 Female 2 Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 47 Financial Statements 2017 A N R A N R A N R Andrew Jenner Ishbel Macpherson Terry Miller Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointment date: Andrew Jenner was Appointment date: Ishbel Macpherson was Appointment date: Terry Miller was appointed to the Board in January 2009. appointed to the Board on 1 February 2014. appointed to the Board on 1 February 2014.
Career and experience: Andrew was Career and experience: Ishbel is a Career and experience: Terry was Group Chief Financial Officer of Serco Non-executive Director of Fidessa plc previously General Counsel for Group plc from 2002 to 2014.
Prior to and is Senior Independent Director of The London Organising Committee of joining Serco in 1996 he worked for both Dechra Pharmaceuticals plc and the Olympic Games LOCOG and Unilever and Deloitte & Touche LLP.
She has Paralympic Games and an independent Andrew is a member of the Institute previously served as Non-executive Non-executive Director of the British of Chartered Accountants.
Director, Chair of the Remuneration Olympic Association.
Terry is currently Committee, Senior Independent Director a Director and Trustee of the Invictus and Chair of Speedy Hire plc, as well as Games Foundation and a Non-executive Non-executive Director of GAME Group Director of Goldman Sachs International plc, MITIE Group plc, Synthomer plc, May Bank.
Prior to her LOCOG appointment, Gurney Integrated Services plc, Dignity Terry was International General Counsel plc and Hydrogen Group plc.
Ishbel has for Goldman Sachs, having spent 17 years over 20 years experience in investment with Goldman Sachs based in London.
banking with Dresdner Kleinwort Aged 65.
Wasserstein, Hoare Govett and Barclays.
E E E Bill Hocking Tom Nicholson Stephen Teagle Chief Executive of Construction Divisional Chairman of Chief Executive of Partnerships & Investments Linden Homes & Regeneration Appointment date: Bill Hocking was Appointment date: Tom Nicholson was Appointment date: Stephen Teagle appointed to the Executive Board as appointed to Galliford Trys Executive was appointed as Chief Executive of Managing Director of Construction on Board as Chairman for the East Division Partnerships & Regeneration on 1 July 1 September 2015 and assumed the of Linden Homes on 6 September 2016.
2016, joining Galliford Trys Executive role of Chief Executive of Construction Board on 6 September 2016.
Career and experience: Prior to joining the & Investments with effect from company in 1996, Tom held land and sales Career and experience: Stephen has over 1 August 2016. positions at Ideal Homes and Berkeley.
20 years experience in the regeneration Career and experience: Bill joined the He has held a succession of senior and affordable housing sectors, joining Group from Skanska UK plc, where he appointments within Linden Homes, Galliford Try from Registered Provider held the position of Executive Vice with the last four years as Divisional DCH where he was Group Director of President on the Executive Management Managing Director.
Investment and Managing Director of Team of Skanska UK from 2008, having development subsidiary Westco initially joined the company in 1990.
Key Audit Committee Remuneration Committee As at 30 June 2017.
A R N Nomination Committee E Executive Board For updates to the Board since 30 June 2017, please see page 48.
Denotes Chair of respective Committee
