4 Galliford Try plc Our business model How our businesses generate revenue and profit Our business model encompasses housebuilding and construction activities.
Our businesses have complementary cash flow profiles, with contracting generating cash from clients regular payments, which we can use to fund land and housing developments.
How our businesses make money Linden Homes Housebuilding requires up front investment in land and development, with cash received as the resulting homes are sold.
We aim to ensure Inputs a profit by buying land in good locations at the right prices, offering high-quality homes to our customers, and standardising as many aspects of our products, processes and procedures as we can, to maximise efficiency.
High investment Add value to land through Strong margins achieved up front planning and promotion on sale of homes Partnerships & Regeneration This business generates cash from its contracting activities, which is used to fund cash-consuming but higher-margin mixed-tenure developments.
We ensure we earn a profit through careful selection and delivery of our Cash investment contracting projects while sharing risk and using the Groups housebuilding We invest in land and skills and brand to deliver our mixed-tenure developments successfully.
development using cash generated by contracting as well as external financing.
Some up front Lower-margin contracting Higher-margin development See Financial review p22 investment revenue received regularly revenue received as homes as the project progresses are sold People We recruit and retain the very best talent.
Construction See Our people p42 Our Construction business receives regular payments from its clients as work progresses.
We aim to generate a profit by carefully assessing the risk and margin of each project, collaborating with our supply chain, Physical resources and delivering repeat work through frameworks.
Our building processes use natural resources including land, materials and energy.
Typically cash Contracting revenue Lower margins achieved See Natural resources p44 positive received regularly as the project progresses Relationships We develop long-term relationships with clients, customers, suppliers, subcontractors and communities, so we can win work and deliver it effectively.
