8 Galliford Try plc Value creation continued Partnerships & Regeneration Creating value through strong partnerships We create value by carefully assessing risk and returns and assembling the right combinations of tenures and financing partners to create homes and communities with a strong sense of place using our skills as a housebuilder and contractor.
Cash flows reinvested Contracting Commissioning Development Joint venture Our breadth of capabilities across all Evaluate opportunities Profit margin Low Intermediate High three areas is unique in the market, Carefully assess risk and returns ROCE High High Intermediate making us an attractive partner to our Capital Cash Cash Cash Contracting, commissioning and clients and opening up a greater range required generative generative investment development have different risk and of opportunities for us.
This breadth also Risk Low Low High financial profiles, as shown in the diagram allows us to reinvest cash generated by Skills Construction Construction Construction on the right.
We rigorously review each contracting and commissioning in suitable Land Land Development Development opportunity aiming to ensure it offers development opportunities.
Sales an appropriate balance of risk, return and cash generation or investment.
Development joint venture capability creates contracting and commissioning opportunities We start by identifying local housing Develop solutions demand so we understand which tenures Assemble the right combination of tenures the solution must include.
These tenures and financing partners can range from affordable rent to homes For commissioning and development for sale.
We then develop a funding opportunities, we can develop a full solution solution, reflecting the different to suit the specific needs of the site.
The site investment profiles of each tenure.
may be owned by us, either outright or with For example, homes for affordable rent a partner, or by a Registered Provider, local can be sold to a housing association, while authority or the public sector.
Our ability private rented sector homes appeal to to assemble solutions that provide value institutional investors.
We bring together for our commissioning partners and the right partners with a view to making share rewards through joint ventures is the project a success.
a coherent and attractive place to live.
Create design We want the community to thrive in the Ensure a strong sense of place long-term while delivering wider benefits Once we have a solution for the site, to the local area.
We share Linden Homes we design housing to suit the local area.
ability to create unique elevations for We have particular skills in creating our homes, so they complement their successful communities with a strong surroundings, while maximising our use sense of place, where the homes of standardised internal layouts to drive and public realm combine to form quality and efficiency.
For our developments, we use Build and sell the Linden Homes brand and our sales Use housebuilding and contracting skills and marketing capabilities to sell homes to deliver solutions to consumers who buy outright or are Our mix of housebuilding and contracting supported by Help to Buy.
We follow skills means we can construct any type The Linden Way to enable us to offer of home, ranging from bungalows to high standards of customer service.
multi-storey tower blocks, to excellent Business review p30 Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 9 Financial Statements 2017 Homes for Cornwall is a long-term strategic partnership with the central aim of building new homes on public sector land.
We are clustering a local authoritys sites together so that the more attractive outright sale sites are cross-subsidising the affordable housing sites and those sites which are more challenging to build.
This Innovative regeneration approach allows the overall portfolio Upton Village of sites to become viable and increases the number of homes Upton Village was named Most Innovative Affordable which we build with our partners, Housing Scheme at the Housing Innovation Awards.
demonstrating what Partnerships In this 24.5 million project for Registered Provider & Regeneration is all about.
Peabody, we redeveloped the former Plaistow Hospital in East London into 168 new affordable homes including Marc Thompson 66 properties for affordable rent, 74 for market rent and Head of Strategy and Projects, 28 homes for shared ownership.
We impressed the judges with the way we considered space and volume to make better quality living areas, a more efficient building footprint, better lighting and more amenity space.
Transforming neighbourhoods Brunswick Regeneration Our work to regenerate the Brunswick area of East Manchester, providing 522 new homes as well as new community facilities, including an ExtraCare centre and retail units, was awarded Regeneration Scheme of the Year and Overall Winner of the Inside Housing Top 60 Development awards.
The project is being delivered in a joint venture which brings together our housebuilding abilities with the financial expertise of lead partner Equitix, together with the housing management expertise of Contour Homes and the maintenance capability of Mears Group.
Through this type of arrangement we join with partners who have the capacity to fund projects, allowing us to share risk and return.
