26 Galliford Try plc Business review Linden Homes Linden Homes performed well, as it increased volume and margins and made good progress towards its strategic priorities.
Helping people to get on the property ladder Help to Buy Help to Buy is a government scheme that enables first-time buyers and existing homeowners to buy a new home by providing an equity loan of up to 20% of the cost of a new build home, rising to 40% in London, with just a 5% deposit.
The majority of our developments, including Shinfield Meadows in Berkshire pictured, offer Help to Buy and in total, we have sold 4,140 homes under the scheme across Linden Homes and Partnerships & Regeneration.
We also offer a range of other enablers aimed to help prospective buyers such as part exchange and Assisted Move, which helps facilitate the process of buying a Linden home by working with a customer and their estate agent to sell their existing home.
Creating sustainable homes Recognised for our contribution The sustainability of our homes and developments is important to us, and we were pleased to be awarded silver in NextGenerations benchmark of the 25 largest housebuilders in the UK for reducing our environmental impact and building well-designed developments that support the creation of sustainable communities.
Reinforcing this, we won silver for Sustainable Developer of the Year at the What House?
Awards, the biggest and most prestigious event for housebuilders, for the second year running.
We were also proud to be named Best Large Housebuilder at the Brick Awards.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 27 Financial Statements 2017 Our strategy to 2021 is to: Highlights 1.
Further increase standardisation 3,296 Completions 2016: 3,078 contributing to By continuing to standardise our layouts and processes, we will be able to build more quickly, to higher quality, at lower costs revenue of 937 million, up 11%.
and with shorter lead times.
This will help us to attract and Margin Further increase in operating margin to 18.2% retain subcontractors and staff, by enabling them to be more productive and offer increased volumes to suppliers.
standard ways of working will also give us the ability to Sales per outlet stable at 0.62. benchmark our performance across all disciplines, so we can drive best practice.
In turn, standardisation will contribute Sales carried forward down 2% to 373 million.
to higher customer satisfaction by helping to optimise our performance and deliver new homes to a high standard.
Landbank of 10,650 plots 2016: 11,500 plots At the same time, we are employing our strong brand representing a circa 3.5-year pipeline.
This will assist consistent messaging, lower costs, faster and more effective site Land secured 100% of land required for 2018 financial launches and an improved customer journey.
year in place and 90% of land secured for 2019.
Grow volumes from existing and new geographies Linden Homes currently has 10 business units, which between them cover the South and East of England, the East Midlands and the North.
We believe a single business unit can efficiently Performance handle volumes of 500 to 600 units per year.
This gives us the 2017 2016 scope to grow volumes from existing regional businesses, with Revenue m 937.4 840.8 limited additional overhead.
Our growth plans are equivalent Profit from operations m 170.3 147.2 to around one additional site per year for each business unit, which means we can deliver this growth in an organised and Operating profit margin % 18.2 17.5 sustainable way.
Completions 3,296 3,078 We also see the potential to add geographical coverage, however, this is not necessary to achieve our targets to 2021.
Implement our land strategy We intend to maintain a landbank of 3.5 years, with a quick Completions by sector Completions by region turnover of assets and work in progress, increased hurdle rates and better capital efficiency.
Strategic land will be an increasingly important source of new plots for us and we are targeting 20-25% of our plots to be from this source by 2021.
By taking options over sites in attractive locations with identified potential, we negotiate 3,296 3,296 on an exclusive basis with the landowner buying sites at enhanced margins recognising the risk investment of promoting the land for development.
We will also continue to selectively use joint ventures, with partners such as housing associations.
This allows us to reduce capital investments in a single outlet and gain additional points Private 2,537 East 1,473 of sale and secure larger sites.
Affordable 759 West 1,823 28 Galliford Try plc Business review Linden Homes continued Market Our average selling price for private including sites under option, but All political parties remain committed to housing rose by 6% to 354,000 excluding our longer-term options on challenging targets to meet the ever- 2016: 335,000, while our average strategic land, discussed below, and growing demand for housing.
Output selling price for affordable homes was provides a sustainable business platform.
across the industry continues to lag behind 121,000 2016: 113,000.
We expect Around 82% of Linden Homes landbank the targeted 200,000 homes a year, but average selling prices to reduce over relates to houses, with the remainder output has increased by more than a third the strategy period to 2021, reflecting apartments.
The average cost per plot is since the low-point of 2012-13 133,000. increased standardisation and the mix 71,000 and the expected average selling shift away from the South East as we price per plot is 305,000.
The gross The recent Housing White Paper offered grow into new regions.
development value of our landbank was some solutions to the issues surrounding 3.2 billion at the year end, compared increasing supply, but focused mainly There were 77 active selling sites on with 3.6 billion a year earlier.
on peripheral factors such as Modern average during the year, in line with Methods of Construction, increasing the average of 80 in 2016.
Sales per We continue to invest in our strategic land density around public infrastructure and site per week remained stable at 0.62. team, under the leadership of a dedicated encouraging self-build.
Although further Cancellation rates were largely steady at national managing director.
Our strategic reforms to the planning system were 19% 2016: 17%.
The business entered land holdings stood at 2,396 acres at signalled in the paper, obtaining swift the financial year with sales in hand of 30 June 2017 2016: 1,775 acres and and consistent decisions remains an 373 million, compared to 380 million we expect to generate in excess of issue for the industry, with councils still at the prior year end.
struggling to meet the workloads they Driving margin improvement is a We were pleased to retain our NHBC face in some areas.
fundamental part of Linden Homes four-star customer satisfaction rating for Mortgage approvals and average house strategy.
Further rationalisation of another year.
However we continue to prices have both experienced a slight operating processes contributed to an strive for five-star status, and all of our slowdown since the start of the year and operating margin of 18.2%, up from staff are rewarded on the success of their consumer confidence has dropped since 17.5% in 2016.
Excluding land sales, which own business in achieving high levels of the indecisive general election result.
were primarily to Linden Homes joint customer satisfaction.
ventures, the operating margin increased However, sales remain relatively stable For the second year running, Linden from 16.2% to 17.0%.
and supply including existing properties Homes won silver Sustainable Developer remains restricted resulting in a positive Standardisation of layouts is an important of the Year at the prestigious What environment for our business.
Awards and silver in 60-65% of Linden Homes current NextGenerations sustainability With demand remaining relatively consented schemes are standard benchmark.
The award distinguishes buoyant, the market remains favourable.
We are currently developing developers that are committed to all Performance the third generation of standard layouts, aspects of sustainability, with the judges The EU referendum resulted in with a target of 80% of our planning looking for low carbon initiatives, use uncertainty in the housing market in the applications using these layouts by of sustainable materials and energyearly weeks of the financial year.
The new layouts fully reflect our saving appliances and crucially the confidence returned to the market and knowledge of what makes an efficient building of sustainable communities.
Linden Homes enjoyed good trading house type.
In addition, we have unified Management conditions overall, while at the same time our approach to branding and all new sites As noted in last years annual report, improving its performance through the now make consistent use of the Linden Andrew Hammond and Tom Nicholson successful implementation of its strategy.
We have also increased were appointed as Divisional Chairman We increased our revenue and margins, the productivity of each of our business West and Divisional Chairman East benefiting from continued rationalisation units, reducing head count at the same respectively, with effect from 9 August of our operating processes, and time as increasing turnover, leading to 2016 and joined the Galliford Try maintained our landbank at an appropriate greater profitability.
Executive Board on 6 September 2016. level.
Although the general election in There is some inflationary pressure in June resulted in further political Outlook the supply chain, with demand exceeding instability, and consumer confidence As emphasised by the Housing White supply for materials such as roof tiles and indicators have weakened in recent Paper published during the financial year, the fall in sterling affecting the cost of weeks, we are seeing no material change Linden Homes is well placed to benefit imported materials.
The availability of in our markets.
Underlying demand from the governments ongoing subcontractors remains stable.
Many of continues to be strong and mortgage commitment to increasing housing supply.
the skilled tradespeople working in the availability remains positive.
Coupled with this, the land market remains UK are EU citizens and we will carefully benign and the housing market continues Revenue increased by 11% to monitor the availability of labour as the to enjoy good mortgage availability, low 937.4 million 2016: 840.8 million, UKs exit from the EU progresses.
interest rates and the Help to Buy scheme with completions 7% higher at 3,296 The land market continues to be benign, remains popular.
Private housing allowing us to secure the plots we need order book and expect to deliver both completions accounted for 2,537 of with robust assumptions.
At the year end, further improvements in the operating the total 2016: 2,487 and there were we had a landbank of 10,650 plots 2016: margin and volume growth in the next 759 affordable housing completions 11,500, which we estimate is equivalent financial year, remaining on track to deliver 2016: 591.
Excluding our joint venture to around 3.5 years supply.
The figure against our financial targets by 2021. partners share, completions were represents sites we own and control, 2,876, up from 2,691 in 2016.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 29 Financial Statements 2017 Making better connections Streamlining our sales and marketing tools As part of our efforts to streamline our operations, we have overhauled our primary CRM system Connections to provide a smarter, more intuitive system that promises to halve the time taken to capture data and create reports, while keeping Linden Homes prospective customers informed of timely and accurate sales information.
Improvements such as this will provide a solid platform for us as we grow our business.
Supporting Women in Property Sponsoring the National Student Awards We were proud to support the Women in Property Awards for the second year, following a successful partnership in 2016, which came to a close with its National Student Awards in September.
Through the awards, 47 universities nominated a total of 86 female students for the accolades.
We actively work to encourage women into the sector from all walks of life and a variety of backgrounds, and were pleased to sponsor the Women in Property initiative.
