Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 5 Financial Statements 2017 The role of the Group Set strategy Allocate capital Deliver central services Give strategic direction to Provide resources to support Align essential functions to the businesses.
Mitigate risk Embed culture Provide governance Identify and manage risks Set and promote the values and Ensure robust framework for to our Group strategy and behaviours desired throughout strategic delivery.
See Principal risks p18 See Operating sustainably p39 See Governance p48 Outputs Partnerships Linden Homes Construction & Regeneration Shareholder returns Developing homes Residential-led Building and Shareholders benefit from regeneration infrastructure contracting rising earnings, cash flows and dividends.
See Financial review p22 Invest Evaluate opportunities Manage risk Maintain landbank of prime Carefully assess risk Assess and control risk from Engaged and healthy plots in good locations.
workforce Developing our people Design and planning Develop solutions Work with supply chain and keeping them healthy Create standard house Assemble the right Partner with suppliers and safe boosts their types with unique combination of tenures to support delivery.
engagement and elevations, complementing and financing partners.
See Health and safety p40 See Our people p42 Build Create design Deliver Construct high-quality, Ensure a strong sense Complete projects to Quality buildings, sustainable homes.
infrastructure and homes Excellent people and Sales and aftercare Build and sell Client & community focus processes, and an Deliver high standards Use housebuilding and Become a long-term understanding of our clients of customer service.
contracting skills to partner of clients, focused and customers needs, deliver solutions.
enable us to deliver highquality, sustainable projects.
Satisfied stakeholders We create value for our stakeholders by delivering for customers and clients on time and to budget, collaborating with our supply chain and involving our communities.
Business review p26 Business review p30 Business review p34
