6 Galliford Try plc Value creation Linden Homes Were now on the third generation of the Creating value throughout the cycle Linden Homes Layouts and are delighted with the results.
Standardisation by its We create value by selecting the right land in good locations and nature of replication has the benefits designing high-quality homes as part of sustainable communities.
of better quality, shorter lead times, We prioritise customer service by adopting The Linden Way, improved customer service and stronger relationships with our supply chain.
a framework which defines our approach at each stage of the Trevor Dempsey housebuilding process.
Managing Director with responsibility for the Linden Homes Layouts.
We are increasingly investing in strategic Invest land.
By taking options over land in Maintain landbank of prime plots in potential growth areas, we are able to good locations offer local authorities delivery solutions Linden Homes maintains an appropriate to current and future housing needs.
landbank, sufficient to meet our expected By committing significant investment into needs for the next 3.5 years and to the promotion of these sites, we are able underpin a sustainable business model.
to enter into exclusive negotiations with We acquire prime sites with good the landowner and secure sites at margins transport links and local amenities, where that recognise this.
we can create communities that people aspire to live in.
We have expertise in recycling brownfield land.
as efficiently as possible, without Design and planning compromising on design or quality.
Standard house types with unique elevations, complementing their Some plots require the ability to design surroundings bespoke products or are more suitable for high-rise developments, for example We design award-winning homes for on inner-city sites in London.
Being able the mid-market with exteriors that to create homes that suit their precise complement their local areas using location helps to differentiate us from predominantly standardised interior other housebuilders.
layouts, which help us to build our homes Where practical we use local labour and Build endeavour to provide wider benefits to the Construct high-quality, sustainable homes communities we work in.
We are known for the quality of our homes As a responsible developer, we deliver and work closely with our suppliers to public spaces that support sustainable source the most suitable materials.
This can range from Standardising layouts and processes is streetscapes that reduce vehicle speeds also more attractive to our supply chain, to cycle routes, woodlands and play areas.
as it helps to build homes more safely, quickly, efficiently and to a consistently high standard.
This also cuts waste and reduces our environmental impact.
customers by adopting the right values, Sales and aftercare procedures and processes at each step Deliver high standards of customer service of their purchasing journey.
We think about our customers needs at Our Customer Charter describes our every stage, from before we buy land to commitment to providing first-class our aftersales service an approach service.
It also outlines to our customers we call The Linden Way.
This framework exactly what they should expect from us, shares best practice across the business from accurate and up-to-date information and sets out how we support our to home warranties.
Business review p26 Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 7 Financial Statements 2017 Building communities and improving the environment The Linden Homes Foundation We adopt a sustainable approach to building to benefit our customers, the community and the environment.
We co-ordinate our efforts through The Linden Homes Foundation, a nationwide initiative to bring real, tangible benefits to the cities, towns and villages where we build.
Over the five years The Foundation has been running, our projects have included refurbishing community buildings, putting green technology at the heart of schemes, inviting schools and the public to our developments to learn more about our industry, employing local people and supply chain partners and raising funds for national and local charities.
Built The Linden Way Crowdhill Green Crowdhill Green in Fair Oak near Southampton was one of the first developments to feature the new Linden Homes Layouts.
The detached four-bedroom home uses one of the 33 layouts available.
The 1,405 sq ft home has been designed to maximise floor space.
While internal layouts and construction methods are standardised, elevations can be tailored to complement the local surroundings, and the development layouts can also be modified to suit the overall footprint of the site.
