68 Galliford Try plc Directors report The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial There are no securities carrying specific rights with regard to control statements for the Group for the year ended 30 June 2017. of the Company, with the exception that the EST holds shares in the Company in connection with Group share plans which have rights with Principal activities regard to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly by the Galliford Try is a leading housebuilding, regeneration and construction employee.
The EST abstains from voting in respect of any shares so held.
group, primarily operating in the UK.
Galliford Try plc, registered in The EST currently holds 0.45% of the issued share capital of the Company England and Wales with company number 00836539, is the Parent for the purposes of satisfying employee share options or share awards Company of the Group.
More detailed information regarding the Groups 2016: 0.65%.
activities during the year under review, and its future prospects, is provided on pages 1 to 45.
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures Articles of Association operating within the Groups divisions are shown in notes 13 and 37 to The Articles, adopted in 2009 to reflect the Companies Act 2006, set out the financial statements.
the internal regulations of the Company, and define various aspects of the Companys constitution including the rights of shareholders, procedures Strategic Report for the appointment and removal of directors, and the conduct of both The Group is required by section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 directors and general meetings.
to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report.
This can be found on pages 1 to 45.
In accordance with the Articles, directors can be appointed or removed either by the Board or shareholders in general meeting.
Amendments The Strategic Report contains, where appropriate, an indication of the to the Articles require the approval of shareholders in general meeting directors view on likely future developments in the business of the Group.
expressly by way of special resolution.
Copies of the Articles are available The Corporate Governance Report on pages 48 to 55 is a statement by contacting the General Counsel and Company Secretary at the for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements use financial and Significant direct and indirect holdings non-financial KPIs wherever possible and appropriate.
As at 13 September 2017, being the date of this Annual Report, the Company had been made aware, pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure and Results, dividends and capital Transparency Rules, of the following beneficial interests in 3% or more The pre-exceptional profit for the year, net of tax, of 120.2 million is of the Companys ordinary share capital: shown in the consolidated income statement on page 76.
The directors have recommended a final dividend of 64.0 pence per share, which Shareholder Interest % capital together with the interim dividend of 32.0 pence declared in February, Standard Life Aberdeen plc 5,996,285 7.23 results in a total dividend for the financial year of 96.0 pence.
The total Brewin Dolphin Limited 4,293,613 5.18 dividend for the financial year will distribute a sum of 79.4 million.
Subject to approval by shareholders in general meeting, the final dividend BlackRock, Inc 4,171,625 5.03 will be payable on 22 November 2017, to shareholders on the register at close of business on 27 October 2017.
There were no material changes in any of the significant holdings between the financial year end and the date of this Annual Report.
Please refer to page 24 for an overview of the Groups capital structure and funding.
Change of control provisions The only agreements likely to have a material impact on the Groups Share capital, authorities and restrictions operations in the event of any change of control over the Group continue The Company has one class of ordinary share capital, having a nominal to relate to the Groups revolving credit facility and surety arrangements, value of 50 pence.
The ordinary shares rank pari passu in respect of voting details of which are set out in the notes to the Financial Statements.
and participation and are listed for trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
At 30 June 2017, the Company had 82,888,046 All of the Groups share plans contain provisions relating to a change of ordinary shares in issue 2016: 82,872,012. control.
The respective plan rules permit outstanding awards to vest on a proportional basis and then become exercisable in the event of a change The directors are authorised on an annual basis to issue shares, to allot a of control, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance limited number of shares in the Company for cash other than to existing conditions and the prior approval of the Remuneration Committee.
Other shareholders, and to make market purchases of shares within prescribed than in relation to share schemes as described above, the Group has not limits.
The current authorities are set out in 2016 AGM notice.
entered into any agreements with its directors or employees which Resolutions to be proposed at the 2017 AGM will renew all three of provide for compensation in the event of a takeover or change of control the directors standing authorities relating to share capital, which are in the Group.
further explained in the Notice of AGM sent separately to shareholders.
Other than usual activity in connection with the Groups share plans, The agreements governing the Groups joint ventures all have appropriate no shares have been issued or purchased by the Company under the change of control provisions, none of which is material in the context of relevant authorities either during the financial year or to the date of the wider Group.
Board and directors interests and indemnities There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares, Summary biographies of the Board directors as at 30 June 2017 are with the exceptions that certain shares held by the EST are restricted on pages 46 and 47.
During the year, Ken Gillespie and Greg Fitzgerald for the duration of the applicable performance periods under relevant stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2016 and 11 November 2016 Group share plans, and directors and persons discharging managerial respectively.
On 1 September 2017, Jeremy Townsend joined the Board responsibilities are periodically restricted in dealing in the Companys as a Non-executive Director.
Andrew Jenner has announced that he will shares under the Groups share dealing policy which reflects the not be standing for re-election at the 2017 AGM on 10 November 2017. requirements of the Market Abuse Regulation.
In certain specific There have been no other changes to the Board, either during or since the circumstances, the directors are permitted to decline to register a transfer financial year end.
in accordance with the Companys articles of association the Articles.
There are no other limitations on holdings of securities, and no With effect from 6 September 2016, Andrew Hammond Divisional requirements to obtain the approval of the Company, or other holders Chairman West for Linden Homes, Tom Nicholson Divisional Chairman of securities in the Company, prior to the share transfer.
The Company East for Linden Homes, and Stephen Teagle Chief Executive, is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may Partnerships and Regeneration joined the Executive Board.
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 69 Financial Statements 2017 The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are Important developments since year end set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 65, and details of There have been no material events or developments affecting the executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters Company or any of its operating subsidiaries since 30 June 2017. of appointment can be found on page 61.
Going concern The Company operates a formal ongoing procedure for the disclosure, In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Going review and authorisation of directors actual and potential conflicts of Concern and Liquidity published in 2009, the requirements of the UK interest, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3, the directors conflicts of interest are reviewed and, as necessary, authorised by the have conducted a rigorous and proportionate assessment of the Groups Board on an annual basis.
Details of Directors and Officers Liability ability to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
This has been Insurance and qualifying third party indemnities are given on page 51 reviewed during the financial year and the directors have concluded that of the Corporate Governance Report.
there are no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Furthermore, the Employees Group has adequate resources and visibility as to its future workload, The Group is committed to employment policies which follow best as explained in this Annual Report.
It is therefore justified in using the practice based on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
sex, race, age, ethnicity, disability or marital status.
We value everyone as an individual, recognising that everyone is different and has different Independent auditor needs at work.
We respect peoples differences and treat everyone with Each of the directors at the date of approval of this Annual Report dignity and respect.
We aim to create a culture in which everyone feels confirms that: valued as an individual and is motivated to give their best in their jobs.
5 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for of which the auditor is unaware: and employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular 5 the director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as aptitudes and abilities.
We carry out regular workplace assessments and a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit provide occupational health checks and advice to support both employees information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of and line managers.
Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued that information.
training and employment, career development and promotion of disabled persons.
If members of staff become disabled, the Group endeavours to This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance continue employment, either in the same or alternative position with with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. appropriate retraining being given if necessary.
A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for the reEmployee engagement and consultation is encouraged through the use appointment of  LLP as auditor of the Company, of regular informal discussions and feedback, formal annual appraisals, at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the Audit Committee.
business unit staff forums and periodic employee surveys.
AGM The AGM will be held at the offices of Royal Bank of Scotland, 3rd Floor Further information on the Groups employees, employment practices Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA on 10 and employee involvement is provided in the Strategic Report on pages November 2017 at 10.00 am.
The notice convening the AGM, sent to 1 to 45 and the Remuneration Policy and Report on pages 56 to 67. shareholders separately, explains the items of business which are not of Information on the Groups approach to environmental, social and a routine nature.
community matters, including a consideration of the impact of the Groups business on the environment, is provided in the Strategic Report on pages Fair, balanced and understandable 44 and 45.
In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and as further described on pages 53 and 54, the Group has arrangements Significant agreements in place to ensure that the information presented in this Annual Report is Except for the agreements underpinning the Groups revolving credit fair, balanced and understandable.
The directors consider, on the advice of facility and its debt private placement, there are no persons with which it the Audit Committee, that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to its business.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Charitable and political donations shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and For information regarding charitable donations made in time or materials strategy.
please refer to the Strategic Report on page 45.
Approval of Report It is Group policy to avoid making political donations of any nature and This Directors Report, the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45 and the accordingly none were made during the year.
The Group notes the wide Corporate Governance and Directors Remuneration Reports on pages application of Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, but does not consider 48 to 67, were approved by the Board of directors on 13 September 2017. the housebuilding and construction industry bodies of which it is a member to be political organisations for the purposes of the Act.
For and on behalf of the Board Kevin Corbett Emissions General Counsel and Company Secretary Details of the Groups carbon dioxide emissions for the financial year have been included on page 44 and are included by reference in this report.
13 September 2017 Creditor payment policy Group policy regarding creditor payment is to agree payment terms contractually with suppliers and land vendors, ensure the relevant terms of payment are included in contracts, and to abide by those terms when satisfied that goods, services or assets have been provided in accordance with the agreed contractual terms.
In November 2013, the Group became a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code which contains, among other things, commitments to pay suppliers within agreed contract terms.
Financial instruments Further information regarding the Groups financial instruments including interest rate hedges, related policies and a consideration of its liquidity and other financing risks can be found in the financial review from page 22, and in note 26 to the financial statements.
