Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORS REPORT Hays is incorporated in the UK and registered as a public Financial instruments limited company in England and Wales.
Its headquarters Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are in London and it is listed on the main market of the areset out in notes 18 to 20 to the Consolidated Financial London Stock Exchange.
A general outline of Hays use of financial instruments is set out in the treasury management section Strategic Report on page 35 of the Financial Review of this Report.
A description of the Companys business model and strategy is set out in the Strategic Report along with the Directors factors likely to affect the Groups future development, Biographies of the serving directors of Hays are provided performance and position.
An overview of the principal on pages 44 and 45 of this Report.
They all served on risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are also theBoard throughout the 2017 financial year, with the provided in the Strategic Report.
exception of Andrew Martin and Susan Murray, who joined the Board on 12 July 2017.
The Statement of Compliance with the Code for the reporting period is contained in the Corporate General powers of the directors Governance Statement.
The powers of the directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association Articles.
These Information relating to matters addressed by the Audit, powers may be exercised by any meeting of the Board Remuneration and Nomination Committees, which atwhich a quorum of three directors is present.
The operate within clearly defined terms of reference, are set power of the Board to manage the business is subject out within the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination toany limitations imposed by the Companies Act 2006, Committee Reports.
the Articles or any directions given by special resolution All of the matters above are incorporated by reference of the shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
The Articles contain an express authority for the The purpose of this Report is to provide information to appointment of executive directors and provide the the members of the Company, as a body.
The Company, directors with the authority to delegate or confer upon its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept such directors any of the powers exercisable by them or assume responsibility to any other person to whom upon such terms and conditions and with such this document is shown or into whose hands it may restrictions as they see fit.
The Articles contain additional comeand any such responsibility or liability is expressly authorities to delegate powers and discretions to disclaimed.
This Report contains certain forward-looking committees and sub-committees.
statements with respect to the operations, performance Directors powers to allot and buy back shares and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, The directors have the power to authorise the issue and these statements involve uncertainty since future events buy-back of the Companys shares by the Company, and circumstances can cause results and developments subject to authority being given to the directors by the to differ from those anticipated.
The forward-looking shareholders in general meeting, applicable legislation statements reflect knowledge and information available and the Articles.
at the date of preparation of this Report.
Nothing in this Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Appointment and replacement of directors Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to Related party transactions act as a director by ordinary resolution and may remove Details of the related party transactions undertaken any director by ordinary resolution.
The Board may during the reporting period are contained in note 26 to appoint any person to fill any vacancy or as an additional the Consolidated Financial Statements.
director, provided that they are submitted for election by the shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
Post balance sheet events Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, There have been no significant events to report since the including cases where a director becomes prohibited by date of the balance sheet.
law or regulation from holding office, or is persistently Dividends absent from directors meetings, or if three-quarters of An interim dividend of 0.96 pence 2016: 0.91 pence per appointed directors request his or her resignation or in Ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 7 April 2017. the case of mental incapacity or bankruptcy.
The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend Directors indemnities of 2.26 pence 2016: 1.99 pence per Ordinary share.
The Company continues to maintain third-party directors Inaddition, the Board is also recommending the payment and officers liability insurance for the benefit of its of a special dividend of 4.25 pence per Ordinary share.
This provides insurance cover for any claim These three dividend payments will represent a total brought against directors or officers for wrongful acts dividend of7.47pence 2016: 2.90 pence per Ordinary inconnection with their positions.
The directors have share for the financial year ended30 June 2017.
Subject alsobeen granted qualifying third-party indemnities, to the shareholders of the Company approving these aspermitted under the Companies Act 2006, which recommendations at the 2017 AGM, the final and special remain in force.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnities dividends will be paid, in aggregate, on 17 November 2017 extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and to those shareholders appearing on the register of donot provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties members as at 6 October 2017.
The ex-dividend date provided by law.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 91 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Directors interests should not exceed 10% over a 10-year period in relation Details of the interests of Hays directors and their tothe Companys share capital, with a further limitation connected persons in the Ordinary shares of the of 5% in any 10-year period on executive plans.
Company are outlined in the Remuneration Report.
TheCompanys share plans operate within these recommended guidelines on dilution limits.
Share capital Hays has one class of Ordinary shares which carry no Major shareholders right to fixed income or control over the Company.
These As at 30 June 2017, the following shareholders held shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
aninterest of 3% or more of the Companys issued On 30 June 2017, the Company had 1,464,096,566 fully sharecapital: paid Ordinary shares in issue, of which 21,079,129 % of total voting rights Ordinary shares were held in treasury by the Company.
Cedar Rock Capital Limited 7.7% The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Virtus Trust 7.1% Ordinary shares are contained in the Articles.
In brief, the Marathon Asset Management 6.2% Ordinary shares allow holders to receive dividends and to Baillie Gifford & Co 6.1% exercise one vote on a poll per Ordinary share for every Columbia Threadneedle Investments 5.4% holder present in person or by proxy at general meetings BlackRock Inc 3.8% of the Company.
They also have the right to a return of Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 3.7% capital on the winding up of the Company.
Silchester International Investors 3.1% There are no restrictions on the size of holding or the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Human rights general provisions of the Companys Articles and At Hays we are committed to our Code of Conduct and legislation.
Under the Articles, the directors have the Ethics Policy, which reflects the way we operate including power to suspend voting rights and the right to receive in relation to human rights.
All staff within Hays are dividends in respect of Ordinary shares and to refuse to expected to act with integrity and honesty and behave register a transfer of Ordinary shares in circumstances ina way that is above reproach, as well as treat people where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a fairly, with courtesy and respect, be responsible, respect notice issued under Section 793 of the Companies Act diversity and communicate openly.
The directors also have the power to refuse to of Conduct is an Equal Opportunity Policy.
We make register any transfer of certificated shares that does not every effort to ensure that no discrimination arises satisfy the conditions set out in the Articles.
duringthe recruitment, employment and period after employment of any employee for reasons of gender, The Company is not aware of any agreements between sexual orientation, marital status, creed, colour, race, shareholders that might result in the restriction of nationality, ethnic or national origin, religious or other transfer of voting rights in relation to the shares held belief, political opinion, spent convictions, disability or age, bysuch shareholders.
and all employees are expected to deal with all persons Treasury shares with the same attention, courtesy and consideration.
As Hays has only one class of share in issue, it may hold Thissupport of equal opportunities applies not only as a amaximum of 10% of its issued share capital in treasury.
direct employer but also in our introduction of candidates As at 30 June 2017, 1.44% of the Companys shares were to clients.
The Companys Modern Slavery Act statement held in treasury.
Legislation restricts the exercise of rights can be found on our website, haysplc.
on Ordinary shares held in treasury.
The Company is not Supplier Code of Conduct allowed to exercise voting rights conferred by the shares We expect our suppliers to operate in an ethical, legally whilst they are held in treasury.
It is prohibited from compliant and professional manner.
The standards we paying any dividend or making any distribution of assets expect are detailed in our Supplier Code of Conduct, on treasury shares.
Once in treasury, shares can only be acopy of which can be found on our website, haysplc.
sold for cash, transferred to an employee share scheme or cancelled.
During the 2017 financial year, Hays Community support transferred 10,084,615 shares out of treasury to satisfy As the ultimate people business, our employees are keen the award of shares under the Companys employee to support their local communities and charities in any share schemes.
This effort is operated on local and national levels to great effect through volunteering, fundraising Shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust activities and donations.
Activities undertaken during the The Hays plc Employee Share Trust the Trust is an year include homework cafs in Denmark, established employee benefit trust which is permitted to hold across the country for regular students and studying Ordinary shares in the Company for employee share inmates, to provide them with, amongst other things, schemes purposes.
No shares were held by the Trust help for their education: house building in Colombia for asatthe year end.
Shares held in the Trust may be people with really low or non-existent incomes: a Get transferred to participants of the various Group share Active for Summer charity campaign in Canada that schemes.
No voting rights are exercisable in relation raised around C$15,000 for Jumpstart Canada, a charity toshares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
that funds sports activities for children: and in Belgium Dilution limits in respect of share schemes we work with over 50schools and universities to offer The current Association of British Insurers ABI guidance information on job searching and delivering workshops.
responsibility for which now rests with the Investment The end of the financial year marked the end of a Association on dilution limits provide that the overall two-year collaboration between Hays UK and the charity dilution under all share plans operated by a company 92 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Together for Short Lives, during which Hays UK reached thatdiversity of perspective and an inclusive approach the fundraising target of 250,000, raising vital funds isgreat for business and careers with us.
By reflecting and helping Together for Short Lives to provide 12,500 ourmarketplace and embracing difference we can hours of care to seriously ill children in hospices across the continue to drive an outstanding organisation culture UK.
In Spain, Hays joined the Alianza FP Dual, a network thatimpacts business results and delivers world-class made up of institutions and companies whose main goal is service to ourcustomers.
Fundamental to our leading to promote and develop the quality and relevance of dual expertise isashared commitment to equality and to vocational training in Spain.
In the Czech Republic, Hays harnessing thedynamism that diversity and inclusion continued their collaboration with SOS Children Villages, bring toourworkplace.
and provided support for Kloknek a fund for children in Hays have partnered with the Australian Indigenous danger contributing food, toys and clothes for children.
Mentoring Experience AIME as part of our commitment Employees to Diversity@Hays.
AIME gives university students Our goal is for our people to reach their full potential and theopportunity to volunteer as a mentor to indigenous to give of their best as individuals and in teams.
In this high-school children to improve their pathways to context, we are committed to never discriminating on furthereducation or employment.
AIME started with thegrounds of race, colour, creed, disability, religion, just25children in their programme and since 2005, ethnic origin, gender, sexual orientation or age.
All Hays over10,000 high-school students and 5,000 university employees are required to abide by these principles students beenthrough the programme.
The programme which are set out in the Groups Equal Opportunities works ona mentor the mentor structure, ensuring that Policy and Code of Conduct.
learnings are passed on to the people within AIME and asaflow-on effect, the indigenous schoolchildren.
Hays gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where they have the Employee involvement right skills and abilities for the role.
Should an employee Ongoing communication forms the basis of the become disabled whilst working for the Group, Hays partnership between Hays leadership and its employees.
would make every effort to accommodate them, to assist Employees receive business performance updates from them in any re-training or to find suitable alternative Alistair Cox, the Chief Executive, and from their employment within the Group.
respective regional Managing Directors, by email on afour-weekly basis.
These are posted on the Groups Diversity at Hays intranet, which acts as a source of reference for the At Hays, diversity means understanding and reflecting Groups brand values, policies and procedures.
Regular the community in which we operate, and building loyalty presentations are also made to employees by the Chief withour colleagues, candidates and clients.
Differences Executive and regional Managing Directors during office such as age, gender, ethnicity, physical appearance, visits made over the course of the year.
Hays continues religion, education and beliefs are valued and everyone toprovide tailored training to the people who are in the has the opportunity to contribute to the Company and front line of delivering recruitment solutions as well as in fulfil their potential.
These programmes Respect for people and becoming an Employer of take a number of different guises across theGroups Choice are the core values in our approach.
Our aim is regional businesses but all share the common goal of tocreate an open, honest and unprejudiced working improving the service we provide to clients.
environment and to ensure that all our colleagues feel To ensure that employees remain engaged in our part of Hays and are respected as individuals.
business, an annual employee engagement survey, knownas TALKback, is carried out each year.
This allows We value and utilise the differences that our people bring employees to voice their views and opinions on all aspects to our business and in the competitive environment in of their workplace environment, training and development, which we operate it is essential that we attract and retain work culture, leadership and client relations.
The results the best people and those that reflect the client and which indicate employee engagement levels and highlight candidate groups we serve.
any areas of concern, are presented to the Management At Hays, our culture is meritocratic: we share a passion Board and to the Board.
forcreating opportunities for our people to flourish andsucceed, whatever their background.
We know Split of PLC Board members Split of Senior Management Split of employees team members Male 64% Male 73% Male 39% Female 36% Female 27% Female 61% Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 93 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Hays believes in the value of loyalty and considers its Articles of Association employee incentive programme of commission schemes, The Companys Articles may only be amended by performance-related cash bonuses and share schemes to specialresolution of the shareholders.
be important factors in keeping its employees motivated.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor The employee share schemes have been running So far as the directors who held office at the date of successfully since inception and provide many employees approval of this Report are aware, there is no relevant with an additional stake in the business.
audit information of which the external Auditor is unaware In the 2017 Glassdoor Employees Choice Award we and each director has taken all steps that he or she ought werethe highest ranked recruiter and fifth overall in the to have taken as a director to make himself or herself Best Places to Work in the UK.
The Employees Choice aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Awards programme relies solely on the input of employees, that the external Auditor is aware of that information.
who provide feedback on their jobs, work environments This confirmation should be interpreted in accordance and companies via Glassdoors anonymous online with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. company reviews survey.
2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Hays in Germany, Austria and Switzerland received the On the recommendation of the Audit Committee and title Top Employer 2017 for outstanding and modern having considered all matters brought to the attention personnel management, which is a great honour for us.
ofthe Board during the financial year, the Board is Greenhouse gas emissions satisfied that the Annual Report and Financial Hays gathers data from every office around the world Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and inorder to calculate our greenhouse gas GHG emissions understandable.
The Board believes that the disclosures in accordance with the World Resources Institute WRI set out in the Annual Report provide the information Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
We measure our annual necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys emissions in relation to employees our intensity ratio.
performance, business model and strategy.
As a people-based business, number of employees Annual General Meeting isaquantifiable factor associated with our activities.
The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon on Ourreporting year for GHG emissions is 1 April 2016 to 15November 2017 at the offices of UBS, 5 Broadgate, 31 March 2017, and this year our employee intensity per London EC2M 2QS.
tonne CO e was 1.58 against 1.66 last year restated.
2 The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions to be FTSE4Good Index proposed at the AGM and gives details of the voting FTSE Russell the trading name of FTSE International record date and proxy appointment deadline for that Limited and Frank Russell Company confirms that Hays Meeting.
The Notice of Meeting is contained in a separate plc has been independently assessed according to the circular to shareholders which is being mailed or FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements otherwise provided to shareholders at the same time tobecome a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the Auditor performance of companies demonstrating strong Resolutions 15 and 16 at the forthcoming AGM Environmental, Social and Governance ESG practices.
willrespectively propose the reappointment of The FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of  LLP as Auditor of the market participants to create and assess responsible Companyand authorise the directors to determine its investment funds and other products.
These resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and shall have effect until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
2017 2016 Total GHGs % Total GHGs % tonnes contribution tonnes contribution 1 1 Impact Scope Resource CO e to total CO e to total 2 2 Direct Scope 1 Operational fuel 115 1 245 2 Vehicle fuel 4,511 30 4,331 28 Refrigerant 383 2 344 2 2 Indirect Scope 2 Electricity 5,590 37 5,775 38 District heating 396 3 396 2 Scope 3 Air travel 3,292 21 3,219 21 Rail travel 260 2 329 2 Electricity T&D losses 540 3 570 4 Private cars business use 192 1 153 1 Total direct and indirect 15,279 100 15,362 100 1 Greenhouse gas emissions are stated in tonnes of CO e carbon dioxide equivalent, comprising carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide 2 for the 12-month period ended 31 March 2017.
Out of scope Indirect emissions, which were the biogenic part of vehicle fuels, totalled 167 tonnes of CO e 167 tonnes in FY16.
2 2 A ll electricity totals are calculated using 2016 government location-based conversion factors.
94 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Political donations Notice of general meetings The Company made no political donations during the The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 year and intends to maintain its policy of not making such for general meetings of the Company is 21 clear days, payments.
It will however as a precautionary measure unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, toavoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek shareholder which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
authority at the 2017 AGM to make limited donations At last years AGM, shareholders authorised the calling orincur limited political expenditure, although it has no ofgeneral meetings other than an AGM on not less than intention of using the authority.
14clear days notice and Resolution 21 will be proposed Resolution 17 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution asa special resolution and seeks to renew this authority.
to seek authority to make political donations, and if The authority granted by this resolution, if passed, will be passed, such authority shall expire at the conclusion for a period expiring at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
The flexibility offered by this resolution will be used where, taking into account the circumstances, the Authority to allot shares directors consider this appropriate in relation to the At the 2016 AGM, shareholders authorised the directors, business to be considered at the meeting and in the subject to the Companies Act 2006, to allot Ordinary interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
shares or grant rights to subscribe for or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares without Recommendation the prior consent of shareholders.
This authority expires The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in Accordingly, Resolution 18 will be proposed as an favour of them and unanimously recommends that you ordinary resolution to renew this authority for a period do so as well.
expiring at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
By order of the Board Disapplication of pre-emption rights Doug Evans Also at last years meeting, a special resolution was Company Secretary passed under the Companies Act 2006 empowering 30 August 2017 thedirectors to allot equity securities for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
Resolution 19 will seek to renew this authority.
If approved, the resolution will authorise directors in accordance with the Articles to issue shares inconnection with a rights issue and otherwise to issue shares for cash up to a specified maximum nominal amount which includes the sale on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares held in treasury.
Resolution 19 will be proposed as a special resolution torenew this authority for a period expiring at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
Authority to purchase own shares A special resolution was also passed at last years meeting enabling the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
Resolution 20 will seek to renew thisauthority.
The directors intend only to exercise this authority if to do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
The Company will have the option of holding, as treasury shares, any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution.
This would give the Company the ability to sell treasury shares, providing the Company with flexibility inthe management of its employee shares schemes.
Nodividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to the treasury shares.
The price paid for Ordinary shares will not be less than the nominal value of 1 pence per share and not more than the higher of 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys Ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange.
Resolution 20 will be proposed as a special resolution torenew this authority for a period expiring at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 95
