Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information OUR FOUR-POINT INVESTMENT CASE OUR BUSINESS 1.
PHILOSOPHY The breadth of our business model Our balanced exposure to CENTRES ON THE across sector and contract type bothmature and structural growthmarkets NEED TO INVEST We have built a global platform with unrivalled scale, balance and diversity.
Many of the 33 countries across our TOSUPPORT We have exposure across Permanent, global platform represent clear structural Temporary and Contractor recruitment growth opportunities, where the use of LONG-TERM markets at a scale which is unique agencies such asHays to source skilled amongst our peers.
GROWTH WHILST We focus on execution in each of our 43% of our Group net fees are generated DRIVING SHORTlocal markets delivered by the best people, inthese structural growth markets which sector-leading technology, recruitment include places such as Germany, Latin TERM FINANCIAL tools and a world-class single brand.
America andJapan, where the first-time outsourcing of the recruitment of skilled We have strong and experienced PERFORMANCE staff is a key long-term opportunity.
operational and senior regional management teams across the Group.
The remaining 57% of net feescome from more mature markets, such as the UK, We focus on developing and delivering In practical terms, this theUS and Australia, where the useof the best services and products for meanswecontinually focus agencies isa long established practice in clientsand candidates, meeting their the skilled jobs market.
In these markets, evolving needs.
on:consultant and business activity levels are more driven by the stage productivity: strategic of the economic cycle.
investment where we see Sectors Countries Group net fees clearopportunities for growth while maximising profitability: 20 33 57% 43% Mature markets Structural growth cash generation andreturns markets toshareholders.
We believe there are foursimpleand compelling 3.
Our ability to deliver superior Our potential to generate financial performance through significant cashflow and dividends thecycle As well as our ability to drive material profitable growth, we are a highly The scale and balance addsrelative cash-generative business, with a clear resilience to our earnings throughout setof free cash flow priorities.
theeconomic cycle and contributes to theoutperformance of our business These include ongoing investment in the versus thepeer group.
development of the business, maintaining a strong balance sheet and delivering a We aim for a mix of exposures across sustainable and progressive dividend policy.
different countries, job types and contract forms.
Despite this existing balance we Having achieved the targeted core dividend remain focused on further diversifying cover of 3.0x earnings, our core dividend ourearnings and building scale across will now grow in line with EPS.
We ended the year with a net cash Having exceeded 200 million of positionof 112 million.
As previously operating profit in FY17, we believe we disclosed, it is our intention to distribute to arewell positioned to continue to drive shareholders anyfree cash flow generated further material profit growth.
over and above 50 million, assuming a positive outlook.
Therefore, in addition to a material increase in core dividend, we also propose a special dividend of 4.25 pence per share, subject to shareholders approval.
FY17 operating Earnings Net Core dividend profit per share cash per share 211.5m 9.66p 111.6m 3.22p Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 3
