Governance RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Engagement with investors As a part of a comprehensive investor relations programme, formal Responsibility for shareholder relations rests with the Chairman, meetings are scheduled with investors and analysts to discuss the ChiefExecutive and Group Finance Director.
They ensure that there Groups halfand full-year results.
In the intervening periods, Hays iseffective communication withshareholders on matters such as continues its dialogue with the investor community by meeting key governance and strategy, and are responsible for ensuring that the investor representatives, holding investor roadshows and Boardunderstands the views of major shareholders onsuch matters.
Meetings with debt providers, principally the Companys banks, also take place on a regular basis.
During the The Companys investor relations programme is supported by a year, the executive directors and senior management met with dedicated Investor Relations team which acts as the primary point of sometwo hundred institutions around the world, interacting with contact with the investor community and is responsible for managing shareholders and potential shareholders.
Presentations to analysts ongoing relations with investors and shareholders.
TheBoard receives are posted on the Companys website at haysplc.
com and if you regular reports from the Investor Relations team.
Feedback from would like to know more about our relations with shareholders meetings held between executive management, orthe Investor pleasecontact ir@hays.
Relations team, and institutional shareholders is also reported totheBoard.
Investor meetings held in FY17 Continental United Kingdom Europe North America Total Executive Management 147 21 43 211 Investor Relations team 157 40 76 273 Other senior management 10 3 14 27 Annual General Meeting Geographic breakdown of investor meetings The Board uses the Companys AGM to communicate with investors and welcomes their participation.
All shareholders are entitled to attend the AGM, at which theBoard members are present.
The Board views the AGM as a good opportunity to meet with its smaller, private shareholders.
A summary presentation of results is given by the Chief Executive before the formal business of the meeting is conducted.
Allshareholders present can question the Chairman, the Chairmen ofthe Committees and the rest of the Board both during the meeting and informally afterwards.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Voting on all resolutions at the AGM is by means of a poll, which, reflecting the number of voting rights exercisable by each member, is considered by the Board to be United Kingdom 61% amore democratic method of voting.
As soon as practicable following Continental Europe 13% the conclusion of the AGM, the proxy votes cast, including details of North America 26% votes withheld, areannounced to the London Stock Exchange via the Regulatory News Service and published on our website.
50 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017
