Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information EFFECTIVENESS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder Succession planning remains an area of focus for the Planning for Paul Harrisons and Pippa Wicks succession Committee across the executive and non-executive has been a focus for the Committee over the last year.
The landscape in which the Company operates Paul holds two key roles within the Company, as Senior is continually changing: for companies to succeed they Independent Director and Chair of our Remuneration need to remain agile, able not only to respond to, but to Committee and it is essential that the Nomination anticipate and facilitate, change to remain competitive.
"Committee ensures these roles are filled by the right The profile of the senior leadership of the Company, and "" Senior leadership person, or people."
To this end, we announced the therefore the membership of the plc Board of Directors profile is key to appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors on and the Companys senior executive team, is a key the Companys 12July 2017, Andrew Martin and Susan Murray.
element to that agility and your Nomination Committee agility in the has this front of mind in its deliberations.
"The Nomination Committee supported the Board during current business the year in ensuring the right balance of skills, experience, Board appointments will continue to be made on merit, landscape. """
independence and knowledge were maintained to best and the Committee recognises the benefits of diversity Alan Thomson serve the business and fulfil the Boards responsibility to and, provided we remain true to our key principles, we Chairman of the stakeholders and I am delighted Andrew and Susan will aim to build on our existing diverse composition in Nomination Committee agreed to join the Board.
thefuture and note the changes within the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules applying to future The Zygos Partnership was appointed to facilitate the financial years which build on the existing Code provisions.
recruitment of Andrew Martin and Susan Murray.
Alan Thomson Nomination Committee Chairman 30 August 2017 Role of the Nomination Committee The role of the Committee is summarised below and and its Committees and make recommendations detailed in full in its terms of reference, a copy of which tothe Board with regard toany changes: is available on the Companys website haysplc.
com Consider succession planning for directors and under Corporate Governance.
othersenior executives: Identify and nominate for the approval of the The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies: and Review the structure, size and composition including Keep under review the time commitment expected skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and balance of from the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
executive and non-executive directors of the Board Membership and meetings The Committee is appointed by the Board.
It is chaired The Committee meets as required and did so on three by the Chairman of the Board and comprises the occasions during the year and all members were in non-executive directors, all of whom are independent, attendance at each meeting, with the exception of save for the Chairman who was independent on Torsten Kreindl and Paul Harrison who each missed appointment.
The names and qualifications of the onemeeting due to prior commitments.
Other regular Committees current members are set out in the attendees at Committee meetings include the Company directors biographies on pages 44 and 45.
Secretary and, on invitation, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
January February May Committee member 2017 2017 2017 Alan Thomson Chairman Paul Harrison Victoria Jarman Torsten Kreindl MT Rainey Pippa Wicks Peter Williams Main Committee activities during the financial year Considered Board succession plans Considered, and recommended to the Board, the Reviewed the composition of the Board and appointment of two non-executive directors itsCommittees Considered and recommended the election and Reviewed the Committees terms of reference re-election of each director, as appropriate, atthe AGM Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 51 Governance EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED Non-executive director appointment process Succession planning The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent A key task of the Committee is to keep under review the procedure for the appointment of new directors and Companys succession plans for members of the Board senior executives with due regard to diversity.
Prior to over the short, medium and longer term, to ensure the making an appointment, the Committee will evaluate Board remains appropriately balanced between new and thebalance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity innovative thinking and longer-term stability.
The focus on the Board and, in light of this evaluation, will prepare during the 2017 financial year was in identifying asuitable adescription of the role and capabilities required, with a replacement for Paul Harrison and Pippa Wicks, as well as view to appointing the best-placed individual for the role.
planning for the succession of other Board members.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee uses Board appointment criteria are considered automatically open advertising or the services of external advisers as part of the Committees approach on succession tofacilitate the search and considers candidates on planning.
The Committee believes that limited tenure meritand against objective criteria and ensuring that andthe subsequent enforced retirement of directors appointees have sufficient time to devote to the position, isnot always appropriate for sound business leadership.
in light of other significant commitments, and no conflicts Accordingly, matters of director tenure are viewed on of interest.
A long-list of potential candidates would be drawn up, At present, the Board has not set any specific aspirations from which an appropriate number would be shortlisted in respect ofgender diversity though it believes that for interview based upon their fulfilment of the refreshment of the Board should take into account the appointment criteria.
The Committee would then need to consider diversity in all forms.
recommend to the Board the appointment of the preferred candidate or candidates, if there is more than Tenure of non-executive directors one considered suitable for subsequent appointment.
Appointments to the Board are made for initial terms notexceeding three years and are ordinarily limited to During the year the Committee retained The Zygos three such terms in office.
Each director stands for Partnership in respect of Andrew Martin and Susan re-election annually.
The Zygos Partnership is an independent executive search consultancy and it has Director performance noother connection with the Company.
Having reviewed the independence and contribution of directors, the Committee confirms that the performance In the year ahead, the Committee will continue to assess of each of the directors standing for election or the Boards composition and how it may be enhanced re-election at the 2017 AGM continues to be effective and will consider diversity including, but not limited to, anddemonstrates commitment to their roles, including gender and experience andgeographic representation independence of judgment, commitment of time for and continue to use independent consultants as Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
appropriate to ensure abroad search for suitable candidates.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that all current directors of the Company, with the Board composition is routinely reviewed to ensure that exception of Paul Harrison and Pippa Wicks, beproposed the balance ofskills, knowledge and experience of the for election or re-election, at the forthcoming AGM.
Hays Board remains appropriate to its business.
Board induction and development Hays Group policy is to hire the best candidates On appointment, each director takes part in a tailored forallpositions at alllevels throughout the business, and comprehensive induction programme which is irrespective of gender, including candidates at designed to give him or her a deep understanding of Boardlevel.
theCompanys business, governance and stakeholders.
The Board has not set any specific aspirations in respect Elements of the programme include: of gender diversity at Board level and supports fully Senior management briefings to provide a business theCode principles in respect of diversity.
However, the overview, current trading conditions and strategic Board is of the view that diversity is less about quotas, commercial issues: and recognises the benefits of diversity, of which gender Meetings with the Companys key advisers and major is one aspect, and it will continue to ensure that this is shareholders, where necessary: taken into account when considering any particular Business site visits across regions: appointment, whilst ensuring appointments are made A legal and regulatory briefing on the duties of onmerit and ability to enhance the performance of directors of listed companies: thebusiness.
Details of the Group corporate structure, Board and Committee structures and arrangements, and key policies and procedures: and The latest statutory financial reports and managementaccounts.
52 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that directors are provided with updates on changes in the legal and regulatory environment in which the Company operates.
These areincorporated into the annual agenda of the Boards activities along with wider business and industry updates: the Chairman also keeps under review the individual training needs of Board members.
The Companys principal external advisers provide updates to the Board, at least annually, on the latest developments in their respective fields, and relevant update sessions are included in the Boards strategy meetings.
The Company Secretary presents corporate governance reports to the Board as appropriate, together with any relevant technical directives issued by the Companys auditor.
Inthis way, eachdirector keeps their skills and knowledge current so they remaincompetent in fulfilling their role both on the Board and on anyCommittee of which they are a member.
Board evaluation During the 2017 financial year the Board assessed its owneffectiveness through an internal Board evaluation process.
The 2017 evaluation was facilitated by the Chairman.
Directors completed an evaluation questionnaire, followed up with one-to-one meetings with the Chairman as appropriate.
The questionnaire covered a broad base of subject matter in order to assess effectiveness, such as the conduct of Board meetings and their administration: risk: strategy: culture: stakeholder interests: Board composition and member performance: and the broader challenges faced by the Board and how those are managed.
Committee effectiveness was also assessed separately.
Results were presented to the Board and minor areas forimproved operation identified and agreed, including dissemination of information and issues around succession planning.
There was general agreement that, overall, theBoard and its Committees continued to operate effectively throughout the period and that its operation had improved over the course of the year.
In addition to the Board and Committee evaluation, the Chairman evaluated the individual performance and effectiveness of each director.
The Senior Independent Director led a separate appraisal of the Chairmans performance with his fellow non-executive directors, which took into consideration both the executive and non-executive directors views.
Good progress against the action points identified in the 2016 external Board evaluation has been made during the year.
These included an increased focus on risk, Board scheduling and contact between the Chairman and other members of the Board between formal meetings.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 53
