Strategic report OUR MARKET Asia Pacific SENTIMENT AND CONFIDENCE In brief: LEVELS OF CANDIDATES Overall business confidence levels improved in Australia and the economy ANDBUSINESSES ARE OFTEN benefited from a ramp up in investment INFLUENCED BY THE ECONOMIC in the private sector China saw further good economic growth as OUTLOOK thecountrycontinues its transition towards adomestic consumption-led economy The stage of the macroeconomic cycle and outlook, Economic conditions in the rest of Asia and prevailing sentiment in each of ourmarkets, have remained broadly resilient adirect and often significant impact on activity levels The macroeconomic picture in Australia improved withinourbusiness.
This can be both positive and negative, astheyear progressed.
This was initially supported particularly with respect to the confidence levels of bygovernment spending on public projects and infrastructure and then followed by a ramp up inprivate businesses to invest in hiring, and candidates to move sector investment, including marginal improvements jobs.
We call this job churn, and it is the primary driver inthe resources-driven parts of the economy.
This led toa general improvement in business confidence.
of activity inthe short term.
Consumer confidence remained stable, despite concerns over an overheated residential property market, along with moderate wage inflation andrising cost of living.
Business sentiment in Asia was broadly resilient with good growth in China and mixed conditions in other markets.
This was despite the fact that the banking sector continued to be subdued.
More information page 29 UK & Ireland Continental Europe & Rest of World In brief: In brief: UK market sentiment was significantly Improving economic conditions in Europe, impacted by the outcome of the noimpact from Brexit.
Cleared political hurdles UKReferendum on EU membership including French elections Relatively high inflation and low wage growth The US also enjoyed a strong economic persisted across the year performance A snap General Election resulting in a hung Conditions in Europe were supportive during the year parliament created further uncertainties and, despite much speculation, sentiment was not impacted by the UKs decision to leave the European Our financial year began just after the UK voted to leave Union.
Economic growth across Europe was broadthe European Union.
This was an unexpected outcome based, benefiting from stronger labour markets, rising and dominated the economic and market backdrop for incomes, looser fiscal policy and accommodative alarge part of the year.
The value of sterling dropped monetary policy measures from the European Central significantly on the news and the Bank of England Bank.
This helped strengthen consumer and business quicklymoved to cut interest rates to a record-low 0.25%.
confidence in a year during which the Eurozone had to However, resilient economic indicators and high levels clear a number of political hurdles, including the Dutch ofconsumer confidence contributed to a better than and French general elections.
Inthe US, the election of expected overall economic backdrop in the first half of President Trump in November 2016 did not have a major the year.
During the second half of the year, weakness impact on sentiment in our markets and the strength inSterling started to translate into higher inflation which, ofthe US economy led the US Federal Reserve to raise coupled with low levels of wage growth, impacted interest rates three times over the year.
In the latter part of the year More information page 30 asnap General Election was called which resulted in ahungparliament and political instability, as the UK started negotiating the terms of its departure from the European Union.
More information page 31 6 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The competitive environment The global recruitment market We are leading global recruiting experts focusing on thesegment of the recruitment market referred to as professional, white collar skilled orspecialist recruitment.
The salary of the candidates we place ranges from circa 20,000 to 130,000 130k Executive search p. a. and we operate across 20 different areas Specialist recruitment ofspecialism, including white collar professions Contingent fee model suchas Accountancy & Finance and IT, and more focused on highly skilled roles in clear structural technical disciplines such as Engineering, and HAYS FOCUS growth markets Construction & Property.
The competitive landscape across most of our markets isextremely fragmented and characterised by a large Generalist blue number of companies, which are often very small and collar staffing focus on local, niche markets, and with a few large 20k globalplayers.
Despite the fragmented nature of the industry, in the majority of our markets the main competition we face Net fee pool isfrom in-house recruiting teams within the HR function of corporates.
"While we estimate that in more mature markets like the UK or the US around 80% of addressable skilled jobs are filled via recruitment agencies, in less mature markets like Germany that figure is only around In FY17 59% of our fees came from the Temp and "" Despite the 20% according to our analysis."
The first-time outsourcing Contracting market, although this is weighted towards fragmented of the recruitment of professional staff is therefore a key three countries where Hays has a market-leading nature of the driver of growth in many of our businesses.
position: Germany, Australia and the UK.
In most of the other countries in the Group we have historically been industry, in The main UK-listed specialist recruitment businesses we predominantly Perm focused, however where market the majority identify are PageGroup, Robert Walters and SThree, all conditions and local legislation have allowed it, we ofwhich have varying exposures and business mix, but ofour markets havesuccessfully been pursuing a strategy to build do have a presence in many of the markets in which we the main ameaningful Temp and Contractor business, which operate.
Despite this, they do not have the scale of Hays todayrepresents one-third of our business outside competition operations especially in some of the more technical ofthethree core markets.
we face is from recruitment markets such as Construction & Property or in some of the structural-growth markets like Germany.
in-house We also identify many other competitors across each Contract type 2017 Market exposure 2017 recruiting ofour local markets.
"These include larger, so called teams. """
generalist recruiters such as Adecco, Randstad and Manpower, whoalso have operations in the specialist recruitment space, but are predominantly focused on the Mature Immature lower-salary blue collar segment of the market.
There Temp Perm markets markets are also several other sector or region-specific businesses 59% 41% 57% 43% such as KForce in the US or Amadeus FiRe in Germany.
We have deliberately built a business that is wellbalanced and exposed to both mature, cyclical markets and emerging structural markets.
In FY17 57% of our net fees were generated in mature markets and 43% inmore immature markets compared to 83% and 17% respectively 10 years ago.
Immature markets have significant structural growth opportunities and are less impacted bythe economic cycle.
We believe this balance, as well asour mix of Temporary, Contractor and Permanent recruitment combined with genuine scale across a range of 20 specialist areas and 33 countries, is unique to the specialist recruitment space, adds relative resilience to our business model through the economic cycle and acts as a genuine differentiator in our industry.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 7 Indicative salary range of Hays placements
