Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS A STRONG TEAM WITH A BROAD AND COMPLEMENTARY MIX OF SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE Executive Board member Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 1.
Paul Harrison 53 1 Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 1 October 2010 Appointed: 8 May 2007 Committees: Nomination Chairman Committees: Remuneration Chairman, AuditandNomination Skills and experience: A post-graduate of Glasgow 2 University and a Chartered Accountant, Alans early Skills and experience: Paul trained as a Chartered career was with Arthur Andersen and Price Waterhouse.
He joined The Sage This was followed by senior management roles with Group plc as Financial Controller in 1997 and was Group Rockwell International plc, Raychem Ltd and Courtaulds Finance Director from 2000 to 2013.
From September plc, after which he became Finance Director of Rugby 2013 to September 2016, Paul was Chief Financial Officer Group plc and then Smiths Group plc.
Alan is a former of WANdisco plc.
3 Non-Executive Director of Johnson Matthey plc and Principal external appointments: Paul is Chief Financial Alstom SA, former Chairman of Polypipe Group plc and Officer of Just Eat plc and also a Non-Executive Director apast President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ascential plc where he is the Chairman of the of Scotland.
AuditCommittee and is also a member of the Principal external appointments: Chairman of Bodycote Remuneration Committee.
plc and Oxford Instruments plc.
Alistair Cox 56 Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Appointed: 1 October 2011 Appointed: 1 September 2007 Committees: Audit Chairman, Nomination and Remuneration 5 Skills and experience: A Chartered Engineer with an MBAfrom Stanford University, Alistairs early career Skills and experience: An engineering graduate of the wasin various field engineering, management and University of Leicester and a Chartered Accountant, research science roles with British Aerospace and then Victoria started her career with KPMG before moving Schlumberger.
Following his MBA, Alistair worked for toLazard Corporate Finance, where she was Chief McKinsey & Company before joining Blue Circle Industries, Operating Officer of Lazards London and Middle East 6 where he was the Group Strategy Director and then the operations and a member of its European Management Regional Director for Asia.
Prior to joining Hays, Alistair Committee.
Victoria was, until July 2016, a Non-Executive was Chief Executive of Xansa plc.
Alistair was, until Director of fide La Rue plc.
November 2015, a non-executive director of 3i Group plc.
Principal external appointments: Victoria is a NonPrincipal external appointments: Non-Executive Director Executive Director of Equiniti Group plc where she is the of Just Eat plc.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Paul Venables 55 Group Finance Director 6.
Torsten Kreindl 54 Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2 May 2006 Appointed: 1 June 2013 Skills and experience: A Chartered Accountant and also Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration USA qualified, Paul started his career at Deloitte & Touche where he was a Senior Manager in its USA practice.
This Skills and experience: A graduate from Johannes Kepler was followed by a 13-year career at Exel plc where he University in Linz, Austria with a PhD in industrial held a number of senior finance and operational roles engineering and technical chemistry.
Torsten has held including Deputy Group Finance Director and was a senior executive positions for Booz Allen Hamilton member of the Executive Board of Exel plc and Chairman andDeutsche Telekom AG and was, until April 2016, of their Acquisitions and Project Review Board.
Following amember of the Swisscom AG Board.
the acquisition of Exel plc by Deutsche Post, Paul worked Principal external appointments: Torsten is a partner in its DHL Logistics division before joining Hays.
Paul was, inGrazia Equity, a Munich-based capital firm.
until July 2015, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc.
44 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Board diversity Board tenure Board experience Board composition Male 64% 0-3 years 36% Finance 18% Non-Executive 73% Female 36% 3-6 years 28% Engineering and Chairman 9% technology 37% 6 years 36% Executive 18% Media and marketing 27% Operations 18% 7.
Pippa Wicks 54 7 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 12 July 2017 Appointed: 1 January 2012 Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Skills and experience: Andrew trained as a Chartered Skills and experience: A post-graduate of Oxford 8 Accountant at Peat Marwick before moving to Arthur University with a diploma in corporate finance from Andersen where he became a partner.
He was, until 2015, theLondon Business School, Pippa started her career Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe and Japan, for with Bain & Company.
She subsequently became Chief Compass Group plc, having previously been their Group Financial Officer of Courtauld Textiles plc and then Finance Director from 2004 to 2012.
Before joining ChiefExecutive Officer of FT Knowledge, the corporate Compass Group, Andrew was Group Finance Director training division of Pearson plc.
Her previous non- 9 atFirst Choice Holidays plc and prior to that held a executive directorships have been with Ladbrokes plc, number of Senior Finance roles at Granada Group plc.
Hilton International plc and Arcadia plc.
Principal external appointments: Andrew is a NonPrincipal external appointments: Pippa is presently Executive Director of easyJet plc, Chairing their IT Deputy Chief Executive of the Co-op Group and Chair of Governance andOversight Committee and Finance AlixPartners UK turnaround and restructuring business.
Committee, and aNon-Executive Director at Intertek 10 Group plc, Chairing their Audit Committee.
Peter Williams 64 Independent Non-Executive Director 8.
Susan Murray 60 Appointed: 24 February 2015 Independent Non-Executive Director Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Appointed: 12 July 2017 11 Skills and experience: Peter has a Law degree from Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Cambridge University and is a Chartered Accountant.
Skills and experience: Susans executive career was spent Hewas, until 2011, Group Finance Director of Daily Mail in consumer goods and retail, with organisations such as &General Trust plc, a role he performed for 19 years, Colgate Palmolive, Kraft, Duracell and Diageo and, most making him one of the longest serving CFOs in the FTSE.
recently, as CEO of Littlewoods Stores.
Susan has served Principal external appointments: Since 2011 Peter has 12 as a Non-Executive Director of Compass Group plc, been a Non-Executive Director of Perform Group, a Imperial Tobacco Group now Imperial Brands plc and leading digital sports media company: he is also a Trustee Enterprise Inns now EI Group plc.
of the Royal Academy and a member of the Industrial Principal external appointments: Susan is a Non-Executive Advisory Board of GVQ Asset Management, a UK equity Director of Grafton Group plc, where she also chairs their management company.
MT Rainey 62 Company Secretary and General Counsel Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 4 February 2013 Appointed: 14 December 2015 Skills and experience: A law graduate from Rhodes Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration University who began his career with Webber Wentzel Skills and experience: An experienced media and inSouth Africa, specialising in corporate and commercial marketing professional, MT Rainey has worked extensively law before moving in-house.
Doug has previously held in the UK and the US.
MT founded the advertising agency the posts of Company Secretary & Corporate Legal Rainey Kelly Campbell Roalfe, which she grew to a top 20 Director at Exel plc and Group General Counsel at Royal agency before it was sold to Y&R, a subsidiary of WPP plc, Mail Limited.
Prior to joining Hays, Doug was an Executive and where MT was CEO then Chair until 2005.
In addition Director, Company Secretary & General Counsel at she was Chair of the leading digital strategy agency Mitchells & Butlers plc.
Previous non-executive directorships held by MT include WH Smith plc, Pinewood Group plc and STV Group plc.
MT has Masters degrees from Aston University and Glasgow University.
Principal external appointments: MT is a Non-Executive Director of Channel 4 Television.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 45
