Strategic report MEGA TREND 1 MORE, AND VARIED WAYS OF BUILDING A CAREER What this means for us For many skilled candidates, the We have made further strategic progress jobfor life has largely come toan rolling out our market-leading IT Contracting end.
There is an increasing appetite business from Germany into other markets Bernhard Ott toembrace a more flexible, contract where we believe the model can be successful, Location: Germany style of working or project roles, with including Canada, France and Japan.
This, Profession: coupled with the established IT Contracting candidates seeking interesting, often Senior Clinical business we have in the US, means we are at highly paid non-Permanent roles Professional the forefront of this evolving market trend.
enabling them to build their career We now have more than 60,000 Temps and flexibly, as opposed to working their Contractors on assignment all around the way upa single corporate ladder.
Despite this, the vast majority of Thenon-Perm businesses are skilled roles in the countries we operate in becoming an increasingly important consist of traditional Perm positions, with non-Perm penetration rates still in the part in many more ofour markets.
We believe this segment of the The rise of the digital economy has not only specialist recruitment market will become an driven the creation of new job types in niche increasingly important part of the make-up of areas but it has also enabled greater mobility modern workforces.
Our aim is therefore to of experienced workers who can provide build further scale to be able to offer atruly their skills as independent contractors on globally integrated service by capitalising amore flexible basis.
onincreased candidate global mobility, increased non-Perm market penetration This, combined with less restrictive legislation rates and by leveraging cross border inmany countries and the secular shift clientrelationships.
awayfrom a job for life towards building asuccessful portfolio career, is why we believe Contracting is a key structural growth market and has become one of our fastestgrowing business sectors.
1 Group ex-UK Germany ANZ Permanent 67% 78% Temporary & Contracting 33% 22% 2011 Today 1 Percentage of net fees.
2 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
"8 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information January 2014 November 2016 September 2014 July 2015 "" The projects Hays offered were a good match for my profile, experience and lifestyle. """
Bernhard Ott Senior Clinical Professional 2 6% Group LIfe Sciences growth in 2017 CONTRACTING IN LIFE SCIENCES: A CANDIDATES JOURNEY In 2017 Life Sciences has been one of the fastest growing where he provided GCP and GMP quality assurance specialisms in our market-leading German business.
As the end of each project approached, Partof this success was due to the roll out of our German wewould meet Bernhard to discuss his future plans, IT Contracting model into other specialisms, including ambitions and availability and match these with suitable LifeSciences, capitalising on the trend for more flexible assignments, helping him structure the next leg of project-based work emerging in these markets.
The projects Hays offered were a good match helping our candidates structuring their careers as a formy profile, experience and lifestyle.
I can always count series of projects is a deep understanding of their goals on professional preparation ahead of interviews and, and an ongoing supportive relationship.
ifrequired, a close assistance during ongoing projects.
Some of the projects Hays placed me on were extended Bernhard Ott is a senior clinical professional specialising beyond their initial period and my consultant handled in pharmaceutical quality management and quality that in a structured and professional manner.
We have worked with Bernhard since 2012, upfive years of cooperation, I would recommend Hays placing him across some of the largest global asatrusted partner and I look forward to continuing pharmaceutical companies, from Merck to Novartis, working with them.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 9 Strategic report MEGA TREND 2 SKILLS SHORTAGES AND BUSINESSES DEMANDS FOR FLEXIBILITY What this means for us What employers said were A key challenge that many of The challenge of sourcing highly skilled, their challenges for 2017 ourclients across theworld are compliant contractors willing to take up a increasingly facing, is adding Skills shortages new role remains, and in a world where these flexibility to their skilled workforce types of workers are often in short supply, toenable them to respond to fastour role is becoming increasingly important.
77% We act as intermediary for highly skilled changing market conditions and professionals searching for shorter-term access the skilled labour they need, vacancies, enabling our clients to tap into Competition from other when they need it.
Employing skilled scarce talent pools of flexible workers and employers people on a contract or project basis helping them to manage and shape their injects more flexibility in their cost skilled Temp and Contractor workforces.
45% base and enables them to benefit We see our non-Perm business as a from a workforce with a wide higher-value source of earnings, more resilient to the cycle and our clients portfolio of relevant experience Salary levels increasingly see us as the go-to experts who asand when they need it.
help them interpret and manage the risks and 42% obligations that are required with managing For an increasing number of acontingent workforce.
This means that we businesses therefore, Contract are continually growing market share in Source: Hays UK Salary & Recruiting andTemporary workers make places like Germany as well as establishing Trends 2017 Guide upanincreasingly important part new client relationships across Europe, Asia oftheir skilled workforce.
We bring the expertise of our existing Temp and Contractor businesses and offer our clients clarity in what is a difficult and a complex area by helping them navigate the intricate Temp and Contractor regulations as they evolve.
Our resilient model offers balance between Permanent and Temporary contracts across specialisms Benefit from extensive Fast response tochanging market knowledge marketconditions Access to wider candidate TEMP Access to talent in pool in skilled-short areas PERM BALANCE CONTRACTING skilled-short areas 1 41% 1 Advice on candidates 59% Flexibility of cost base approachability Compliant interim workforce Time-efficient service, no admin burden 1 Represents proportion of Group net fee income.
"10 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information "" Hays has been a company that Ihave depended on for many years to sourcetalent. """
Laurence Halabut Chief HR Officer, Toyota Financial Services DELIVERING FLEXIBLE WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS IN AUSTRALIA The strong, long-lasting relationships we build with our workforce and also Recruitment Process Outsourcing clients across the world enable us to better understand RPO provider, helping TFS finding the skilled employees their needs and to offer them tailored workforce solutions they needed for their Permanent hiring.
We deployed to match their evolving requirements.
Over the past adedicated onsite management team and implemented fiveyears, in Australia, we have been a key recruitment a suite of technologies which immediately provided partner to Toyota Financial Services TFS, the financial tangible benefits, including more flexibility in their services arm of Toyota Motor Corporation, which operates labourcost base, increased compliance, better visibility worldwide across over 30 countries.
One of their biggest ofcontingent workforce and improved quality and workforce challenges we have helped them with over speedof hire.
these years has been finding and recruiting skilled Laurence Halabut, Chief HR Officer at TFS, noted: employees and contractors across various divisions, Hayshas been a company that I have depended on fromcontact centre roles to niche technology and formany years to source talent.
Their knowledge of the projectmanagement positions.
business along with the successful partnership we have, More recently Hays was appointed TFSs Managed continues to create a positive impact on the delivery Service Provider MSP, looking after their contingent ofvarious projects at Toyota Financial Services.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 11 Strategic report MEGA TREND 3 STRUCTURAL MARKET GROWTH ANDEVOLVING CLIENT DEMANDS opportunities and our aimis to continue to For example, to help clients of any size Most professional recruitment around open up these markets where the majority tracking all aspects of their contingent the world is still done by in-house ofrecruitment is still performed by in-house workforce we offer technology-enabled HR teams, with many immature HR teams.
We see this asa key factor solutions like our 3 Story Software, acloudmarkets, as well as some more mature contributing to driving our growth over-andbased vendor management and workforce economies, increasingly opening up to above the economic cycle by capitalising on management software.
the concept of outsourcing specialist recruitment.
Amongst certain client As well as investing to capitalise on these structural-growth opportunities, we work groups we continue toobserve a shift with our clients, whether SMEs or large towards increased levels of centralised corporates, to tailor our services to meet procurement, mostly seen in large their different needs.
Ourservices must be The way we provide these services has to tailored tothese different client needs, adapt to new business practices and evolving whether itis first-time outsourcing or client demands.
Examples include increased providing different specialist levels of centralised procurement mainly in Investing to recruitment delivery models.
In response, we have developed suitable hub-like delivery models build amarketWhat this means for us that match our clients needs for efficient leading We have existing scale in both mature, cyclical recruitment processes at scale, inthe most and less mature structural-growth markets.
business effective and appropriate way.
For instance We have been building a strong presence in we offer Managed Service Provider MSP markets like Germany which, despite being services, where we manage Temp and adeveloped economy, has alow penetration Contract workforces on an outsourced basis, rate when it comes to theoutsourcing of as well as Recruitment Process Outsourcing recruitment services forskilled, professional RPO services, where we manage all roles.
Therefore, notwithstanding our Permanent recruitment processes on behalf market-leading position, we still see many of clients.
Together, these MSP and RPO growth opportunities as more businesses services sit under our Hays Talent Solutions start to outsource their recruitment of business, and represent c. 15% of ournet fees.
Aside from Germany, We also continue to invest indeveloping manyinternational specialist recruitment newtools and resources to provide first-class marketsrepresent clear structural growth large-scale HR services.
1 The German Market German GDP growth rate Outsourcing levels of skilled 2 recruitment in Germany Despite being a developed 80% economy, Germany has a low 6% penetration rate when it comes to the outsourcing of specialist 60% recruitment services.
This 4% structural-growth opportunity, 40% means that in the past five years alone we increased our Germany 2% operating profits organically by 20% c. 35%, even though over the same period German GDP grew 2009 0% 0 at an average of just over 1%.
12 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Historic profile of Hays Germany Net fees Operating profit 300 100 90 250 80 Net fees by Specialism Net fees by contract type 70 200 60 150 50 40 100 30 72% 87% 20 50 IT & Contracting 10 Engineering & Temp 0 0 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Net fees IT 42% Contracting 62% Operating profit Engineering 30% Temp 25% Acc & Fin 11% Perm 13% Other 17% Number of consultants Number of consultants 2,000 1,503 1,500 1,213 1,088 940 944 1,000 786 670 479 452 463 500 0 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Number of o ces 19 17 20 13 13 13 11 9 9 8 8 10 0 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 BUILDING A MARKET-LEADING BUSINESS IN GERMANY Hays entered the German market in 2003 our service offering across contract types Operating Profit byacquiring a small IT Contracting business, and specialisms, whilststill expanding our CAGR 20032017 Ascena, which at the time was making core, world-class ITContracting business.
Despite Germany This means that wenow have a truly 27.5% being a developed economy, manyof the market-leading businesswhich in 2017 skilled, professional roles are still filled by generated 94 million inoperating profit, Operating profit in-house HR departments, with a relatively a CAGR of27.5% since theacquisition of low proportion being outsourced tospecialist Ascena.
Germany still represents a unique 94m recruitment firms.
Over the past 15 years we structural opportunity for us and our focus have witnessed a structural shift towards remains oncementing and enhancing the more outsourcing ofskilled labour and we breadth and scale of our operations as the have invested aggressively ahead of market continues to open up to first-time the curve, building abusiness with over outsourcing of skilled roles.
Wehave also diversified Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 13 Strategic report MEGA TREND 4 EMERGENCE OF NEW, AND EVOLVING, TECHNOLOGIES cope efficiently with thissubstantial increase Ultimately, our aim is to extrapolate Technology is in many ways in velocity and complexity of data.
However, meaningful data patterns and develop these transforming how people work, successfully sifting through large amounts of into an approachability index, a measure enabling remote working and data to find the right candidate for a job is not togauge how open to job opportunities impacting on how clients and enough anymore, as it may not be easy to apotential candidate is likely to be.
By candidates engage and interact with then persuade them to apply for that vacancy understanding these signals of candidate if they were not already planning a job move.
approachability, it becomes possible to find the jobs market and with Hays.
Also, This is why we use a variety of content the right moment to suggest vacancies to almost every area ofthe jobs market engagement tools to build and curate people and because trust has already been is becoming increasingly digitally ongoing relationships with current and built via our engagement marketing activities, enabled and the digitalisation of both potential candidates, providing them with they may be more open to an approach.
supply and demand creates vast insightful information relevant to their Oursector-leading technology and industry and their interests.
At the same collaborations ultimately help us drive growth quantities of data to be analysed time, we have ongoing collaborations with by improving our consultants productivity.
third-party platforms like LinkedIn, SEEK and We also have an Innovation team which is What this means for us Xing.
This allow us to examine large amounts tasked with assessing the technology Clients and candidates interact with us in of data generated by their users activity on landscape, identifying new industry trends, multiple and evolving ways using various aregular basis, to gain a clear understanding opportunities and threats and building channels, and it is part of our philosophy of the individuals, their skills and experience.
partnerships with key emerging players.
torecognise and quickly respond to these trends.
The emergence of new routes to market which are digitally enabled means wehave witnessed a considerable increase inthe volume of job applications received Candidates and in the number of ways in which we receive them.
Last year we received about sevenmillion CVs and had around 27 million hits to our jobs websites.
Thismeans that ourconsultants need to beequipped with thebest technological toolstobe able to PASSIVE ACTIVE LinkedIn 3rd party Ongoing Identify Seek data engagement and place Xing sources Others Identifying signs of approachability Maintain contact New candidate through content and client Understanding LinkedIn content relationships candidates HAYS Viewpoint ONE TOUCH Bringing people Hays Journal into Hays contact Job opportunities Salary guides Building awareness engaging with clients Clients 14 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TECHNOLOGY AND USE OF DATA The amount and variety of data that is being Interpreting data from our own database, CVs received generated in our industry has increased together withour ability to harness valuable in 2017 exponentially over recent years.
Capturing, insights from our relationships with external analysing and making sense of this wealth platforms, is increasingly becoming part of 7m ofdata remains a strategic imperative as we our value proposition to our clients.
continue to adapt and respond to a world With this in mind, the protection of Hits on Hays where many of our candidates profiles have candidatepersonal data and client websites moved onto various social media platforms.
confidential information remains at the At the same time, we recognise that data must heartof our business.
We have systems 27m be managed in an integrated manner with our andprocesses in operation to best ensure own proprietary database, OneTouch, to give that this information is held and transferred, us a competitive edge.
This is why weensured where appropriate, in a secure manner.
that OneTouch was built not onlyto be fully Werecognise the importance of complying integrated internally within our business, but with all relevant data protection and privacy that it would also have the ability to interact laws in each of ourlocal markets.
and connect with external platforms, as they emerge and evolve.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 15
