Governance ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder You will find below further detail on the Committees I am pleased to present to you the Audit Committee activities during the year under review, which include report prepared in accordance with the 2016 edition discharging its financial reporting, internal control and of the Code.
risk management responsibilities, supporting the Board in ensuring the Annual Report, as a whole, is fair, balanced This is our first year of working with our new external and understandable, and consideration of, amongst other auditor, .
"The move from one matters, audit effectiveness both internal and external, auditor to another can be a difficult process but I would "" The Audit non-audit services policy and the Groups whistleblowing like to express my thanks to both audit firms and the Committee keeps policy and procedures."
I hope this will provide shareholders internal finance team for a smooth and successful the Companys with the necessary information for them to assess the transition.
Notwithstanding that Deloitte were not enterprise risk Companys performance, business model and strategy.
"beingput forward to shareholders for re-election, the management Committee undertook a review of their performance as During the year the Financial Reporting Councils framework under there was value in this for all concerned and it can inform Corporate Reporting Review Team CRRT carried out close scrutiny. """
our planning for the forthcoming year regardless.
I am areview of the Companys Annual Report for the year Victoria Jarman also pleased to say that feedback from the exercise ended 30 June 2016.
The response by the Company to Chairman of the continued to be positive.
the request for information was discussed with me in my Audit Committee capacity as Chairman of the Audit Committee prior to The Committee has again supported the directors in their responding to the CRRT.
Details of the enquiry raised by assessment of the long-term viability of the Company for the CRRT and the Companys response thereto were also the purposes of the Code.
I am mindful that our chosen considered by the Committee.
The CRRT have closed viability period, of three years, is common to the their enquiries with no requirements to restate any majority of companies: however, I would like to reassure disclosures.
Undertakings of a limited nature were given you that we have not simply chosen this time frame as to enhance certain disclosures in the future in response adefault option, but have taken into account a great tothe CRRT review.
The Committee is satisfied that the number of factors, not least of which include the limited enhancements proposed and agreed with the CRRT have forward visibility in our sector and the diversity of our been appropriately incorporated in the 2017 Annual Report.
business, both sectorally and geographically.
The strength of our risk assessment process provides further Victoria Jarman support underpinning our rationale for this time frame Audit Committee Chairman being chosen again.
30 August 2017 The Group Risk Committee becomes further embedded in the way risk is managed within the Companys enterprise risk management framework with each passing year.
The Audit Committee keeps this framework under close scrutiny and the Audit Committee continues to be satisfied that the Board maintains sound risk management and internal controls.
Role of the Audit Committee The Committees terms of reference are available on Monitor the relationship with the Companys external theCompanys website haysplc.
com under Corporate Auditor, including consideration of fees, audit scope Governance.
and terms of engagement: The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit and the Auditors independence: Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including annual and half year reports, On engagement of the external Auditor, review the interim management statements, and other formal policy for the provision of non-audit services and announcements relating to its financial performance, monitor compliance: and reviewing and reporting to the Board on Monitor and review the Companys internal control significant financial reporting issues and judgments: and risk management systems: Where requested by the Board, review the content of Monitor and review the effectiveness of the the Annual Report and advise the Board whether, Companys Internal Audit function: and taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Ensure compliance with laws, regulations, ethical and necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys other issues, including that the Company maintains performance, business model and strategy: suitable arrangements for employees to raise concerns in confidence.
Recommend to the Board for approval by shareholders, the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external Auditor: 54 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Membership and meetings The Committee is appointed by the Board from its independent non-executive directors.
Biographies of theCommittees current members are set out on pages 44 and 45.
August November February May Committee member 2016 2016 2017 2017 Victoria Jarman Chairman Paul Harrison Torsten Kreindl MT Rainey Pippa Wicks Peter Williams The Chairman of the Committee, Victoria Jarman, The Committee commissions reports, either from isaChartered Accountant and its financial expert, who external advisers, the Head of Internal Audit or Group also chairs the Audit Committee of Equiniti Group plc.
management, as required, to enable it to discharge All Committee members are financially literate.
The Group Finance Director attends its meetings, as do the external Auditor and the Head of The Committee discharges its responsibilities through Internal Audit, both of whom have the opportunity aseries of scheduled meetings during the year, tomeet privately with the Committee Chairman, theagenda of which is linked toevents in the financial intheabsence of Group management.
The Chairman calendar of the Company.
The Committee met four ofthe Board andtheChief Executive are also invited times during the financial year and all members to, and regularly attend, Committee meetings.
wereinattendance at all meetings, with the exception of PaulHarrison who missed one meeting due to a priorcommitment.
Main Committee activities during the financial year Approved the annual Committee programme Considered the FRC CRRT review Reviewed financial results for publication Reviewed the performance and effectiveness Considered the external audit plan and reviewed the of the external auditor results oftheaudit Reviewed the performance and effectiveness Approved the internal audit plan and reviewed of the internal auditfunction its findings Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements Reviewed the new requirements relating to external Carried out a review of the Committees effectiveness auditor appointments and audit partner rotation and reviewed progress on matters arising from Reviewed the non-audit services provided by the previous assessments external auditor Considered the Code requirements concerning fair, Reviewed the risk management and controls balanced and understandable reporting framework and its effectiveness, together with the Considered the Companys long-term viability Groups principal risks Recommended the Audit Committee Report for Considered all aspects of IT operations and risks approval by theBoard Considered the growing threat of cyber-related Held discussions with the external auditor and the attacks and associated responses across the business Head of Internal Audit without management being present Fair, balanced and understandable In addition to its work described here, the Committee has In making its recommendation to the Board, the reviewed the financial and narrative disclosures in this Committees robust governance approach included: years Annual Report.
Ithas advised the Board that, in its Comprehensive Group and subsidiary accounts view, taken as a whole, the AnnualReport is fair, balanced process, withwritten confirmations provided by the and understandable and provides theinformation regional senior management teams on the health of necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups the financial control environment: performance, business model and strategy.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 55 Governance ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED Reviews of the Annual Report undertaken at different the pension items by discussing a report prepared levels of the Group and by the senior management bymanagement based on work performed by the team that aim to ensure consistency and overall balance: Companys actuary which set the key assumptions External audit review: usedin the calculation of the deficit and related income Clear guidance and instruction of the requirement statement items.
The Committee also considered the provided to contributors: work performed by PwC in testing the assumptions Written confirmation that information provided has andwas satisfied that the assumptions used and the been done soon a fair and balanced basis: disclosures in the financial statements are appropriate.
Additional scrutiny by senior management: and External Auditor Additional reviews by the Committee Chairman of the Both the Committee and the Board keep the external draft Annual Report in advance of the final sign-off in Auditors independence and objectivity under close the context oftherevised Code provision.
scrutiny, particularly with regard to its reporting to Final sign-off is provided by the Board, on the shareholders.
PwC were appointed external Auditor of recommendation oftheCommittee.
Professional rules require that the Companys audit partner at PwC be rotated Significant issues considered during the year every five years.
In reviewing both the half and full year financial statements, the following issues of significance were The Competition and Markets Authority Statutory considered by the Committee and addressed as Audit Services Order 2014 sets out certain regulations in described.
These matters are described in more detail respect of audit tendering and appointments and related innote 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
audit committee responsibilities, which came into effect for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2015.
Debtor and accrued income recoverability The Company has complied with the provisions of the The recoverability of trade debtors, accrued income and Order for the financial year ended 30 June 2017. the level ofprovisions for bad debt are considered to be areas of significant judgment due to the pervasive nature Auditor Independence and Non-Audit Services Policy of these balances to the financial statements and the The Committee believes that the issue of non-audit importance of cash collection in the working capital services to Hays is closely related to external Auditor independence and objectivity.
The Committee recognises management of the business.
The Committee considered that the independence of the external Auditor may the level and ageing of debtors and accrued income, reasonably be expected to be compromised if they also together with the appropriateness of provisioning, by act as the Companys consultants and advisers.
Having reviewing previous experience of bad debt exposure and said that, the Committee accepts that certain work of the consistency of judgments made year-on-year.
The anon-audit nature is best undertaken by the external Committee was satisfied that thelevel of provision and Auditor.
To keep a check on this, the Committee has the carrying value of debtors and accrued income adopted a policy to ensure that the provision of any isappropriate.
non-audit services by its external Auditor does not Revenue recognition impair its independence or objectivity.
The main areas of judgment in revenue recognition The key features of the non-audit services policy are relateto i cut-off as we recognise permanent placement as follows: income on the day a candidate starts work, and temporary placement income over the duration of the placement: The provision of non-audit services provided by the and ii the recognition of temporary contractual Companys external Auditor be limited to a value of arrangements where we act as principal on a gross basis 70% of the average audit fees over a three-year period: rather than net basis.
The Committee discussed and Any non-audit project work which could impair the reviewed these areas with both management and the objectivity or independence of the external Auditor Auditor and remains satisfied that Group accounting may not be awarded to the external Auditor: and policies with regard to revenue recognition have been Delegated authority by the Committee for the approval adhered to and that judgments made remain appropriate.
of non-audit services by the external Auditor is as follows: Goodwill Value of services per Authoriser non-audit project The Committee assessed the carrying value of goodwill by reviewing a report by management which set out the Group Financial Controller Up to 25,000 values attributable across the cash-generating units Group Finance Director Up to 150,000 CGU, compiled using projected cash flows based on Audit Committee Above 150,000 assumptions related to discount rates and future growth rates.
The Committee also considered the work PwC's fee in respect of its 2017 financial year audit of undertaken by PwC and managements sensitivity Hays was 1.1 million.
Accordingly, the maximum value of analysis on key assumptions.
Inthe case of the Veredus non-audit services that PwC could have been engaged goodwill the Committee considered the disclosure in byHays to provide during the financial year 2017 was respect of this CGU.
After discussion, the Committee 0.7 million noting that PwC have only been engaged wassatisfied that the assumptions used were this year.
The total fee for non-audit services provided appropriate.
by PwC during the 2017 financial year was 0.6 million Pension accounting 2016: 0.6 million, excluding the FY17 half-year review Pension accounting is complex and contains areas of fee of 0.1 million 2016: 0.1 million.
The main component significant judgment, most notably those in respect of the of the non-audit services was a change management discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the programme in Germany which was underway prior to net deficit disclosed in note 22.
TheCommittee reviewed theexternal audit tender, where PwC are providing 56 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information project management and communication support for No significant weaknesses were identified as a result of theproject.
PwC's involvement in the project will cease risk management and internal control reviews undertaken by September 2017. by Internal Audit during the reporting period.
The Company did not pay any non-audit fees to PwC The Committee believes that the Groups enterprise risk onacontingent basis.
A summary of the fees paid to the management framework needs to continue to evolve in external Auditor is set out in note 6 to the Consolidated accordance with the growth of the Hays business around Financial Statements.
Throughout the financial year the Internal Audit team has continued to enhance the enterprise Having reviewed Hays non-audit services policy this year, riskmanagement framework and work with the Group the Committee is satisfied that adequate procedures are Finance Director and the operating companies across in place to safeguard the external Auditors objectivity theglobe to further develop and embed the framework and independence.
The Group Risk Committee, Effectiveness of the external Auditor chaired by the Group Finance Director andcomprising The annual effectiveness review in respect of financial senior operators from each region, together with year 2016 was conducted under the guidance of the representation from IT and finance, assists in the Committee Chairman, on behalf of the Committee, management of risk in the Group.
notwithstanding that Deloitte were not being proposed Raising concerns at work for re-election as external Auditor.
It covered amongst The whistleblowing procedure in place across the Group other things a review of the audit partners, audit ensures thatemployees are able to raise any concerns resource, planning and execution, Committee support about any possible improprieties in business practices, and communications.
orother matters, in confidence: this is managed and Onthe basis of this review, theCommittee was satisfied reported through an external third party.
with the performance of Deloitte in thefulfilment of its obligations as external Auditor and of the effectiveness The disclosures under this arrangement are investigated ofthe audit process in FY16.
promptly by the Company Secretary, with the support ofInternal Audit, and escalated to the Management Risk management and internal control Board and the Committee as appropriate, with follow-up The Board is responsible for the adequacy and action being taken as soon as practicable thereafter.
effectiveness of the Groups internal control system and risk management framework, which in order to fulfil its The Committee, as part of its overall review of the Groups responsibilities the Board has delegated authority to the system ofinternal control, reviewed the procedures in Committee.
place during the reporting period and is satisfied that they are appropriate to the size and scale of the Group.
In order to establish an assessment from both a financial and operational control perspective, the Committee looks Anti-bribery and corruption to the work of the Internal Audit function, specifically Hays has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and toconsider whether significant process and control corruption.
The Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy weaknesses are identified, improved and monitored and with specific reference tothe UK Bribery Act 2010 is that risks have been identified, evaluated and managed.
Overall responsibility for, and oversight of, the Policy lies with the plc Board.
Training is The Committee considered the Groups risk assessment provided to all employees annually in local languages and process, which included coverage across the regions, ongoing support is provided when and where necessary.
businesses and functions within the Group, reviewing In addition, risk assessments are carried out on an ad hoc theeffectiveness of the risk methodology employed, basis, for example when new countries are under therisk mitigation measures implemented and future consideration whether they are considered to be low or riskmanagement and monitoring.
high risk or prior to entry into new public sector markets.
Internal Audit The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Policy The Committee oversees and monitors the work of during the year and concluded that it was sufficient for theInternal Audit function, which reviews key controls managing the anti-bribery and corruption risks faced by andprocesses throughout the Group on a rolling basis, the Group.
including resources, scope and effectiveness of Audit Committee effectiveness thefunction.
The Committee considered its effectiveness in The Group Head of Internal Audit has direct access discharging its duties during the year.
The Committee totheCommittee and meets regularly with both the looked at the work it had carried out during the year and Committee and its Chairman, without the presence considered that its performance during the year was ofmanagement, to consider the work of Internal Audit.
effective when measured against its terms of reference and general audit committee best practice.
Details of The Committee approved the programme of work for themain activities ofthe Committee and its role and theInternal Audit function in respect of the 2017 financial responsibilities have been detailed earlier in this Report.
year, which was focused on addressing both financial and overall risk management objectives across the Group.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at During the year, 30 Internal Audit reviews were undertaken, thisyears AGM toanswer any questions on the work with the findings reported to both the Management Board ofthe Committee.
and the Committee, with recommendations tracked and progress subsequently reported back to the Committee.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 57
