Strategic report OUR BUSINESS MODEL A balanced and diverse model A GLOBALLY INTEGRATED We have deliberately and strategically built a business which is balanced and diverse.
PLATFORM WITH LOCAL Within our network of 33 countries, we have exposure toboth more cyclical, mature markets such as the UK EXPERTISE andmore immature, structural growth markets such as Germany.
We are exposed to the Temporary, Contractor and Permanent recruitment markets and have longWe believe that having a balanced exposure within established scale and expertise in 20 specialist areas ofskilled employment.
andbetween our markets is key to driving superior We are predominantly private sector-focused, but also andresilient financial performance, and better results serve public sector clients in some markets.
Within our forour clients, throughout the economic cycle.
portfolio of services, we work on one-off placements forSMEs and global multinationals as well as contractWe have a business with scale, breadth and diversity based higher volume recruitment for our larger clients.
ofexposure, which is built to take into account the mega The balance, breadth and scale of our business is unique trends driving change in our industry, the short-term in the world of specialist recruitment.
market movements we experience and positions us to This is a key differentiator, and we believe it is important as it makes our business and its earnings relatively more worktowards our long-term aims and strategy.
resilient to todays ever-changing macroeconomic and political landscape.
Exposure to mature and less-maturemarkets Structural-growth markets are those where the use ofagencies like Hays to source skilled candidates is arelatively new practice.
Traditionally in these markets, thisrecruitment is undertaken by companies themselves, using hiring teams within their own HR functions.
A key driver of our growth is therefore the first-time outsourcing of this recruitment to third parties.
This means that these markets are relatively less cyclical by nature, and less driven by the prevailing economic backdrop, or shortterm sentiment.
More mature markets are those where the use of agencies is a well-established, long-standing norm.
Here, clients willuse agencies to help them fill roles in the majority of cases.
As such, these markets tend to be more cyclical innature, with activity levels dependent far more on theamount of job churn occurring at any particular time.
That is, the confidence of clients to replace leavers in their businesses, or hire extra people, and the confidence amongst candidates to move jobs.
22 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Balanced exposure across markets Breadth of expertise Net fees by clients Net fees by Geography Top 40 Other clients C. 15% C. 85% Net fees by specialisms 24% 49% 27% Asia Pacific Continental Europe UK & Ireland & Rest of World Contract type Contract type IT 21% Accountancy & Finance 15% Construction & Property 15% Engineering 9% Private Public Temp Perm Office Support 7% Other 33% 85% 15% 59% 41% Major specialisms within Otherinclude: Banking Related 7%, LifeSciences 5%, Sales & Marketing 4% and Education 3%.
Net fees by geography, type and market maturity Structural immature Cyclical mature 43% 57% 0-30% market penetration 30-70% market penetration 70% market penetration 28% 14% 87% 44% 66% 56% Temp Temp Temp Temp Temp Temp 86% Perm 72% Perm 56% Perm 44% Perm 34% Perm 13% Perm LatAm, Russia Asia Germany France, US, Canada Australia & New Zealand UK & Ireland & Rest of Europe &The Netherlands Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 23 t n e m n o r i v n e e v i t i t e p m o C Strategic report OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED A balanced and diverse model CREATING VALUE FOR What we need to make our business model work.
ALLSTAKEHOLDERS We earn fees primarily on a contingent basis, whenwe successfully place People and culture acandidate ina role with a client.
These Our people Society fees, paid bythe client, are derived as Hays is the ultimate people business and We believe that what we do makes a apercentage of the candidates pay.
as such the ability to attract, develop, bigdifference to the world around us.
enable and retain the very best consultants Wehelphundreds of thousands of people Our consultants develop long-term relationships with and managers in our industry is vital to every year to secure the next leg on their clients and candidates to understand their local markets our success.
We aim to create an exciting personal career journey, and companies and are equipped with the latest technology, tools and and vibrant work environment and we source the skilled employees they need data to match candidates to roles.
work continuously to provide our people togrow.
This all contributes to the wider with attractive career paths that will make growth and success of the economies We understand the needs and challenges of our them experts in their fields.
andcommunities in which we operate.
clientsand candidates locally and employ the power ofour integrated global business to meet them quickly and effectively.
Brand, technology and data Brand Technology and data Our reputation as a world-leader in the We have built a sector-leading global specialist recruitment market is supported technology platform that is able to and reinforced by our world-class global interact with other applications and brand, which is consistent in each of our third-party technologies.
This, together markets around the world.
We constantly with our investment in data science and focus on building wider recognition and digital marketing capabilities, enables awareness of Hays as a market leader ourconsultants to make sense of the both through partnerships with other vastamount of data generated in organisations and by building a portfolio todaysworld, source real-time, accurate of high quality and respected publications information on their market and ultimately that demonstrate the thought-leadership to get the best candidates to clients faster credential of Hays and our people.
Relationships Partnerships and collaborations Client and candidate relationships Our philosophy is not just to invest in Forming and maintaining strong technology solutions, but also to build relationships with our clients and strong collaborations with leading candidates is at the heart of what we do.
innovators and influential organisations, Our extensive engagement marketing creating mutually beneficial relationships programme offers them industry-leading which help us better understand and content, with the aim of helping them serve our clients and candidates.
succeed in their careers and source the Thisphilosophy extends beyond the right talent for their business.
This also technology sector and enhances our includes making connections with people ability to better respond to fast-moving who are not yet clients or candidates market developments.
andbuilding a relationship which would make them more likely to be open to future approaches.
24 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 y m o n o c e o r c a M t n e m n o r i v n e e v i t i t e p m o C L m R o e r c c o r a f l u t i e t a l x m p p e n e d t r e t m t i s a a Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information How we create value Stakeholder benefits As the ultimate people business, everything The value we create not only generates we do is focused on placing the right people returnsfor our shareholders, but also into the right roles.
Clients We work closely with our clients to help them find the skilled people they need to drive growth in their businesses.
We work with thousands of companies every year, with no single client representing more than 1% of Group net fees.
Number of clients Private Public sector 30,000 85:15 Candidates We help candidates securing their next Perm job orTemp Contracting assignment.
We connect ourcandidates with the world of work through an array of events, debates, seminars and networking opportunities across our network of 33 countries.
2017 Perm 2017 Temp Contracting placements assignments Market Understanding 70,000 240,000 expertise client needs Employees We invest a significant amount of time and effort to ensure Hays is a great place to work.
We offer Finding clients our consultants the best training to become experts in their market and develop their careers, great talent along with the best technology and tools in the industry to enable them to be as productive and successful aspossible.
2017 Internal 2017 Formal Data, tools Candidate promotions trainingdays and products relationships 2,162 2,322 Shareholders We are working towards our objective of building the worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment business and in doing so we aim to create long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
The breadth, scale and balance of our business model, together with our industry-leading operating leverage, allow us to deliver superior financial performance through the cycle.
This, combined with our focus on working capital management and the cash generative nature ofour business, means we have the potential togenerate meaningful shareholder returns as ourbusiness grows.
2017 EPS 2017 total dividends growth pay-out Capital reinvestment 14% 108.3m Our priority for free cash flow remains tofund the Groups investment and development.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 25 r e r k g a e e t n t m d n i e d g l e a a l t b i r v e o l e n G r d s y y m o n o c e o r c a M
