Strategic Report Our competitive advantage We have the capabilities to invest, build and maintain anyasset class in the UK Kier focuses on building long-term relationships with its clients.
Through understanding the needs of customers and utilising our breadth of , we are able to work with clients to solve problems across a range of sectors.
What we deliver for our customers Whatever a customer requires at any stage of the built environment lifecycle, one or more of our businesses can provide world-class solutions, individually or in combination, locally or nationally.
Our extensive network ofregional offices and our stronglocal relationships ensure that we can understand our clients and respond to their needs.
The combined strength and capabilities of the Group allows us to respond rapidly when situations change.
Our strong customer relationships give us the understanding we need to provide the best, most reliable services and to tailor ouroffer accordingly.
Our strong cash generation and efficient capital recycling provide stability and the ability to invest for the future.
Our focus on the safety of our people and our ability to embrace innovation and technology enable us to continually improve our customer service and our operating efficiency.
We take a customer-centric approach, using our combined capabilities for investing in, building and maintaining assets to develop tailored solutions for each customer.
Invest Build Maintain Clients use Kiers The construction Kier works with clients to development expertise business offers manage and develop their and equity to support outstanding technical assets.
A focus on every stage of a scheme, skills that enable Kier working in collaboration from gaining finance tomeet the most on defined outputs and planning permission demanding quality, safety ensures Kier delivers the through to end-to-end and efficiency standards.
4 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Manchester City Centre Across our market positions The following pages provide a snapshot of our market positions and opportunities in those markets.
Leading builder Leading Leading provider of infrastructure player mixed tenure housing The UKs leading regional Top three infrastructure A top three provider of builder with positions in player in the UK with a mixed tenure housing education, health and on number one position in UK andrelated maintenance public sector frameworks strategic highways services 1.8bn 1.5bn 800m Revenue Revenue Revenue Turn to pages 46-47 Turn to pages 46-51 Turn to pages 44-45 for more information for more information for more information Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 5
