Strategic Report Divisional review The Construction division delivered a strong year with a record 1 3bnof new contracts awarded in the year.
Revenue was up 6% Construction 2 to2,019m 2016: 1,901m with an underlying operating profit increase of 2% to 39.8m 2016: 38.9m.
Underlying operating 2 The Construction division comprises margins were maintained around 2.0% 2016: 2.0% and the working capital performance was good.
Thecurrent order book of UK building, UK infrastructure and 4.2bn for secured and probable work, excluding framework awards, represents more than 90% of forecast revenue for the international businesses which 2018 financial year, on increasing volumes.
undertake a range of building and UK building infrastructure projects.
The building market was buoyant during the year assisted by the re-emergence of a number of major public sector projects.
Our Revenue of more than 2bn success on frameworks and our selective approach to new work, focusing on risk management and client relationships, has seen Operating margin of 2.0% the business deliver another strong and consistent performance.
The division benefited from continued demand particularly in the Contract awards in the year of biotech, science and student accommodation markets.
Wales and the south-east and, specifically the Cambridge market, have been more than 3.0bn, record level particularly encouraging.
In the private health sector, we secured one of four positions on Order book of 4.2bn the 500m Private Investment Construction PIC healthcare framework and were appointed preferred trader for 75m of new private hospital developments.
With greater budgetary challenges, there is an increasing trend for public sector clients to procure capital building works through frameworks.
Positions on the following frameworks were secured in the second half: a position on the 6bn LHC Schools and Community Buildings frameworks: a place on the 1bn Notting Hill Housing framework: and a place on all five lots of the 700m Cambridge County Councilframework.
1 In addition Kier is shortlisted for inclusion on the Revenue following frameworks: 8bn Education and Skills Funding Agency Construction 2,019m framework: and 2016: 1,901m the national and regional integrated healthcare supply chain NHS Building for Wales National and Regional frameworks.
2 2 Operating profit Operating margin Kier has maintained and grown its presence in the health and education sectors.
In the health sector, our position on the Department of Health ProCure21 and ProCure22 frameworks has 39.8m 2.0% resulted in the award of 109m of work in the year.
In the 3 3 2016 : 38.9m 2016 : 2.0% education sector, over 200m worth of projects have been awarded or are at preferred bidder status.
Kier has a turnover of over 600m in the education sector and expects further growth in Statutory operating Order book the tertiary education sector.
loss 10.1 m 4.2bn 3 3 2016 : 3.2 m 2016 : 3.2bn Financial information in this table relates to continuing operations.
1 Group and share of joint ventures.
See notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Restated to present the results of Mouchel Consulting as discontinued following its sale in the year, and to restate the results of UK Mining into continuing operations.
46 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Making a difference 4,460 Won direct and indirect jobs Management Todays created through the Mersey Construction category For Gateway project Britains Most Admired Company awards twice in the last three years International In our international construction business, focus is on the continued delivery and development of the business in the MiddleEast.
Despite the sustained low oil price, UK Export Finance UKEF continues to attract clients and we are experiencing a steady number of schemes coming to market.
During the year, three new contracts totalling around 400m weresecured using UKEF including two staff accommodation projects and the new, multi-purpose, 20,000-seat Dubai Arena.
The process to settle the final accounts on the two MTR contracts The David Ross Sports complex, one of the UKs leading sports in Hong Kong has been agreed and we expect the practical facilities, required the comprehensive redevelopment and completion of the Caribbean project in the next few weeks.
demolition of the existing sports centre to create a modern, Theclosure of the Caribbean and Hong Kong businesses has customer built facility for the University of Nottingham enabling the resulted in non-underlying charges of 86m.
University to cater for 70 sports clubs.
In addition, the sale of Mouchel Consulting in October 2016 generated a profit on sale of 40m in the 2017 financial year.
During the year, over 147 projects, with a combined value of Construction outlook 142m, were secured through the Scape National Minor Works framework where Kier is the sole provider for projects up to 4m The Construction division continues to perform well.
With its established framework positions and selective approach, it is able throughout the UK.
Kier is also one of six framework partners currently bidding for the first phase of the construction of three to take advantage of a broad range of public and private sector opportunities.
Our strength in the education and health markets prisons worth c400m.
positions us for growth in these markets, particularly the tertiary Major contract awards in the year also included the 57m education market.
University of Sheffield award and the 53m Hoxton Hotel in London.
The divisions short-term future performance is underpinned by the UK building business while the infrastructure business provides Infrastructure good medium-term prospects.
Significant framework success Kier continued to work on civil engineering projects across a provides access to a 14bn addressable market.
The Middle East broadrange of sectors including highways, rail, ports and coastal, business provides some diversity to the cycle of the UK economy.
aviation, energy, water and utilities and nuclear, delivering a steady The division has a well balanced workload, split equally between revenue performance.
The division is seeing a particular increase private and public sector clients.
The performance of the three in transport opportunities with the HS2 joint venture award worth businesses, particularly UK building, have pushed the revenue of a combined 1.5bn, which will deliver revenue from 2018, and the overall division above 2bn this year, and more importantly, three new Smart motorway projects covering design and survey have delivered a good 2% operating margin, keeping the division work on the M20 and M23 and an additional project on the M6 as on track for its Vision 2020 target.
With an order book of 4.2bn, part of the Collaborative Delivery framework for Highways England.
the division has more than 90% of forecast revenue secured Other new awards in the year included a 38m contract on for FY18.
Work is ongoing at Hinkley Point C and the Farringdon Crossrail project this financial year and the Mersey Gateway project, despitesome challenges, is expected to achieve the initial completion milestone with the toll road crossing opening shortly.
Given the higher risk profile of some infrastructure contracts, thebusiness is focused on improving margins by winning high quality work with repeat key clients, whilst continuing to focus onrisk management, contract terms and conditions and cash performance.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 47
