Corporate Governance Statement Accountability By way of example, a summary of the process for signing-off the 2017 financial statements is: Highlights Successful establishment of a single finance shared Business units produce year-end packs for central review services centre the FSSC July and early August Good progress with respect to the Groups new ERP system Systems of risk management and internal controls assessed Central consolidation process and drafting the Groups as being effective financial statements For further information on how we manage risk, please turn to August pages 34 to 36 inclusive.
Audit close-out meetings, RMAC review and Board approval August and September Systems of risk management and internal control General During the year, the Board oversaw: The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of risk management and internal control, including those established to the establishment of the FSSC, based in Manchester: and identify, manage and monitor risk.
These systems are designed to significant progress with respect to the implementation of the mitigate, but cannot completely eliminate, the risks faced by the Groups new ERP system.
The Board has delegated responsibility for overseeing the Both the FSSC and the new ERP system have delivered implementation of these systems to the RMAC.
 to the Groups financial The Group Head of Risk and Internal Audit, who has direct access reporting processes.
to the RMAC and its Chair, reports to the RMAC on strategic risk issues and overseesthe Groups risk management framework.
Assessment of principal risks Working with the Group Head of Risk and Internal Audit, During the year, the Board conducted a review of the Groups management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of principal risks and uncertainties, together with its appetite with the risks that apply to the Groups business and operations, respect to each such risk.
A summary of the review process is together with the design and implementation of controls which are as follows: designed to manage those risks.
A summary of how the Group identifies and manages risk is set out on pages 34to 36 Individual meetings with the ExCo to assess their risk inclusive.
appetite against the Groups strategic priorities During the 2018 financial year, the Board and the RMAC will January March 2017 continue to oversee the review of the Groups risk management framework, which is summarised on pages 34 and 35.
ExCo meeting to agree a collective risk appetite with respect to these priorities To support this framework, the Group has a whistleblowing March 2017 helpline which enables employees to raise concerns in confidence.
Further information about the helpline is set out underSystems of risk management and internal control Tolerance range and measurement metrics agreed Whistleblowing arrangements in the Risk Management and April May 2017 AuditCommittee report on page 74.
Effectiveness review ExCo identified specific risks relating to the business: The Code requires that the Board conducts an annual review of please see Principal risks and uncertainties the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
on pages 37 to 41 inclusive Thesteps taken by the RMAC, on behalf of the Board, in reviewing July and August 2017 these systems are described under Systems of risk management and internal control Effectiveness review in the Risk Board assessment of its risk appetite Management and Audit Committee report on page 74.
August 2017 Financial reporting The Group has clear policies and procedures to ensure the conformity, reliability and accuracy of financial reporting, including The Boards statement relating to its assessment of the Groups the process for preparing the Groups interim and annual financial principal risks and uncertainties is set out on page 62. statements.
Board statements The Groups financial reporting policies and procedures cover The Board delegated the responsibility for conducting the work financial planning and reporting, preparation of financial required for it to provide the fair, balanced and understandable, information and the monitoring and control of capital expenditure.
going concern and viability statements to the RMAC.
Further details of the work carried out by the RMAC in support of these The Groups financial statements preparation process includes statements is set out in the Risk Management and Audit reviews at business unit, divisional and Group levels.
Committee report on pages 74 and 75.
In conducting this work, the RMAC acts on behalf of the Board and its activities remain the responsibility of the Board.
72 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017
