Strategic Report Divisional review 1 Services revenue was up 2% to 1.7bn 2016: 1.7bn, reflecting the increased expenditure by Highways England in the second half.
Services 2 Underlying operating profit was 87.0m 2016: 86.1m, up 1%.
An underlying operating margin of 5.2% reflects the stable and The Services division comprises consistent performance of the business.
Infrastructure services highways and The order bookat 30 June 2017 of 4.7bn 2016: 5.3bn reflects the run-off of long-term contracts, albeit the bidding utilities, Property services housing, pipeline remains good, particularly in highways.
More than 90% of targeted revenue for 2018 is secured: moreover, the order book facilities management and related does not include potential contract extensions, which, if included, services and environmental services.
would add more than 2.5bn, and provide visibility of workload beyond 2020.
Revenue growth of 2% to 1.7bn Approximately 60% of the divisions capabilities relate to the provision of infrastructure services in the highways and utilities Strong operating margin of 5.2% sectors.
Together with the Groups capabilities in construction, Kier is one of the UKs leading infrastructure businesses with an Significantly increased activity annual revenue of approximately 1.5bn.
withHighways England in the Infrastructure services Highways maintenance second-half The Group maintained its position as the UKs leading provider ofstrategic maintenance and management.
Revenues increased significantly in the second half, reflecting Highways Englands Order book of 4.7bn with phasing of works.
Moving forward, Highways England is focused additional potential extensions onreducing the historic peaks and troughs of spending, providing greater predictability across the year.
We expect the current level of ofmore than 2.5bn spending to continue with funding for Road Investment Strategy 1 remaining positive.
During the year, the following Highways England Post year end: acquisition of contracts were mobilised: McNicholas creating a top three a 15-year, 140m repair and maintenance contract for Area 13 player inthe utilities sector covering Cumbria: a two-year, 50m maintenance services contract for Areas 6 and 8 covering East Anglia and the East of England: and a five-year, 40m design service contract for Areas 1 and 2.
The local authority market remains active albeit with budget pressures, which is resulting in new opportunities and clients looking at new ways to deliver services.
The devolution of funding and decision-making, both locally and regionally, is now starting to 1 Revenue gather pace with the establishment of Regional Transport Bodies, mayoral authorities and increased collaboration between authorities.
New local authority awards mobilised in the 1,688m period were: 2016: 1,656m a one-year, 40m extension to the Lincolnshire local authority contract: 2 2 Operating profit Operating margin a two-year, 27m extension to the Harrow Highways contract: and a five-year, 270m extension to the Suffolk Highways contract.
87.0m 5.2% In the local authority market, we have visibility of the order book 2016: 86.1m 2016: 5.2% beyond 2020 and there is a steady pipeline of projects that provide good opportunity for growth.
Statutory operating Order book In Australia, continued population growth is resulting in increased profit demand for road projects including Smart Motorway projects.
Beyond the Groups highways joint venture in Australia, the highways design centre in Sydney continues to be awarded 54.5m 4.7bn highways design contracts by third parties, reflecting their 2016: 5.6m 2016: 5.3bn increased profile in this market.
1 Group and share of joint ventures.
See notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
48 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Making a difference Over 40 800,000 community engagement Over 800,000 hours worked events undertaken by without a safety incident on Workplace Services providing our north west Highways training and support for 2,000 England project youngsters during 2017 Infrastructure services outlook We expect that Highways England maintenance activity levels will continue as part of the strategic highways funding commitment to 2020 through the current RIS.
We continue to work with Highways England as they look at their future operating model and look forward to participating in the Routes to Market and 8bn framework procurement initiatives which will provide significant future opportunity for the Group.
The utilities market presents significant opportunity.
With the UK population growth expected to increase, the demand for services is increasing across a broad range of markets including water, energy and telecoms.
The acquisition of McNicholas extends the Groups presence in this marketplace, increasing our capabilities as well as giving increased sector and geographic presence.
Kier continues to build on its position as a key supplier to Highways England.
Infrastructure services Utilities The utilities business focuses on four sectors: water, power, gasand telecoms.
In the water sector, new contracts totalling 43m were awarded in the year, including a two-year Severn Trent Water AMS extension.
The business continues to invest in alliances, enabling our teams to work more closely with our clients on improving customer delivery.
Clients in the water sector are already preparing for the AMP7 bidding cycle which takes place in 2020.
Yorkshire Water, Severn Trent Water and Welsh Water are all coming to market early and preliminary discussions are ongoing with these clients.
It is anticipated that the OfWat regulatory framework for AMP7 will be more challenging than AMP6, with more stretching targets and a focus on resilience, customer service, affordability and innovation.
In the power market, new contracts totalling 53m were awarded by SGN.
With the completion of the National Grid Gas Distribution separation and the growing demand for power and gas, other opportunities will arise in this market.
On 12 July 2017 we acquired McNicholas, a leading player in the multi-utilities market, making Kier a top three player in the utilities sector.
McNicholas is an established UK engineering services provider in the telecommunications, gas, power, water, renewable energy and rail sectors and has a client base which includes Virgin Media, Network Rail and UK Power Networks.
The acquisition builds on Kiers strategy to accelerate growth and hold leading With UK population growth expected to increase, the demand for positions in its chosen markets.
services is increasing across a broad range of markets including water, energy and telecoms.
Kier has a leading position in the utilities sector.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 49 Strategic Report Divisional review continued The facilities management team have extended their presence into new sectors and clients with a strong presence in the arts and heritage sectors.
Property services Housing maintenance Property services Workplace Services The sector continues to undergo significant change, with social Workplace Services has established itself as a provider of landlords challenged by budget reductions and the recently end-to-end workplace solutions, spanning hard facilities introduced Universal Credit arrangements providing impetus management, soft facilities management, design and asset toreview how housing associations manage their portfolios.
management and wider business services.
The business has Withthe anticipated merger of housing associations, Kier is one continued to grow in both the public and private sectors, of a select few service providers with the capacity to deliver particularly in the arts and heritage sectors.
largecontracts and the end-to-end solution clients are seeking.
New awards in the period totalling c40m included: During the year and since year end, a number of contracts have a two-year contract with the Royal Berkshire Fire and Rescue been awarded including the five-year 100m Powys joint award Service providing hard FM: with the Workplace Services business, and a range of planned estates transformation design work with MOPAC: maintenance contracts with Sheffield City Council.
a three-year hard FM contract with NHS Business Services Authority: and a one-year total FM contract with Sensor City Liverpool, part of the John Moores University complex.
Successful mobilisations took place on the Powys joint award involving Housing Maintenance.
In addition, following the award of the Capital City College Group contract earlier this year, an extension is under discussion for a further five City and City and Islington college sites with other additional opportunities ongoing with the London Borough of Camden and Careers Wales.
Kier has also successfully secured places on a number of frameworks including the two-year 2.8bn Crown Commercial Services Project Management and Full Design Team Services frameworks, available to the whole of the public sector, for the provision of multi-disciplinary professional consultancy services.
50 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Property Services outlook Services outlook With cost being a major driver for clients, our Property Services The Services division, which accounts for approximately 50% of teams are working closely with them to transform their data the Groups profits, is performing well.
It is focused on providing collection and interpretation of that data to deliver appropriate essential, day-to-day routine services to clients and communities.
Investment in our front-of-house systems has enabled Against a backdrop of financial pressures for our clients, there are our teams to interact seamlessly with our clients systems and we opportunities to discuss future procurement models, as well as continue to look at smarter ways of working together.
The look at opportunities arising from the new mayoral authorities, introduction of universal credit will give the Housing Maintenance which will result in greater regional budgetary control and business greater opportunities as landlords seek new ways of increased collaboration between authorities.
Having secured more managing their portfolios.
than 1bn of new work in the year, the Services division now has 1 an order book of 5.3bn.
This provides good long-term visibility of Following the Grenfell Tower disaster, there has been a shift in our workload, with potential extensions adding a further 2.5bn, spending priorities by social landlords with the reallocation of which is more than 90% target revenue secured for FY18.
funds into fire risk assessment and prevention.
The Property Services business are involved in ongoing compliance and health and safety to support a number of local authorities as they undertake assessments of their property portfolios.
Environmental Services The operational performance of the Environmental Services business remains challenging.
In the year, a 11.1m exceptional charge was taken for the East Sussex waste contract which was terminated, and for the early termination of another waste contract in 2019, for which terms have been agreed, further reducing the Groups exposure to recyclate pricing.
The housing maintenance sector is undergoing significant change.
Kier is one of few in the market with the capacity to deliver large contracts and end-to-end solutions.
1 Including 0.6bn from McNicholas acquired post year end.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 51
