Directors Report Introduction Share capital This Directors Report and the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 57 As at 30 June 2017, the issued share capital of the Company inclusive together comprise the management report for the consisted of 97,443,035 ordinary shares of 1 pence each.
purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued and of options and awards granted during the year are set out in note 25 to the Information incorporated by reference consolidated financial statements.
The following information is provided in other appropriate sections Subject to the provisions of the articles of association of the of this Annual Report and the financial statements and is Company the Articles and prevailing legislation, shares may be incorporated by reference: issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by Information Reported in Pages ordinary resolution determine or, if the Company has not so Corporate Corporate Governance 60to 81 determined, as the Directors may decide.
governance Statement inclusive Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company Statement of Directors 104 There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Responsibilities Company, other than those that are set out in the Articles or apply Directors Board of Directors 66 and 67 as a result of the operation of law or regulation.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that Directors Remuneration Report 97 may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities in Directors shareholdings and the Company.
share interests Financial Financial statements 146 to 149 Substantial holdings instruments inclusive As at 20 September 2017, the Company had been notified of the note27 following interests in the share capital of the Company being Going concern Board statements 62 voting rights over such share capital, pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the Greenhouse gas Corporate responsibility 33 Disclosure and Transparency Rules: emissions 1 Shareholder Interest Important events Chief Executives strategic 14 to 19 2 Standard Life Aberdeen plc 9.6% since the end of review inclusive thefinancial year BlackRock Inc 6.5% Likely future Chief Executives strategic 19 Brewin Dolphin Limited 5.0% developments review Rathbone Investment Management Ltd 4.9% Results and Chairmans statement 12 Schroders plc 4.8% dividends Norges Bank 3.0% Political donations 1 Subject to rounding.
The Company made no political donations during the year 2016: nil.
2 Aggregate of Standard Life Aberdeen plc affiliated investments following the merger of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and Standard Life plc on Research and development 14 August 2017.
The Group undertakes research and development activities when Securities carrying special rights providing services to its clients.
The direct expenditure incurred is No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights not readily identifiable, as the investment is typically included in with regard to control of the Company.
Rights under employee share schemes Employees As at 30 June 2017, RBC Trustees Guernsey Limited RBC, as the The companies in the Group are equal opportunities employers.
The trustee of the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust, owned Group considers applications for employment from disabled 130,774 shares approximately 0.13% of the Companys issued persons having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities share capital.
These shares are made available to satisfy the and encourages and assists, whenever practicable, the recruitment, vesting of LTIP awards and awards of shares to senior management training, career development and promotion of disabled people and as part of the annual bonus arrangements.
RBC does not exercise the retention of, and appropriate training for, those who become any voting rights in respect of shares held by the trust.
RBC waives disabled during their employment.
The Group provides information its rights to dividends in respect of such shares, other than those to employees through newsletters, video addresses, the Groups relating to the annual bonus arrangements.
intranet, social media and formal and informal meetings with various groups of employees and management.
The Group also As at 30 June 2017, Yorkshire Building Society YBS held conducts engagement surveys to obtain feedback on matters of 1,180,448 shares approximately 1.21% of the Companys issued importance to employees.
share capital ontrust for the benefit of members of the SIP.
At the same date, YBS also held 11,674 shares 0.01% of the issued The Group operates sharesave schemes for eligible employees share capital on trust for the benefit of members of the legacy and a share incentive planfor all employees, which includes a May Gurney Share Incentive Plan.
YBS does not exercise any share-matching element.
voting rights in respect of the shares held by the trust.
YBS distributes dividends received to beneficiaries under the trust although beneficiaries may authorise YBS to vote in accordance with their instructions.
102 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements As at 30 June 2017, the trustee of the May Gurney Limited Change of control Employee Share Ownership Trust and the trustee of the May The Groups loan facility agreements with its UK lending banks, Gurney Integrated Services PLC Employee Benefit Trust held, the note purchase agreements entered into in 2012 and 2014 in respectively, 219,759 and 19,045 shares in aggregate, connection with the Groups US private placements of notes and approximately 0.25% of the Companys issued share capital.
the Schuldschein loan agreements entered into in May and June 2016 each contain provisions under which, in the event of a These shares are made available to satisfy awards of shares change of control of the Company, the Company may be required under the Groups remuneration arrangements.
Neither trustee to repay all outstanding amounts borrowed.
exercises any voting rights in respect of shares held by their respective trust and each waives dividends payable with respect Certain of the Groups commercial arrangements, including certain to such shares.
of its joint venture agreements, contract bond agreements and other commercial agreements entered into in the ordinary course Restrictions on voting rights of business, include change of control provisions.
No shareholder will, unless the Board otherwise determines, be entitled to vote at any general meeting unless all calls or other Certain of the Groups employee share schemes or remuneration sums then payable by the shareholder in respect of that share arrangements contain provisions relating to a change of control of have been paid or if that shareholder has been served with a the Company.
Outstanding options and awards may become disenfranchisement notice.
exercisable or vest upon a change of control.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of There are no agreements between the Company and the Directors securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs as a result of a takeover bid other than those referred to above.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Branches Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office Because the Group is a global business, it has activities which until the next AGM of the Company after his her appointment and operate through branches in certain jurisdictions.
is then eligible to stand for election.
Auditor Each of the Directors will be standing for either election or The Board has decided that  LLP will be re-election by members at the 2017 AGM.
Further information proposed as the Groups auditor for the financial year ending about the Directors skills and experience and the effectiveness of 30 June 2018 and a resolution relating to this re-appointment will the Board can be found on pages 66 to 69 inclusive.
be tabled at the forthcoming AGM.
The Company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice AGM has been given, remove any Director before the expiry of the The Companys 2017 AGM will be held at 12 noon on Directors period of office.
17 November 2017 at the Andaz Hotel, 40 Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN.
Amendment of Articles The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the This Directors Report was approved by the Board and signed on Companys shareholders.
its behalf by: Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, applicable law and any directions given by shareholders, the Companys business is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Powers in relation to the Company issuing its shares Hugh Raven The Directors were granted authority at the AGM on Company Secretary 18 November 2016 to allot shares in the Company i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 321,124 and ii up to an 20 September 2017 aggregate nominal amount of 642,249 in connection with a Tempsford Hall rights issue.
The Directors were also granted authority to allot Sandy shares i non-pre-emptively and wholly for cash up to an aggregate Bedfordshire nominal amount of 48,168 and ii for the purposes of financing SG19 2BD an acquisition or other capital investment up to a further nominal amount of 48,168.
Powers in relation to the Company buying back its shares The Company may only buy back shares if the Articles do not prohibit it from doing so and it has received the requisite authority from shareholders in general meeting.
Although the Articles do not contain any such prohibition, the Company did not request any such authority at its last AGM and does not propose to do so at the forthcoming AGM.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 103
