Strategic Report Strategic performance Progress and actions During the year, we have made good progress in delivering our six strategic priorities.
Operate a safe and sustainable business Safe and sustainable What we did in 2017 Future commitments Launched an enhanced, real-time safety Drive reduction in the all accidents incidence rate reportingplatform to improve information flow AAIR metric, not just reportable accidents.
Turn to pages 30-33 for more information tomanagement.
Create a supply chain portal to help suppliers Continued our behavioural change programme for understand Kier standards, process and safe employees demonstrating how to work better as a systems of work.
team to keep each other safe.
Roll-out 30 by 30 initiative to reduce our energy Delivered a 38% year-on-year improvement on 2016 use by 30% by 2030. in the reportable accident incidence rate AIR.
Extend employee Code of Conduct training.
Achieved our 2020 carbon footprint reduction target Introduce training for all employees on the new of 10%, ahead of plan.
Launched our Social Value impact strategy to create Extend non-financial KPIs in executive remuneration a consistent approach to delivering social value package.
Rolled out our new employee Code of Conduct.
28% 91% 10% 19,741 Average annual Improved BITC score 2020 carbon footprint Employee community improvementin AIR reduction target hours since 2014 achieved early Our strategy in action As part of Kiers corporate responsibility strategy, Kier has a goal to reduce its use of energy by 30% by 2030.
The 30 by 30 initiative was launched with an employee event, hosted by Haydn Mursell centre, and will deliver significant environmental and business benefits across the Group.
22 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Accelerate growth to be a top threeplayer in our chosen markets Growth What we did in 2017 Future commitments Report organic growth of 5% compared with average To use our Group-wide technical capabilities to 1 construction services market sector of c. 1%.
increase cross-selling and tailored solutions Turn to pages 42-51 for more information forcustomers.
Kier was chosen as a preferred bidder on the P22 framework, a large public sector framework, enabling Improve our market share in growth sectors, such as us to maintain our leading market position in aviation and biotech.
Develop our position in the residential market, New contract wins with Highways England helped taking advantage of excess demand.
bolster our number one market position in highways.
Continue to grow our infrastructure activities.
Our Property division increased its presence in Build on our acquisition of McNicholas, particularly regional markets.
in the telecoms and power sectors.
Secured a place on all five regional panels of the Homes and Communities Agencys DPP3 framework, worth 8bn over four years, supporting our presence in the mixed tenure market.
#1 1.5bn 9.5bn 2bn in healthcare HS2 joint venture Order book including Property and residential construction market contract awarded McNicholas development pipeline Our strategy in action The acquisition of leading infrastructure services provider McNicholas strengthens Kiers presence in the utilities and infrastructure services sectors.
McNicholas is an established UK engineering services provider to the UKs multi-utility sectors including power, rail and telecoms.
Working across the UK, it employs 1,880 people and has a client base which includes Virgin Media, Network Rail and UK Power Networks.
1 Source: Construction Products Association Summer 2017, ONS.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 23 Strategic Report Strategic performance continued Achieve top-quartile performance and efficiency Performance What we did in 2017 Future commitments Opened a new finance shared services centre To complete exit from the Caribbean.
FSSC in Manchester employing 210 people.
Turn to pages 52-57 Increase productivity by investment in front-line for more information Introduced front-line IT systems in our Services systems in our Services division.
division, to drive efficiency and improve customer Complete back-office and ERP roll-out.
Introducing operating model inefficiency as a Achieved 70% roll-out of an Oracle ERP system to principal element in our risk management process.
Continue use of joint ventures in our Property division Our Residential division established a joint venture to manage risk and enhance returns.
with Cross Keys Homes to enable more efficient use ofcapital.
Portfolio simplification programme continued with the sale of Mouchel Consulting and contract mining activities in the Middle East.
Substantially completed Hong Kong contracts and the exit from the Caribbean.
90m 340,000 70m Proceeds from the sale of FSCC transactions Investment in back-office systems non-core operations Our strategy in action Kier has invested 70m in upgrading its systems to improve the efficiency of its back-office systems and the customer responsiveness of its customer systems.
Part of the investment has also seen the creation of a new finance shared service centre in Manchester.
The systems investment will put all the businesses on the same platformproviding consistency of delivery and improved data collection.
24 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Provide sector-leading customer experience Customers What we did in 2017 Future commitments Launched a Group-wide customer policy.
Continue to drive opportunities to secure repeat business and cross-sell Group services.
Turn to pages 14-19 Carried out extensive research on customer needs for more information and buying trends.
Review the findings of customers research and development action plans accordingly.
Established eight regional cross-selling forums involving businesses and sector specialists from Introduce a new single-operating system for across the Group.
Upgraded CRM system and established standardised reporting to assist information sharing.
91% 1bn 76 Customer satisfaction Revenue from clients buying Key account managers more than one Kier service Our strategy in action To create a consistent flow of data from sales through to customer care, Kier Living is investing in a new single operating system that can be used across the whole division, ensuring consistency of approach and better sharing and efficiency of information flow.
The new solution, called Marble, will enable coordinated marketing campaigns and provide customers with real-time information which improves the quality of service they receive throughout the buying cycle.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 25 Strategic Report Strategic performance continued Attract and retain motivated and high-performing teams People What we did in 2017 Future commitments Implemented a new leadership development To support employee progression and development programme.
Turn to pages 30-33 for more information Launched a talent development course for Respond to the pulse survey feedback relating to employees showing leadership potential.
employee development and workplace change.
Increased participation in our pulse survey of Broaden the scope of our Balanced Business employee engagement from 38% in 2015 to 73% Network beyond gender diversity.
Extend our apprenticeship offer into new and higher Launched the Balanced Business Network to skilled opportunities.
support greater diversity and inclusiveness across Increase our reach and profile to ensure we attract the Group.
the best people from a diverse talent pool.
Extended apprenticeship opportunities by introducing Continuing to develop local, self-funding incentives a new model for new and existing employees.
programmes to reward improved productivity and Improved employee benefits, including an customer service.
improvedRetirement Savings Plan and a flexible Encourage 11-15 year-olds to consider a future benefits programme.
career in the construction sector.
At the heart of this Supported the Institution of Civil Engineers is our Shaping your World initiative, launched in campaign to recruit 150,000 civil engineers.
5% 68:32 18k 5 days Employees in early Graduate diversity Number of employees Target training days per career programmes male:female employee p. a.
Our strategy in action Kier is focused on attracting new talent into the construction and services sector.
This year, the Balanced Business Network was launched to broaden the profile of our workforce.
It consists of over 160 employees across the business who are driving a diverse and inclusive culture at all levels of Kier.
26 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Embracing innovation and technology across our business Innovation What we did in 2017 Future commitments Extended innovation into one of the Vision 2020 six Launch the Kier Accelerator Fund to encourage new strategic priorities.
Turn to page 19 for more information Appointed a Group Innovation Director to facilitate Ensure that every division has access to an ideas delivery, ensuringkey platforms are rolled out.
Establish a clear digital strategy for all businesses to be supported by information management Launched our innovation plan: #forwardthinking@Kier.
strategy and digital life-skills programme.
Create new ways to use data to drive efficiency and service development.
1m pa 30m 1,000 Kier Accelerator Fund Estimated R&D spend Target contributors to innovationplatforms Our strategy in action With forward thinking being one of Kiers values, the Group is always looking at ways to be innovative or provide fresh thinking in its projects.
The Groups recently launched innovation plan sets out ways to engage, capture, reward and share ideas across the Group.
Innovation showcases have taken place throughout the year across the Group showcasing latest technology and thinking, how technology can improve productivity and where tried and tested innovation from other markets and countries can be used within our business.
One example, Robocut, a robotic lawn mower to cut across verges adjacent to roadways across the UK, reduces the exposure of colleagues to dangerous situations: reducing the risk of accidents and saving lives.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 27
