Strategic Report Our market positions: Building Delivering buildings that improve the qualityof life Kier is the UKs largest builder with the capability to deliver projects ranging in size from hundreds of thousands of pounds to hundreds of millions of pounds.
A large and varied market Growing from strength The UK building market is worth over 60bn.
It covers both public and private sector Even in areas where Kier is strong, there work and includes a range of sectors including commercial, defence, education and are opportunities to grow.
Kier has a strong record across all areas, with leading positions in the the health sector, where Kier is already health and education sectors and growing positions in new markets, such as the UKs largest builder, we increased our aviation and biotech.
With its regional office network, Kier is able to act as a local penetration of the private healthcare builder with local knowledge, anywhere across the country.
Additional complementary market during the year by securing one of opportunities exist in the facilities management sector.
the four positions on the 500m Private Investment Construction PIC healthcare framework and commencing the Healthcare construction services market development of a number of new private hospital developments.
NHS new build Private new build NHS FM Source: NHS Digital 2016, ONS Turn to pages 20-21 for more information 6 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Broadmoor Hospital, Berkshire Client benefit The 242m Broadmoor Hospital redevelopment will transform the 150-year-old high security mental health hospital into a modern, fit-for-purpose environment with accommodation for 210 patients.
Construction commenced in early 2014, and includes a two-storey main entrance building, three patient ward blocks, a three-storey central multi-function building, an energy centre and a new distribution road.
Special consideration had to be given to the build given patients remained on site throughout the redevelopment.
The construction utilises Kiers bespoke off-site modular fabrication system, significantly reducing the project timetable.
Commenting on the development, Vivenne Mowatt,  Director for Broadmoor, said: Kier took the time and made a real effort to get toknowthe local community and address any community issues that really made a difference.
Enabling our delivery Client focus Understanding specialised requirements for secure builds Collaboration Use of pre-cast concrete to increase efficiency and the speed of the build Technology Utilising Kiers Building Information Modelling BIM capability to improve the sequence of delivery and installation of pre-cast sections Turn to pages 46-47 Image courtesy of West London for more information Mental Health NHS Trust Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 7 Strategic Report Our market positions: Infrastructure Delivering critical infrastructure and supportingservices The UK Government has acknowledged that investment in infrastructure is critical to supporting economic prosperity for a growing population.
Significant infrastructure opportunities Market positions in key sectors The UK National Infrastructure and Construction Pipeline Kier has a leading market position combined with a track has502bn of projects across sectors where Kier is strong, record in each of the major sectors covered by the National including road, rail, power, gas, water and telecoms.
201bn of Infrastructure and Construction Pipeline.
This now includes the this is beyond 2020 21, providing longevity as well as scale to telecoms and utilities market, following the acquisition of the pipeline.
McNicholas which also significantly strengthened our position in the power and gas utilities markets.
We already have a strong track record inpower stations and have been working onHinkley Point C since 2012.
In the transport sector, Kier is the leading provider of maintenance services for Highways Englands strategic road network, and has a leading position in the local authority highways market.
Kier also has a strong track record in the major rail sector, for example Crossrail, and has recently with our joint venture partners, been awarded 1.5bn of contracts on HS2.
UK National Infrastructure and Construction Pipeline bn 80 60 40 Further 201bn pipeline post 20 2020 21 0 16 17 17 18 18 19 19 20 20 21 21 22 Energy Transport Other Turn to pages 46-51 Source: HM Treasury and Infrastucture and Projects Authority 2016 for more information 8 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Spaghetti Junction, Birmingham Economic benefit The successful use of rapid set repair concrete on the M6 Rushall Canal and North East Spur viaducts enabled critical structural repairs to be completed within 24 hours over a 56-hour weekend programme.
Consequently, an eight week programme was reduced to five weekends.
The use of this latest innovation created a faster programme, minimising traffic delays and reducing the risk to the workforce and general public.
Enabling our delivery Supply chain Accredited with the international certification ISO 44001 for collaboration with the supply chain, one of only six companies worldwide Safety Working with Highways England, suppliers and the emergency services to keep operating safely Innovation Using tried and tested technology from around the world to bring innovation to the UK market Turn to pages48-51 for more information Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 9 Strategic Report Our market positions: Housing Delivering housing and providing essential maintenance services The UK continues to experience a housing shortage.
Kier has a range of house building and maintenance services which can address this need.
A structural shortage of housing Population pyramid for UK mid-2016 There is a persistent shortage of new housing in the UK, with Male Female supply consistently falling short of the annual requirement, Mid-2016 Mid-2016 estimated at a minimum of 210,000.
This is likely to worsen as the UK population expands.
Despite UK Government Mid-2006 Age Mid-2006 initiatives to help people buy houses, the demand for new 100 affordable houses will continue, as will the need to maintain 90 the existing social housing stock of 4.1m homes.
80 70 All aspects of affordable housing 60 Kier is a leading provider of affordable housing, with 50 capabilities across the value chain from investing in land and development to maintaining stock for housing 40 associations and local authorities.
Kier combines the 30 commerciality of a private, open-market developer with an understanding of the needs of local authorities and housing 20 providers and the dynamics and pressures of the public 10 sector.
As such, it is able to adapt and create multi-tenure developments and models appropriate to differing 0 500 400 300 200 100 0 0 100 200 300 400 500 client requirements.
Population thousands Source: ONS Turn to pages 20-21 for more information 10 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Kier Living, Bourne, Lincolnshire Social benefit Kier Living is the first UK house builder committed toplanting 45,000 new trees over the next three years to offset its carbon usage.
It is looking at how it uses energy, disposes of waste and how it uses equipment.
In addition, it is educating buyers on every-day energy saving ideas.
Enabling our delivery Growth Replicating a multi-tenure model throughout the UK Technology Helping customers keep on top of maintenance costs by installing smart, predictive technology in homes Delivery Has a target to deliver 4,000 new homes per annum by 2020 Turn to pages 44-45 for more information Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 11
