Governance Activities during the year Bigger Picture Committee The Committee oversaw and were updated on a number of developments Chairmans overview in relation to the Bigger Picture during the year, including the following activities.
The progress being made on expanding and implementing the Group responsible business strategy in Germany, Austria and Italy was noted and the Committee reviewed Skys progress on responsible sourcing and human rights, including the launch of the Companys first Modern Slavery Statement.
Accessibility was a focus, including the launch of subtitling On Demand on Sky Q and Sky HD.
The Committee also supports the Companys focus on inclusion and noted their ambition to become the industry leader for inclusion, both on screen and behind the scenes.
To achieve this Sky has been focused on increasing the representation of BAME Black, Asian, and minority ethnic employees and achieving gender I am pleased to report that there has been significant progress across the parity.
A range of initiatives have been put in place, for example supporting Bigger Picture this year.
We celebrated the successes of Sky Sports Living women to develop skills in traditionally under-represented areas, with for Sport, in which over half a million young people have participated initiatives such as Get into Tech.
External recognition for this programme over the 14-year initiative.
Skys commitment to sustainability has been was shared with the Committee, such as inclusion in the Times Top 50 reflected in a number of leading investor indices, including: the Dow Jones Employers of Women.
The Committee noted the importance of putting Sustainability Index, in which Sky achieved a Silver certification for the first policies into practice and of target-driven progress.
time: Sustainalytics Global 100 Index: Carbon Disclosure Projects Climate The Committee is proud of Skys continued success in supporting young A List and Supply Chain Leadership board.
The Committee believes that people, with 170,264 young people having taken part in our initiatives during the focus and scale of the Bigger Picture continues to make a significant the year.
Sky Sports Living for Sport has inspired and built skills in students contribution to Skys ability to build a better business for the long term.
from around a third of state secondary schools since its launch 14 years A refreshed strategy launching in the next financial year will make an ago.
Sky Academy Studios in London and Livingston saw 19,344 young even greater impact for customers, the environment and for Sky.
people create news reports this year and the Committee welcomed the There was one Committee meeting during the year and after that meeting launch of Sky Academy Studios in Milan which saw over 5,500 young people I reported to the Board on the key issues discussed.
Outside of this take part since opening its doors.
This year, more than 10% of employees meeting the Committee were kept updated on the progress of Bigger participated in these initiatives.
We welcome the relocation of our long-standing charity partner MAMA Progress against the Bigger Picture strategy is detailed at Youth, onto Skys London Campus.
Students can benefit from mentoring www.
from Sky employees along with support from Sky Academy Ambassadors such as Anthony Joshua, who took part in filming for MAMA Youths James Murdoch Whats Up!
Committee Chairman Progress continues to be made in Italy to support young people through Composition of the Committee Ultima Ora, which links with Sky Italias 24-hour news channel, and the James Murdoch Chairman impact of Artevisione Artes Scholarships.
Tracy Clarke Sky Foundation in Germany supported 5,738 young people this year, Dave Lewis resigned 13 October 2016 partnering with charities across the country.
Sky Foundation brought Attendance at Committee meetings opportunities for young people to join year-round sports programmes The Group CEO, Group COO & CFO, the Group Corporate Affairs Director, including swimming and football.
Sky Deutschland employees continue other senior executives and the Bigger Picture team attend meetings to support the Sky Foundation through volunteering and fundraising.
at the request of the Chairman.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has participated in the evolution of the Bigger Picture strategy, from discussions around the existing programme, which was Bigger Picture Committee agenda noted to have a positive social impact with strong reach and awareness, Focus for the year has centred on the following items: to the need to build on this with ongoing bold, focused initiatives to Progress on responsible business performance support the next generation around important issues that Skys customers care about.
The first of these new initiatives, Sky Ocean Rescue, launched Progress on initiatives to unlock potential in young people in January 2017.
Progress to evolve the Bigger Picture with a renewed strategy for 2017 18 As part of a review of the Bigger Picture reporting, the Committee The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys continued to note the positive economic, social and environmental corporate website.
contribution of Sky and looks forward to the launch of further projects and the opportunities they will bring.
For more information about Skys approach and progress during the year, go to skygroup.
sky corporate bigger-picture Annual Report 2017 49
