Governance a second package through a sublicence agreement entered into with Other disclosures Mediaset Premium.
These two packages consist of all the 380 live matches Contracts of Significance per season but do not grant rights across all distribution platforms.
The following agreements are contracts of significance in accordance with Pursuant to the relevant provision in the ISO, Lega will not award all of the Listing Rule 9.8.
Live Packages for all platforms to a single licensee either on its own or On 25 July 2014, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into through one or more of its related parties the Serie A Single Buyer Rule.
various agreements with 21st Century Fox and certain of its subsidiaries As a consequence Lega could suspend and or terminate one or more of the to effect the acquisition of Sky Italia Srl for 2.06 billion with the rights which are included in the package assigned to Sky Italia Srl, in the consideration being partially settled by the disposal of the Companys event that a change of control occurs at any time prior to the expiry of 21% stake in National Geographic Channel International to certain of the Serie A Licence which, if it had occurred prior to the award of the Live 21st Century Foxs subsidiaries at a value of US$650 million.
The sale Packages, would have resulted in a breach of the Serie A Single Buyer Rule.
and purchase agreements for the acquisition and disposal contained UEFA customary warranties, covenants and indemnities, including certain On 12 June 2017, Sky Deutschland Fernsehen GmbH & Co. KG entered into indemnities relating to tax and other matters as well as certain an agreement with the Union des Associations Europennes fide Football commitments from 21st Century Fox not to retail certain services to UEFA in relation to certain media rights to broadcast matches of the consumers in certain territories, and from Sky not to compete with UEFA Champions League for the seasons 2018 19 2020 21 across all the business of the National Geographic Channel, until 1 January 2017. distribution means the German CL Agreement 18 20.
The German CL Also on 25 July 2014, as part of the acquisition of Sky Deutschland, the Agreement 18 20 may be terminated on a change of control if such change Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into various agreements of control adversely affects the ability of Sky Deutschland Fernsehen with 21st Century Fox and certain of its subsidiaries to effect the GmbH & Co. KG to perform its obligations under the agreement.
acquisition of 21st Century Foxs entire shareholding approximately 57.4% On 16 June 2017, Sky Italia Srl entered into two agreements with UEFA in Sky Deutschland AG, a German stock corporation listed on the Frankfurt in relation to all the media rights to broadcast matches respectively Stock Exchange, for 2.9 billion the Sky Deutschland Acquisition.
The sale of the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Europa League for the and purchase agreement contained customary warranties as to title and seasons 2018 19 2020 21 across all distribution means the Italia UEFA ownership as well as certain commitments not to offer certain services Agreements.
The Italia UEFA Agreements may be terminated on a change to consumers in certain territories until 1 January 2017. of control if such change of control adversely affects the ability of Sky Italia Srl to perform its obligations under the agreements.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements which were in force at 30 June 2017 21st Century Fox voting agreement take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company On 21 September 2005, the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc. 21st Century Fox following a takeover bid.
UK Nominees Limited and 21st Century Fox entered into a voting agreement, pursuant to which 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limiteds Premier League In 2015, Sky UK Limited a Group subsidiary entered into an agreement voting rights at any general meeting are capped at 37.19% the Voting the 2015 PL Licence with The Football Association Premier League Agreement.
The provisions of the Voting Agreement cease to apply inter Limited the PL, pursuant to which the Group was awarded five of the alia, on a change of control of the Company.
seven available Live Packages in respect of the three seasons 2016 17 Revolving Credit Facility 2018 19, together consisting of 126 live matches per season.
The PL will not The Group has a 1,000,000,000 syndicated multicurrency revolving credit award Live Packages containing in aggregate more than 126 live matches facility RCF with a maturity date of 30 November 2021.
In the event of per season to a single licensee either on its own or as part of a consortium a change of control of the Company, as a result of which both S&P and or through one or more related parties the 2015 PL Single Buyer Rule.
Moodys downgrade the Companys credit rating below investment grade Pursuant to the 2015 PL Licence, the PL can suspend and or terminate all within 90 days, the lenders can require any amounts outstanding under of the rights which are included in, or exercisable as part of, Live Packages the RCF to be repaid other than in the event that 21st Century Fox or any containing in the aggregate up to 42 live matches per season in the event subsidiary or holding company thereof or a subsidiary of such holding that a change of control of the Company occurs at any time prior to the company acquires such control.
expiry of the 2015 PL Licence which, if it had occurred prior to the award of the Live Packages to the Group, would have resulted in a breach of GMTN Programme bond issue the 2015 PL Single Buyer Rule.
On 3 April 2007, certain Group entities established a euro medium-term note programme which provides the Group with a standardised documentation DFL Contract Bundesliga Rights platform to allow for senior debt issuance in the Eurobond markets.
In June 2016, Sky Deutschland Fernsehen GmbH & Co. KG entered into an On 7 February 2014, the programme was updated and expanded to become agreement the Bundesliga Agreement 17 21 with DFL in relation to the a global medium-term note programme the GMTN Programme.
The GMTN predominantly exclusive rights to broadcast 572 out of 612 games of the Programme was last updated in October 2016.
The maximum potential Bundesliga and 2nd Bundesliga.
The lack of 40 matches was a result of the issuance under the GMTN Programme is 5 billion.
On 14 May 2007, the newly implemented No single buyer rule by the German Federal Cartel Company issued bonds under the GMTN Programme then known as an Office.
The licence period will begin with the season 2017 18 and will end 2020 21.
EMTN programme consisting of 300 million guaranteed notes paying The Bundesliga Agreement 17 21 may be terminated on a change of control.
6.000% interest and maturing on 14 May 2027 the 2007 Notes.
On 17 Serie A November 2015, the Company issued 500 million guaranteed notes under In 2014, further to an invitation to offer the ISO, Sky Italia Srl entered the GMTN Programme paying 2.250% interest and maturing on 17 November into an agreement the Serie A Licence with Lega Nazionale Professionisti 2025 the 2015 Notes and, together with the 2007 Notes, the GMTN Serie A the Lega, pursuant to which Sky Italia Srl was awarded one of four Notes.
Pursuant to the final terms of the GMTN Notes, the Company available packages of live audio-visual rights for the Italian Serie A football will be required to make an offer to redeem or purchase the GMTN Notes championship for the seasons 2015 16 2017 18 the four packages are at the relevant redemption amount plus interest up to the date of together the Live Packages.
In addition Sky Italia Srl has been granted redemption or purchase if there is a change of control of the Company or the Annual Report 2017 73 Directors report and statutory disclosures continued announcement of a potential change of control i which, if the GMTN or ii which, if the securities carry a non-investment grade rating, results Notes carry an investment grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to in a downgrade by one or more notches or a withdrawal of that nona non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal of that rating: or ii which, investment grade rating: or iii where, if the securities do not carry a credit if the GMTN Notes carry a non-investment grade rating, results in a rating, the Company does not seek such a rating or is unable to achieve downgrade by one or more notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment an investment grade rating, provided that in each case the decision to grade rating: or iii where, if the GMTN Notes do not carry a credit rating, downgrade, withdraw or not to award a credit rating occurs within a certain the Company does not seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a period of time after the change of control and the relevant rating agency rating, provided that in each case the decision to downgrade, withdraw or cites that such decision s resulted from the change of control or the not to award a credit rating occurs within a certain period of time after the announcement of a potential change of control.
change of control and the relevant rating agency cites that such decision s UK broadcasting licences resulted from the change of control or the announcement of the potential Sky UK Limited is party to a number of Ofcom broadcasting licences for change of control.
the broadcast of Skys wholly-owned channels.
The Broadcasting Act 1990 EMTN Programme bond issue as amended by the Broadcasting Act 1996 and the Communications Act On 5 September 2014, certain Group entities also established a 10 billion lays down a number of restrictions on those parties permitted to hold EMTN programme the EMTN Programme, which provides the Group with Ofcom broadcasting licences.
Among those restricted from holding Ofcom a standardised documentation platform to allow for senior debt issuance broadcasting licences or from controlling a licensed company are a local in the Eurobond markets.
In September 2014, the Company issued i 1,500 authorities, b political bodies, c religious bodies, d any company million 1.500% guaranteed notes due 2021, and ii 1,000 million 2.500% controlled by any of the previous categories or by their officers or guaranteed notes due 2026: in November 2014, the Company issued i associates, e advertising agencies or any company controlled by such 850 million 1.875% guaranteed notes due 2023, ii 450 million 2.875% an agency or in which it holds more than a 5% interest.
Licensees have an guaranteed notes due 2020, iii 300 million 4.000% guaranteed notes ongoing obligation to comply with these ownership restrictions.
Failure by due 2029, and iv 400 million 2.750% guaranteed notes due 2029: and in a licensee to do so either by the licensee becoming a disqualified person April 2015, the Company issued 600 million floating rate guaranteed notes or any change affecting the nature, characteristics or control of the due 2020 together, the Notes.
Pursuant to the conditions of the Notes, licensee which would have precluded the original grant of the licence the Company will be required to make an offer to redeem or purchase the may constitute a breach of the licence and, if not rectified, could result Notes at the relevant redemption amount plus interest up to the date of in revocation of the licence.
redemption or purchase if there is a change of control of the Company or Ofcom also has a duty under the Broadcasting Acts to be satisfied that the announcement of a potential change of control i which, if the Notes any person holding a broadcasting licence is fit and proper to hold those carry an investment grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to a licences and may revoke those licences if it ceases to be so satisfied.
non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal of that rating: or ii which, German broadcasting licences if the Notes carry a non-investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by Sky Deutschland Fernsehen GmbH & Co. KG is party to a number of one or more notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: broadcasting licences issued by the State Media Authorities BLM or iii which, if the Notes do not carry a credit rating, the Company does Bayerische Landeszentrale fr Neue Medien and MaHSH Medienanstalt not seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided that Hamburg Schleswig-Holstein for its linear Sky Channels.
The Interstate in each case the decision to downgrade, withdraw or not to award a credit Treaty on Broadcasting, as amended on 15 April 2015 sets out a number rating occurs within a certain period of time after the change of control of requirements for the licensees of broadcasting licences and providers and the relevant rating agency cites that such decision s resulted from the of non-linear telemedia services.
Licensees have an ongoing obligation change of control or the announcement of the potential change of control.
to comply with these requirements.
Failure by a licensee to do so may October 2005, February 2008, November 2008, constitute a breach of the licence and, if not rectified, could result in fines November 2012 and September 2014 bond issues or in the revocation of the licence.
The State Media Authorities also have a In October 2005, certain Group entities entered into an indenture in duty under the Broadcasting Acts to be satisfied that any person holding a respect of US$350 million 6.500% senior unsecured notes due 2035 broadcasting licence is fit and proper to hold those licences and may revoke and 400 million 5.750% senior unsecured notes due 2017 the 2005 those licences if it ceases to be so satisfied.
Any change in the ownership Indenture.
In February 2008, certain Group entities entered into an structure, including but not limited to an interest change exceeding the indenture in respect of US$750 million 6.100% senior unsecured notes due threshold of 5% in the shareholder structure of the licensee, has to be 2018 the February 2008 Indenture and in November 2008, certain Group notified to and approved by the authorities.
entities entered into an indenture in respect of US$600 million 9.500% senior unsecured notes due 2018 as amended and supplemented from Italian broadcasting licences time to time, the November 2008 Indenture.
In November 2012, the In accordance with the Italian regulatory system, the transfer of control parties to the November 2008 Indenture entered into a supplemental of a company such as Sky Italia which is classified as an audio-visual media indenture in respect of a further issuance of US$800 million 3.125% senior service provider is subject to an authorisation by the Italian Regulatory unsecured notes due 2022.
The November 2008 Indenture was further Authority which is aimed at verifying the honourability of the directors and amended and supplemented in September 2014, with the parties thereto nationality.
Public administrations, public entities, state-owned companies, entering into a supplemental indenture in respect of a further issuance banks and financial institutions are prohibited from being given such of US$750 million 2.625% senior unsecured notes due 2019 and US$1,250 authorisation in relation to audio-visual media service providers.
million 3.750% senior unsecured notes due 2024.
Pursuant to the February Co-operation Agreement 2008 Indenture and the November 2008 Indenture, the Company will be The Company and 21CF entered into a co-operation agreement on required to make an offer to redeem or purchase its securities at a price 15 December 2016 the Co-operation Agreement.
Pursuant to the equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest Co-operation Agreement, among other things, the Company and 21CF up to the date of redemption or repurchase, if there is a change of control have agreed to provide such information and assistance as the other party or the announcement of a potential change of control of the Company i may reasonably require for the purposes of obtaining all merger control which, if the securities carry an investment grade credit rating, results in a and regulatory clearances and authorisations, and making any submissions, downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal of that rating: 74 Sky plc Governance filings or notifications to any merger control and regulatory authority in Political contributions relation to the Offer, and for the preparation of the document to be sent Political contributions of the Group during 2017 amounted to nil 2016: nil.
to shareholders in the Company in relation to the Scheme Scheme Branches Document.
The Group, through various subsidiaries, has established branches in The Co-operation Agreement will terminate: i if agreed in writing between a number of different jurisdictions in which the business operates.
the Company and 21CF: ii if the Independent Committee withdraws, Going concern modifies or qualifies its recommendation of the Scheme or if the Scheme The Companys going concern statement is detailed on page 31 of the Document does not include such recommendation: iii upon receipt of Strategic Report.
a break payment by the Company: iv where a competing transaction completes, becomes effective or unconditional in all respects or is Important events recommended by the Directors of the Company: v if the Court Meeting An update on the 21st Century Fox Offer is provided on page 33. and General Meeting to be held in relation to the Scheme are not held by specified dates: vi if any condition to the Offer has been invoked, with the Disclosure of information to auditors In accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act consent of the Panel, and the Scheme has been withdrawn: vii if the Offer 2006, each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the date has not been completed by 15 October 2018: or viii upon satisfaction of of approval of this report confirms that: the obligation to pay the consideration to shareholders in the Company under the terms of the Scheme.
21CF has agreed to use all reasonable so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information endeavours to secure satisfaction of all regulatory clearances and as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor authorisations as soon as reasonably practicable.
is unaware: and The Co-operation Agreement records the Companys and 21CFs intention the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a to implement the Offer by way of the Scheme, subject to the ability of 21CF Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information with the consent of the Panel to implement the Offer by way of a takeover as defined and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that offer as defined under section 974 of the Companies Act in the information.
circumstances described in the Co-operation Agreement and summarised Auditors in the announcement of the Offer made on 15 December 2016.
Deloitte LLP, the auditors of the Company, have expressed their willingness 21CF has undertaken in the Co-operation Agreement that, on the to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint them as the Companys occurrence of a Break Payment Event as defined in the Co-operation auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration Agreement, subject to certain other conditions, 21CF will pay or will procure will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
the payment by a member of its group of a break payment of 200 million.
The Directors report comprising pages 36 to 49 and 70 to 75 was A copy of the Co-operation Agreement is available on the Companys approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Company Secretary.
microsite relating to the Offer at www.
By order of the Board Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Chris Taylor For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C, the information required to be disclosed by Company Secretary Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be located as set out below: 26 July 2017 Information required Page 1 Amount of interest capitalised and tax relief 98 Note 3 2 Publication of unaudited financial information n a 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes 5069 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director n a 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director n a 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash n a 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings n a 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary n a 10 Contracts of significance 73 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder n a 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends 70 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends 70 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders 70 Financial instruments Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, together with information on our financial risk management objectives and policies, hedging policies and our exposure to financial risks can be found in notes 20 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
