Governance Membership of the Committee During the year ended 30 June 2017 the Committee chaired by Tracy Clarke met six times.
Tracy Clarke, Adine Grate, and Andy Sukawaty are members of the Committee.
Attendance during the year is shown on page 41.
Role of the Committee The role of the Committee is to oversee the remuneration policy so that the Company is able to recruit, retain and motivate its Executives and reward their individual contributions in a fair and responsible manner.
The Committee reviews the design and structure of employee incentives and is responsible for approving the key terms of employment for the Executive Directors or any senior executive who reports directly to the Group CEO.
The full terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys corporate website.
The terms of reference were reviewed during the year as part of the normal corporate review process and no material changes were made.
Committee activities during the year The table below shows a summary of the key areas discussed by the Committee during the financial year.
July 2016 October 2016 December 2016 January 2017 April 2017 June 2017 Performance outcomes Update on the reporting Review and approval of Shareholder feedback Performance update Performance for bonus, LTIP and CIP season proposals for the on remuneration bonus, LTIP and CIP update bonus, operation of employee policy review LTIP and CIP Review and approve Update on shareholder Update on the 21st share plans in the performance targets feedback and proxy Implications of Century Fox Offer and Update on the 21st context of the proposed for the 2016 17 annual voting service guidance 21st Century Fox Offer implications for the Century Fox Offer Offer by 21st Century Fox bonus and LTIP on the remuneration remuneration policy Review of timetable Update on Review and approval of policy review and on Review and approve for shareholder executive and all the proposal to remove implementation of the remuneration for consultation on employee salary the TSR performance remuneration policy Executive Directors remuneration policy remuneration metric from awards due and Senior proposals Review of Committee to vest in July 2017 Management activities versus the Review of the Review and approve Terms of Reference first draft of the Directors Chairmans Review of timetable Remuneration Report statement for review of advisors Update on to the Committee remuneration policy review Advisors to the Committee Willis Towers Watson acted as independent advisors to the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives on Executive Directors remuneration is independent and objective, and that the advisors do not have connections with Sky that may impair their independence.
Terms of reference are monitored throughout the appointment.
Willis Towers Watson subscribes to the Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration.
The Code clarifies the scope and conduct of the role of remuneration consultants when advising UK listed companies.
The fees paid to Willis Towers Watson for their services in relation to directors pay totalled 111,955.
During the year, Willis Towers Watson also provided Sky with advice on pension within its reward strategy, and the operation of its pension and related benefit provisions, and also advised on a review of call centre incentives.
The Group CEO and the Director for People provide information and advice and attend meetings as required.
The Committee is also supported by the Company Secretary, Finance and Human Resources functions.
No individuals are involved in the decision in relation to their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 July 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Tracy Clarke Chairman of Remuneration Committee Annual Report 2017 69
