Directors report and statutory disclosures Voting rights Introduction The Companys Articles of Association provide that subject to any rights In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Corporate governance or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands every member report on pages 38 to 49 and information contained in the Strategic Report present in person or by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll every on pages 2 to 33 forms part of this Directors report and are incorporated member shall have one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
On a poll, votes may be given either personally or by proxy or in the case The Directors present their report together with the audited consolidated of a corporate member by a duly authorised representative.
and parent company financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2017.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of them.
Shares If a member appoints more than one proxy they must specify the Dividends number of shares which each proxy is entitled to exercise rights over.
Under the terms of the Offer, the Company has agreed with 21st Century A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Holders of the Fox that it will not pay any dividends during the calendar year 2017.
However, Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.
A voting should the Scheme not become effective on or before 31 December 2017, agreement dated 21 September 2005 was entered into between the shareholders in the Company will be entitled to receive a special dividend Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc, 21st Century Fox 21CF or 21st Century Fox of 10 pence per share, payable in 2018.
In addition, shareholders will be and 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limited which became unconditional entitled to receive any dividend declared and paid by the Company in on 4 November 2005 and caps 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limiteds the ordinary course during the calendar year 2018 and prior to the date voting rights at any general meeting at 37.19%.
The provisions of the on which the Scheme becomes effective.
The price of 10.75 per share voting agreement cease to apply on the first to occur of a number of under the Scheme shall be reduced to the extent that the dividend in circumstances.
On the anticipated timetable for the Scheme, it is expected respect of the six months ending 31 December 2017 exceeds 13.06 pence that the first of these to occur will be the Scheme becoming effective.
per share and that the dividend in respect of the year ending 30 June 2018 exceeds 21.8 pence per share.
Further information can be found Members of the Independent Committee who own shares in the Company in the announcement of the Offer dated 15 December 2016. have irrevocably undertaken to vote, or procure to be voted, all voting rights attached to their own beneficial holdings of 916,268 shares representing, Share capital in aggregate, approximately 0.053 per cent.
of the share capital of the The Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2017 comprised Company in issue at close of business on 26 July 2017 in favour of one class of ordinary shares.
All of the issued ordinary shares are fully any resolutions proposed in connection with the Offer at any general paid and rank equally in all respects.
Further details of the Companys or Court-convened meeting of the Company to implement the Offer.
share capital and share issues under the period under review are The members of the Independent Committee have also undertaken disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
not to exercise, or permit the exercise of, the voting rights attaching Interests in voting rights to such beneficial holdings of shares in the Company in any manner Information provided to the Company pursuant to the UK Listing which would frustrate the Offer.
Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on Restrictions on transfer of securities a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in the 30 June 2017, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the following Company, which is governed by the Articles of Association and prevailing significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
legislation, nor is the Company aware of any agreements between holders Percent of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities Amount of class or that may result in restrictions on voting rights, save as set out above.
2 Identity of person or group owned notified 1 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limited 672,783,139 39.14 Variation of rights 1 Direct holding which is subject to restrictions on its voting rights please see Voting Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class of shares rights below.
may be varied with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters 2 Number of shares held as at 30 June 2017. in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the sanction of a There were no changes notified between 30 June 2017 and 26 July 2017. special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the shareholders.
The Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP was established to satisfy Relationship Agreement awards made to participants of the Companys employee share plans.
Changes to the Listing Rules came into effect in November 2014 which The trustees of the ESOP have waived the right to dividends payable require a premium listed company which has one or more controlling in respect of the shares held by it, except to the extent of 0.0001% of shareholders to have in place an agreement which is intended to ensure the dividend payable on each share.
At 30 June 2017, the ESOP had an that any controlling shareholder complies with the independence provisions interest in 6,863,924 of the Companys ordinary shares.
The Trustees, in the Listing Rules.
who are independent of the Company, have full discretion on how 21CF and certain of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, they vote the ordinary shares held by the ESOP.
exercise or control 39.14% of the voting rights of the Company and are therefore deemed to be controlling shareholders for the purposes of the Listing Rules.
Accordingly, the Company entered into a relationship agreement with 21CF on 13 November 2014 the Relationship Agreement containing the undertakings required by the Listing Rules.
