Our marketplace, strategy and business model Our marketplace Opportunities in adjacent markets represent The markets in which we operate are constantly significant further areas of growth.
Consumers are demanding more of the very best content on their terms, be Customers are increasingly consuming content in digital it live on the main television set in the home, or on formats, with the transactional home video market valued at around 3.5 billion across our markets.
However, daily viewing to television remains high, with consumers continually We are able to exploit this opportunity through our wanting to be entertained on a big screen.
own transactional video service, Sky Store.
When looking at our business and the markets we In addition, our advertising sales house, Sky Media, operates are in today, we see a significant growth opportunity in an advertising market worth 11 billion across the Group.
We have 22.5 million customers to whom With strong global demand for high-quality content, we can offer more products.
In addition, around Sky Vision, our production and distribution arm, goes 64 million households have yet to take pay TV in from strength to strength.
Our growing slate of Sky our core markets, giving us substantial headroom to original programming has been popular with broadcasters address this with our multi-platform and streaming around the world, with sales in hundreds of territories.
And we continue to look at other opportunities to grow, which in time might include launching products and services in new markets.
64m 22.5m 3.5bn 11bn households have customers to sell value of transactional value of TV advertising yet to take pay TV more products to home video markets market Our strategy Our strategy is to broaden our business: moving into new markets, opening up new customer segments and expanding our range of products and services.
At the heart of our strategy are the steps we have taken to This customer proposition enables us to pursue the build our position as Europes leading entertainment and significant opportunities for growth in the attractive communications business.
Across all our markets we are markets where we operate.
ensuring Sky is the home of more of the best content from Our strategy is enabling us to deliver sustained broadly based around the world, with sustained market-leading innovation revenue growth which, together with our focus on operating across multiple platforms, delivered by a trusted brand that efficiency, creates a consistently stronger, more profitable offers best in class customer service.
business and long-term shareholder value.
10 Sky plc Strategic report Our business model We are focused on delivering the very best content, innovation and service for our customers.
Our strengths Great content Market-leading innovation Our customer focus We invest to deliver the best and We combine our investment We are a customer-centric organisation, broadest range of content rights in technologies with a deep focused on meeting the needs of all across the portfolio of channels and understanding of our customers our customers in every market.
We are services we provide to customers, to offer a great viewing experience able to meet their needs through the offering something for everyone in the whenever, wherever and however strength of our trusted brand, ensuring household.
We partner with content our customers want to watch.
that we offer a market-leading TV owners to secure the very best content experience and our commitment to from around the world, and produce superior customer service.
Growth opportunities Growing pay TV penetration Selling more to customers Scaling adjacent businesses Across our markets there is a significant We focus on broadening out our range We create and pursue opportunities opportunity for growth, with 64 million of products and services to offer more in adjacent sectors such as households yet to take pay TV.
We have to existing customers and address advertising, transactional services further developed our segmented more of their needs.
and international programme customer offers to ensure we are well sales to create and grow additional placed to persuade more customers revenue streams.
How we create value Investing for the long term Driving efficiency We invest over the long term because we want to build a We underpin everything we do with a rigorous focus on business that is durable.
This means ensuring that we create operating efficiency.
By ensuring that we have an efficient the conditions for sustainable success whilst also delivering and agile operating model, we consistently drive down results in the short term.
costs, allowing us to invest more where customers see greatest value.
Seeing the Bigger Picture Investing in people We are committed to acting responsibly in all that we do.
We invest in our people because we recognise that their Thats because we know that to build a successful business talent and commitment are critical to our success.
We aim over the long term, how we do business is as important to foster a culture which encourages our people to fulfil their as what we do.
We also focus on making a positive impact potential and strive for continual improvement in all that on society.
We call this seeing the Bigger Picture.
they do, enabling us all to achieve great things together.
