Governance In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Board confirms that, throughout Appointment and retirement of Directors the period under review: The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more Directors.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall i the Company has complied with the independence provisions in the then be eligible for reappointment by the Companys shareholders.
Relationship Agreement: It is the intention that at the Companys 2017 AGM all continuing ii so far as the Company is aware, 21CF and its associates have complied Executive and Non-Executive Directors will retire and offer themselves with the independence provisions in the Relationship Agreement: and for reappointment in compliance with the Code.
iii so far as the Company is aware, 21CF has procured compliance by Alternate Directors its relevant subsidiaries and their associates with the independence A Director may appoint any other Director or any other person to act as provisions in the Relationship Agreement.
An Alternate Director shall be entitled to receive notice of and attend meetings of the Directors and committees of Directors of In the event that the Scheme becomes effective and the Companys shares which his appointer is a member and not able to attend.
The Alternate cease to be listed on the premium segment of the Official List, or in the Director shall be entitled to vote at such meetings and generally event that 21CF ceases to be a controlling shareholder of the Company perform all the functions of his appointer as a Director in his absence.
for the purposes of the Listing Rules, the Relationship Agreement will terminate with immediate effect.
On the resignation of the appointer for any reason the Alternate Director shall cease to be an Alternate Director.
The appointer may also remove Directors powers in relation to the Company their Alternate Director by notice to the Company Secretary signed by issuing and buying back its own shares the appointer revoking the appointment.
At the 2016 AGM, the Directors were given authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 573,005,742 representing two-thirds of the An Alternate Director shall not be entitled to fees for their service as an Companys then issued ordinary share capital.
Of this amount, a nominal Alternate Director.
amount of 286,502,871 representing one-third of the Companys then Chase Carey, James Murdoch and John Nallen have appointed each issued ordinary share capital could only be allotted pursuant to a rights of the others to act as their Alternate Director.
The Directors were additionally empowered to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, pursuant to the Employees Allotment Authority, on a non-pre-emptive basis a in connection with Equal opportunities a rights issue or open offer, b otherwise than in connection with a At Sky we believe in equal opportunities and that everyone should have rights issue or open offer up to a maximum nominal value of 42,975,430 full and fair consideration for all vacancies, promotions, training and representing 5% of the Companys then issued share capital, and c development.
We work with employees who have disabilities to remove otherwise than in connection with a rights issue or open offer up to barriers from the working environment to allow them to maximise a maximum nominal value of 42,975,430 representing a further 5% of their potential.
the Companys then issued share capital for the purposes of financing a transaction or refinancing within six months of the transaction which Diversity and Inclusion the Directors determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment At Sky we aim to be an inclusive employer, with a workforce reflecting the contemplated by the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles diversity of the societies in which we operate.
For more on our approach Principles.
In line with the Principles, the authority under b and c to diversity and inclusion please see page 15. were sought in separate resolutions.
The Company did not seek The table below shows our gender diversity at Group level as at 30 June 2017. authority to buy back its own shares at the 2016 AGM.
Male Female Articles of association 1,2 Board of Directors 8 73% 3 27% The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by 1,2, 3 Senior managers 189 75% 62 25% special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Annual General Meeting 2 2016 17 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at The venue and timing of the Companys 2017 AGM will be detailed www.
in the notice convening the AGM at the relevant time which will be 3 This year we updated the reporting methodology for senior women in Italy to bring available or download from the Companys corporate website at it in line with the rest of the Group.
Employee engagement Board of Directors At Sky we listen to our people and encourage everyone to be involved.
Board of Directors and their interests We know great ideas come from all corners of our business and it is part The Directors who served during the year were: Jeremy Darroch, Andrew of our believe in better spirit to harness those ideas for the benefit of our Griffith, Chase Carey, Tracy Clarke, Matthieu Pigasse, Martin Gilbert, Adine customers and our people.
This year we used a new survey provider, GLINT, Grate, Dave Lewis, James Murdoch, John Nallen, Andy Sukawaty and Katrin to gather feedback from our teams in the UK, ROI and Italy.
Dave Lewis stepped down from the Board at the conclusion record levels of participation in the survey 82% in the UK and ROI and of the Annual General Meeting on 13 October 2016 and Katrin Wehr-Seiter 79% in Italy and we continue to achieve high levels of engagement, was appointed immediately following the meeting.
The biographical outperforming external benchmarks by 8% in the UK and ROI and 13% details of the Directors of the Company can be found on pages 36 and 37. in Italy.
In July 2017 the survey was extended to the whole Sky Group The Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options of the Company which will allow us to consistently gather feedback from all five are disclosed within the Directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 69. territories we operate in.
