Divisional Reviews Genus PIC ACCELERATING GENETIC PROGRESS During the year, progress against our strategic STRATEGIC PROGRESS objectives included: Dr Bill Christianson, Chief Operating Officer, INCREASING GENETIC CONTROL AND Genus PIC PRODUCT DIFFERENTIATION Continuing to develop our range of industry-leading genetics and beginning to assimilate genes acquired from Hermitage Genetics Collaborating with R&D colleagues and external partners on long-term development programmes, including our investigational gene-editing project to produce animals resistant to PRRSv TARGETING KEY MARKETS AND SEGMENTS Increasing our share of business with large producers around the A YEAR OF STRONG world, so we now work with over 70% of the largest global accounts Maintaining our progress in Europe achieving growth of 26% and STRATEGIC PROGRESS, continuing to see the benefits of our tailored strategy for China with growth of 82% IN AN INCREASINGLY Strengthening our supply chain to support markets around the world by upgrading several sites and incorporating Hermitage GLOBAL MARKETPLACE Genetics facilities SHARING IN THE VALUE DELIVERED Conducting 26 product trials across seven countries, involving more than 63,000 pigs, demonstrating the difference our products and services deliver for customers Expanding use of the royalty pricing model, particularly in Europe and Asia including further contracts in China, so that 77% of our volumes are now conducted on a royalty basis 94.8M ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES PRIORITIES FOR 2018 Continuing to implement our global strategy, tailored to local markets where needed Expanding use of the royalty model where possible, particularly accelerating the transition in China Making further investments in our supply chain to underpin growth Continuing to collaborate with colleagues and partners on new technologies and on plans to commercialise and achieve regulatory acceptance for gene-edited animals | 24 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 STR ATEGIC REPORT Constant Actual currency currency OPERATING REVIEW 2017 2016 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 249.5 207.5 20 7 Adjusted operating profit excl.
JVs 87.7 71.7 22 8 Adjusted operating profit incl.
JVs 94.8 78.0 22 7 Adjusted operating margin excl.
JVs 35.2% 34.6% 0.6pts 0.3pts Pork Key Markets Corn Key Markets per kg per tonne 3.0 300 250 2.5 200 2.0 150 1.5 100 1.0 50 0.5 0 Aug 14 Aug 15 Aug 16 Aug 17 Aug 14 Aug 15 Aug 16 Aug 17 US Brazil EU China Russia US Brazil EU China Market Brazilian producers experienced volatile new customer systems contributed to Market conditions for most of Genus input prices and pig prices, following 12% growth in breeding stock shipments, PICs customers improved during political and market turbulence involving positioning the business for future the year, primarily due to increased the meat industry.
During the past five royalty growth.
To support this future global trade with Asia.
Other factors months, producers have returned to growth, PIC invested in expanding the included tighter supply in Europe and slightly positive margins per pig, after 12 supply chain, upgrading Companycontinued favourable crop prices in months of losses.
In Mexico, the second owned facilities, and increasing the North America and other key markets.
largest producer in Latin America, quality and number of staff, leading to Global pork prices increased 13% pig producers have been expanding.
a 3% reduction in profit in the year.
over the 12 months, and the outlook However, the industry is still suffering is generally moderately favourable.
Latin American profits improved by 2% in constant currency, on stable In China, supply constraints, following The porcine genetics market saw volumes.
Mexico performed strongly and operating profit increased by reductions in the sow herd in prior further consolidation in 2017.
Genus years, continued to support elevated PIC took a leading role, partnering with 11%.
This growth was offset by the pig prices and stimulated record and acquiring the genetic rights of Andean region, where profit declined pork imports.
Other North American and by 15% due to ongoing economic more recently returned to more European competitors have also entered instability in Venezuela.
In Brazil, normal levels as large producers have into partnerships and distribution profit increased by 5% in constant expanded supply and imports have agreements, to expand their reach.
Production also expanded in Russia and in other core Asian Performance Europe once again achieved strong markets such as the Philippines.
Genus PIC achieved a good growth, with revenue and volumes up 8% and 6% respectively and profits performance, with operating profits Increasing demand prompted expansion including joint ventures of 94.8m, increased by 26% in constant currency, in the US breeding herd during 2017, up 7% in constant currency.
Volumes driven primarily by higher royalty which will lead to further production grew by 4% and revenue was 7% fees and lower costs.
While processors recorded higher, primarily due to royalty growth Europe to focus on royalty business significant profits, US producers and higher breeding stock sales.
with producers that value genetics has realised more modest returns.
With been under way for several years and is new production and packing capacity Asias results were particularly strong, delivering sustained benefits, which will coming online in 2018, continued strong with a 45% increase in royalty volumes be further enhanced by the Hermitage domestic and export demand is required and 60% increase in operating Genetics acquisition and partnership.
China profits grew over 80% in constant currency, with strong Overall, Genus PIC performed The European porcine industry enjoyed demand from large scale producers well, despite varying global market a steady recovery in pig prices and for PIC genetics.
PIC China has signed conditions and continued investment producer profitability after a prolonged up a further three royalty customers.
to enhance product supply and period of losses.
The main drivers were Strong double-digit growth in Russia, differentiation.
These investments will a 1.6% decline in the European sow Philippines and franchises further continue to enable Genus PIC to better herd and increased exports to China.
serve customers, mitigate market In North America, volumes were stable risks and support future growth.
and revenue grew 2%, but stockings of | Genus plc Annual Report 2017 25 Divisional Reviews Genus ABS ENHANCING OUR CUSTOMER FOCUS During the year, progress against our strategic STRATEGIC PROGRESS objectives included: Jerry Thompson INCREASING GENETIC CONTROL AND PRODUCT Chief Operating Officer, Genus ABS Beef DIFFERENTIATION Creating fide Novo Genetics, our partnership with fide-Su Holsteins, to accelerate in-house development of differentiated dairy genetics Bringing through the first bulls from our beef nucleus herd into production Launching NuEra Genetics, the new global brand of our proprietary beef genetics, including the beef genetic nucleus and proprietary indices Taking full ownership of IVB to further accelerate its integration and growth Significantly enhancing our Genetic Management System GMS 2.0 to help customers plan and achieve the genetic blueprint they are seeking for their herd TARGETING KEY MARKETS AND SEGMENTS Dr Nate Zwald Enhancing our focus on large dairy accounts, particularly in the US, Chief Operating Officer, Genus ABS Dairy tailoring provision of products and services to their needs Continuing to expand IVBs reach in the US and grow its business in Mexico, harnessing the new laboratories established in 2016 Helping customers in Latin America maintain the benefits of crossbreeding across generations, by providing hybrid genetics in embryo form Working with beef supply chain partners in the UK, US and Brazil on proprietary indices to identify genetics that increase supply chain efficiency, profitability and sustainability PRODUCING OUR OWN SHARING IN THE VALUE DELIVERED GENETICS AND APPLYING OUR Combining elite sire and maternal genetics in embryo form for customers in Latin America, providing a premium product that accelerates genetic PROPRIETARY SEXING AND IVF progress Introducing a new beef index in the UK to rank sires on profit potential TECHNOLOGIES TO IMPROVE in customer herds, enabling us to price to value OUR CUSTOMERS HERDS PRIORITIES FOR 2018 Successfully launching our proprietary sexed genetics offer, Sexcel, in target markets around the world which we introduced on 1 September 2017 Building customised genetic blueprints for target dairy customers and tailoring our offer to their needs Launching further proprietary products and developing new indices for different beef markets and segments 17.7M Continuing to extend IVBs reach to target customers and markets worldwide UNITS OF SEMEN AND EMBRYOS SOLD | 26 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 STR ATEGIC REPORT Constant Actual currency currency OPERATING REVIEW 2017 2016 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 195.9 172.8 13 2 Adjusted operating profit 22.3 23.3 4 15 Adjusted operating profit less non-controlling interest 21.3 22.0 3 13 Adjusted operating margin 11.4% 13.5% 2.1 pts 2.1 pts Dairy Key Markets Beef Key Markets Pence per litre Live cattle per kg 50 2.5 45 2.0 40 35 1.5 30 1.0 25 20 0.5 15 10 0 Aug 14 Aug 15 Aug 16 Aug 17 Aug 14 Aug 15 Aug 16 Aug 17 US Brazil EU China Russia India US Brazil Market has affected the bovine genetics and dairy volumes increased by 5%.
Global dairy producers started market, driving consolidation Beef volumes also increased by 9%, as to recover in 2017 from their and a focus on distribution chain dairy customers continued to produce unprecedentedly low profitability efficiencies, exemplified by the beef cross-bred offspring for slaughter.
In Europe, the legacy of the takeover of the Accelerated Genetics A continued focus on cost reduction low prices resulted in milk supply cooperative in the US by Select and improving service margins also contracting, with France, Germany, the Sires, a major US cooperative.
yielded benefits throughout the year.
Netherlands and the UK producing 3% less milk in the first four months of Performance In Latin America, profits grew 41% in 2017 compared with 2016.
Combined Adjusted operating profits for constant currency, despite volumes with modest increases in demand, this Genus ABS fell by 13% in constant declining 2% due to tough beef markets.
has resulted in Europe experiencing currency with the decline all in the Genus ABS continued to firmer farm gate milk prices.
Volumes in the take the lead in increasing selling prices second half grew significantly, up 8% in key markets, and by June, ABS Global milk output in the first four year to year, resulting in a positive prices were on average 9% higher.
months of 2017 was at the same level second half performance.
For the Beef volumes were down 6% from last as 2016 due to increases in production year as a whole, volumes increased year, hampered by political turmoil as in Argentina, the US, Australia and New 1% and revenues 2%.
North America well as misconduct allegations in the Zealand.
The US increased production and Asia were key contributors to downstream supply chain in Brazil.
2%, with 0.6% of this contributed by the lower results for the year but increasing cow numbers.
Consistently performance improved in Europe and Results in Asia were 32% lower, driven low milk prices in China continue Latin America, and IVB continued primarily by adverse trading conditions to challenge smaller farms, leading to grow.
Results in the second half in China, where many producers have to consolidation to fewer, larger were also impacted by provisions for been loss-making.
Australian producers dairy farms, and to reduced imports ST-produced sorted inventory as we also struggled with reduced milk prices during the year, although recent prepared for the launch of Sexcel.
and trading in India was impacted by signs suggest an improved outlook.
Despite In North America, profits decreased these challenges, Asia performance Following two years of strong beef by 12% in constant currency, driven by improved in the second half of the year.
cattle prices in the US, producers faced an 8% dairy volume decrease, partially a sudden and unexpected decline in offset by a 25% increase in sexed semen IVB continued to deliver strongly prices in the first half of the year, due to volumes and strong cost management.
with revenues and operating profit increased cattle numbers and reduced A strengthened focus on strategic less non-controlling interest both up packer capacity.
This resulted in a rapid key account management led to the over 30% in constant currency over drop in the rate of herd expansion and addition of a Top 5 US enterprise dairy 60% in actual currency, on embryo reduced artificial insemination usage in as an IVB customer.
Beef volumes were volume growth of 20%.
Commercial this key beef market.
Beef prices and down 13% against the record prior integration between ABS and IVB producer profitability in Brazil were year, due to low market steer prices enabled over 15 new accounts to be adversely impacted by the tainted meat and competition with natural service.
won in Mexico, including two large scandal in the second half of the year.
enterprise accounts, leveraging a new In Europe, profits increased by 8% in world class IVF facility in Torreon.
Challenging conditions for customers constant currency.
The severe dairy In North America, IVB secured a over the last two years have constrained market weakness experienced in new key account with a herd of over demand for quality bovine genetics 2016 improved in 2017, with many 60,000 animals, with a new laboratory as customers conserved cash.
This customers returning to profitability to serve it starting in early FY18.
| Genus plc Annual Report 2017 27 Divisional Reviews R&D PIONEERING TECHNOLOGIES During the year, progress against our strategic STRATEGIC PROGRESS objectives included: Dr Jonathan Lightner DIFFERENTIATED PRODUCTS FROM GENOMIC SELECTION Chief R&D and Scientific Officer Formation of fide Novo Genetics, integrating our elite dairy female programme with animals from fide-Su Holsteins, to create world leading, proprietary Holstein genetics Developing proprietary indices for beef, enabling us to select appropriate genetics for the drivers of profitability in target markets and segments Implementing our proprietary technological platform for genomic evaluation of beef genetics, based on analysing data collected from commercial herds in our target market segments Implementing genomic evaluations for dairy, focused on TransitionRight traits that produce daughters more resistant to health problems which commonly occur after giving birth A YEAR OF FURTHER Continuing our Nextgen Breeding project with the Roslin Institute, which is exploring the sequencing of porcine DNA to identify and harness PROGRESS ON LONG-TERM several billion data points for animal selection PROJECTS USING GENE EDITING PIONEERING TECHNOLOGIES Working with our partners in Caribou Bioscience to select and optimise the gene editing reagents for use in our PRRSv resistance programme Beginning the process of creating edits in elite PIC genetics, to remove the CD163 gene product, which is required for PRRSv to infect pigs Securing an INAD application with the US FDA for the PRRSv programme GENDER SKEW Scaling our proprietary GSS technology in anticipation of our launch on 12% 1 September 2017, to deliver our sexed bovine genetics offer at the highest calibre on a global scale IN R&D INVESTMENT IN CONSTANT CURRENCY PRIORITIES FOR 2018 Driving our dairy genetic progress through the fide Novo joint venture Launching full genomic selection for beef, harnessing our proprietary technology Introducing further proprietary bovine indices, such as targeted beef indices, for Brazil and the US Successfully launching Sexcel, our proprietary sexed genetics offering Continuing to enhance our gene editing trait development capability Working with regulators and stakeholders to facilitate the future approval, and acceptance, of gene edited animal proteins | 28 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 STR ATEGIC REPORT Constant Actual currency currency OPERATING REVIEW 2017 2016 Movement Movement m m % % Gene editing 3.5 0.9 289 251 Other research 8.4 7.1 18 2 Porcine product development 16.6 13.5 23 7 Bovine product development 15.3 12.9 19 6 Net expenditure in R&D less non-controlling interest 43.8 34.4 27 12 Performance capabilities and expanded research invest in genetic services resources, to As planned, R&D investment increased efforts in a number of promising develop proprietary breeding indices by 12% in constant currency, while areas.
Additionally, we continued and predictive genomic mating, to capital spending remained flat.
This to build our internal capabilities deliver higher genetic control and reflected increased investments in in IP development, regulatory differentiation.
We leveraged this work gene editing capabilities, genome affairs and research strategy.
through our beef nucleus breeding science, advancing GSS and furthering programme to launch our proprietary our computational capabilities in Bovine product development NuEra Genetics beef genetics in the bovine product development.
expenditure increased by 6% in market after the end of the year.
constant currency, as we incurred Our investment in gene editing pre-launch costs of GSS partially Within porcine product development, increased by 2.6m, as we built offset by strategically increasing the the single-step genomic evaluation platform capabilities, co-founded a efficiency of our product development of all pure line populations, retail gene editing company, RenOVAte programme, including reducing the products and traits of economic Biosciences, to perform the edits, size of our bull herd and the expenses importance is continuing to exceed selected and optimised the gene associated with progeny testing.
In the aim of a 35% increase in the rate editing reagents, created the first GSS, we continued to refine and scale of genetic gain compared with the pregnancies of gene edited pigs for up our manufacturing processes in period before its implementation.
testing, and carried expenses for our preparation for commercial launch Porcine product development costs collaboration with Caribou Biosciences incurring costs in the year in excess of increased 7% in constant currency, from which we license market leading 2m.
We added resources in quality driven by increased animal volumes and proprietary CRISPR-Cas9 gene and operational controls and invested and the related operating expenses editing technology.
We secured in technology improvements to the in our nucleus herds, and lower an INAD with the US FDA for the current GSS system, which enhanced market prices for by-product pigs.
As planned, the technologys performance and These cost increases were partially we expect gene editing expense to offset by lower genetic testing fees, promise further advances in fertility.
grow to around 6.0m in 2018. due to project phasing, and reduced fide Novo achieved promising genetic global genetic dissemination costs.
As in previous years, our research results, while running to plan financially.
focused on genomic evaluation, We also brought into production 23% gender skew and animal health and 2016: 20% of our bulls from our ABS well-being.
Research expenditure internal herd with the impact of fide increased by 2% this year.
We also Novo expected to grow significantly continued to invest in core informatics in future years.
We continued to | Genus plc Annual Report 2017 29
