Regulatory matters Ofcom Competition Act investigation into Virgin Media Below is an overview of the ongoing complaint to Ofcom concerning the collective selling investigations and reviews of of live UK television rights by the Premier League In September 2014, Ofcom received a complaint from Virgin Media VM regulatory and competition alleging that the arrangements for the collective selling of live UK television rights by the Premier League PL for matches played by its member clubs matters involving the Group.
are in breach of competition law.
On 18 November 2014, Ofcom opened an investigation under section 25 of the Competition Act 1998 into how the European Commission investigation PL sells live UK audio-visual media rights for PL football matches.
Ofcom decided to close its investigation on 10 August 2016 for reasons of On 13 January 2014, the European Commission the EC opened a formal administrative priority.
antitrust investigation into cross-border provision of pay TV services in the European Union.
The investigation was opened into certain provisions Ofcom investigation into Skys compliance with rules relating to territorial protection in licence agreements between major about cancellation and termination arrangements US film studios Twentieth Century Fox, Warner Bros. Sony Pictures, NBC Universal, Paramount and Disney and key European pay TV broadcasters On 6 August 2015, Ofcom opened an investigation on whether there are Sky UK, Canal Plus, Sky ltalia, Sky Deutschland and DTS, operating under reasonable grounds for believing that Sky has failed to comply with its the Canal Plus brand in Spain.
On 23 July 2015, the EC adopted a Statement obligations under the Ofcom General Conditions of Entitlement which of Objections, setting out its preliminary finding that there has been require communication providers to ensure that their conditions or an infringement of EU Competition law involving Sky UK.
Sky UK and procedures for contract termination do not act as a disincentive for the Studios, have responded to the ECs case, both in written responses end-users changing their communication providers.
In September 2016, October 2015 and at an oral hearing January 2016.
In addition, Ofcom notified Sky of its provisional determination that there are Paramount has proposed commitments which the EC accepted in July 2016. reasonable grounds for believing that Sky contravened General Condition The EC has not yet reached its final views and the Group is not yet able to 9.3 between 1 May 2015 and 31 July 2015.
Sky made representations in determine the outcome of the investigation or its financial impact.
However, response to Ofcoms provisional determination.
Ofcoms investigation is should the outcome be adverse to Sky UK, this may have a significant effect continuing.
The Group is currently unable to determine whether, or to what on the financial position or profitability of the Group.
extent, Ofcom will find that Sky has failed to comply with its obligations and it is not possible for the Group to conclude on the financial impact Wholesale must-offer WMO obligations of the outcome at this stage.
On 19 November 2015, Ofcom announced its decision to remove wholesale Competition law investigation into 2014 Serie A auction must-offer obligations which Ofcom had imposed on the Group in March 2010 for the channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 1 HD and Sky On 19 April 2016, the Italian Competition Authority the ICA made its final Sports 2 HD the WMO Obligations.
decision in relation to the award of Serie A TV Broadcasting Rights for the 2015-18 seasons.
According to the ICA, Lega Nazionale Professionisti Serie A, On 19 January 2016, BT filed an appeal against Ofcoms decision to remove its advisor Infront Italy S. r. l. and TV broadcasters Sky Italia, Reti Televisive the WMO condition with the Competition Appeal Tribunal the CAT.
Italiane S. p. A. and its subsidiary Mediaset Premium S. p. A. entered into On 21 December 2016, the CAT dismissed BTs appeal.
On 11 January 2017, an anticompetitive agreement in breach of Art.
101 of the Treaty on the BT applied to the CAT for permission to appeal against the CATs judgment Functioning of the European Union to change the award of TV broadcasting to the Court of Appeal.
Having been refused permission to appeal by the rights for the 2015-18 seasons Serie A matches.
CAT, on 16 February 2017 BT sought permission to appeal from the Court of Appeal.
On 20 June 2017, following a request from BT that it do so, the Court With respect to Sky Italia, the ICA concluded that it had played a marginal of Appeal dismissed BTs application for permission to appeal, marking and defensive role in the infringement in order to obtain the award of at the end of this litigation.
least one of the two packages that should have been assigned to Sky Italia based on the tendered offers.
Moreover, Sky Italia extensively co-operated with the ICA during the proceedings.
Accordingly, the ICA imposed a fine equal to 4 million on Sky.
On 18 June 2016, Sky Italia filed an appeal seeking the annulment of the decision.
On 23 December 2016, the Italian Administrative Court TAR Lazio, upheld Sky Italias appeal and annulled the ICA decision in its entirety.
On 23 March 2017 the ICA filed an appeal against the TAR decision before the Consiglio di Stato and the case is still pending.
32 Sky plc Strategic report Secretary of State review of the 21st Century Fox Offer Forward-looking statements on public interest grounds This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and business, and our The 21st Century Fox Offer is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain strategy, plans and objectives.
pre-conditions, principally being regulatory clearances.
On 16 March 2017, the Secretary of State for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport the Secretary These statements include, without limitation, those that express forecast, of State issued a European Intervention Notice, confirming her expectations and projections, such as forecasts, expectations and intervention in the 21st Century Fox Offer on two public interest grounds projections with respect to new products and services, the potential for media plurality and commitment to broadcasting standards.
Following a growth of free-to-air and pay television, fixed-line telephony, broadband detailed review process, on 20 June 2017, Ofcom and the Competition and and bandwidth requirements, advertising growth, DTH and OTT customer Markets Authority the CMA provided reports to the Secretary of State on growth, On Demand, NOW TV, Sky Go, Sky Go Extra, Sky HD, Sky Q, the media public interest grounds and jurisdiction, respectively.
Separately, Sky Store, Sky Online, IPTV, Sky Mobile, Sky Ticket, Multiscreen and other Ofcom conducted a review of whether Sky would remain a fit and services, churn, revenue, profitability and margin growth, cash flow proper holder of UK broadcast licences following the completion of the generation, programming costs, subscriber management and supply 21st Century Fox Offer and concluded that it would.
On 29 June 2017, the chain costs, administration costs and other costs, marketing expenditure, Secretary of State announced that she is minded to refer the Offer to the capital expenditure programmes and proposals for returning capital CMA for an in-depth Phase II review on the grounds of media plurality only.
The Secretary of State opened a consultation process on this decision and Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such her consideration of representations received remains ongoing.
Her final forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements and all decision on referral is expected in the coming weeks.
Regulatory clearances other forward-looking statements contained in this document are not for the 21st Century Fox Offer from all other relevant authorities have now guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties been received.
and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied or forecast in the forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those risks that are highlighted in this document in the section entitled Principal risks and uncertainties, and information on the significant risks and uncertainties associated with our business is described therein.
No part of this document constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in the Company or any other entity and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf decision.
All forward-looking statements in this document are based on by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
information known to us on the date hereof.
Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation publicly to update or revise any forward-looking Jeremy Darroch statements, whether as a result of new information, future events Group Chief Executive Officer 26 July 2017 or otherwise.
