Seeing The Bigger Picture As a Sky Group we began reporting on our environmental performance Using our voice to inspire, create in 2014 15.
Over the years we have reduced our carbon intensity by 8.50% from 10.35tCO e in 2015 16 to 9.47tCO e in 2016 17.
In the UK and Ireland, 2 2 and act on issues our customers we have been reporting on our environmental performance since 2008 09.
We have reduced our emissions, in terms of tCO e, relative to revenue, and our people care about.
2 by 47% since our 2008 09 baseline, making significant progress towards our target to halve emissions by 2020.
What we do goes beyond business Across our sites weve continued to focus on the investment in renewable At Sky, were at the heart of millions of lives, in millions of homes.
This gives energy and the energy efficiency of our buildings, including the installation us a platform to affect real change.
What we choose to do with this platform of solar energy and combined heat and power CCHP plants.
says everything about who we are.
Thats why we aim for something better.
Weve also extended our renewable energy approach to our suppliers.
Thats why were using our voice to inspire, create and act.
Collaboration with our long-standing partner Zinwell resulted in the We are inspiring more people to participate in sport, at any level: creating installation of large scale solar energy infrastructure on their Chinese site.
new opportunities for young people to express themselves through We will continue to work with our partners on energy saving and renewable storytelling: and taking positive action on major issues, and driving change.
energy production, alongside reducing energy usage in the manufacturing This is underpinned by our strong responsible business commitments.
and operation of our products.
All of this is built on a desire to make a difference.
Its good for our We encourage customers to return their products to us at the end of their customers, our people and for our business.
Thats why were guided by use and we ensure that these are all reused or recycled.
clear values and a clear point of view, leading to meaningful initiatives Responsible sourcing and human rights that make a positive impact for today and the next generation.
Our business relies on strong partnerships with thousands of suppliers and Over the years, weve built a strong track record: becoming the worlds distributors.
Our responsible sourcing principles set out the high ethical, first carbon neutral media company in 2006: getting over 1.6 million environmental and social standards for suppliers and their supply chains.
people to cycle more regularly: building confidence in 500,000 young All suppliers we spend over 100,000 with have a risk assessment, and people through sports: and saving one billion trees in the Amazon.
we work with suppliers that we deem high risk to help improve standards.
Were proud of the role weve played, but we want to go further.
We will Over the year we have significantly increased our audit coverage with continue to inspire a new generation through the power of sports, tier 1 suppliers and expanded audits to our tier 2 suppliers, which include invest further in creativity and diversity in our industry and encourage manufacturers of component parts for Sky products.
As part of our aim to everyone to join in and support initiatives like Sky Ocean Rescue.
collaborate with suppliers and other buyers, we have joined the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition and Tech UK.
Through these groups we share Thats why were focused more than ever on seeing the Bigger Picture.
information and collaborate on responsible sourcing issues such as working hours and employee wellbeing.
Responsible business Sky respects the rights of everyone we impact through our activities One of the key areas in which we bring our Bigger Picture strategy to life and business relationships including our own people, those in our supply is responsible business.
This includes our environmental footprint, how we chain and our customers.
We maintain policies which clearly set out our make our products accessible and ensuring were an inclusive employer.
expectations for upholding human rights.
We have again conducted Positive footprint our annual human rights risk assessment across our own operations We aim to have a positive impact on our planet.
Two ways we do this are and supply chains.
This has helped us to identify focus areas which can through maintaining our 10-year record as a carbon neutral business and be seen in our Modern Slavery Statement for 2017, along with policies.
by using our voice to inspire people to take action to protect our planet See our policies and Modern Slavery Statement at through long-term initiatives such as Sky Ocean Rescue.
sky corporate bigger-picture ambition is to become a zero-carbon business.
Best experience for all customers We are proud of what we do to make the Sky experience safe and accessible for everyone, including families and our customers with disabilities.
To help make Sky the safest place for families to enjoy content, our Sky Broadband Shield is now automatically switched on for all customers.
We also launched Sky Talk Shield, our personalised call-screening service which allows customers to block the calls they dont want to receive.
We continue to make the Sky experience more accessible so that everyone can enjoy the same great Sky experience regardless of their disabilities.
For example, this year we launched subtitles on our on demand content for Sky Q, Sky HD and NOW TV.
Data protection We have strong data protection governance and continue to invest in industry-leading security methods.
As part of our data governance programme, we are building privacy principles into key projects and activities from the start, so that data protection is addressed at the design phase.
This extends to how we work with our suppliers, partners and employees, so we all work together to protect personal data.
Sky Ocean Rescue 14 Sky plc S St tr ra at te eg gi ic r c re ep po or rt t Inclusion Sky Racing Team VR46 was born from the close collaboration between Its our people that make Sky Europes leading entertainment company and Sky and Valentino Rossi, to identify and fast-track the young talent we know that embracing different perspectives fosters innovation.
Having of Italian motorcycling and help the next generation of champions diverse voices contributes to the decisions we take as a business and helps kick-start their dreams.
us better anticipate and meet the needs of all our customers.
Championing the next generation to be the best they can be, to create the stories of tomorrow Our ambition is to become the industry leader for inclusion, both on screen Since opening in 2012 more than 85,000 young people have visited Sky and behind the scenes.
To help us achieve this we are focused on increasing Academy Studios in London and Livingston to create their own news the representation of people from BAME Black, Asian, and minority ethnic report.
In November, we also launched Sky Academy Studios at our Italian backgrounds in our business and remain committed to achieving gender headquarters in Milan and since then 5,570 young people have come parity.
We have put in place a range of initiatives to achieve this ambition through the doors.
and theyre already making a difference.
For example, we have increased the number of women in the top 400 positions from 32% to 39%.
We have supported the charity MAMA Youth since 2011, helping young We are also actively supporting women to develop skills in traditionally people from under-represented groups to get into the media industry.
under-represented areas, with initiatives such as Get into Tech.
MAMA Youth provides 12-week intensive training courses giving participants hands-on training and real-world experience by working on the Sky 1 show, We support the aims of the new UK legislation requiring organisations Whats Up.
The young people gain experience as researchers, camera to publish their gender pay gap and are committed to equal pay.
operators and video editors, followed by a paid placement in the creative We will publish our findings in due course.
This year MAMA Youth took up residency on site at Sky You can find out more on the diversity of our workforce at in Osterley, with even more access to our production studios and the skygroup.
sky corporate bigger-picture skills and expertise that Sky has to offer.
Inspiring the next generation Campaigning for action on important issues Inspiring the next generation in sport that affect the next generation This year we celebrated the achievement of one of our longest-running We want to use our voice to make a difference on issues that our customers partnerships, Sky Sports Living for Sport.
Working with the Youth Sport and people care about, so this year we launched Sky Ocean Rescue, a Trust, over half a million young people have taken part in this programme group-wide campaign to save our oceans.
We are shining a spotlight on the over 14 years.
The free initiative uses sports projects to inspire young issues of ocean health, in particular on pollution caused by single-use plastics people and teach them skills such as teamwork to help boost their and inspiring millions of people across Europe to take positive action to save confidence.
Delivered by a team of 135 world-class Athlete Mentors and our oceans.
supported by our Ambassadors, such as Thierry Henry, they have made The campaign kicked off with a Sky News documentary called A Plastic Tide.
10,000 school visits to around a third of state secondary schools across the The programme brings to life the dire state of the oceans as a result of the UK and Ireland.
This was the final year of Sky Sports Living for Sport and our 8 million tonnes of plastic that end up in the sea every year.
With special news thanks go out to everyone involved in making this initiative a great success.
programmes and social media campaigning, weve already reached over 100 Were also helping some of the most promising young athletes from the million people and 5 million people have actively engaged with the campaign.
UK and Ireland to fulfil their potential through our Sky Sports Scholarships, Inside Sky were looking at everything we do that impacts the oceans.
with 6 of our 11 athletes making it to the Olympics and Paralympics.
Weve made a good start by removing all plastic water bottles, plastic cups These athletes include 2017 World Champion Short Track Speed Skater, and straws from our sites across Europe.
This is a long-term campaign for Elise Christie: 2014 Commonwealth Middleweight Boxing Champion, us and well continue to make changes to reduce our impact, including our Savannah Marshall: Olympic Silver medalist, Siobhan-Marie OConnor product packaging.
and Mark English, a talented 800-metre runner who won silver in the Find out about Sky Ocean Rescue at European Indoor Championships.
Well done to all our scholars.
com Find out more about how were inspiring the next generation in our Bigger Picture Performance update at skygroup.
sky corporate bigger-picture Sky Academy Studios Annual Report 2017 15
