Other Statutory Disclosures Directors The Company has one class of ordinary share, with the rights set out in the The Directors and the dates of their Articles of Association.
All issued shares are fully paid and each share has the respective appointments are listed on right to one vote at the Companys general meetings.
There are no specific pages 42 and 43. restrictions either on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by our Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
No Equal Opportunities Employees person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
with Disabilities Genus values diversity and aims Details of the Companys employee share schemes are set out in note 51.
In to make best use of everyones connection with these schemes, the Genus plc Employee Benefit Trust holds skills and abilities.
We are therefore shares in the Company from time to time and abstains from voting in respect committed to equal opportunities of any such shares.
at every stage of our employees careers.
Our policy on employees For additional information on capital risk management including financial with disabilities is to fully and fairly instruments, see note 24. consider people with disabilities for all vacancies.
We interview and Authority to Acquire the Companys Own Shares recruit people with disabilities and The Directors may only buy back shares to the extent authorised by the shareholders endeavour to retain employees if they in general meeting.
The current power to buy back shares was granted by become disabled while they work for shareholder resolution at the 2016 AGM and a new authority is being sought at us.
Where possible, we will retrain the 2017 AGM within the limits set out in the notice of meeting, that is up to a employees who become disabled and nominal value of 611,745 representing 10% of the Companys current issued adjust their working environment, so share capital.
No shares were bought back by the Company, under the authority they can maximise their potential.
granted at the 2016 AGM, from the date of that AGM up to the date of this report.
Political Contributions The Group does not make political Going Concern and Long-Term Viability Statement contributions.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the Dividend foreseeable future and for a period of at least 12 months from the date of this The Board is recommending to report.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt and consider appropriate shareholders a final dividend of the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
16.2 pence per ordinary share, resulting in a total dividend During the year Genus exercised an extension option to extend the maturity for the year of 23.6 pence per of the facility for a further year to February 2022, on the same terms and ordinary share, an increase of 10% pricing, and in March 2017 exercised the first tranche of the Accordion for the year.
It is proposed that feature of the facility, increasing our GBP facility by 10m to 75m and the final dividend will be paid on increasing our US$ facility by $25m to $165m.
1 December 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of At 30 June 2017 the Group had net debt of 111.6m 2016: 89.7m and had business on 17 November 2017. substantial headroom of 73.6m 2016: 49.8m under the renewed facilities of 202m.
The Groups financial position remains strong.
Share Capital In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the Note 29 gives details of the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year period to Companys issued share capital June 2020.
This period is deemed appropriate given the visibility the and any movements in the issued Company has to its product development pipeline, for example, as a result of share capital during the year.
The the genetic lag of approximately three years between the porcine nucleus Directors may only issue shares herds and customers production systems.
In addition, the nature of the to the extent authorised by the principal risks and uncertainties affecting Genus, including the agricultural shareholders in general meeting.
The markets in which it operates, were taken into account in determining the current power to allot shares was three-year period.
The Directors have considered Genuss current financial granted by shareholder resolution at position, its planned capital expenditure, as well as the financing facilities the 2016 AGM and a new authority available to the Group.
They also assessed the potential impact, in severe but is being sought at the 2017 AGM plausible scenarios, of the principal risks and uncertainties, set out on pages within the limits set out in the notice 12 to 13, and in particular the impacts of biosecurity, market down-turn, of meeting, that is up to a nominal continuity of supply and increased competition including new product value of 4,078,303.72 representing launches.
The assessment took into account the likely degree of two-thirds of the Companys effectiveness of current and available mitigating actions.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to June 2020.
| 82 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE Substantial Shareholdings As at 1 September 2017, we were aware of the following material interests in the Companys ordinary shares: Fund Manager Shareholding % Lansdowne Partners 6,088,888 9.95 Baillie Gifford & Co 4,080,940 6.67 Columbia Threadneedle Investments 3,748,354 6.13 NFU Mutual Investment Mgrs 2,507,442 4.10 Allianz Global Investors 2,183,133 3.57 Legal & General Investment Mgt 2,117,859 3.46 M&G Investment Mgt 1,892,622 3.09 There have been no material changes in shareholding since 30 June 2017.
No other person has notified an interest in the Companys ordinary shares, which is required to be disclosed to us.
Provision of Information to the Companys Auditor Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 Companies Act 2006.
Appointment of Auditor Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint it will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors Indemnities The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
Requirements of the Listing Rules Details of the Companys long-term incentive schemes can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 81.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Dan Hartley Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 6 September 2017 | Genus plc Annual Report 2017 83
