Board of Directors Key: A Audit Committee BP Bigger Picture Committee R Remuneration Committee Corporate Governance GN and Nominations Committee Committee Chairman James Murdoch 44 Jeremy Darroch 55 Andrew Griffith 46 BP GN Membership Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Appointed: James became Chairman in April Appointed: Jeremy joined Sky as Chief Appointed: Andrew was appointed Group 2016, having joined the Board in February Financial Officer and Executive Director Chief Operating Officer in March 2016.
James served as Chief Executive in 2004 and was appointed to his current In addition to his role as Chief Financial Officer Officer from 2003 to 2007 and as Chairman role in December 2007. he is responsible for the Groups overall future from 2007 to 2012. growth plans as well as the Groups advertising Skills and experience: Jeremy has extensive businesses across Europe including AdSmart.
Skills and experience: James brings experience in the retailing and fast-moving significant media sector knowledge and consumer goods sectors.
Prior to joining Sky, Skills and experience: Andrew joined the experience through his role at 21st Century Jeremy was Group Finance Director of DSG Company in 1999 from Rothschild, the Fox.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive International plc, formerly Dixons Group plc.
investment banking organisation, where he Officer of Star Group Limited from 2000 He has also spent 12 years at Procter & provided financial and strategic advice to to 2003, and held Non-Executive Director Gamble in a variety of roles in the UK and corporate clients in the technology, media roles at GlaxoSmithKline plc from 2009 Europe.
Jeremy is a former Non-Executive and telecommunications sector.
He held a to 2012 and Sothebys from 2010 to 2012.
Director and Chairman of the Audit number of senior finance roles prior to his Committee of Marks and Spencer Group plc appointment as Chief Financial Officer and External Appointments: James was from 2006 to 2013. member of the Board in 2008, has a Bachelor appointed as Chief Executive Officer at 21st of Law degree from Nottingham University Century Fox in June 2015.
He also serves as External Appointments: In February 2014, and is a qualified chartered accountant.
a member of the Board of News Corporation Jeremy was appointed Non-Executive and is a Non-Executive Director of Tesla, Inc. Director of Burberry Group plc and serves External Appointments: In March 2014, Yankee Global Enterprises, Vice Media, and as Chairman of the Audit Committee, Andrew was appointed Senior Independent a member of the Board of Trustees of the a member of the Nomination Committee Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc and Ghetto Film School.
and from 1 July 2017 as Senior Independent since April 2017 has been serving as Interim Director.
He is a Business Member of Chairman.
He also Chairs the Audit Committee the National Centre for Universities and is a member of the Remuneration and and Business.
In addition he is a Trustee of Riverside Studios in West London, a registered charity.
Chase Carey 63 Tracy Clarke 50 Martin Gilbert 62 R BP A GN Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Director Appointed: January 2013 Appointed: June 2012 Appointed: November 2011 Skills and experience: Chase has extensive Skills and experience: Tracy brings a wide Skills and experience: Martin has been knowledge and experience of the international range of operational experience having involved in the investment management media and pay TV sectors.
He is a former spent the early part of her career in corporate industry since 1982 and has extensive President and Chief Executive Officer of banking.
She went on to take leadership of investment, finance and executive DirecTV, where he led the operations and corporate affairs, brand and marketing, media leadership experience through his role strategic direction of the DirecTV Group.
relations, human resources, and latterly, global as co-founder and Chief Executive Officer Prior to joining DirecTV, Chase was Co-Chief compliance, all with Standard Chartered Bank.
of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Operating Officer of News Corporation She served as a Non-Executive Director of He has served as Chairman of FirstGroup plc, subsequently renamed 21st Century Fox Standard Chartered First Bank in Korea from Chaucer PLC and was Non-Executive and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2005 to 2007 and Non-Executive Director of Director of Dynmark International Limited, of the Fox Television Group.
Eaga plc from 2007 to 2011, where she chaired a mobile messaging and data applications the Remuneration Committee.
External Appointments: Chase is Chairman and Chief Executive of the Formula 1 Group External Appointments: Tracy is a member External Appointments: In addition to his and Vice Chairman of 21st Century Fox.
He was of the Management Team and a Director role as Chief Executive Officer of Aberdeen President, Chief Operating Officer and Deputy of Standard Chartered.
On 1 October 2015 Asset Management PLC, Martin is Chairman Chairman of 21st Century Fox from 2009 to she was appointed Regional Chief Executive of the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA 2015 and Executive Vice Chairman from July Americas and Europe.
Tracy is a trustee of Practitioner Panel.
Martin also serves as 2015 to July 2016.
WORKing for YOUth: is a Board member a Non-Executive Director of Glencore plc for England Netball: a co-opted member and as Senior Governor of the University on the CBBC Board: member of the Institute of Aberdeen.
of Financial Services and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
36 Sky plc Governance Adine Grate 56 John Nallen 60 Matthieu Pigasse 49 A R A GN Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Director Appointed: July 2013 Appointed: November 2015 Appointed: November 2011 Skills and experience: Adine brings a Skills and experience: John is a highly Skills and experience: Matthieu brings wealth of executive, finance and investment experienced executive with strong media significant knowledge of the European management and TMT experience having and finance industry expertise.
He previously media sector and finance expertise to the operated at the top tiers of Nordic-based served as Senior Executive Vice President Board.
He is CEO of Lazard, France and Vice international business for the past two and Deputy Chief Financial Officer of 21st Chairman of Lazard Europe.
Formerly Executive Vice President Century Fox from 2001 to 2013.
John joined Global Head of Mergers and Acquisitions and Executive Board Member of Investor AB, News Corporation in 1995 after working at and the Global Head for Sovereign Advisory owner of a number of Nordic-based Arthur Andersen for the previous 16 years.
He has also served in the French international companies, and Chairperson of Ministry of Economy and Finance.
External Appointments: John is Senior the NASDAQ OMX Swedish Listing Committee.
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial External Appointments: In addition External Appointments: Adine is Vice Officer for 21st Century Fox, a role which he to his role at Lazard, Matthieu has a Chairperson of AP7, a Swedish pension and assumed on 1 July 2013. number of personal interests in media savings asset management company.
She is and publishing, notably Le Monde and a Director of Three Scandinavia, a mobile the Huffington Post France.
He is a telecommunications and broadband operator: Board member of Group Lucien Barrire Sampo OY, a leading financial services and SAS, an operator of luxury hotels and insurance institution: and Swedavia AB, restaurants and Derichebourg, a recycling an airport operator.
Andy Sukawaty 62 Katrin Wehr-Seiter 47 GN R Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: October 2016 Appointed: June 2013 Skills and experience: Katrin is an Skills and experience: With over 30 years experienced investment management and of telecommunications media technology finance professional having worked in the experience Andy brings strong industry private equity industry for more than 16 knowledge to the Board.
He has led companies years.
She brings significant knowledge in the mobile phone, cable TV and satellite of the European media, communications industries in the US and Europe and serves and technology sector.
Prior to joining BIP as Chairman of Inmarsat plc, a global mobile Investment Partners in 2012, she served as satellite communications provider.
a Principal of global investment firm Permira External Appointments: In addition and Senior Advisor to international private to his role as Chairman of Inmarsat plc, equity firms and corporations, having Andy has previously held a number started her career at Siemens.
Katrin was also of senior management positions in the an independent director of Sky Deutschland telecommunications industry including AG from 2010 to 2015, prior to Sky taking full Chairman of Ziggo N. V. a Dutch cable TV ownership of the company.
He also External Appointments: Katrin is Managing previously served as Chief Executive Officer Director of BIP Investment Partners SA.
of Sprint PCS NYSE and NTL Ltd and held She is a director of SES SA and serves on the roles of Chairman of Xyratex Nasdaq their audit and risk committee.
Katrin is and Telenet, and Deputy Chairman of 02 plc.
also a director of several non-listed Andy is also an Executive in Residence corporations including Lifebrain AG.
