Germany and Austria Sky in Germany and Austria has successfully developed a broader content This was a year of broadening the offering including the launch of Sky 1, the Sky Arts channel and an eagerly anticipated slate of Sky original drama, including Babylon Berlin, coming later Sky offer in Germany and Austria to this year.
We maintained our profitability for the second year in succession while preserving our investment in content and innovation, which is driving appeal to a wider range of customers.
our appeal to an increasingly broad customer base.
For the first time, we achieved an operating profit in the region by the end 1 of Q3.
Revenue increased by 9% to 1,858 million, driven by strong growth in customers and our highest ever level of advertising revenues.
Despite further investment in programming and marketing, EBITDA increased to 1 1 142 million up 54%, and operating profit increased by 900% to 40 million.
5m 9% customers revenue growth Innovation In a big year for product launches, our strategic deployment of innovative new technology has increased Skys reach and appeal.
The introduction of new products are opening up new opportunities for us.
For example, the Sky Pro, which is now in over 460,000 homes, is the most advanced set-top box launched in the region.
Our leadership in innovation 8.8m also received global recognition, with the Sky Pro box receiving a Red Dot products Design Award for outstanding product design.
As the leader in on demand, we have increased the appeal of Sky to important new audiences particularly females and young, urban professionals.
Customers are increasingly seeking to access our content whenever and however they want, Sky Store launched in June and Sky Ticket, for which the sale of passes doubled during the second half of the year, are proving that customers want great content and are willing to pay for it.
1 This is an adjusted measure and a reconciliation between statutory and adjusted measures can be MasterChef found on page 141.
20 Sky plc S St tr ra at te eg gi ic r c re ep po or rt t Handball Champions League Content Our expanding range of content is increasing our appeal to a broader audience than ever.
With the securing and renewal of major long-term rights deals, and our slate of original content, Sky in Germany and Austria is now recognised for more than just sport.
In entertainment, we launched Sky 1 in November, which became our most watched entertainment channel after just seven months, attracting 2.73 million viewers.
Coupled with our content targeted toward other customer segments, such as Sky Arts, our content mix is also serving to attract new talent and shows to Sky in Germany and Austria.
The huge popularity of our established shows continues to drive on-screen success.
The sixth series of Game of Thrones was the most popular series on Sky Atlantic HD.
And new shows, such as the first series of Westworld, achieved record audiences, with 4.8 million viewers, reaching 70% of the audience of Game of Thrones.
We also continued to invest in highly popular original shows.
The first Sky Foundation season of our local version of MasterChef drew a record 2.37 million views, becoming one of the most popular shows on Sky 1.
Sky Originals are Customers increasing in scale, enabling us to offer differentiated content in terms of As in all our territories, we know that our success comes from giving viewers range, quality and exclusivity.
This year saw production finish on Babylon the best experience.
Sky continues to invest in market-leading platforms, Berlin, one of the most ambitious non-English language series ever made.
like Sky Go which allows access to Skys content whenever and wherever The crime drama, produced in partnership with ADR, Germanys biggest they choose.
Sky Ticket was also rolled out to even more devices and public broadcaster, will air in Germany in October.
Along with this, viewers platforms which, in addition to the launch of Sky Store in Germany, ensures can look forward to Das Boot, Acht Tage and the second series of the local the changing viewing habits of our customers are met.
production of A League of Their Own.
Our customers are also benefiting from Sky sharing best practice across In movies, we launched the Sky Cinema Family channel in September, the Group.
By building on the models in the UK and Italy, Skys customers in offering movies for the whole family, from classics to recently released Germany and Austria are seeing their calls to our contact centres handled blockbusters.
In addition to linear viewing, the channel is also accessible with ever-increasing speed.
on demand, through Sky Go and Sky On Demand and is achieving record viewing figures across all platforms.
Additionally, our special programming Bigger Picture formats continued to draw viewers with our pop-up channels like Having carefully considered product recycling in the design of our new Sky Cinema Bourne HD and Sky Cinema Star Wars, reaching millions set-top box, weve refurbished and returned 91% of all set top boxes to of customers.
We launched Sky Ocean Rescue with the release of Dead Sea In sport, we secured rights to the UEFA Champions League across all Art for the Seas on Sky Arts, where artists explored the theme of distribution channels with DAZN as sub-licensee.
This is the first time ocean pollution.
the competition will be broadcast exclusively on pay TV and with the More than 3,731 young people took part in opportunities through our Sky Bundesliga, the EHF Champions League, Formula 1, the handball Bundesliga, Foundation, joining year-round sports programmes including swimming, ATP Tennis and the European and US PGA tours, our customers are assured football and various other sports.
One of these programmes is SportZeit, of the worlds best in sports.
Added to this, Sky Sports News HD launched which brings together senior citizen volunteers with children from broad on free-to-air TV in December and our new sports portal, skysport.
After a successful test phase at eight schools across launched at the beginning of July.
Germany this year we began to roll out SportZeit in 20 more schools.
