UK and Ireland We achieved another positive performance in the UK and Ireland this year.
Sky in the UK and Ireland has built As Skys largest and most profitable business, our results were driven by our well established customer-centric strategy for growth and our powerful on its position as a world leader consumer brand.
Our total customer base rose to 12.7 million, having added 280,000 new customers in the course of the year.
in customer-led entertainment Continued strong demand for our products and services was reflected by and communications the addition of 1.6 million new paid-for products.
UK revenues increased by 1 1 4% to 8.6 million, with UK EBITDA of 1,743 million and an operating profit 1 of 1,292 million.
Innovation We are the leading innovator in our space, driving innovation at scale for our 12.7m 4% customers, enabling them to get even greater value from Sky.
We identify the most important trends in technology and changes in consumer customers revenue growth behaviour and create products and services for customers in these emerging areas.
With the launch of Sky Mobile, we brought something entirely different to the UK mobile market.
For the first time ever, mobile phone owners were given the opportunity to roll over their unused data allowance for up to three years, to be redeemed whenever they like, while also having the 42m flexibility to change their plan every month.
Additionally, Sky TV customers products were offered even greater value with both free UK calls and texts with any Sky Mobile plan, plus the ability to sync Sky recordings to their phones.
Enhancements to our Sky Q platform, which is already in over one million homes, meant that we have continued to lead the way in improving the customer viewing experience.
Voice search, find my remote and the ability to pause and carry on from TV to tablet around the house, is changing the way people watch and interact with their TV.
We added to the widest range of Ultra HD programming available, from drama, movies and sport.
The launch of Box Sets within Sky Store helped drive an increase of 15% in transactional business this year.
Guerrilla 1 This is an adjusted measure and a reconciliation between statutory and adjusted measures can be found on page 141.
Joshua v Klitschko 18 Sky plc S St tr ra at te eg gi ic r c re ep po or rt t In movies, it was a great year.
Sky Cinema had a record seven million downloads over the Christmas week with customers downloading 500 million movies throughout the year.
The partnership deals we have with all of the biggest studios in the world ensures our customers continue to enjoy the latest premieres and most loved classics.
In sport, we also won a number of new sports rights including the inaugural season of the UEFA Nations League, UEFA European Under-21 Championships and domestic womens cricket and netball in the UK.
We agreed a new five-year partnership with the England and Wales Cricket Board, including the live rights to international and county cricket.
We are broadcasting every race from the next two seasons of F1 on our dedicated F1 channel and Sky Sports will be the only place showing live Formula 1 from 2019.
We also launched a new sports channel, Sky Sports Mix, which has been viewed by over 11 million people and shown 40 different sports.
Customers We believe our industry-leading customer service gives us a competitive advantage.
This year Sky was once again recognised by the industry regulator, Ofcom, as topping the customer satisfaction scores of any provider across TV, broadband and phone.
We are focused on increasing My Sky App our leadership in this area and have revitalised our My Sky app a key step in our journey to digital-first customer interaction and management.
Now with almost two million downloads, the customer response has exceeded We launched the industrys first contract-free triple-play proposition expectations.
We will launch a new loyalty programme in the UK, Sky VIP, with the NOW TV combo.
In addition to our new NOW TV Smart Box, which will deliver tangible results for both customers and the business we introduced live pause and rewind functionality, plus a wide range in the coming year.
of live and on demand free and pay TV.
We also continued to make good progress with our Sky Media business, Bigger Picture particularly through our targeted advertising platform Sky AdSmart.
As part of our commitment to responsible business, were minimising our This year we signed up Viacom, Channel 5 became the first PSB to use environmental impact, achieving a 5.5% reduction in carbon intensity in the service, and we launched Sky AdSmart in Ireland, all of which helped the UK.
We also won the EU Code of Conduct award for energy efficiency our advertising business to outperform the market.
We entered a targeted in data centres and maintained our industry-leadership position with advertising partnership with Virgin Media in the UK, which launches our data centres being 65% more efficient than the industry average.
Our Sky Academy Studios welcomed 19,344 young people through the Content doors this year and we celebrated our 14-year Sky Sports Living for Sport initiative, with half a million young people having taken part Much of our success can be attributed to an exceptional year on screen.
In 2017, we increased the depth of programming across our portfolio, most notably in original content, but also through securing important long-term rights renewals with major networks.
In entertainment, we brought outstanding writing, directing and acting talent to Sky.
In terms of new original productions, the critically acclaimed Guerrilla came to screen in the UK along with Jamestown and Fortitude 2.
Riviera was another highlight, becoming the biggest drama premiere of the calendar year with almost 12 million downloads so far.
We also announced the commissioning of new series of A League of Their Own, Stan Lees Lucky Man, and Delicious: demonstrating the growing maturity of our portfolio.
Sky Atlantic has continued to build on its position as the destination for the worlds best storytelling, with the latest series of Game of Thrones from HBO, joining Showtimes Billions and the return of Twin Peaks in generating record audiences.
