Italy With an emphasis on investing for the future, our focus was very much We have successfully grown our on reinforcing our offer in Italy.
In a rapidly changing environment, with a solid reputation for the quality and choice of content and technology, customer base in Italy and operating our customers showed a growing loyalty to the business.
profits have reached their highest We recorded our fastest rate of revenue growth for eight years with 1 operating profits of 136 million.
Revenues increased by 4% to 2,458 level for five years by improving the TV 1 million, reflecting our larger customer base and solid growth in advertising revenues, partly due to a strong performance of our free-to-air channels experience for customers, broadening 1 FTA.
EBITDA increased to 254 million, an increase of 20%.
our revenue growth and leveraging Innovation our multi-platform strategy.
This year saw us extend our customer reach with a number of new product launches in Italy, many of which are unique in the territory.
With the launch of Sky Go Extra, we were the first in Italy to offer the ability to download and play a wide range of movies, shows and TV series to watch wherever and whenever customers want.
Since its launch in Q2, Sky Go Extra has attracted 400,000 customers.
We also launched a new EPG homepage on the My Sky set-top box, 4.8m 4% making it easier for our customers to find the shows they love.
And with customers revenue growth the addition of HD content to the Sky On Demand service, which saw a 21% growth in use this year, our customers in Italy have been able to get even more value from their relationship with Sky.
9m products Sky Kids App 1 This is an adjusted measure and a reconciliation between statutory and adjusted measures can be The Young Pope found on page 141.
22 Sky plc S St tr ra at te eg gi ic r c re ep po or rt t Gianluca Vialli and Diletta Leotta for Sky Extra We launched Sky Kids App, offering children the widest range of TV programmes, featuring thousands of episodes of the most popular shows.
To create the best possible experience, hundreds of children and their parents were involved in its development, resulting in an app that kids love, supported by safety features that parents need.
The continued evolution of our digital platforms this year has seen Sky Sports become the second most popular sports website in the country, with the new Sky Sports app reaching 966,000 downloads since launch in Q1.
NOW TV also extended its reach, landing on smartphones and media streaming devices, offering HD and a mobile only proposition targeting younger customers.
Content We have had an excellent year on screen in Italy.
The growing scale and ambition of our own original TV programmes, alongside the continued success of our acquired content, is a major strength of our offer.
In entertainment, Skys original productions are now a major exporter of NBA Finals Italian culture and creativity.
Gomorrah, with its third series in production, has been sold to 190 countries, with the political drama series 1992 and its Customers sequel, 1993, which aired this year, now also showing in over 100 countries.
We want our customers to have the very best experience with Sky and we The tenth series of the X Factor generated its highest-ever viewing figures continued to improve the quality of our service, offering our customers and MasterChef achieved average audiences exceeding 2.5 million for more flexibility in how they can interact with us.
We now receive over each episode.
Also setting record viewing figures, our critically acclaimed 820,000 visits per week to our online help and account management sites Sky Original drama, The Young Pope, became our most successful first series and this has led to a 5.4% reduction in calls year on year.
Alongside this, our in Italy, with average audiences of 1.4 million.
customers in Italy were the first to benefit from rewards for their loyalty, and subscribers to the loyalty programme now exceed two million.
In movies, we relaunched Sky Cinema in November with a new premiere available every day, which has driven an increase in viewing of 2% year on Bigger Picture year.
We have deepened our relationships with domestic producers through Our new building in Milan has been awarded the Leadership in Energy and Vision Distribution, a company set up with five of Italys top independent Environmental Design LEED Gold standard.
As part of this, we invested producers and along with the partnerships we enjoy with the major in on-site renewables including a combined cooling, heating and power Hollywood studios, our customers have access to an unrivalled library generation system which is a highly efficient way of producing electricity of movies.
In sport, we continued to generate record motorsports viewing figures, Sky Academy Studios, which teaches young people to make a news with F1 and the MotoGP series proving even more popular than ever.
programme, launched in the autumn and welcomed its first 5,500 This further enhanced Skys position as a leading sports service in Italy students.
Young people have had fantastic opportunities to interact and sits alongside NBA basketball, both mens and womens Eurobasket with inspirational Sky Academy Ambassadors including footballer championships and the recently won rights to the UEFA Europa League Alessandro Del Piero, along with the hosts of popular programmes and UEFA Champions League on offer to our customers.
We have also continued our focus on media literacy for young people, piloting a successful new project called Ultima Ora with our news channel Sky TG24.
