Governance Directors remuneration report Our remuneration policy Due to the 21st Century Fox Offer the proposed Remuneration Policy is presented with no material changes from the version that was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
This section describes the Directors Remuneration Policy which shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee intends that this policy will take effect from that date.
Should the 21st Century Fox Offer be withdrawn or lapse in sufficient time prior to the 2018 AGM the Committee intends that the Policy will be effective until the 2018 AGM, at which point a new Policy will be proposed for shareholder approval.
Remuneration Principles Five key principles underpin the remuneration policy for our Executive Directors: Our approach to executive pay is aligned to the interests of our shareholders.
We reward our people fairly and competitively to attract, motivate and retain the skills we need to deliver significant growth.
The level of base pay is decided in the same way as for all employees, based on individual performance and experience, the size and scope of the role and taking account of total remuneration.
The majority of executive pay is tied to the achievement of stretching performance goals linked to the strategic priorities for the business.
Executive Directors will be well rewarded only if they meet or exceed the maximum performance standards set and achieve stretching levels of performance.
We take care to ensure that remuneration does not inadvertently encourage inappropriate risk taking.
Our principles set the foundation for our remuneration policy and ensure that decisions made by the Committee are consistent and appropriate in the context of business priorities, shareholder interests and employee pay.
Summary of the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy The table below shows how our remuneration policy links to our business strategy and its terms of operation.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link Any increase will be in line with Individual and business Base salary Attracts and retains Reviewed annually, typically with effect those provided to employees performance is taken into Executive Directors taking from 1 July.
account when reviewing account of personal Salary is set relatively low versus the salaries.
contribution and size Higher increases may be made peer group of companies of similar of role.
as a result of a change in role market capitalisation to the Company.
or responsibility or other The Committee looks at pay practices performance-based in selected international media circumstance.
This is in line with our policy Decisions on salary also take into for all employees.
account the performance and experience of the individual, changes in the size and scope of the role, and the level of salary awards across the business.
Pension Provides opportunity for Executive Directors may receive Employer contributions to the N A longer-term saving and or employer contributions into the Sky pension scheme or an equivalent retirement provision.
Pension Scheme, a cash supplement cash supplement are capped at in lieu of pension, or a combination around 16% of base salary.
All payments are made as a percentage of base salary.
