Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL Creating value for our STAKEHOLDERS Our inputs Focused on delivering a multi-channel experience Robust balance sheet Seamless and instant journey We have a strong balance sheet across digital and retail supported by strong cash generation.
Inspiring people We employ over 10,000 talented 360-degree and dedicated individuals who have Single wallet player a desire to create the best experience for customers protection for our customers.
Extraordinary venues We have a portfolio of 151 venues that facilitate our customers to ensure they are entertained.
Digital Retail Strong relationships Our relationships with the communities we serve and with our suppliers form a vital part of our strategic plans to deliver a quality product and service to our customers.
Reputable brands We own a number of well-known brands with a strong affinity amongst certain customer segments.
Cross-brand Ease of login enracha, convenience and registration Ludo Underpinning everything we do is our commitment to operating responsibly We understand that our success as a business is dependent upon societys view of our role in the communities we serve.
Rank is very much aware that, whilst the principal purpose of our businesses is to provide an exciting and entertaining experience for our customers, there is also a need to protect those few customers who may be most at risk of gambling-related harm.
Cf More information Operating responsibly 26 8 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 More information Strategy 24 Operating review 32 Investing in key areas of our business Creating value for our stakeholders Our customers 1.
Customer relationships We create value for our 2.8m customers by providing --- them with market-leading Customers The customer is at the heart of our business and entertainment, meeting we continue to work to enhance the customer their expectations through experience, with the aim of developing more our multi-channel offer.
Our shareholders Through focused investments 83.5m to meet our customers needs, 2.
Technology we generate suitable returns Operating profit @--- for our shareholders.
We are enhancing our capability across digital channels so we can meet the changing needs Our employees of our customers and capture a greater share We provide our talented of the digital market.
10,039 and dedicated individuals with rewarding and fulfilling Employees careers, ensuring that their behaviour is aligned with 3.
--- We are continually looking at how we can Our communities change our offer to meet the changing needs We provide additional of our customers.
0.5m value to the communities we serve through our operating Charitable funds raised responsibly programmes.
Venues Governments --- The value we create goes We are constantly evolving and enhancing the 239.0m back into the economies experiences that we offer to our customers, and we operate in.
in doing so growing our revenue.
Generated for tax authorities and local governments Our STARS values ensure that we behave in the best possible way The Groups STARS values reflect the behaviours vital for our employees to successfully deliver against Ranks strategic goals.
Service Teamwork Ambition Responsibility Solutions More information Operating responsibly 26 www.
