Strategic report Business model in action Developing Customer relationships 10 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Multi-channel multi-brand customer events In the UK, Rank is one of the few gaming companies in a position to provide customers with a genuine multi-channel gaming offer.
We have a number of key assets, including a portfolio of 151venues, our membership-based model with approximately threemillion registered members, our loyalty and reward programmes and the high levels of engagement that our team members enjoy with customers.
As part of Ranks strategy to build a compelling multi-channel offer, numerous multichannel customer events were held in the year: below are some examples.
Grosvenor Casinos new digital sports offer Cheltenham Festival and Ascot preview events were held in the year: both evenings were hosted by various horse racing personalities with over 70 guests in attendance.
Guests were provided with a race-by-race betting guide for the horse racing events in addition to the experts best picks.
Guests included retail and digital casino customers as well as invited VIPs.
Big Bingo Bash During the year, Rank leveraged its position of being able to offer its customers not just cross-channel gaming experiences but also crossbrand experiences.
In May 2017, digital bingo VIP customers were invited to experience both the Groups UK retail brands.
The evening featured dinner in Grosvenors Southend casino followed by an evening at Mecca Southends Big Bingo Bash event, a new bingo concept launched in the year.
com | 11 Strategic report Business model in action Exciting new Technology Neon roll-out During the year, the Neon casino management system roll-out was completed across Grosvenors retail casino estate.
The new system is a key building block in providing our casino customers with a single account and wallet across both our digital and retail channels a key strategic priority for Grosvenor Casinos in creating a compelling multichannel offer.
Neon brings many improvements over the previous system, with the ability to track customers play in casino a key area.
Business intelligence functionality has also been included in the system, which enables Rank to: perform demand modelling and yield management for table gaming and machines: analyse machine game performance: and generally, see a more detailed view of the business.
Over the course of 2017 18, further Neon functionality will be rolled out across the casino estate to include player tracking for slots and electronic roulette, table management and a replacement loyalty system.
12 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 www.
com | 13 Strategic report Business model in action Entertaining through Innovation 14 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Luda key facts Luda High street or city centre locations Ranks first new concept bingo club, Luda, was opened Smaller footprint than Mecca, on 7 August 2017 in Walsall.
The Group is planning typically 2,500 to 5,000 square feet to open two additional Luda venues by the end Provides customers with a high-tech of 2017. slots lounge Flexible bingo in terms of pricing and session times More modern environment targeted at a different audience to Mecca Opportunity for customers to participate in local, regional and national link bingo games Coffee-shop-style food and beverage offer available all day including hot food and alcohol www.
com | 15 Strategic report Business model in action Entertaining Venues Nottingham and Leeds Westgate casino refurbishments During the year, Grosvenors casinos in Nottingham and Leeds Westgate underwent significant refurbishments at a total cost of 5.1m.
Both refurbishments delivered a more modern casino environment, better placed to accommodate leisure customers, casual guests and regular customers.
Nottingham Leeds Westgate Reorganisation of venue to increase customer space Creation of fide-licensed welcome zone area at and improve customer journey the casino entrance New front-of-house bar and restaurant New Sports Lounge facility -- ---.
-......... Enhancement of external appearance Addition of second casino licence with casual dining -.... area and slot machines New Sports Lounge facility Redecoration of all public areas Relocation of second casino licence and poker area New smoking terrace New smoking terrace Enhancement of external appearance Increase in gaming product Reorganisation of venue to increase customer space Incorporation of a multi-use area for private play, and improve customer journey learn-to-play and parties 16 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 www.
