Governance Board of Directors Committed to the highest standards Peter Gibbs Simon Fraser David Bennett Non-executive Chairman Age 59 Senior Independent Non-executive Director Age 55 Peter Gibbs was appointed to the Board  Age 58 David Bennett was appointed to the inApril 2015.
Peter has spent his entire Simon Fraser joined the Board in February BoardinOctober 2014.
He was a Director career working in the financial services 2012.
Simon has extensive experience of the ofAlliance and Leicester plc between 2001 industry.
Hewas Chief Investment fund management industry, having worked and2008 serving as Group Finance Director Officer and Headof Region for the nonatFidelity International from 1981 to 2008. and then Group Chief Executive until its US investment management activities of AtFidelity he held a number of positions sale to Santander in 2008.
He has also held Merrill Lynch Investment Managers, having during his career, including President, a number of executive positions in Abbey spent his early career at Brown Shipley European &UK Institutional Business, Global National plc, Cheltenham & Gloucester plc, and Bankers Trust as a portfolio manager.
Chief Investment Officer, Chief Investment Lloyds TSB Group and the National Bank Since then he has held a number of nonOfficer for Asia Pacific and Chief Investment ofNew Zealand.
David is currently Deputy executive positions including at UK Financial Officer of the European Investment Group.
Chairman and Senior Independent Director Investments plc the body responsible for He is Chairman of Foreign & Colonial of CYBG plc, Non-executive Chairman of the UK governments financial services Investment Trust plc, The Merchants Trust Homeserve Membership Ltd, Chairman investments, Evolution Group plc, Impax plc and the Investor Forum.
Simon graduated of the regulated business of Jerrold Asset Management Group plc and Friends from the University of St Andrews with Holdings, and a Non-Executive Director Life Group Limited.
He is currently a Nonan MA and has an MBA from Columbia ofPayPal Europe SARL et Cie, S. C. A. executive Director of Aspect Capital Ltd, University in New York.
He has also served as a Non-executive Intermediate Capital Group plc and the Bank Director of easyJet plc between 2005 and Committee membership: A, N, R of America Merrill Lynch UK Pension Plan 2014.
David holds an MA in Economics Trustees Ltd. fromCambridge University.
Dame Anne Pringle DCMG Non-executive Director Age 62 Committee membership: N, R Committee membership: A, N, R Anne Pringle joined the Board in February Mark Coombs 2013.
She was a diplomat with the Foreign Clive Adamson Chief Executive Officer Age 57 and Commonwealth Office for over 30 years, Non-executive Director Age 61 Mark Coombs was appointed a Director focusing in particular on the EU, Russia and Clive Adamson was appointed to the onthe incorporation of the Company in Eastern Europe.
He was Head of December 1998, and has served as its Anne was the British Ambassador to the Supervision and an Executive Director of ChiefExecutive Officer since then.
He Czech Republic and from 2004 to 2007, the Board of theFinancial Conduct Authority heldanumber of positions at Australia and Director of Strategy and Information at the until January 2015, and prior to that he held a New Zealand Banking Group ANZ and FCO and a member of the FCO Board.
From number ofsenior roles within its predecessor led Ashmores buyout from ANZ in early 2008 to 2011, she served as Ambassador to the Financial Services Authority.
He is Co-Chair of EMTA, the trade the Russian Federation.
Anne is the Senior 1998 and 2000 he was a Senior Advisor in association for Emerging Markets, having Governor on the Board of St Andrews Banking Supervision at the Bank of England.
Mark has an University and a trustee on the Board of Clive is a Senior Advisor to McKinsey & Co MA in Law from Cambridge University.
and is currently the Non-executive Chairman of JP Morgan International Bank Limited, Tom Shippey Committee membership: A, R and Non-executive Director of The Prudential Group Finance Director Age 43 Assurance Company Limited andCYBG Tom Shippey was appointed to the Board plc.
He holds an MA in Economicsfrom asGroup Finance Director in November Cambridge University.
Prior to joining Ashmore in 2007, he worked for UBS Investment Bank, including Committee membership: A advising on the Ashmore IPO in 2006.
Tom qualified as a Chartered Accountant with  in 1999 and is a Fellow of the ICAEW.
He has a BSc in Key to membership International Business and German from of committees Aston University.
A Audit and Risk N Nominations R Remuneration Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45
