Chief Executives review continued Consistent three-phase strategy to deliver value for clients and shareholders by capitalisingon Emerging Markets growth trends Strategy Objectives Ashmore today Establish Ashmore investment Ashmore is recognised as a strong processes and Emerging Markets specialist Emerging Markets manager asset classes Institutional investors are typically Provide access to Emerging Markets underweight Emerging Markets 1 and their rapiddevelopment Index representation is low Establish opportunities Emerging Increase developed world investor Markets allocations asset class Establish differentiated investment Ongoing development of investment themes and sub-themes themes and client base Diversify AuM by client location and Intermediary retail business is 2 client type, institutional and retail growingrapidly Diversify Develop new product structures New products are performing well, developed andcapabilities e. g. short duration world capital sources and themes Source capital from Emerging 33% of AuM is sourced from clients Markets institutions to invest in domiciled in Emerging Markets Emerging Markets Rationalised local network to focus on 3 Build network of local asset higher growth opportunities Mobilise management platforms to manage Capacity to consider new localmarkets Emerging domestic capital Markets capital 12 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report for Ashmore regarding the passporting of services into and out of the EU.
Ashmore Strong growth in retail business in Europe, US and Asia ex Japan will continue to monitor developments 12 closely and will take appropriate action 9 11 8 once there is greater clarity.
For now, the 10 7 9 direct operational implications of Brexit 8 6 aredeemed manageable.
7 5 6 4 Outlook 5 4 3 As described in the Market review, the 3 2 performance of Emerging Markets assets 2 1 1 over the past year has been strong.
0 0 However, given the significant price moves and macroeconomic adjustments undertaken over the past cycle, there remains substantial Europe, US, Rest of Asia rhs Europe, US, Rest of Asia lhs Japan lhs value available across the Emerging Markets asset classes, in absolute terms but alsorelative to developed world assets.
This resulted in selling the Turkish The Emerging Markets allocation Ashmores strategy to capitalise on Emerging business to a local, independent manager, opportunity described above is substantial Markets growth, its proven investment and introducing a major distribution partner and predominantly relates to developed processes, and its efficient business model, tothe China joint venture.
These actions have world institutions.
However, there is an mean it is in a strong position to continue not only improved the aggregate financial additional source of AuM growth accessed to deliver superior investment performance performance of the local businesses, but through the third phase of the Groups for clients, to raise investor allocations to have also enabled the Group to provide strategy, which seeks to manage capital for Emerging Markets, and to generate further greater support to the businesses that are investors domiciled in the emerging world.
performing well and have created capacity Success here is illustrated by the 33% of toconsider other markets.
the Groups AuM that is sourced from such People and culture clients, through global client relationships Ashmores distinctive culture, underpinned Clients and Ashmores network of local asset by its remuneration philosophy that places Ashmore has a high-quality, diversified management platforms.
an emphasis on pay-for-performance and client base that is largely institutional but long-dated equity incentivisation, has with a growing contribution from retail Cost efficiency withstood another market cycle.
The superior clients accessed through intermediaries The Group takes a disciplined approach to investment performance and improving such as private banks, broker-dealers operating costs and during the year cost financial performance delivered over the and wirehouses.
Client relationships are savings achieved in the global business past year, together with strategic and managed by a 40-strong distribution team units have enabled continued investment operational developments, are testament that is located throughout Ashmores in the rapidly-growing local businesses, for tothe hard work of all employees, for which worldwide office network.
This enables example in Colombia, Indonesia and Saudi I would like to say thank you on behalf of direct, long-standing relationships to be Arabia.
Group headcount has fallen over the all shareholders.
developed, which assists in sustaining client period, whichlargely reflects natural levels engagement throughout the market cycle, ofturnover and where business processes and ensures that value opportunities can be have been made more efficient.
directly discussed as market cycles turn.
As In November 2016, the Group consolidated expected, this type of early adopter activity Mark Coombs its US operations into its operating hub in has been seen recently from certain of the Chief Executive Officer New York.
This locates specialist equities Groups clients.
investment professionals alongside 6 September 2017 The average tenure of client relationship distribution and support functions, and will has increased over the past two years from deliver operational efficiencies through the five years to six years, which impliesthat combination of the offices.
a greater proportion of the client base has Brexit experienced a full Emerging Markets cycle In March 2017, the UK formally started the and seen the value opportunities that can process to leave the European Union EU, arise.
It also means that the potential for triggering a two-year period to determine the cross-selling increases as clients become exit terms for the UK Brexit.
However, there more familiar with the breadth and depth of remains uncertainty regarding the terms on the Emerging Markets asset classes, and which the UK will leave and the implications with Ashmores ability to identify attractive for the UK financial services industry, notably investment opportunities.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 Intermediary sourced AuM US$bn 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Jun17 % of Group AuM
