Investment themes A unique investment approach The Emerging Markets investment universe is large, diversified and delivering strong performance Ashmore has focused on Emerging Markets investing for 25 years.
Over that period, it has established a diversified range of eight headline investment themes with dedicated strategies under each theme delivering either global Emerging Markets exposure or specific regional or country exposure.
The Groups products are available in a wide range of fund structures, covering the full liquidity spectrum from daily-dealing pooled funds through to multi-year locked-up partnerships.
Ashmore continually seeks to innovateby providing access to new investment strategies as Emerging Markets continue to develop.
Blended debt Mandates specifically combine external, local Size of universe currency and corporate debt investments measured against tailor-made blended indices.
US$20.1trn First fund:2003 12-month benchmark index return Theme AuM: US$14.6bn 5.9% Corporate debt Invests in debt instruments issued by public Size of universe and private sector companies.
First fund:2007 US$10.8trn Theme AuM: US$6.3bn 12-month benchmark index return 6.8% Local currency Invests in local currencies and local currencySize of universe denominated instruments issued by sovereign, quasi-sovereign and corporate issuers.
US$8.3trn First fund: 1997 12-month benchmark index return Theme AuM: US$13.7bn 6.4% Each circle is a representation of the investment theme AUM 4 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Equities Invests in equity and equity-related Size of universe instruments within the Emerging Markets including global, regional, country, small cap US$24.5trn and frontier opportunities.
12-month benchmark index return First fund: 1988 Theme AuM: US$3.4bn 23.8% Alternatives Provides access to private equity, healthcare, infrastructure, special situations, distressed debt and real estate investment opportunities.
First fund: 1998 Theme AuM: US$1.5bn Multi-asset Specialised, efficient, all-in-one access to Size of universe strategic asset allocation across the full Emerging Markets investment universe.
US$44.6trn First fund: 2000 12-month benchmark index return Theme AuM: US$1.1bn 14.6% Overlay liquidity Separates and centralises the currency risk of an underlying Emerging Markets asset class in order to manage it effectively and efficiently.
First fund:2007 Theme AuM: US$4.8bn External debt Invests in debt instruments issued by Size of universe sovereigns governments and quasisovereigns government-sponsored.
US$1.0trn First fund: 1992 12-month benchmark index return Theme AuM: US$13.3bn 6.0% Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5 DELIVERING through long-established processes Tried and tested processes The Czech Republic has a long tradition of specialism in automotive manufacturing, including substantial experience in producing 20% agricultural machinery.
automotive industrys The automotive industry benefits from efficient infrastructure and a contribution to exports skilled and affordable labour force, and is the most important industrial sector within the Czech economy, both for domestic demand and exports.
Automotive parts and cars are the Czech Republics largest exports, delivering annual trade worth US$29 billion and representing 20% of the economys total exports in 2015.
Source: Observatory of Economic Complexity Strategic report Ashmores investment processes Macro Credit focus deliver strong performance across top-down market cycles Ashmores investment processes are managed by committees, reducing the risk of performance A specialist, active being associated with or influenced by any approach to fixed income individual portfolio manager.
The rigorous markets implementation of the processes over more than Liquidity Value-driven 25 years has delivered consistent outperformance obsessed for clients across multiple market cycles.
AuM outperforming AuM outperforming over one year gross over three years gross Active management 91% 86%
