Market review Positive trends across Emerging Markets The resilience of Emerging Markets can be Year in review Resilience of Emerging Markets seen elsewhere.
For example, sovereign The year to 30 June 2017 has been positive The long-term growth opportunity across defaults were limited in number and very few for Emerging Markets investors.
Developed Emerging Markets is significant and countries had to resort to IMF support over world central banks have become more is in contrast to the structural growth this period, barring a small number of the hawkish, which has put pressure on the impediments facing many Developed most vulnerable economies.
In the Emerging returns available from their fixed income Markets.
Emerging Markets generate 58% Markets corporate high yield sector, default markets that still have a significant amount, of world GDP and this share is expected rates remain materially lower than for nearly US$9 trillion, of bonds with negative to rise steadily as the 87% of the worlds similarly-rated US companies.
yields and a further substantial amount population that resides in these countries with historically low real yields.
In contrast, becomes wealthier over time.
Consequently, This resilience can be attributed to Emerging Emerging Markets central banks have been GDP per capita in Emerging Markets, which Markets stronger fundamentals, such as cutting rates as inflation is falling in response today is roughly where the developed world low debt levels, inflation targeting by central to the macro adjustments undertaken in was in 1980, is expected to continue to banks, the establishment of domestic recent years.
Emerging Markets bonds and increase at a fast pace.
pension funds, greater prevalence of floating currencies have therefore performed well in exchange rates with high levels of foreign In the shorter term, Emerging Markets absolute terms, but also relative to developed exchange reserves, high savings and countries have faced and successfully dealt world assets.
investment rates, room to ease both fiscal with a series of financial and economic and monetary policies, better demographics, Equity markets have performed strongly, challenges.
Between 2010 and 2015, the and a greater proclivity to reform as soon as and the high absolute and relative returns US taper tantrum, a stronger US dollar, the challenges arise.
achieved in Emerging Markets reflect 50% fall in commodity prices and the start accelerating GDP growth across a wide of the Fed rate hiking cycle all presented Therefore, the weakness in Emerging range of countries as their economic headwinds.
Emerging Markets economies Markets asset prices in the recent past was cycles turn more positive after a period grew more slowly over this period as primarily the result of investor behaviour and of adjustment.
global asset allocators moved capital to capital flows during the QE period rather than investments supported by quantitative deterioration in the underlying fundamentals.
Aweaker US dollar has contributed to good easing QE in Developed Markets.
This implies that substantial value has been returns for local currency investors, and more created for Emerging Markets investors, a stable commodity prices over the period, Yet, despite these headwinds, Emerging situation that began to be recognised over particularlyoil, have improved investor Markets economic and political fundamentals the past year.
held up far better than most investors expected.
Aggregate GDP growth remained The geopolitical landscape remains complex.
at least twice that of the developed world, While the US and UK have seen a significant and the Emerging Markets growth premium degree of political change over the 12 began to increase again in early 2016 and months, Europe now appears more settled looks set to continue to expand for several following the French presidential election.
Events on the Korean peninsula and in the Middle East continue to act as sources of volatility for many markets.
Emerging Markets investment universes Attractive yields available in Emerging Markets 6 External sovereign debt US$1.0trn 46% in benchmark 4 Local currency sovereign debt US$8.3trn 8% in benchmark 2 External corporate debt US$1.8trn 22% in benchmark 0 Local currency corporate debt -2 US$8.9trn 1% in benchmark Total EM xed -4 income US$20.1trn 8% in benchmark Fed Germany US 5yr US 10yr EM index-weight Total EM -6 funds 10yr yield equities US$24.5trn 18% in benchmark Mkt cap in benchmark Mkt cap not in benchmark Change in yield since 2006 % Nominal yield % Source: Ashmore, BIS, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, JP Morgan Source: Ashmore, Bloomberg 18 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Number of countries Strategic report Market recovery appears Active management can mitigate Significant value available across sustainable the risks Emerging Markets Emerging Markets valuations remain There are risks to this optimistic outlook, Although Emerging Markets assets have attractive relative to comparable investments but the major systemic risks to Emerging performed well recently, there remains in Developed Markets, but they are also Markets, such as a decline in commodity substantial value available and the recovery attractive in their own right.
The principal prices and US dollar strength, have already should be supported over the medium term drivers of Emerging Markets returns over the been endured and have been largely by inbound capital flows from underweight next few years are likely to be as follows.
managed well by the majority of Emerging foreign institutional investors.
These are likely Markets countries.
to proceed at a measured pace because GDP growth has been accelerating since investors are mindful of the market volatility 2015 and should continue to recover given There will always be a small number of caused by the 2013 US taper tantrum and, the large slowdown in growth between country specific risks, however these can ironically, there is a degree of risk aversion 2010 and 2015.
The recovery so far has be addressed through active management.
influenced by concerns about elevated been led by improving external balances Similarly, buying opportunities for active asset price levels in Developed Markets.
As as exchange rates fell to 13-year lows, investors can be presented by price volatility evidenced by the high yields and attractive but economic conditions should continue induced by events in Developed Markets that equity valuations in Emerging Markets, to improve as capital flows return to may have little or no bearing on Emerging there is a very significant value opportunity Emerging Markets.
available and specialist, active investment Many Emerging Markets countries Higher US interest rates appear to be more management can deliver outperformance have pursued deep structural reforms in than priced in by the relative yields available across a broad range of Emerging Markets recent years, including Argentina, Brazil, across Emerging Markets.
Indeed, as rates asset classes.
Colombia, India, Indonesia, Mexico and continue to rise in the US, spreads on US Russia.
Successful reforms remove the dollar-denominated Emerging Markets debt obstacles to growth and allow countries have substantial room to compress so as to to grow faster before encountering continue to deliver outperformance against inflationary constraints.
Most foreign investors have underweight One of the external risks, particularly to local allocations to Emerging Markets, typically currency markets, appeared to be the threat at less than 10% versus the 20% weight in of a US border adjustment tax, which could the more representative global indices.
have undermined the case for capital flowing back into faster-growing Emerging Markets Foreign investor capital flows back into economies in favour of supporting domestic Emerging Markets should ease financial US production.
However, this threat has conditions, which in turn will stimulate receded with the US administration recently economic growth.
Hence, the QE-related abandoning this policy.
financial tightening of recent years should start to be reversed.
This should support returns in local markets as well as leading to tighter spreads on external debt.
Emerging Markets GDP growth premium 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Developed Markets Emerging Markets Emerging Markets growth premium Source: International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook Database, April 2017 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 GDP growth % 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017e 2018e 2019e 2020e 2021e 2022e Market review continued Review by investment theme External debt Corporate debt Equities The JP Morgan EMBI GD benchmark The CEMBI BD benchmark index delivered Equities outperformed fixed income over the index delivered a 6.0% return over the a 6.8% return over the 12 months and, year, reflecting expectations of accelerating 12 months, but with a wide dispersion of echoing the performance of sovereign GDP growth.
The Groups specialist products returns from the 65 constituent countries bonds, high yield outperformed investment provide a range of risk and return profiles, ranging from Venezuela with a 29.9% grade 11.6% versus 3.9%.
The HY from single country exposure to frontier return to Philippines with a 1.5% return.
default rate fell from 4.2% to 2.2% over the equities and global Emerging Markets High yield credits performed particularly period and remains well below the US HY small cap.
Over three years, the investment well, returning 10.0% over the year versus default rate of 4.4%, reflecting the greater performance track records of these funds 2.6% for investment gradebonds.
diversification of the Emerging Markets arestrong with, for example, frontier equities universe, less use of financial leverage, delivering gross annualised returns of 5.0% Over three years, Ashmores external debt and the potential for sovereign support in versus -3.4% for the MSCI benchmark index.
broad composite has generated gross certain cases.
annualised returns of 6.8%, outperforming The uncorrelated returns available from the index 5.4% annualised.
Ashmores corporate debt composite specialist equity products are highly performed in line with the benchmark over attractive, and with investment opportunities The outlook for external debt returns over the three years with gross annualised returns typically driven by domestic factors such as next few years is positive, with a spread of of 4.9%.
The relative performance should infrastructure development or deregulation, approximately 300bps over the US Treasury continue to improve as the periods of they can be insulated from the vagaries of curve providing good value and with the underperformance in late 2014 and early global macro forces.
potential for tighter spreads as flows to 2015 roll off.
Emerging Markets pick up and reduce the Alternatives need for governments to raise new debt.
The fundamental outlook for Emerging Capital raising in the period was focused Also, with more than 100 Emerging Markets Markets corporates is expected to benefit on a number of new funds in the Groups countries yet to issue index-eligible sovereign from the cyclical upswing described for local market franchises, such as Colombia debt, the diversity of the external debt sovereign credit, as it will lead to rising profits and Saudi Arabia.
There are several benchmark should continue to increase.
When compared established growth trends in Emerging with US corporates, there is a clear value Markets that require long-term investment, Local currency argument in favour of Emerging Markets such as infrastructure development, private The JP Morgan GBI-EM GD index performed credit, as it has a lower default rate, wider healthcare provision, and renewable energy.
in line with hard currency bonds, returning spreads, particularly in the HY market, and The Groups experience of structuring 6.4% over the year.
The index yield of typically less leverage than identically-rated funds and sourcing investors who can make 6.5% is attractive in nominal and real terms, US companies.
multi-year capital commitments means it with index-weighted inflation of around 4%, is in a good position to capitalise on these and stronger Emerging Markets currencies Blended debt growth trends.
against the US dollar contributing to returns.
The standard blended debt benchmark index returned 5.9% over the year.
Multi-asset Over three years, Ashmores local currency As described above, multi-asset products bonds composite has returned -1.7% Active management of investment theme provide broad access to retail and institutional gross annualised, outperforming the index allocations external debt, local currency investors that do not wish to take more -2.8%annualised.
and corporate debt has delivered significant specific Emerging Markets risks.
Investment outperformance over three years, with performance was positive over the period While inflation is expected to rise slightly, Ashmores blended debt composite returning across the Groups multi-asset funds.
realyields should remain positive and 4.7% gross annualised versus 1.4% for currencies have room to recover some the benchmark index.
The typical blended Overlay liquidity of the40% to 50% decline in value debt portfolio is positioned for further market The investment theme increased its AuM experienced against the US dollar between strength, with a current overweight allocation over the year through net inflows from 2010 and 2015.
The value proposition to local currency markets.
institutional clients, particularly in the available in local currency bonds is therefore second half.
one of the strongest in global fixed income Given the wide range of asset class returns and, as capital flows back into local markets, typically available, investors allocating financial conditions should ease, stimulating to Emerging Markets may not have the investment, consumption and growth across confidence or experience to target a discrete Emerging Markets.
As with external debt, asset class.
Ashmores blended debt and the index diversity is increasing steadily with multi-asset products can provide broadthe number of countries in the GBI-EM GD based exposure to Emerging Markets index rising from15 to 17 over the past year.
fixed income and all investment themes, respectively, with active management producing significant outperformance versus the constituent asset classes.
Blended debt is therefore expected to enjoy good growth as industry allocations increase.
20 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Indonesia Strong investment performance Ashmores local platform in Indonesia has delivered Annualised gross % performance since inception rapid growth since its establishment in 2012 and Feb 2013 now manages over US$1 billion for domestic clients and global clients taking dedicated single-country risk.
Investment performance is strong, operating profits are rising and the majority of the Groups initial US$75 million seed capital investment has been recycled.
Ashmore is the majority shareholder in the business, and a strong alignment of interests is achieved through the 33% of equity held by employees and founding partners.
US$1.1bn Top 10 All cap fund Small cap fund Jakarta composite index AuM domestic equity manager Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21 13.8 12.0 6.1 DELIVERING through diversification A diverse offering Although still a major exporter of natural products such as rubber and palm oil, Malaysia is increasinglybecoming a centre for 20% the manufacture of high-tech goods.
of Malaysias total export A clear example is in the manufacture of semiconductors, a value comes from integrated circuits sub-sector that dominates the exports of electrical and electronic products and represents 20% of Malaysias total exports.
The presence of major multinational corporations such as Intel and AMDhas undoubtedly contributed to the steady growth of the semiconductor industry in Malaysia.
US$51.9bn 24% in integrated of population employed Source: Observatory of Economic Complexity circuit exports in E&E industries Strategic report Foundations endowments 2% High-quality diversified Funds sub-advisers 3% client base Sovereign wealth funds 9% Pension plans 29% Ashmore has a diverse range of institutional clients where there is Governments 13% typically a direct relationship, resulting in a high average client tenure of six years.
The rapidly growing third-party intermediary Third-party intermediaries business provides further 12% diversification by accessing retail Corporate and clients in Europe, the US and Asia.
financial 15% Central % of AuM from Retail AuM banks 17% EM-domiciled clients US$6.7bn 33%
