Q&A with Ian Page We have many new ideas and we are working on lots of new product development opportunities that I believe will deliver growth in the future.
Ian Page Chief Executive Officer Ian Page Chief Executive Officer Q What do you consider to be the highlights of another strong have put a greater focus on the international markets and we have year for Dechra?
created a lot of new opportunities in the year and I think if we are going to acquire it is likely to be to extend our geographical coverage A There have been many highlights in the year but I would have to as a lot of the main markets that we trade in, predominantly Western mention the success of our acquisitions that we have made over the Europe and the US, the opportunities are few and far between.
So, last two years and when you couple that with a solid performance just to repeat myself, we have built a business that is successfully in the EU, and a very strong performance in the US, it has resulted grown organically: if we can acquire we would like to, but the in a profit performance which is above our expectations.
Looking at business is not dependent upon it.
things from an operational perspective, we have introduced a new manufacturing strategy and we are now getting greater efficiency Q What is the rationale of investing in Animal Ethics?
and looking to better utilise our sites.
From a people perspective A Well I first met the CEO of Animal Ethics probably four years ago we have over the last few years recruited a really strong Senior now, he came up with this idea of improving the welfare, in terms Executive Team and they are now really beginning to function of pain management, of farm animals.
There are many treatments exceptionally well.
It would be remiss of me not to mention cash in pigs, cattle and sheep that are currently conducted with very generation.
Cash generation has again been strong within the year little pain control and what has actually changed over the years is which has resulted in net debt being below market expectations for that Animal Ethics have progressed their idea very, very well: it is the year.
So, all in all, many highlights.
a multi-component product that contains pain management and Q The US continues to outperform the EU: why is this?
restricts blood flow and also limits infection.
With this product they have managed to get great support from consumer groups, from A The main reason is the relative maturity of the two markets.
We have supermarkets, from governments as animal welfare becomes more been trading in Europe a lot longer and a lot of our older products and more important in social circles.
We are very delighted to have are getting close to reaching maturity in terms of market share: bought a third of the business, but more importantly we have signed although we still do get growth by educating veterinary surgeons in an international marketing agreement and what this brings to us better utilisation of the products.
Within the US it is not only about is a range of niche farm animal products that will really help our education but it is also about gaining market share.
It is a very large presence within this sector.
market and is a very difficult market to access.
We have always said that we are underweight in terms of sales team, i. e. we do not have Q Dechra has delivered sustained growth for 20 years: enough people to get round all the practices on a regular cycle.
is it possible to maintain that momentum?
Even with the acquisition of Putney, it was still not up to the scale we A Well, it is remarkable to think that Dechra is 20 years old, 17 of would like to be, but we are now seeing the benefits of cross-selling those years as a FTSE listed company, obviously we are delighted Putney products and Dechra products through the enlarged sales that we have delivered good growth throughout all those years.
team and we are beginning to get very strong market penetration Whilst you can never predict the future, of course we have in the US.
So, we will continue to see the US outperform the EU confidence in the future: our strategy serves us well.
We have in the future: however, that is not to detract what is still a very solid many new ideas and we are working on lots of new product performance within the EU markets.
development opportunities that I believe will deliver growth in the Q What are your current thoughts on the likelihood of further future.
We are expanding our geographical scope further and we acquisitions?
have a very strong management team that is extremely focused so I have the confidence that we can continue to drive this business A I have always said that it is important that the business is structured again and again over future years.
to be not dependent on acquisitions.
Although we have been very successful in the acquisitions that we have made, it is a very Watch the full interview with Ian Page at consolidated market with few opportunities, if you look at what we dechra.
com have done organically, we have really strengthened our pipeline, we 28 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
