Open the flap to view Our Business Our Business Model Model Explained Our objectives are to innovate, develop, register, manufacture, supply and market high quality products to the veterinary profession worldwide.
We also offer high levels of service, technical support and educational training to support the Dechra brand and to develop a strong relationship and be recognised as an important partner to veterinarians.
Innovation, Development and Registration Product Development Portfolio Novel True Differentiated Lifecycle Dedication Dedication Dedication Dedication entities generics generics management Manufacturing Range of Competencies Tablets and Dedication Dedication Creams Dedication Liquids Dedication Ointments Dedication Powders Dedication Vaccines capsules Supply Chain Logistics Sites Veterinary distributors and Dedication wholesalers Our Customers Veterinary practices and Veterinary Dedication Dedication professional professionals farming units Sales and Marketing Telephone Technical Field based Educational Dedication sales Dedication Dedication Dedication support representatives programmes representatives helplines 08 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 8 04 09 2017 13:58:36 Our Business Model Explained Innovation, Development Manufacturing Supply Chain and Registration Product development ideas are generated in Manufacturing is a key competence of the Our products are distributed through two numerous ways, including: Group: the prime objective is to deliver safe, major logistics sites.
The principal objective is efficacious, cost effective, quality products.
to deliver a customers order on time and in regular cross functional meetings are held Veterinary products come in many dosage full every time.
Our European and International where all senior staff are encouraged to forms, and often, batch runs for veterinary markets are serviced from our own logistics bring new ideas from their experience in medicines are relatively small compared to facility based in Uldum, Denmark and North the market place.
human production: therefore it is often very America is supplied out of a third party difficult to outsource supply.
We have a wide logistics supplier in Kansas City.
The majority networking with key opinion leaders, range of competencies across our six sites of veterinary practices are supplied through especially in our focus therapeutic areas, including tablets, creams, liquids, ointments, specialised veterinary distribution companies to identify and develop ideas.
powders and vaccines that can be packed in that operate as one-stop shops.
They stock employing very talented veterinary a multitude of different presentations.
the majority of items veterinary practices need scientists who extensively trawl scientific and offer high levels of service, often with a papers looking for new technologies next day delivery.
These distributors, on the that might have an application in our whole, are not proactive in selling product: marketplace.
they predominantly supply to demand where the demand is driven by Dechras own sales In addition, our profile as the only major activities within veterinary practices.
There are British veterinary pharmaceutical company a few markets where we offer direct supply, gives us exposure to human pharmaceutical such as Germany, that are not fully supported and biotech companies that are developing by veterinary distributors or where legislation technologies, usually for human medicine, enforces all pharmaceuticals to be sold but often with a veterinary application.
We through pharmacies, such as Denmark, Italy, spread our development portfolio across novel Norway and Sweden.
entities, differentiated generics, true generics and lifecycle management projects across multiple species.
Our formulation and development laboratories are located at our manufacturing sites which allows us to emulate the manufacturing equipment at laboratory scale, a key expertise for in-house product development.
After opportunities have been identified we have an evaluation phase where we conduct preliminary studies to assess suitability.
Once a product has been classed as suitable for development it will be allocated to an internal development team who will be responsible for taking the product all the way through feasibility and development to regulatory submission.
Once all the studies are concluded, if the product reaches the required safety, efficacy and stable chemical formula, regulatory dossiers are prepared for registration and filing with the relevant regulatory authorities.
Read about Product Development Read more in the Manufacturing and on pages 44 and 45 Supply Chain case study on page 40 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
