Strategic Report Our Strategic Priorities Our Progress in 2017 Future Priorities Link to Strategy in Action Signed Animal Ethics licensing agreement, and building pipeline Continue to identify innovative development opportunities.
Amoxi-Clav of other in-licensing opportunities.
Further develop Dechra laboratory network, including further FDA licensing.
See pages 32 and 33 Vaccines development strategy defined and new opportunities Continue to develop Vaccines pipeline.
We must deliver our pipeline on time, at the right costs and with the Explore and negotiate further in-licensing deals.
Zagreb product development laboratory commissioned and expected returns.
It is also important that we refill the pipeline so that operational.
we get a constant flow of new products in future years.
Putneys Amoxi-Clav tablet development completed and other projects continuing.
A number of minor FAP market authorisations gained.
Strong CAP and Equine growth continuing across the Group.
Deepen market penetration of existing products across all territories.
Our Key Therapeutic Areas a b c FAP returned to growth.
Enhance Nutrition and FAP sales growth.
See pages 34 and 35 Increased effective use of CRM tools in EU and NA.
Continue to drive marketing and sales force effectiveness.
Portfolio Focus Expanded sales force effectiveness training.
We are a specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals business focused on CAP, Equine, FAP and Nutrition.
We look to maximise our revenue by Unblocking of distribution channels for Putney products in the US focusing on clearly defined therapeutic sectors.
has opened up market for enlarged NA business growth.
Several international product registrations achieved.
Develop Dechra Veterinary Products International business.
Dechra Veterinary Products International Established Dechra Veterinary Products International business.
Continue to leverage current registration portfolio in newer territories.
See pages 36 and 37 Commenced appointment of the Dechra Veterinary Products Increase international country registrations.
We have identified a number of markets that present both volume and profit opportunities in the medium to long term.
Our entry strategies will vary depending on the local market dynamics.
Successful integration and operation of Genera, Brovel, Putney Continue integration and leverage of recent acquisitions.
Integration of Acquisitions and Apex.
Acquire businesses in target geographical therapeutic markets.
See pages 38 and 39 Acquisition of Apex, opening up new bridgehead into Australasia Acquisition and South East Asia.
Our priority is to target strategic acquisitions that will expand our Acquisition of 33.0% of Medical Ethics Pty Ltd provides the Group geographical footprint and or enhance our product portfolio.
with secure access to novel therapeutic areas product development.
Developed new Manufacturing and Supply Chain strategy.
Execute Manufacturing and Supply Chain remodelling strategy.
Manufacturing and Supply Chain Continued strengthening of Senior Executive Team with key Develop and integrate procurement activities.
See page 40 for more on Manufacturing appointments of Richard Cotton, Giles Coley, Anthony Lucas and and Supply Chain Continue to develop leadership effectiveness, and quality of talent.
SET Senior Executive Team Our strategic enablers, Manufacturing and Supply Chain, People and Continue to develop Oracle ERP and other business systems.
Ongoing progress in Oracle deployment.
Technology, support the execution of our strategy.
See pages 42 and 43 for more IT user hardware standardised across the Group.
on People People 20th Anniversary See page 41 for more on People - 20th Anniversary See our Key Performance Indicators Read about Understanding Our Key Risks on pages 30 and 31 on pages 58 to 61 Stock Code: DPH 15 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 15 04 09 2017 13:58:47 Geographical Footprint We currently have our own sales and marketing organisations in 24 countries.
We also market our products in over 50 countries worldwide through distributors and marketing partners.
Globally Within Europe Key European Pharmaceuticals North America Pharmaceuticals International Manufacturing 16 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 16 04 09 2017 13:58:48 Strategic Report Non-Executive Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement As we complete our 20th year since the inception of the Company, we are pleased to report that the Group has delivered another strong financial performance.
Ian Page Chief Executive Officer Tony Rice Non-Executive Chairman Ian Page Chief Executive Officer As we complete our 20th year since the inception of the Company, positioned to provide veterinarians with a robust portfolio of suitable we are pleased to report that the Group has delivered another strong options for prudent use of antibiotics in the treatment of the majority of financial performance.
This has been driven by growth from our existing infectious diseases in pigs and poultry.
The first of the poultry vaccines portfolio, good market penetration from recent pipeline launches and developed for the EU, Avishield ND, was launched in Germany, the the pleasing performance of the acquisitions made in the preceding Netherlands and Belgium.
Although we do not yet have a full range financial year.
This has resulted in strong cash generation and to offer our customers, we were still able to gain a market share of deleveraging of our balance sheet.
Furthermore, we have completed approximately 15% due to the products excellent efficacy and safety two acquisitions within the 2017 financial year, the first of which extends profile.
our geographical footprint into Australia and New Zealand and the The Equine portfolio growth has predominantly been driven by second is a minority stake together with the global marketing rights in a Osphos, although we believe that sales are a long way from reaching business that may transform our Food producing Animal Product FAP full potential and will continue to grow as veterinarians gain a better business in the long term through the development of a novel approach understanding of this unique treatment.
Generic competition to to farm animal pain relief.
Equipalazone, a long standing product in our portfolio, partly offset the sales growth in this category.
Portfolio Focus EU Pharmaceuticals Segment The Nutrition and Diets market continues to be very competitive: we are During the 2017 financial year our EU Pharmaceuticals Segment maintaining sales of our brand, Specific following historical supply issues increased its total reported revenues by 7.9% at constant exchange and are initiating a number of projects that we hope will re-invigorate the rates CER.
Our existing EU Pharmaceuticals business, excluding third range in the near term.
We have, towards the end of this financial year, party contract manufacturing and acquisitions, increased by 5.3%.
launched two new hypo-allergenic wet diets for dogs and cats.
Third party contract manufacturing revenues, which are reported under our EU Pharmaceuticals Segment, declined by 9.7% in the 2017 The overall EU Pharmaceuticals Segment benefited from a full years financial year.
This was a conscious strategic move as we start to contribution from the acquisition of Genera, the Croatian business implement an efficiency improvement plan across our manufacturing acquired in October 2015 and eight months contribution from Apex, sites this is covered in more detail later in this Statement.
the Australian business acquisition completed in October 2016 Dechra Veterinary Products International revenue, including Apex, are included Our Companion Animal Product CAP sales were the predominant in this Segment.
Apex is performing well with the recently modernised driver of revenue growth in our core EU business: FAP and Equine also factory achieving regulatory approval from the authorities in Australia in delivered growth of 1.3% and 0.7% respectively.
Germany, the three main contributors to EU revenues, performed well: we also delivered strong revenue growth in Italy and Poland.
After a slow start to our recently formed subsidiary in Austria, performance is Glossary now reaching our expectations.
Terms used within this section: CAP revenue increased by 9.0% driven by a strong performance of CAP: Companion Animal Products Zycortal, our novel endocrine product launched last year and also from FAP: Food producing Animal Products established products such as Cardisure, Vetoryl and our analgesia and anaesthesia range.
CER: Constant Exchange Rate We are pleased to report our FAP portfolio has delivered its second EU Pharmaceuticals Segment: Dechra Veterinary Products successive year of growth, albeit modest.
This performance is set EU, Dechra Veterinary Products International and Dechra against a historical decline in antibiotic sales due to concerns over Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing and Apex antimicrobial resistance which is continuing in most markets.
Despite North America Pharmaceuticals Segment: Dechra this, we are beginning to see signs of a recovery in sales of our water Veterinary Product US, and Canada, and Dechra Brovel soluble antibiotics.
We believe that our Solustab range is now well Stock Code: DPH 17 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 17 9 4 2017 2:34:55 PM Non-Executive Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued 7.9% revenue 93.7% revenue growth in the EU growth in NA Sales to over Global registrations 50 countries continue to be worldwide delivered Excellent progress continues to be made on the integration of the Product Pipeline Genera acquisition.
Significant cost savings have been delivered from Integrated Team the workforce rationalisation and major improvements have been made We have invested in and commissioned a new development laboratory in the solid dose and liquids manufacturing facilities, into which new in Genera, Croatia.
We have also implemented a new management products are being transferred to benefit from this low cost location.
structure to monitor and control all global pipeline activities, and have The primary reason for the acquisition was to access their range of successfully integrated the pipeline activities and team members from poultry vaccines for broilers: the first of these has now been launched, all our recent acquisitions.
the next five are in registration and progress is being made with a Pipeline Delivery further four products.
The most significant approval, as announced on 9 September 2016, North America Pharmaceuticals Segment was for a generic antibiotic tablet, Amoxi-Clav.
There have been Total North American Segment revenues increased by 93.7%.
Existing numerous other global registrations, the most significant of which are: business sales increased by 16.5% with our US and Canadian Revozyn, a cattle antibiotic for mastitis, in the Netherlands, UK businesses both performing well.
The principal drivers of this growth and Germany with applications having been made for a further are CAP and Equine products.
All major products have delivered ten European markets: growth with excellent sales of Zycortal, Vetivex a range of intravenous fluids for critical care and Osphos.
Cyclospray aerosol and Vetoryl 5mg in Canada: A number of new products were launched during the 2017 financial Cardisure, Zycortal, Osphos, Doxy paste and Benazapril oral year including Amoxi-Clav the first major product approval from Putney solution in Australia: since we acquired the business in April 2016, three new extensions to Osphos in Mexico: our Vetivex range, Carprovet flavoured tablets to increase our CAP pain management range and two topical dermatology products in a new Isathal and Canaural in Korea: mousse format.
Domidine, Atipam and Sedator in Thailand and South Africa: and Overall the Segment benefited from an exceptional performance by Putney.
The integration has been implemented extremely well: Altidox, a water soluble antibiotic, in 13 EU territories.
significant cost savings have been delivered, new sales channels Filling the Pipeline opened and sales synergies from the enlarged team have been Our pipeline has been significantly enhanced by recent acquisitions delivered to both Putney and our existing product ranges.
As the Company increases in scale, we recognise that the pipeline needs to increase commensurately, and are therefore The Mexican business, Brovel, acquired in January 2016 continues constantly reviewing new technologies and developing relationships to to focus on the registration of Dechra products: initial approvals have introduce new products into the programme.
Within the year we have now been received.
A new management team was appointed during signed three agreements to conduct Proof of Concept studies on new, the 2016 financial year and there has been a notable improvement in innovative and potentially material pharmaceuticals for the veterinary performance.
We also continue to look at opportunities to secure products from other companies and have, in the 2017 financial year, licensed in a range of CAP generic tablets from a key partner for Europe, a dental and a dermatological product from Kane Biotech Inc. for the US and Canada and a dermatological product from Premune for the EU.
18 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 18 04 09 2017 13:58:52 Strategic Report Acquisitions Strategic Enablers On 14 October 2016, we completed the acquisition of the trade and Manufacturing assets of Apex Laboratories Pty Ltd Apex, based in Somersby near We have commenced the implementation of a strategic five year plan Sydney, Australia for AUD$55.0 million 34.2 million.
The acquisition, that will create centres of excellence for different dosage forms in our which is expected to be earnings enhancing in the first 12 months of major manufacturing sites and which will lead to significant gains in ownership, manufactures, markets and sells branded non-proprietary efficiency throughout the period of the plan.
prescription and other related CAP in Australia and New Zealand.
Prior As part of this project we are reducing third party manufacturing to the acquisition it had revenues for the year ended 30 June 2016 of contracts.
This was historically important business to utilise capacity AUD$14.8 million 8.4 million and operating profit of AUD$5.2 million in our factories: however, the significantly increased scale of our own 3.0 million.
The principal reason for the acquisition was to provide production is now being hindered by a number of these smaller, low Dechra with direct access to the established and growing Australian margin contracts.
We will therefore be exiting most of these contracts CAP and Equine markets, in which Dechra currently operates through over the next five years, only retaining a few significant, high volume partners.
On 31 March 2017, we acquired a 33.0% stake in, Medical Ethics Pty Following our recent acquisitions, in-sourced production accounts for Ltd, the parent company of Animal Ethics Pty Ltd Animal Ethics for approximately 50% of all product sales.
Our Manufacturing and Supply a total consideration of AUD$18.0 million 11.0 million.
Separately, Chain team have identified opportunities to reduce the complexity of we also announced that we had entered into a long term Intellectual our supplier network by working with preferred partners and bringing Property Licensing Agreement with Animal Ethics who are an Australian more of the currently outsourced production in-house.
based company focused on developing ethical pain relief products for animal health.
This agreement gives Dechra the rights to sell and Technology market Animal Ethics patented product Tri-Solfen for all animal species We continue to focus on the implementation of the Oracle DVP EU in all international markets, excluding Australia and New Zealand.
ERP solution which we announced at the Half Yearly results had fallen Tri-Solfen is a topical product that is sprayed onto wounds which behind schedule.
We believe that excellent progress has now been simultaneously anaesthetises, relieves pain, controls bleeding and made and we are confident that a go live can be implemented prior to protects against infection for routine treatments in farm animals such as the end of the 2018 financial year.
castration, tail docking, fide-budding and fide-horning.
There is increasing Several of other IT developments have been progressed in the year: pressure from retailers, animal welfare and consumer groups to improve the ethical treatment of animals.
We believe that Dechras access to Implementation of the Hyperion Financial Management Group Tri-Solfen will provide us with a unique position to increase our consolidation solution is expected to be completed on plan by the presence in FAP markets globally.
end of the 2017 calendar year: Geographical Expansion A new intranet has been developed to enhance Group internal Sales in territories outside of Western Europe and our North American communications: Pharmaceuticals Segment are categorised as International and these A new platform is in place to host the Dechra Academy providing are reported under our EU Pharmaceuticals Segment: they currently greater flexibility and functionality: represent 8.6% of total Group sales.
The roll out of the Group HR Cloud system is continuing: and Towards the end of the financial year we established a new business unit, Dechra Veterinary Products International, led by Giles Coley, a long A new Customer Relationship Management tool has been standing senior executive within Dechra, to focus on increasing our implemented for our US operations.
Historically, international sales have not been an People area of strategic focus and we are therefore underweight relative to our As previously reported there have been three Board appointments in competitors and the global market.
By increasing focus and strategic the year.
We are delighted that the Board has been strengthened by the priority, we believe we can deliver material growth in future years.
appointment of Tony Rice, who took over the role of Chairman, from Currently, sales outside our core markets are predominantly FAP Michael Redmond, at our Annual General Meeting on 21 October 2016, based.
We believe our high quality products, mainly in pig and poultry, following a six month introduction to the Company as a Non-Executive will provide us an entry opportunity into markets where quality meat Director.
An additional Non-Executive Director, Lawson Macartney, consumption is increasing strongly.
In the longer term we are targeting joined the Board with effect from 1 December 2016 to strengthen companion animal markets which are beginning to gain growth veterinary, technical and pharmaceutical knowledge on the Board.
momentum in several developing countries: we are starting to register Richard Cotton also joined the Board in January 2017 as Chief Financial products to benefit from this global growth in pet ownership.
As part of the new business unit, we have created a regulatory team to On behalf of the Board we would like to thank all employees for their focus on international registrations and are looking to appoint business hard work, dedication and innovation throughout the year.
Our people development managers in key geographies to support our existing are a key asset to the business: we consistently look to invest, to distributors and to establish new markets.
strengthen, educate and motivate our team.
Read more about Manufacturing and Supply Chain case study on page 40 Read more about Board of Directors on pages 64 and 65 Stock Code: DPH 19 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
