Governance Board of Directors 64 Corporate Governance 66 Audit Committee Report 74 Nomination Committee Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 81 Directors Report Other Disclosures 102 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 105 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 63 04 09 2017 14:00:12 Board of Directors Tony Rice: Non-Executive Chairman Committee Membership: Nomination Chairman, Remuneration.
Skills and Experience: Tony has extensive board level experience across a range of sectors, including aerospace, healthcare, telecommunications and retail in both UK and international markets.
Background: Tony joined the Board in May 2016 and was appointed Chairman in October 2016.
He served as Chief Executive Officer at Cable & Wireless and Tunstall Holdings, and prior to that held various roles at BAE Systems including Managing Director of Commercial Aircraft and Group MD of Business Development.
He has also served as a Non-Executive Director at Punch Taverns, Spirit Pub Company, Cable & Wireless, Telewest Communications and Saab Technologies, and Chairman of Alexander Mann Solutions.
External Appointments: Tony is currently the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at Halma plc.
Tony Rice Non-Executive Chairman Ian Page: Chief Executive Officer Committee Membership: Not applicable.
Skills and Experience: Ian has gained detailed knowledge and experience through various positions he has held within the pharmaceutical and veterinary arena.
He has a solid understanding of business development both in the UK and globally.
In particular he has extensive experience in M&A and in the successful delivery of strategic plans.
Background: Ian joined NVS, Dechras former services business, at its formation in 1989 and was an integral part of the MBO in 1997, becoming its Managing Director in 1998.
He joined the Board in 1997 and became Chief Executive Officer in 2001.
Ian has played a key role in the development of the Groups growth strategy.
External Appointments: In October 2010 Ian was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman of Sanford DeLand Asset Management Limited.
Ian Page Chief Executive Officer Richard Cotton: Chief Financial Officer Committee Membership: Not applicable.
Skills and Experience: Richard has a wealth of experience in senior financial roles in life sciences and other sectors, including broadcast and photographic, automotive, filtration and metals.
His experience covers all finance management and value creation activities from R&D, to manufacturing and commerce in international organisations.
He has significant experience in the development and successful execution of strategy, corporate finance and M&A, capital markets and governance.
Background: Richard was appointed Chief Financial Officer in January 2017.
Prior to joining Dechra he was Chief Financial Officer of Consort Medical plc from 2012 to 2016.
He has also been Finance Director of Vitec Group plc from 2008 to 2011, Group Finance Director at Wagon plc from 2005 to 2008, and Group Finance Director of McLeod Russel plc from 2001 to 2005.
Prior to this he held senior finance roles in Alcoa Inc. Richard Cotton Chief Financial Officer External Appointments: None.
Tony Griffin: Managing Director, Dechra Veterinary Products EU Committee Membership: Not applicable.
Skills and Experience: Tony has over 25 years experience in the animal health business and has substantial international experience as a result of living and working outside the UK since 1993.
He gained broad experience of running an international animal health business with teams in different European countries as Chief Executive Officer of the AUV Group.
Tony is the Board nominated Director responsible for health, safety and environmental matters.
Background: Tony was appointed Managing Director of DVP EU in May 2012 following the acquisition of Eurovet Animal Health BV from AUV Holding B. V. He joined the AUV Group in 1993 as Director of Exports, having previously worked at Norbrook Laboratories and Moy Park.
Tony was promoted to Managing Director of Eurovet in 1996, becoming the Chief Executive Officer of the AUV Group in 2006.
Tony Griffin Managing Director DVP EU 64 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
