Strategic Report Allen Mellor Group IT Director Dr Anthony Lucas Group Product Development Director Allen joined Dechra in April 2012 and has developed and Anthony joined Dechra in 2016 following the acquisition of Putney implemented the Group IT strategy during this time.
During the Inc. where he was Senior Vice President of R&D.
Anthony is originally last 20 years, Allen has gained a breadth of experience from the a veterinarian from Australia with five years in clinical practice implementation of diverse business solutions across multiple industry including a residency in emergency and critical care.
Following a sectors including Justice, Education, Energy, Distribution and Retail.
Masters in veterinary pharmacology, PhD in human pharmacology Having held several senior management positions encompassing and post-doc at the University of Kansas, he spent six years at software development, IT service provision and IT departmental Elanco in early drug development, technology acquisition and as management, his last role was as Head of IT for the BSS Group a Six Sigma black belt.
In his six years at Putney, Anthony built the PLC, a leading plumbing and heating distribution company.
Allen is R&D team, which delivered ten FDA product approvals.
currently responsible for all Group IT support to a multitude of internal As the Group Product Development Director, Anthony leads customers.
He is located at Head Office, Northwich, UK.
a team of 50 scientists across five global research centres, to efficiently deliver the pipeline of products to meet Dechras growth needs.
Katy Clough Group HR Director Katy joined in April 2014 from AppSense Ltd where she was Greig Rooney Group Manufacturing and Supply Director the Vice President of HR Europe and Rest of the World.
With over 15 years operating at Director level within the Technology, Greig joined Dechra in 2016.
He has 20 years of experience Health, Travel and Finance industries, Katy brings with her a working in a variety of roles within the Pharmaceutical and Fast wealth of HR expertise gained in both blue chip corporates and Moving Consumer Good industries.
She has strong international, Greig started his career with GSK in 1998 on their Graduate leadership and M&A experience and has taken responsibility for Management Training scheme.
He worked in various Supply driving the global people agenda for the Dechra Group.
She is Chain roles andspent six years outside of GSK working as a lean located at Head Office, Northwich, UK.
consultant in the motor industry supply chain and also ran the Bakery Operations for Greggs PLC in Birmingham.
Prior to joining Dechra, Greig worked as the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient Lifecycle Transformation Director, responsible for the execution of GSKs Strategy within the Pharmaceutical Business.
As the Group Manufacturing and Supply Director, Greig is responsible for approximately 33% of Dechras workforce across six manufacturing sites namely Bladel, the Netherlands: Zagreb, Croatia: Florida, USA: Skipton, UK: Sydney, Australia: Brovel, Mexico: and the main distribution centre in Europe at Uldum, Denmark.
Greig holds a BSc Hons in Science and Management Studies.
He is located in Northwich, UK.
Stock Code: DPH 43 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 43 04 09 2017 13:59:14 Product Development Although some products may have a slightly different path, most novel Making the Chemistry Work and generic products follow a fairly standard process containing five The second phase of the process is Feasibility, which involves the phases, defined as: Evaluation, Feasibility, Development, Registration collection of a range of preliminary data.
When initiating development and Launch.
of a novel product, the correct dose has to be titrated and a stable formulation, that can be reliably and consistently manufactured, must Dechra employs a structured process in its development pipeline while be developed.
For a generic product, the pioneer formulation may retaining an opportunistic and entrepreneurial approach.
Focus is given not meet the current regulatory requirements and may need to be to the Groups therapeutic sectors.
This phase is vital prior to initiating the development and in-license opportunities are evaluated for strategic fit within these phase which involves expensive clinical trials or bioequivalence studies.
sectors: therapies outside of the key areas are considered for inclusion in the pipeline if they are novel and address medical needs in the Entering the Development Phase veterinary market.
The Development phase is the longest part of the process, potentially taking two or three years.
After the formulation has been demonstrated A products return on investment can vary: novel developments tend to be stable, two to three pilot batches are manufactured for use to have a medium to long term realisation with attractive high value in safety studies, efficacy studies and stability testing.
For generic returns: generic developments generally have shorter time scales with products, the batches are used in one or more bioequivalence studies returns dependent upon the number of other entrants and our speed to demonstrate that activity will replicate the pioneer product.
If the to market relative to the competition.
Dechras current development studies conducted during the Development phase demonstrate the pipeline is a mix of short, medium and long term opportunities.
required safety, efficacy and chemical stability of the product, regulatory Generating Ideas dossiers are prepared for Registration Filing.
The Evaluation phase begins with identifying a novel molecule, an From beginning to end, the development process can take between opportunity to develop a new formulation for an existing molecule, or an three and ten years before Launch depending on complexity and in-license opportunity.
Before initiating a development programme, each nature of the product.
opportunity is assessed by market need, market value, therapeutic indications, strategic fit and the likely complexity of the regulatory pathway.
310 years Go Go Go No Go No Go No Go Evaluation Feasibility Development Registration Launch CTR Indication s determined Formulation Safety CAP CTR Efficacy Active Pharmaceutical CTR CTR Residues Dose 3 Ingredient API manufacturer Novel Environmental Pilot Titration Register Launch batches selected start from Risk Assessment Ecotoxicology scratch Manufacturing site selected Preliminary User Safety Safety study finished products Studies Commerciality is there a CAP FAP customer need?
Formulation Bioequivalence 2 Generic Pilot Study Studies or Is it worth taking the Register Launch batches Copycat Chemistry waiver development idea forward Drives timing product needs stable at the end formulation CAP Companion Animal Product CTR Clinical Trial Required Food producing Animal Product FAP Laboratory Studies New Formulation of products with existing maximum residue limit MRL 44 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
