Our Products Our products can be divided into four categories: Companion Animal Products CAP, Food producing Animal Products FAP, Equine, and Nutrition and Diets.
All are targeted at providing veterinary professionals with solutions for their customers needs: to match current best practice prescribing habits: additionally, CAP our recent move into poultry vaccines should provide growth This is the basis upon which Dechra established its market opportunities in future years as we seek global registrations.
position and continues to be our strongest sector, representing Equine 62.3% of revenue.
The majority of products in our portfolio are Prescription Only Medicines POMs, prescribed, administered This is a sector in which few animal health companies and dispensed by veterinarians working in companion animal specialise due to the relatively small number of horses in the practices.
We also have a range of associated non-prescription world and the fact that in the majority of European countries products that complement the licensed pharmaceuticals, such the horse is classed as a food producing species which adds as ear cleaners, dermatologically active shampoos and other complexity to the licensing process.
Equine veterinarians are topical and nutritional supplements.
specialised in the species and operate out of either mixed practices or, increasingly, specialist equine centres.
Key therapeutic sectors: Endocrinology, dermatology, analgesia and anaesthesia, Key therapeutic sectors: cardiovascular and critical care.
Species: Species: Dogs and cats.
Market dynamics: Market dynamics: The principal driver of growth in companion animal markets The horse is classed as a minor species as there are very is the pet owners compassion for their animals.
The market few, even in major countries such as the US where current has historically been orientated around developed countries estimates are only eight million and the UK at approximately such as Western Europe, North America, Australia and Japan.
Although there is a big overlap, the market can be However, with increasing wealth in several developing regions, divided roughly into high performance sports horses and leisure the companion animal market is now also emerging.
The market is variable and can be linked to on companion animals continues to grow due to increasing the economy: however, high value sports horses will be treated pet ownership, advances in nutrition, increased competence at almost any cost.
Dechra has developed a strong position in complex conditions by veterinarians, preventative healthcare in lameness and pain management with unique products that and wellness and by increasing availability of more specialist have superior efficacy compared to historic treatments.
Dechra has developed a strong position in Nutrition and Diets Nutrition providing specialist and clinically necessary novel products.
We also supply a range of products which complement these Our range of pet foods is predominantly focused on high quality products in key therapeutic sectors where we are seen as the nutrition to support therapeutic conditions in dogs and cats company of choice by many veterinarians.
such as allergies, obesity, heart and kidney disease.
They are sold through veterinary practices under the recommendation of FAP either veterinarians or veterinary nurses and are recommended Dechra entered the FAP sector through the acquisition of to support therapeutic recovery following diagnosis by a Eurovet in 2012: it currently represents 13.2% of revenue.
However, as over 60% of all global animal health sales are FAP, Key therapeutic sectors: Dechra is underweight relative to the market and our competitors Our pet diets are available to support the well being of animals and it is an increasing area of focus, especially in our plans for with numerous therapeutic conditions.
The ability to offer our geographical expansion.
Our products are entirely POMs that wide range of products, branded Specific, is necessary to remain are prescribed by veterinarians who work in either specialist competitive in this sector.
veterinary practices or professional farming units.
Species: Key therapeutic sectors: Dogs and cats.
Water soluble antibiotics, poultry vaccines, locomotion lameness and pain management.
Market dynamics: The global pet food market is huge and dwarfs the animal Species: health pharmaceuticals market.
The veterinary recommendation Poultry, pigs and an increasing presence in cattle.
is respected by pet owners which allows them to take a Market dynamics: small but significant part of this diet market.
Dechras focus The key driver for growth in this sector is a huge increase in is predominantly therapeutic diets which are not available the global demand for high quality animal protein and dairy for self-selection through supermarkets and require advice products.
Vaccines are the biggest growth sector of the from the veterinarian.
There are very few competitors in this veterinary market and are anticipated to continue to outgrow specialist sector of the pet food market and although we therapeutic treatments.
The majority of our sales are currently compete with huge global multinational companies, we are able antibiotics which are sold mainly into Western Europe.
Western to differentiate our position through the use of higher quality Europe has been extremely proactive over the last five years ingredients and through innovation.
in reducing antibiotic use due to concerns over antimicrobial resistance and super bugs.
Dechras portfolio is positioned 11 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
