STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 98 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 99 GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting to the OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Subject Page Reference shareholders their report and audited consolidated The Companies Act 2006 the Act requires the The Board remains committed to high standards Dividends See note 5 of the financial financial statements for the 12 months ended directors to present a fair review of the business of corporate governance: details relating to the statements on page 124 30 June 2017. during the year to 30 June 2017 and of the position Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Capital See note 17 of the financial of the Company at the end of the financial year Governance Code are given in the Corporate RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Structure statements on page 143 together with the financial statements, auditors Governance Report on pages 61 to 67. details of the The Group made a profit after tax of 315m report and a description of the principal risks and issued share 2016: 250m.
An interim dividend of 6.0p 2016: DIRECTORS uncertainties which the Company faces.
The capital 4.0p net per share was paid on 05 May 2017.
The strategic report can be found on pages 1 to 57 of the The Directors of the Company during the year to the Directors See page 62 to 63 detailing Board proposes to pay on 14 November 2017, Annual Report.
The FCAs Disclosure Guidance and date of signing and the current Directors are listed the Directors who served during subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 Transparency Rules require certain information to on pages 62 to 63 together with their biographical the year.
Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 11.0p be included which can be found in the Corporate details.
2016: Final Dividend: 6.0p net per share in respect Biographical details of the Governance Report on pages 61 to 105.
Directors of the Company who are of the year ended 30 June 2017 to shareholders on Details of Directors pay, service contracts, and seeking election and re-election There were no significant events since the balance the Register as at the close of business on Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the at the 2017 AGM are set out on sheet date.
An indication of likely future 22 September 2017.
The Companys dividend Company, are included in the Directors pages 62 to 63. developments in the business of the Company and re-investment plan gives shareholders the Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 97. details of the Companys use of financial opportunity to re-invest their dividends.
Details of Director interests, Formal appraisals of the Executive Directors were instruments for risk management purposes are including interests in the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING undertaken during the financial year.
All the Companys shares, are disclosed included in the strategic report.
in the Directors Remuneration Non-Executive Directors underwent an annual Notice of the 2017 Annual General Meeting to be report on page 91.
The corporate governance report and the strategic appraisal conducted by the Senior Independent held on Thursday, 9 November 2017 will be sent to report, together with the notice of AGM including Non-Executive Director.
The Board confirms that Employment Details of the Companys shareholders separately.
Members wishing to vote the explanatory notes and sections of the annual Steve Morgan, John Tutte and Barbara Richmond, Policies employment policies may be should return forms of proxy to the Companys report incorporated by reference, form part of the who stand for re-appointment as Executive found in the Directors Report on Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time for directors report which is presented in accordance page 101.
Directors and Debbie Hewitt, Nick Hewson and Sir holding the meeting.
The formal notice convening with, and with reliance upon, applicable English Michael Lyons who stand for re-appointment as the Annual General Meeting, together with The Redrow Details of the shares held by the company law.
The liabilities of the directors in Non-Executive Directors, continue to be effective explanatory notes, will be found in a separate Employee Trust may be found in the Directors connection with this report shall be limited as and demonstrate the appropriate commitment to Benefit Trust Report on page 100. circular which will be sent to shareholders provided by English Law.
the Trust separately and will be available on the Companys website.
Shareholders will also find with the Notice Environmental, Details of the Companys approach The table opposite sets out where key information The Executive Directors have formal service of Annual General Meeting a form of proxy for use social and to diversity and ESG disclosures can be found in the Annual Report.
agreements and termination of their employment in connection with the meeting.
governance can be found in the Directors may be effective by 12 months notice given by the ESG Report on pages 98 to 103.
Company, except for Steve Morgan where the The Board noted that Resolution 14 relating to the disclosures notice period is six months.
approval of the terms of the waiver received a vote Redrow plc Details of the Companys LTIP are set of 61.69% in favour at the 2016 Annual General Long Term out in note 7d of the consolidated In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Meeting.
The Board values and respects the views Incentive Plan financial statements on pages 126 to Code, all the Directors, with the exception of Liz of shareholders.
The Board consulted with a number LTIP 129 and the Directors Remuneration Peace, will retire at the Annual General Meeting to of shareholders and proxy advisor bodies prior to Report on pages 76 to 97. be held on Thursday, 9 November 2017, and, being the 2016 Annual General Meeting to discuss their Greenhouse All disclosures on the Companys eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
Liz concerns relating to the waiver.
The Board gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions, as Peace retired from the Board on 31 August 2017 and continues to take its responsibility to engage with required to be disclosed under was replaced by Vanda Murray who submits herself shareholders seriously and assessed the feedback Schedule 7 of The Large and for election at the AGM.
it received to inform future consultations.
Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 pursuant to the Act, Strategic Report and directors report Regulations 2013, are contained in the Directors Report on page 102.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 100 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 101 GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors Report continued Authority was given to the Directors at last years The persons set out in the table above have notified This is assisted through the medium of regular DIRECTORS INTERESTS Annual General Meeting to make market purchases the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure management meetings, staff publications, its internal Related party transactions are disclosed in of the Companys ordinary shares up to an and Transparency Rules of their interests in the staff Insight Magazine and the Redrow intranet.
note 22 to the Financial Statements.
A summary aggregate nominal value of 3,697,999.30.
This ordinary share capital of the Company.
Employees are consulted on a regular basis so that of remuneration provided to key management authority will expire at the Annual General Meeting, employee views may be taken into account when personnel is provided in note 7c.
At 4 September 2017, no change in these holdings and no such purchases were made during the decisions are made that may affect their interests.
had been notified, nor, according to the registrar of financial year ended 30 June 2017.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS members, did any other shareholder at that date Employee share ownership is encouraged through Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, VOTING AND TRANSFER OF SHARES have a notifiable holding of issued share capital.
UK legislation and any of the directions given by The Companys Articles of Association do not Special Resolution, the business of the Company is CHANGE OF CONTROL DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY contain any specific restrictions on the size of a managed by the Board, which may exercise all the The Companys banking facilities require repayment The Company recognises that our continued success shareholders holding or on the transfer of shares.
Directors have been in the event of a change of control.
In addition the depends upon our ability to recruit the right people, authorised to allot and issue shares by way of The Company is not aware of any agreements Companys employee share incentive schemes retain them and help them to reach their full potential.
Resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual between shareholders that may result in restrictions contain provisions, whereby, upon a change of General Meeting.
The Company believes that attracting a diverse on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
control, outstanding options and awards would range of skills and abilities will enable us to meet vest and become exercisable by the relevant The rules in relation to the appointment and The Companys Articles of Association do not the challenge of the growing skills gap in the sector.
employees, subject to the rules of the schemes.
replacement of Directors are as set out in the contain and the Company is not aware of any Companys Articles of Association and UK company The Company is firmly committed to giving restrictions on voting rights, including any There are no agreements between the Company law.
The Articles of Association can only be every potential recruit and employee the same limitations on voting rights of holders of a given and its directors or employees providing for amended, or new Articles adopted, by a resolution opportunities irrespective of their gender, race, percentage or number of votes, deadlines for compensation for loss of office or employment passed by shareholders in general meeting by at ethnic or national origin, disability, age, sexuality, exercising voting rights and arrangements by in event of a takeover bid.
least three quarters of the votes cast.
religious belief, marital status or social class.
which the Companys co-operation, financial rights EMPLOYEES carried by securities are held by a person other CAPITAL STRUCTURE As such the Company opposes all forms of unlawful than the holder of the securities.
The Companys employment policies do not or unjust discrimination and requires all colleagues The Company has an authorised share capital of discriminate between employees or potential to comply with legislation in this area and strive for 480,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each of which Zedra Trust Company Guernsey Limited, as trustee employees on the grounds of gender, sexual best practice.
The Company has of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust, held orientation, age, colour, creed, ethnic origin, one class of ordinary shares which carry ordinary 9,148,119 shares 2.5% in the Company as at 30 June religious beliefs, pregnancy or maternity or trade The Company embeds this through awareness and rights to dividends subject to the Companys 2017 on trust for the benefit of employees of the union membership.
It is Company policy to give full training in the following policies: Articles of Association.
Each share carries the right Company.
The voting rights attaching to the shares and fair consideration to applications for to one vote at general meetings of the Company in held by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust are employment by, and the employment and training Diversity and Inclusion Policy respect of resolutions which are taken on a poll.
exercisable by the Trustee and there are no needs of, disabled persons and in the case of Employee Policy restrictions on the exercise of the voting of, or employment needs, persons who become disabled No person has any special rights of control over the acceptance of any offer relating to those shares.
The Recruitment and Selection Policy whilst employed by the Company where Companys share capital and all issued shares are Trust agreed to waive its right to the final dividend requirements may be adequately covered by these Disciplinary and Grievance Policy and Procedures fully paid.
over 3.1m shares being part of its total shareholding.
persons and to comply with any current legislation CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS with regard to disabled persons.
Authority was given to the Directors at last years SUBSTANTIAL HOLDINGS IN THE COMPANY Annual General Meeting to allot unissued shares up The Group made no political donations but paid As at 30 June 2017, the Company has been advised The Company places considerable importance on to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665 0.9m in charitable donations during the year, being of the following notifiable interests of 3% or more in the provision of training and development of its equivalent to approximately 33% of the Companys 0.8m in respect of national charities and 0.1m in its ordinary shares: employees through training@redrow.
Training is issued share capital and up to a further aggregate support of local charities.
The Company and its administered at a purpose built in-house training nominal amount of 12,326,665 in connection with employees are actively involved in fundraising Bridgemere Securities Limited 107,386,045 29.04% facility at Tamworth.
Training@redrow completed an offer by way of a rights issue.
The authority was activities for specific charities.
The Company made 6,193 training days during the year ended 30 June not exercised during the period ending 30 June The Steve Morgan Foundation 38,900,000 10.52% a 0.7m donation during the year to The Steve 2017, including those which support the Companys 2017 or prior to the date of this Report.
The Morgan Foundation, a UK registered charity of Vidacos Nomineus HSBC 18,770,138 5.076% induction process.
Company has no current intention of exercising the which Steve Morgan is a Trustee.
This is included Schroders plc 18,359,023 4.965% authority but nevertheless as this authority expires within the charitable donations in respect of national The Directors recognise the importance of good at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the FIL Limited 17,343,977 4.69% charities noted above.
The Divisions are Directors will be seeking new authorities as set out BlackRock Inc 15,277,577 4.13% encouraged to make their employees aware of the in the Notice of Meeting.
financial and economic factors affecting their respective Divisions and the Company as a whole.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 102 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 103 GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors Report continued GOING CONCERN GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on Greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for the period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 are set out in the table below.
going concern and financial reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Current Comparison Reporting Year Year As explained in the Financial Review on pages 48 1 July 16 to 1 July 15 to to 51, the Group maintains adequate committed Emissions from: 30 June 17 30 June 16 Units banking facilities.
As stated in note 14 to the Scope 1 activities: financial statements, at 30 June 2017, the Group Combustion of fuel at our offices and sites had 275m of undrawn committed borrowing Business use of Redrow-owned and leased vehicles 11,128 10,607 tonnes of CO e facilities available.
2 Scope 2 activities: After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors All purchased electricity 2,956 2,814 tonnes of CO e consider they have a reasonable expectation for 2 stating that the Group and the Company have Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions: adequate resources to continue trading for the Scope 1 Scope 2 14,084 13,421 tonnes of CO e 2 foreseeable future.
These enquiries consisted of a Our preferred intensity ratio: detailed review of the Groups financial forecast for 2 the period to 31 December 2018.
The forecasts take Total Greenhouse Gas emissions relative to build: 2.50 2.61 tonnes of CO e per 100m of build 2 into account current market trends with reasonable judgements and estimates applied to arrive at future cash flow estimates.
As part of the review, the Group analysed its forecast covenant compliance RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT This inventory of greenhouse gas emissions has over this period linked to its banking facility, arriving been verified by SGS to a limited level of assurance, The Company has a centralised Product at an assessment of the headroom evident between in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2006, as meeting Development Team charged with identifying and the forecast covenant test outturn and the outturn the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol evaluating new construction techniques and necessary to achieve covenant compliance.
The A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
In addition, the Company has a review confirmed headroom within both financial Emissions have been calculated using the UK centralised Environmental and Sustainability Team, covenants and facilities.
Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company of which issues play a prominent role in the Reporting: 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively.
The Company recognises its Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going responsibilities to the community as a whole and concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS has adopted an environment strategy which is a A resolution to reappoint  By order of the Board core part of the Companys objectives.
LLP as external Auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on Thursday, The charge to the income statement in respect 9 November 2017. of research and development in the year ended GRAHAM COPE 30 June 2017 was 0.6m 2016: 0.4m.
Company Secretary PROVISION OF INFORMATION Redrow plc METHODOLOGY TO AUDITORS: This disclosure includes all of the emission sources In the case of each Director in office at the date the Registered no: 2877315 required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Directors report is approved, confirm that: Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
4 September 2017 a so far as the Director is aware, there is no These sources fall within our consolidated financial relevant audit information as defined in section statement and we do not have responsibility for any 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the emission sources that are not included in our Companys Auditors are unaware: and consolidated statement.
b he has taken all of the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any such relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
