STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 34 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 35 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued CONSTRUCTION To meet the need and demand for new homes, the construction industry must work with Government to address the skills shortage.
DEVELOPING HOMEBUILDERS EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT OF THE FUTURE In order to ensure that we are supporting all our Here at Redrow we are proud of our record of employees to fulfil their potential, we regularly training and developing our colleagues.
We have evaluate employee engagement and use the been listed as a Top 100 Apprentice Employer in results to improve working practices, training the National Apprenticeship Service awards for and development.
In addition to our We conducted a major survey in 2017, having Trade apprenticeship, Trainee Site Assistant conducted a mini survey in 2016.
This was and our Commercial apprenticeship training undertaken by Employee Feedback Ltd on our programmes, this year we have introduced a behalf.
We had an 88% response rate and fast track management programme for graduates achieved a 95% employee satisfaction rating with a construction related degree.
CONSTRUCTION 96% of our employees said they were proud to work for Redrow.
We created 228 directly employed new jobs in the year, increasing our employee numbers to a record BUILD OUTPUT Hands-on experience for graduates c2,200.
We have continued to invest in our people to ensure we have the skilled and qualified Build output increased by c15% in the year as the workforce we need for the future.
We again Group continues to position itself to meet its growth At Redrow, were proud to attract some of the We offer a variety of courses designed to maintained our proportion of trainees at 15% targets.
We also continue to manage pressures in Were opening most promising graduates in the industry, but help them work towards membership of the of the increased workforce.
both labour and material supply chains.
the door for we know that getting a construction related Chartered Institute of Building, as well as We also continue to develop our team at all levels Colindale Gardens is the largest development in degree is just the start.
specialising in areas of the business that graduates who to support the growth of our business, underpin the Group and continues to make excellent interest them.
want to fast track Before they can manage the creation of our structured approach to succession planning and progress.
There are currently c600 homes under complex residential developments, our With Redrow there is endless potential to their careers in encourage all our colleagues to reach their construction there and the daily workforce often graduates need hands-on experience, learn and progress, says graduate trainee, potential.
This year we completed c6,800 training exceeds 600 people.
It was pleasing to see the construction working on site, and learning from our expert Sean McFadden.
Im really interested in days, an increase of over 40% on the prior year first apartment block unwrapped in June 2017 management.
construction directors and site managers.
getting more involved in the sustainability 2016: c4,800.
Much of our training is carried out and we are on-track to deliver our first legal side of things and learning about different in-house by our Learning and Development Team completions from this important strategic site Karen Jones Thats why we put all of our graduates build processes.
and delivered at either our Tamworth training at the end of this calendar year.
Group HR Director through a two-year programme, designed to centre, Head Office or our newly-opened training show how what they learned at university is Redrow welcomed 20 new graduates on facilities at Colindale and Daresbury.
applied in real life, to ensure the highest to its fast track management programme levels of quality and health and safety are in 2017.
We work with recognised training providers and achieved on site.
experts in their field to design our training courses: for example, this year we became the first company As well as being mentored on site, graduates in the homebuilding industry to work with the NHBC can continue their learning with Redrow.
Our Effective Snagging and NHBC Warranty course can now be rolled-out across the business under licence from the NHBC.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 36 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 37 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued submission we have moved upwards in the CDP All the materials from the demolition process were DRIVING DOWN WASTE HEALTH & SAFETY benchmark to a B grade 2015: C. The improvement separated, with c5,500 tonnes of metal recycled The percentage of homes and apartments that Subcontractor engagement is essential to promote in grade reflects the progress we have made by and 61,000 cubic metres of concrete crushed and have been connected to on-site renewables or a positive health & safety culture.
At Redrow, we measuring awareness, management and by taking re-used on site as aggregates.
The re-use of low carbon community energy has substantially continue to support our supply chain by organising actions on climate change.
crushed concrete as infill, greatly reduces our increased this year from 13% 2016 to 36%.
This and hosting numerous events over the year across environmental impact: it reduces the need to source is largely due to the increasing use of community the business.
Our Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions expressed in fresh material from quarries and cart to landfill sites energy infrastructure on sites such as Saxon relation to the quantity of build we have undertaken as a result a huge number of local traffic Build output increased by 15% across the Group Brooke, Devon and Royal Waterside, Park Royal, have decreased by 4.2% to 2.5 tonnes of CO e per 2 movements are eliminated.
during the year: this increase in build activity on our North West London.
Our GHG emissions 2 sites led to a higher number of notifiable accidents development is fully completed in three years time, are independently verified to a limited level of We are working closely with our subcontractors to per site during the year to 0.30 2016: 0.20.
Overall the community energy project will save 4,173 tonnes assurance.
reduce waste and increase recycling.
For example, the number of reported accidents increased to 393 of CO per year, using 64% less than an equivalent 2 it is now a requirement of our trade specification for 2016: 318.
Our accident trends are constantly development using traditional individual home We carefully consider the environmental impacts our painting contractors to recycle their paint cans.
reviewed and measures and campaigns are energy systems.
from all of our activities from the initial planning and This has resulted in c10,000 cans being recycled in introduced and launched to improve performance design stage of the development through to the the year.
We have increased the amount of waste We have been disclosing our carbon emissions and most recently we introduced a slips and trips construction and completion of homes.
At Colindale we divert from landfill to 95.4% 2016: 94.8%.
reduction activities to the Carbon Disclosure Project campaign to address an increase in minor accidents Gardens, London, 16 unused buildings were CDP annually since 2010.
In the most recent associated with this cause.
demolished to make way for new homes to be built.
