Dechra Values 12 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 12 04 09 2017 13:58:44 Strategic Report Delivering Our Strategy Since 2013, our priorities for each Strategic Growth Driver and Enabler have been clearly defined and communicated and are outlined in the table overleaf.
In this section of the Annual Report we describe the progress we have made towards achieving our strategic objectives.
Generate long term value for shareholders International specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals and related products business Strategic Growth Drivers a b c Pipeline Portfolio Geographical Acquisition Delivery Focus Expansion Strategic Enablers Manufacturing and Technology People Supply Chain Dechra Values Dedication Dedication Dedication Dedication Dedication Dedication Dedication Enjoyment Courage Honesty Relationships Ambition Read more on Strategic Growth Read more on Strategic Enablers Drivers on pages 32 to 39 on pages 40 to 43 Stock Code: DPH 13 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 13 04 09 2017 13:58:46 Delivering Our Strategy continued Our Strategic Priorities Our Progress in 2017 Future Priorities Link to Strategy in Action Signed Animal Ethics licensing agreement, and building pipeline Continue to identify innovative development opportunities.
Amoxi-Clav of other in-licensing opportunities.
Further develop Dechra laboratory network, including further FDA licensing.
See pages 32 and 33 Vaccines development strategy defined and new opportunities Continue to develop Vaccines pipeline.
We must deliver our pipeline on time, at the right costs and with the Explore and negotiate further in-licensing deals.
Zagreb product development laboratory commissioned and expected returns.
It is also important that we refill the pipeline so that operational.
we get a constant flow of new products in future years.
Putneys Amoxi-Clav tablet development completed and other projects continuing.
A number of minor FAP market authorisations gained.
Strong CAP and Equine growth continuing across the Group.
Deepen market penetration of existing products across all territories.
Our Key Therapeutic Areas a b c FAP returned to growth.
Enhance Nutrition and FAP sales growth.
See pages 34 and 35 Increased effective use of CRM tools in EU and NA.
Continue to drive marketing and sales force effectiveness.
Portfolio Focus Expanded sales force effectiveness training.
We are a specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals business focused on CAP, Equine, FAP and Nutrition.
We look to maximise our revenue by Unblocking of distribution channels for Putney products in the US focusing on clearly defined therapeutic sectors.
has opened up market for enlarged NA business growth.
Several international product registrations achieved.
Develop Dechra Veterinary Products International business.
Dechra Veterinary Products International Established Dechra Veterinary Products International business.
Continue to leverage current registration portfolio in newer territories.
See pages 36 and 37 Commenced appointment of the Dechra Veterinary Products Increase international country registrations.
We have identified a number of markets that present both volume and profit opportunities in the medium to long term.
Our entry strategies will vary depending on the local market dynamics.
Successful integration and operation of Genera, Brovel, Putney Continue integration and leverage of recent acquisitions.
Integration of Acquisitions and Apex.
Acquire businesses in target geographical therapeutic markets.
See pages 38 and 39 Acquisition of Apex, opening up new bridgehead into Australasia Acquisition and South East Asia.
Our priority is to target strategic acquisitions that will expand our Acquisition of 33.0% of Medical Ethics Pty Ltd provides the Group geographical footprint and or enhance our product portfolio.
with secure access to novel therapeutic areas product development.
Developed new Manufacturing and Supply Chain strategy.
Execute Manufacturing and Supply Chain remodelling strategy.
Manufacturing and Supply Chain Continued strengthening of Senior Executive Team with key Develop and integrate procurement activities.
See page 40 for more on Manufacturing appointments of Richard Cotton, Giles Coley, Anthony Lucas and and Supply Chain Continue to develop leadership effectiveness, and quality of talent.
SET Senior Executive Team Our strategic enablers, Manufacturing and Supply Chain, People and Continue to develop Oracle ERP and other business systems.
Ongoing progress in Oracle deployment.
Technology, support the execution of our strategy.
See pages 42 and 43 for more IT user hardware standardised across the Group.
on People People 20th Anniversary See page 41 for more on People - 20th Anniversary 14 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
