STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 62 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 63 GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors ROLE: The Non-Executive Directors are members of the Board but do not form part of the Executive Management team.
They have responsibility to constructively challenge and contribute to the development of strategy, scrutinise the performance of management, satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of the Executive Management team.
5 6 7 M A N R M A N R S M A N R S SIR MICHAEL LYONS 67 DEBBIE HEWITT 54 LIZ PEACE 64 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Sir Michael joined the Redrow Debbie joined the Redrow Board Liz joined the Redrow Board Board in January 2015.
She has a wealth in September 2014.
She spent recently chaired the Lyons of board experience in executive 13 years as the CEO of the Housing Commission to produce and non-executive roles.
British Property Federation and a road map for increasing house also had a long and distinguished She is currently the Nonbuilding in this country.
career in the Civil Service.
Executive Chairman of Moss He is also Chairman of the English Bros plc, The Restaurant Group She is currently a non executive Cities Fund, which undertakes plc and White Stuff.
director at The Howard fide large scale urban regeneration Walden Estate and non She is also Non-Executive schemes in a number of places executive chairman of the Director of NCC plc, BGL and and is Chairman of SQW Group Shadow Government Property Domestic & General, and Visa and a strategic adviser to CBRE.
Agency and of the Mayor of Europe Limited.
Londons Old Oak and Park Royal Prior to this, following a long Development Corporation.
She is Debbie has an MBA from Bath and distinguished career in also the chairman of the property University, is a fellow of the local government, Sir Michael industrys charity, LandAid, and of Chartered Institute of Personnel completed a four year term as the Architectural Heritage Fund and Development and was Chairman of the BBC and has and the Centre for London.
awarded an MBE in 2011 for held a range of non-executive services to business and the positions across the three sectors.
Liz was awarded a CBE in the public sector.
1 2 3 4 M M M M STEVE MORGAN 64 JOHN TUTTE 61 BARBARA RICHMOND 57 GRAHAM COPE 53 8 M A N R S M A N R CHAIRMAN GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR COMPANY SECRETARY BOARD EXPERIENCE: NICK HEWSON 59 VANDA MURRAY 56 ROLE: He is primarily responsible for ROLE: He is responsible for the ROLE: She is responsible for ROLE: He is responsible for Finance NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR the effective working of the Board, operational management of the financial management of the governance structures and Property taking a leading role in determining the Group, the implementing of Group in its broadest sense.
mechanisms, corporate conduct STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: The Board appointed Vanda Operational the Boards composition and strategic plans and reporting on within the Companys regulatory Nick joined the Redrow Board Murray with effect from STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: structure and ensuring effective these to the Board.
environment and circulars to Sustainability in December 2012.
Vanda has Barbara Richmond joined the communications with shareholders.
shareholders and is the primary career to date has been spent substantial Non-Executive STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Board of Redrow in January source of advice on the conduct mainly in the property industry, Director and Remuneration STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: John Tutte joined the Board 2010, bringing with her a proven of the business.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP: from commercial to residential.
She is Steve Morgan founded Redrow of Redrow in July 2002.
In track record, with over 20 years Chairman of Fenner plc and holds in 1974 and led the business to September 2009 he was experience as Group Finance Graham is Company Secretary to M Main Board Nick is the Chairman of non-executive roles with Bunzl become one of the UKs leading promoted to Group Managing Director at a number of UK listed the Main Board and Secretary to A Supermarket Income REIT and a Audit Committee plc, Manchester Airports Group home builders.
He floated the Director and in July 2014 became companies including Inchcape all Committees.
Non-Executive Director of Croma N Nomination Committee and Just Childcare Ltd. She is also Company in 1994 and stepped Group Chief Executive.
plc, Croda International PLC and Security Solutions Group Plc.
STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Pro-Chancellor at Manchester R down as Chairman in November Whessoe plc.
Remuneration Committee John qualified in civil engineering Graham Cope joined Redrow as Metropolitan University and a 2000, returning to the helm in Nick is a Fellow of the Institute of S Sustainability Committee and has amassed more than 35 She has a strong background in Head of Legal in November 2002 Board member of the Manchester March 2009.
Chartered Accountants in England years experience within the both manufacturing and retail and was appointed Company Growth Company.
She has also and Wales and has a degree in Steve is also Chairman of The industry, having previously held as well as having completed a Secretary two months later.
He previously held non-executive Law from Cambridge University.
Bridgemere Group of Companies, the position as Chief Executive of number of major acquisitions and has over 20 years experience in directorships at Carillion plc, Carden Leisure and Trinity Aviation.
the housebuilding sector, either Exova plc and Microgen plc.
He set up The Steve Morgan working in-house or for clients in John was appointed to the board Barbara was appointed a NonVanda was awarded an OBE in Foundation in 2000, one of the private practice.
of the Home Builders Federation Executive Director of Lonza Group 2001 for services to business and largest charitable trusts in the north in February 2015.
He is also a Ltd with effect from 16 April 2014.
Graham qualified as a solicitor to exports.
Chairman of the Home Building in1989 and is a member of the Barbara is a Fellow of the Institute Steve is a Fellow of the Chartered Skills Partnership an initiative Law Society.
of Chartered Accountants in Institute of Building and holds between the HBF and CITB England and Wales and a graduate five Honorary Degrees.
He was to attract and develop a more of the University of Manchester.
awarded an OBE in 1992 for services diverse skilled workforce for the to the construction industry and a industry and its supply chain.
S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC R RE EP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 64 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 65 GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance continued independence provisions set out in the Relationship BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE The Board is committed to complying with corporate governance Agreement during the period under review, and, so The Board considers that it is of a size and has a far as the Company is aware, Bridgemere Securities guidelines and to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience that is Limited, Steve Morgan and their associates appropriate for its business.
The Executive Team complied with the independence provisions set out provides the Board with an appropriate view of the in the Relationship Agreement during the period MAIN BOARD detail of the business and the benefit of their under review.
significant collective experience of the UK house building industry and that enables it to discharge BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND their respective duties and responsibilities PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT effectively.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a The Board undertook an internal formal evaluation of wealth of experience and understanding from Chairman its own performance during the year ended 30 June outside the Company which enables them to Group Chief Executive 2017.
This started with a questionnaire designed to challenge and help develop proposals on the Group Finance Director assess performance and ongoing effectiveness across Companys strategy.
All Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary key areas in the year ended 30 June 2017 and to holding office during the year ended 30 June 2017 Senior Independent Director Group Regional Chief Executives maintain visibility and progress during the financial are considered to be independent.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Group Human Resources Director year.
Following the completion of the questionnaire, a Group Sales & Marketing Director Details of the Directors respective experience is set report was presented to the Board and discussed and, Group Development Director out in their biographical profiles on pages 62 to 63. as a result, the Board considers that it continues to operate effectively with meetings to facilitate and Under the Code, at least half the Board, excluding debate decision making.
a Non-Executive Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board The evaluation also considered succession EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE to be independent.
The Board currently comprises planning for the Executive Team and the NonMANAGEMENT TEAM three Executive Directors, including a Chairman, Executive Directors.
TEAM and four Independent Non-Executive Directors in The Board recognises that a structured appraisal compliance with the Code.
process and good training are important The Board considers that each Director is able to requirements across the Group.
The Board receives The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the INTRODUCTION allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge regular presentations and briefings from those Board and its Committees and his appointment and This report sets out the Companys compliance with their responsibilities effectively.
responsible for key Group disciplines.
In addition, removal is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code the Board maintains close working relationships Company Secretary is a Member of the Executive RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT issued by the Financial Reporting Council with Divisional Management Teams.
Management Team and all Directors have access to www.
uk and describes how the governance The Company is party to a Relationship Agreement his advice and services.
In certain circumstances, All Directors undertake a comprehensive induction framework is applied by the Company.
with Bridgemere Securities Limited and Steve Board Committees and individual Directors may programme following their first appointment.
Morgan, which regulates the relationship between wish to take independent professional advice in The Directors have considered the contents and the parties and complies with the requirements of The programme for the Non-Executive Directors connection with their responsibilities and duties, requirements of the Code and confirm that the Listing Rules, including Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2 a is specifically designed to encompass the full and, in this regard, the Company will meet the throughout the year ended 30 June 2017, other than and Listing Rule 6.1.
In accordance with the breadth of the business and includes visits to reasonable costs and expenses incurred.
Where as set out in the Annual Report, the Company has requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
appropriate, the Board delegates decisions to the been compliant with the provisions of the Code.
confirms that the Company complied with the Executive Management Team and other relevant THE BOARD management bodies.
The Board comprises a Chairman, two further TABLE OF ATTENDANCE BOARD MEETINGS Executive Directors and four Independent Name Role Attendance at Meetings The Board meets regularly and frequently, not less Non-Executive Directors.
than six times during the year and maintains a close Steve Morgan Chairman 6 6 Steve Morgan, as Chairman, is responsible for dialogue, as appropriate, between meetings.
Board John Tutte Group Chief Executive 6 6 leadership of the Board and ensuring its meetings are held at Head Office or Divisional effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The role of Barbara Richmond Group Finance Director 6 6 Offices when visits are frequently made to a John Tutte, as Group Chief Executive, ensures that selection of developments accompanied by the Debbie Hewitt Senior Independent Director 6 6 there is a clear division of responsibilities at the local Management Team.
Board papers are Nick Hewson Non-Executive Director 6 6 head of the Company between the running of the distributed in advance of the meetings to allow Board and the operational responsibility for the adequate time for review and preparation and Liz Peace Non-Executive Director 6 6 running of the Companys business as required by include key strategic, operational and financial Sir Michael Lyons Non-Executive Director 5 6 the Code.
This balanced approach also ensures no information.
Attendance by individual Directors one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
atBoard meetings is set out on page 65.
All details for the Directors are provided on pages 62 to 63.
Details of internal control and risk management processes are included in the Audit Committee report on pages 68 to 71.
The governance structure is set out in the diagram above.
S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC R RE EP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 66 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 67 GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance continued During the year the formal appraisals of the Group approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, Liz Peace retired from the Board on 31 August 2017 SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director significant land purchases or contracts: and was replaced by Vanda Murray who submits The Company announces its financial results were undertaken by the Chairman herself for election at the AGM.
The Board has changes to the size, structure and composition half-yearly, and, immediately following their satisfied itself that all Directors who will be of the Board: publication, undertakes formal presentations to All Independent Non-Executive Directors had an submitting themselves for re-election continue to equity analysts.
These presentations are available annual appraisal conducted by the Senior approval of significant policies, including perform satisfactorily.
Details of appropriate Annual on the Companys website.
Redrows Health and Safety policy: and General Meeting Resolutions will be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which will be During the year ended 30 June 2017, the Chairman, review of overall corporate governance COMMITTEES sent to shareholders separately.
the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance arrangements.
The Board is supported by Audit, Nomination, Director, together with the Senior Independent Remuneration and Sustainability Committees and CAPITAL STRUCTURE The Chairman is primarily responsible for: Director, also held a number of meetings with their memberships, roles and activities are set out The information of the capital structure of the significant shareholders and subsequently briefed effective working of the Board: in separate reports: the Audit Committee report Company is included in the Directors report on the Board on issues discussed at these meetings.
can be found on pages 68 to 71: the Nomination taking a leading role in determining the page 100.
Committee report on pages 72 to 73: the Following the full year and half-yearly results Boards composition and structure: and Remuneration Committee report on pages 76 to 97 DIVERSITY announcement in September 2016 and February 2017, ensuring that effective communications are and the Sustainability Committee report can be the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group The principle of boardroom diversity is strongly maintained with shareholders.
Finance Director met current and potential significant supported by the Board.
It is the Boards policy that shareholders.
This included visits to London, the appointments to the Board will always be based on The Chief Executive is responsible for: Each Committee has terms of reference approved United States of America and Canada and feedback merit, so that the Board has the right individuals in by the Board and the Minutes of the Committee from these meetings was independently collated and operational management of the Group: place, and recognises that diversity is an important meetings are circulated, and the Committee disseminated to the Board.
consideration as part of the selective criteria used implementing strategic plans: and Chairmen provide reports, to the Board.
to assess candidates to achieve a balanced Board.
The Annual General Meeting takes place at a venue reporting on these to the Board The Audit Committee is chaired by Nick Hewson, close to the Companys Head Office.
All Directors The table below sets out the current position of the the Remuneration and the Nomination Committees Debbie Hewitt, the Senior Independent Director attended the Annual General Meeting on 9 November Company on a gender basis.
are chaired by Debbie Hewitt and the Sustainability supports the Chairman in ensuring the Board is 2016.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the 2017 Committee was chaired by Liz Peace.
Following Liz effective and that constructive relations are Annual General Meeting, which represents an Female Male Peaces retirement from the Board on 31 August maintained.
In addition to acting as a Senior opportunity for all shareholders attending to ask Main Board 2017 Sir Michael Lyons became Chair of the 3 43% 4 57% Independent Director in which capacity she leads questions formally during the meeting and informally Sustainability Committee.
the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman, afterwards to the Companys Directors.
Executive she also provides an additional point of contact 2 18% 9 82% Management Team The Board completed a performance evaluation of Formal notification of the 2017 Annual General for shareholders.
Direct reports to Executive its Committees during the financial year ended Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least 21 working Management Team 12 32% 26 68% 30 June 2017 and it was concluded they were The Company has Directors and Officers insurance days in advance.
contributing and functioning effectively and were in place which insures Directors against certain Redrow employees complying with their terms of reference.
co. uk, gives access to liabilities, including legal costs.
at June 2017 711 32% 1,479 68% current financial and corporate information.
GOVERNANCE AT WORK IN THE BUSINESS APPOINTMENTS AND RE-ELECTIONS TO THE BOARD The Board aims to meet governance best practice where it fits with the Companys business.
The Nomination Committee has recommended the GRAHAM COPE re-appointment of the Executive and Non-Executive Company Secretary The Board has a formal schedule of matters Directors.
The Nomination Committee report can be reserved specifically for its decisions.
The matters found on pages 72 and 73.
4 September 2017 reserved include: Under the Companys Articles of Association, all approval of Redrows long term objectives Directors are subject to re-election at their first and strategy: General meeting after appointment.
The Board approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, having been informed of the conditions of the Code preliminary and half-yearly financial statements, on election and re-election, including that there interim management statements, trading updates should be a formal, rigorous and transparent and the recommendation of dividends: procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board, and that re-election is subject to approval of any significant changes in accounting continued satisfactory performance, has decided policies or practices: any changes relating to that all Directors, with the exception of Liz Peace, capital structure: approval of treasury policies: will be submitting themselves for re-election at the ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of Annual General Meeting.
internal control and risk management:
