STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 26 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review At Barton Park, in the Northamptonshire village of Bedminster, are now providing nest boxes LAND, PLANNING & DESIGN Barton Seagrave, we have made a long-term integrated into external walls to help address commitment to the ecological protection, diversity the decline in the swift population.
and enhancement of the development.
Existing Our unique corporate partnership with the Using our planning and design skills to trees and hedgerows have been retained and Bumblebee Conservation Trust BBCT is working to enhanced with new trees, shrubs, hedgerows and make our developments as bee friendly as possible.
There are a number of park areas convert our quality land bank into great The landscaping at our Saxon Brook, Exeter across the development, including Sanctuary development has been designed to provide the which is rural in character, utilising natural materials best habitat for bumblebees to thrive.
The with native tree and hedge planting.
In the places to live is fundamental to our development includes a bee trail that runs right equipped play area, stepping-stones, low across the axis of the site and will help to educate mounding and timber constructed elements and inform residents about bumblebees.
provide areas for natural play.
As we move into the new financial year we are Transport links are important and 97% of our legal strengthening our relationship with the BBCT.
completions this year were within 500m of a public LAND Through greater customer engagement and by transport node.
working with our supply chain to increase our The Group added 5,419 plots with planning BRINGING BENEFITS TO focus on conservation, we believe even more permission to our owned and contracted land bank SOCIAL HOUSING can be done to help bumblebees flourish.
LOCAL COMMUNITIES in the year.
This more than replaced the record LEGAL COMPLETIONS NO.
5,319 legal completions excluding JV and we We delivered 1,014 social housing homes in the year 1,014 REGENERATION CREATING NEW ended the year with 26,100 plots in our owned and across our developments with a value of 115m COMMUNITIES ON PREVIOUSLY USED LAND contracted land bank.
This was a small increase on a 22% increase on the number of homes in the 834 The demand and need for more new homes cannot the very strong closing position in the previous previous year 2016: 834 homes, 86m value.
be met by only building on previously used land.
year and represents about five years output and a 634 We also committed 163m in 2017 to fund However, we have to ensure wherever possible, as Gross Development Value, based on our 2017 571 improvements to communities local to our a priority we redevelop redundant sites.
Brownfield average selling price, of 8.2bn.
developments, a 15% increase on last year 2016: sites account for c50% of our owned and contracted Forward land again made a significant contribution, 142m.
These improvements included providing land bank.
353 comprising over 60% of the 5,419 additions in the new schools, community centres, local medical At Sudbrook, Monmouth in South Wales, Harrow year across 22 sites.
This included the important and sports facilities, footpaths and cycleways Estates have demolished an unsightly factory on strategic Plasdr site Cardiffs new Garden City.
and attractive areas of public open space.
the Severn Estuary and are remediating the site to 13 14 15 16 17 Despite transferring 3,356 plots to the owned We aim to enhance the ecological value of our provide an attractive 212 home outlet with views of and contracted land bank, we still increased our developments recognising the importance of the Severn Bridge the site will be developed by forward land bank by a net 766 plots to 26,400 strengthening peoples connections with nature and our South Wales division.
Over 40% of these plots are allocated for their natural surroundings.
We achieve this through During the year our London Division was selected housing in Local Authority Plans.
design, partnerships and our commitment to by Wandsworth Borough Council to be their continually refine our understanding of important OWNED AND CONTRACTED PLACEMAKING development partner to regenerate the Alton Estate biodiversity principles.
LAND BY GEOGRAPHY PLOTS in Roehampton.
The development plans include the Redrow has long embraced the design principles We plan to create valuable and functional wildlife replacement of parts of the post-war housing with of Garden Towns and Villages to create new corridors and interconnected habitat areas on our up to 1,000 new private and affordable homes as communities that stand the test of time.
For example, at Harbour Village, well as a new library and healthcare and childrens year we brought together our planning, design and Fleetwood a coastal path and ecological corridor centres.
As part of the regeneration programme technical teams from across the business in a series to the adjacent estuary has been created.
On the weaim to provide local residents with jobs, training of Placemaking workshops to share best practice 2017 Sycamore Green development, Cheshire we have andapprenticeships.
and formalise a set of design principles.
As a result created a natural corridor to enable barn owls to we established seven key design principles that are cross the site from east to west.
essential to creating better places to live and are applied to all of our developments, irrespective of At our Glenwood Park, Barnstaple development and their scale and location.
at Caddington Woods, Chaul End we are installing 2017 hedgehog highways.
These highways are simply Nature for People is one of our seven principles.
North 5,382 small holes created in the bottom of fence panels to At our Caddington Woods development in Chaul Central 6,483 allow hedgehogs to move easily from garden to End we are creating a duck pond and a trim trail garden.
Many of our sites, such as Abode in South 9,963 along the edge of 35 acres of woodland.
Greater London 4,272 26,100 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 28 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued Our purpose drives the way we work Plasdr is a once in a generation LAND, PLANNING & DESIGN opportunity, both for Redrow and A Unique Opportunity in Cardiff for my career.
Dafydd Andrews A trusted team Redrow Land and Planning Plasdr is one of Redrows most ambitious While Grant and Dafydd have felt fully projects to date.
A brand new, 2bn Garden supported by their Redrow colleagues, they Theres a City in north west Cardiff, South Wales that still enjoy the freedom and rewards of making massive sense will deliver 7,000 high quality homes on 350 their own decisions.
hectares of land over the next 15 to 20 years.
of achievement At Redrow, you can knock on any door for to see homes Based on Garden City principles the planning help and advice and not lose ownership of application which was consented in outline your project, says Dafydd.
Without that, finally coming out form earlier this year is one of the largest ever wed just be pen-pushing!
considered by the planners at Cardiff and Everyone is happy to help, without feeling ranks amongst the largest single applications Grant Strong the need to take over, agrees Grant.
Which ever to be granted consent in the UK.
It is Redrow Technical Team gives you the confidence to proceed with the also the biggest challenge the Redrow Land project in your own way.
and Planning team, which includes Grant Strong and Dafydd Andrews, have ever faced.
Their own way has been highly successful, as they proved when they encountered an issue Plasdr is a once in a generation with a topographically challenging parcel near opportunity for us, explained Dafydd.
Its the entrance to the site, which prevented like managing twenty unique developments conventional attenuation and residential rolled into one.
Its amazing to have this development.
Thinking outside the box, they opportunity so early in our careers.
created a series of cascading ponds in the The pair came to Plasdr via Redrows location, getting around the planning Graduate Training Scheme: an experience constraint in an attractive and creative way they found invaluable as they took on the that was perfect for the Plasdr site, since sheer size and scale of this landmark project.
the name translates as Water Hall.
While it may come under the remit of Land After working with the plans for so long, the and Planning, this massive project uses skills team are thrilled to finally see the fruits of from all areas of the company.
Theres a massive sense of Plasdr is like a business in its own right, achievement to see homes finally coming says Grant.
One day were working on out of the ground, says Grant.
marketing, the next were dealing with Although the project is expected to run for drainage, then the next its land purchases.
between 15 and 20 years, both Dafydd and The team have been involved in everything Grant hope to stay involved until the end, if from two years of planning applications, to Redrow will have them.
After working on such six months negotiating Redrows section 106 a massive and challenging project for so long, commitments.
They are currently managing its easy to see why.
Wed love to see the the process of both buying parcels of land for project through to completion, says Dafydd.
Redrow and packaging other parcels for sale It will be incredible to have that legacy.
