STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 38 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 39 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued SALES & MARKETING At Redrow we have a reputation for building award winning homes.
Our sales and marketing activities promote the This shared vision is particularly important as the quality of our homes and developments and have business grows and new colleagues join the team.
established the Redrow brand as one of the UKs Redrow strives for continuous improvement regardless leading homebuilders.
of how good the previous performance level has been.
This is achieved through Group-wide values of BRAND PURPOSE hard work, attention to detail, innovation, passion and Our brand purpose is central to everything we do: the pursuit of excellence.
Communication is an everyone in the business, across all levels, locations essential ingredient and senior management across and functions has a clear sense of purpose and how the Group endeavour to ensure that everyone in the they contribute to the team effort which underpins business understands the brand purpose and why our continued success.
Redrow operates in a certain way: The Redrow Way.
AMINGTON GARDEN VILLAGE, TAMWORTH STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 40 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued SALES & MARKETING Employing Technology to Enhance our Customer Journey Customers increasingly expect a digital This technology is linked directly to experience when making major Redrows sales and build management purchases.
Redrow has always been system in real time so that sales at the forefront of adopting new consultants are always showing the very technologies to help our prospective latest sales position to purchasers and are customers visualise their lifestyle in a able to give the best possible advice.
One example is the 3D kitchen configurators also help people introduction of 3D immersive and to make more informed decisions on the interactive site plans in place of models.
various combinations that appeal most to These allow users to accurately see in them and how they might choose to virtual reality where their home is situated, upgrade some items.
even being able to walk to or out of their front door.
It is therefore possible to User feedback from sales staff and experience, in virtual reality, the customers has been extremely positive development long before it is built.
with many sales consultants reporting that the technology has helped them to They can also remove the roof from any increase sales.
house type and see the layout in 3D, walk through the house and benefit from a much clearer understanding of the living space and flow.
The Futurium system Having recently is a fantastic tool that completed and moved enables us to show the into our new Redrow customer what their home, it was amazing to home will look like and view the plot we bought remove the need to and how it would look try and imagine how from the very beginning it might appear, it really of the project when takes the site plan in there wasn't even a brick to the 21st century.
laid, and how true to life it was when compared Rob McCann Sales Consultant, Woodford to the final outcome.
Garden Village, Cheshire Mr John Wildman Customer, Woodford Garden Village, Cheshire STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 42 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 43 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T O Op per era at tin ing g R Re ev viie ew w c con ont tiin nued ued features are most important to a new community, role planning and the development process has in MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS MARKET RESEARCH the 2,000 respondents ranked access to a doctors improving the health and wellbeing of communities.
At Redrow, our attention to detail and focus on how To ensure we keep in the forefront of product design surgery highest closely followed by high speed In addition, as a major developer working in urban we can improve our customers lifestyles ensures we regularly commission market research.
To better broadband and green open spaces.
environments, we are assisting the research team to our homes remain sought-after and award winning.
understand what creates great places to live we have identify the barriers and opportunities for making This is reflected in the high level of interest recently undertaken research into sustainable We are also actively involved in two research urban environments healthier and more sustainable.
generated through all our marketing platforms communities.
The findings of the research are set out projects looking at the role new homebuilding has particularly our website, redrow.
co. uk, and major in a report Creating Britains New Communities.
In the Town and Country Planning social media channels.
We work hard to understand The report outlines a framework to help ensure Associations Developers and Wellbeing project our customers needs and preferences and in developments foster a sense of community.
One of we have participated in national and local events, particular how they want us to communicate with the key findings from the report is that 81% of people workshops, interviews and case studies.
Buyer profiles have been created for all of our dont think the Government is doing enough to objective of the project is to better understand the house types and a detailed understanding of the prioritise creating communities.
When asked what media each segment prefers to use to inform their buying decision, enables us to maximise our return on marketing investment.
The presentation of our show homes is also essential to showing our customers how our homes can meet and be furnished to suit their lifestyles.
Our Interior design team keep abreast of the latest fashion trends to ensure our show homes are contemporary and empathetic to a wide range of lifestyles.
SALES EXCELLENCE Our sales consultants pride themselves on their product knowledge and customer communication and engagement.
They receive regular training and each year the entire team come together at the Annual Sales Conference to discuss market conditions, sales strategies and product innovation.
Over 400 people attended the event in January 2017 which culminated in an award ceremony to recognise exceptional performance throughout the previous year.
To best share and implement the ideas that come forward from events such as the Annual Sales Conference, a Sales Excellence Champions Group has been created.
They meet regularly to discuss new ideas and to agree programmes to implement new initiatives to improve sales performance.
THE VILLAS, LYMINGTON SHORES, LYMINGTON
