Governance Directors report The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group Cautionary statement and the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group The review of the business and its strategic priorities in this Report for the year ended 30 June 2017.
Accompanying this Directors and Financial Statements has been prepared solely to provide Report are the strategic report, corporate governance report, additional information to shareholders to assess the Groups Audit Committee report and Directors remuneration report.
strategies and the potential for these strategies to succeed.
It These reports form part of the Report and Financial Statements.
should not be relied on by any other party for any other purpose.
A review of the business and its future development is set out in thestrategic The review contains forward-looking statements which are made by Report.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties is given on page 24 of the strategic report the Directors in good faith based on information available to them up to the time of the approval of these reports and should be treated with caution due to inherent uncertainties including botheconomic and business risk factors associated with suchstatements.
Results and dividends The results of the Group are set out in detail on page 98.
The Company paid an interim dividend during the period, as detailed in note 3.2 to the financial statements.
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 20.4 pence per share, to be paid in respect of the year ended 30 June 2017, subject to approval at the AGM.
The proposal would see this dividend paid on 20 October 2017 to all shareholders on the register at 29 September 2017.
Details of dividend waivers are also detailed in note 3.2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Events after balance sheet date Details of those important events affecting the Group which have occurred since the end of the financial year are set out in note 5.5 to the consolidated financial statements.
Employee disclosures Our disclosures relating to the employment of disabled persons, thenumber of women in senior management roles, employee engagement and policies are included in Our People on pages 30to 31.
Corporate social responsibility Information about the Groups approach to the environment and sustainability, including details of our greenhouse gas emissions, are set out on pages 27 to 29.
Risk management Details of the Groups policy on risk management has been made in note 5.7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements related to various financial instruments and exposure of the Group to financial, market, liquidity and credit risk.
82 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Directors indemnities The corporate governance report found on pages 38 to 43 and, As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors together with this report of which it forms part, fulfils the have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third-party requirements of the corporate governance statement for the indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies purpose of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Act 2006.
The indemnity was introduced in August 2014 and is Transparency Rules DTR.
The Company also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year directors and officers liability insurance cover for up to 40 million in respect of itself and its Share capital Directors to guard against liability which may be incurred acting The Companys shares are listed on the Main Market of the London asDirectors and officers.
This cover remains in force at the date of Stock Exchange.
The Companys authorised and issued share this report.
capital during the year and as at 30 June 2017 is shown in note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements.
The ordinary shares rank Substantial shareholdings pari passu in all respects.
Save as agreed at the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders, the ordinary shares have pre-emption As at 30 June 2017 and 14 August 2017 the Company had been rights in respect of any future issues of ordinary shares to the extent advised in accordance with the DTR of the following shareholdings conferred by Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006. amounting to more than 3% of the issued share capital of theCompany: Beneficial owners of shares with Number and % of Interested party ordinaryshares information rights Peter Hargreaves 152,639,678 32.18% Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the Stephen Lansdown 71,240,000 15.02% registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct Baillie Gifford & Co 30,682,711 6.47% all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather Lindsell Train Limited 30,461,311 6.42% than to the Companys registrar, Equiniti Registrars, or to the BlackRock, inc 21,747,181 4.58% Groupdirectly.
Directors interests There is a relationship agreement in place between Peter Hargreaves and the Company to ensure that the independence Information about the interests, in the shares of the Company, of provisions as set out in the Listing Rules are complied with.
The those who held the office of Director in the year to 30 June 2017 is Board confirms that for the year ended 30 June 2017, and in included in the Directors remuneration report on page 72. accordance with the Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14 : During the year, Ian Gorham resigned as Chief Executive Officer, i The Company has complied with the independence provisions on9 February 2017 with Chris Hill taking his place.
Chris Hill was included in the relationship agreement: and appointed deputy CEO on 7 September 2016 and then received regulatory approval on 13 April 2017.
On 7 April 2017, Philip Johnson ii So far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions was appointed to the Board in the position of Chief Financial Officer.
included in the relationship agreement have been complied withby the other parties to the relationship agreement and Further details regarding those persons who have been Directors in the year can be found in the governance section of this report on page 40 theirassociates.
During the period covered by this report, no Director had any material interest in a contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party other than their own service contract, requiring disclosure under the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
83 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors report continued Allotment of shares This resolution renews the Directors Table of cross references required for the authority to allot shares.
The maximum nominal value of relevant Listing Rule 9.8.
4 of the UK Listing Rules securities that may be allotted pursuant to the authority is 632,424.80, representing 158,106,200 ordinary shares.
4 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules amount represents approximately 33.3% of the Companys total require us to make certain disclosures.
The table below highlights share capital in issue as at 14 August 2017. each disclosure and where each can be found within the Report and Financial Statements: Waiver of pre-emption rights This resolution renews the Directors authority to issue new shares for cash, without following Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Location in the Report and Financial the statutory pre-emption procedures, so long as: i the issue is a RequiredDisclosure Statements rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer, or pursuant to a 12 Current Year Dividend Note 3.2 to the consolidated scrip dividend alternative: or ii the aggregate nominal amount of Waiver Agreements financial statements provides such issue does not exceed 94,863.72 which represents 5% of the information on employee issued share capital as at 14 August 2017. benefittrusts that have waived dividends The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising either of the authorities and the authorities will expire at the conclusion of 13 Future Dividend Waiver Note 3.2 to the consolidated the next AGM.
Agreements financial statements provides information on employee These resolutions seek authorities which are in accordance with the benefittrusts that have waived current guidelines issued by the Investment Committees of the dividends Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
14 Information Regarding A statement regarding the Controlling Shareholder controlling shareholder is on 4.
Approval of short notice for general meetings.
The Company was page 83 of the Directors report granted authority at the AGM in 2017 to call a general meeting on no less than 14 clear days notice.
This authority expires at this years AGM and a special resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
Adoption of a new executive share option scheme: A resolution is The Company has its own internal dealing rules which apply being proposed as special business at the AGM to enable the toallstaff and which encompass the requirements of the Directors to adopt a new executive share option scheme.
Further details of the proposals are included within the Directors remuneration report, and full details will be provided in the Annual General Meeting shareholders Notice of AGM.
At the AGM on 11 October 2017, the following five items of special PwC have expressed their willingness to accept appointment as business will be tabled: auditor and a resolution to appoint them will be proposed at the 1.
Authority to purchase own shares: The Company was granted forthcoming AGM.
authority at the AGM in 2016 to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
This authority Viability statement expires at this years AGM and a special resolution will be proposed In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance for its renewal.
Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a This resolution gives the Directors authority to make market longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern purchases of up to 47,431,862 ordinary shares, representing provision.
Details of the assessment can be found in the operating approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share and financial review section of the strategic report.
The Directors do not have any present intention to exercise such authority and the authority will expire Going concern atthe conclusion of the next AGM after the passing of the proposedresolution.
In conjunction with its assessment of longer-term viability above, the Board concluded that it remained appropriate to adopt the 2. and 3.
Directors authority to allot shares and waiver of pregoing concern basis of accounting in preparing the consolidated emption rights: Resolutions are to be proposed as special business financial statements as it believes the Group will continue to be in at the AGM on 11 October 2017 to enable the Directors to allot business, with neither the intention nor the necessity of liquidation, unissued shares and, subject to the limits therein contained, to allot ceasing trading or seeking protection from creditors pursuant to shares for cash other than to existing shareholders in proportion to laws or regulations for a period of at least 12 months from the date their shareholdings.
of approval of the Group financial statements.
84 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Disclosure of information to auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Report and Financial Statements confirms that: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and The Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director, in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Approved by and signed by order of the Board Judith Matthews Company Secretary 14 August 2017 85 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
