Governance Responsibilities The Committee has its own terms of reference, which are approved by the Board.
These are reviewed on an annual basis to ensure that they continue to adhere to best practice.
During the 2017 financial year this review took place at the July 2017 meeting.
Copies can be obtained via the Company website at www.
The Committee Chairman and the Company Secretary are available to shareholders to discuss the Remuneration Policy.
An overview of the Committees terms of reference is provided on page 69.
Service Contracts and Letters of Appointment Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are set out below.
Notice Period Name Commencement date Director Company Tony Rice 5 May 2016 3 months 3 months Ian Page 1 September 2008 6 months 12 months Richard Cotton 3 January 2017 6 months 12 months Tony Griffin 1 November 2012 6 months 12 months Julian Heslop 1 January 2013 3 months 3 months Lawson Macartney 1 December 2016 3 months 3 months Ishbel Macpherson 1 February 2013 3 months 3 months There are no expiry dates applicable to either Executive or Non-Executive Directors service contracts.
The Non-Executive Directors are entitled to compensation on termination of their appointment confined to three months remuneration.
While the Committees policy is for the service contract of any newly appointed Executive Director to have a notice period of not more than 12 months, the Committee retains discretion to set an initial notice period of up to 24 months, reducing to 12 months over the initial 12 months of employment.
Policy on External Appointments The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that this can help broaden the skills and experience of a Director.
Executive Directors are only permitted to accept external appointments with the approval of the Board.
The only Executive Director to hold an external appointment is Ian Page.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Sanford DeLand Asset Management Limited, a position which he has held since 7 October 2010.
During the year, Ian Page received no remuneration for this appointment.
Advisers The following have provided advice to the Committee during the year in relation to its consideration of matters relating to Directors remuneration: Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group HR Director and Company Secretary: and Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
Deloitte is retained to provide independent advice to the Committee as required.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloittes fees for providing remuneration advice to the Committee were 19,000 for the year ended 30 June 2017.
The Committee assesses from time to time whether this appointment remains appropriate or should be put out to tender and takes into account the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct when considering this.
Deloitte was appointed by the Committee and has provided share scheme advice and general remuneration advice to the Company.
Details of additional services which Deloitte provided to Dechra are detailed on page 78.
Statement of Voting at Previous Annual General Meeting The Company remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of the advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration Report and the binding vote on the Remuneration Policy at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 21 October 2016 and 24 October 2014 respectively: Votes Votes Votes Resolution for % of vote against % of vote withheld To approve Remuneration Report 66,616,092 98.76 834,805 1.24 1,734,331 To approve Remuneration Policy 66,935,753 98.32 1,140,380 1.68 302,814 Ishbel Macpherson Remuneration Committee Chairman 4 September 2017 Stock Code: DPH 101 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 101 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Directors Report Other Disclosures The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, Statement of Directors Responsibilities: together with the audited Group financial statements for the year ended Review of the Groups business during the year and any likely future 30 June 2017.
Certain disclosure requirements which form part of developments: the Directors Report are included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Therefore, this report should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Going concern and viability statements: Report which includes the Corporate Social Responsibility Report Employees with disabilities and employee involvement: and on pages 8 to 61 along with the Corporate Governance Report and Board Committee Reports.
They are incorporated by reference into this Details in respect of Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
Directors Report and include: Information in relation to post-balance sheet events and financial risk Details in respect of the Board of Directors: management including the exposure to price, credit and liquidity risk can be found in notes 24 and 35 to the Financial Statements.
Details in respect of Directors Indemnities: Acquisitions and Disposals The acquisitions during the year under review are as follows: Date of acquisition Detail Consideration October 2016 Business and A business that manufactures, markets Consideration of AUD$55.0 million 34.2 million, funded from assets of Apex and sells branded non-proprietary the Groups own cash and debt resources.
Laboratories Pty prescription and other related Limited.
companion animal products in Australia and New Zealand.
March 2017 33.0% of the Parent company of Animal Ethics Consideration of AUD$18.0 million 11.0 million.
The issued share Pty Ltd Animal Ethics, an Australian AUD$18.0 million will be split as to AUD$9.0 million of new capital in Medical based company focused on developing equity to provide funding to Animal Ethics and the balance to Ethics Pty Ltd ethical pain relief products in animal acquire existing shares from the current shareholders.
The Directors consider that there are no contracted or other single Amendment of the Articles of Association arrangements, such as those with major suppliers, which are likely The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special to influence, directly or indirectly, the performance of the business resolution of its shareholders.
Furthermore, there are no contracts of significance Significant Agreements Change of Control subsisting during the financial year between any Group undertaking As detailed in the Going Concern Statement on page 72, the Group and a controlling shareholder or in which a Director is or was materially has bank facilities with a group of banks comprising Bank of Ireland interested.
UK plc, BNP Paribas, Fifth Third Bank, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds Directors Bank plc, Raiffeisen Bank International AG and Santander UK plc the The Articles of Association state that a Director may be appointed by Banks : these facilities include a change of control provision.
Under an ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the Directors, either this provision, a change of control of the Company could result in to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board but so that the withdrawal of facilities.
No other agreements that take effect, alter total number of Directors does not exceed the maximum number of or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a Directors allowed pursuant to the Articles of Association.
The maximum takeover bid are considered to be significant in terms of their potential number of Directors currently allowed pursuant to the Articles of impact on the business as a whole.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or The Articles of Association also state that the Board of Directors is employee that provide compensation for loss of office or employment responsible for the management of the business of the Company resulting from a takeover, other than the Company share schemes.
and in doing so may exercise all the powers of the Company subject Under such schemes outstanding options and awards normally to the provision of relevant legislation and the Companys Articles vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the of Association.
The powers of the Directors set out in the Articles of satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
In the event of Association include those in relation to the issue and buy-back of a change of control, unvested awards under the Long Term Incentive shares.
Plan will vest to the extent determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the relevant performance conditions and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, the extent of vesting so determined shall be reduced to reflect the proportion of the relevant performance period that has elapsed.
102 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 102 04 09 2017 14:00:29 Governance Overseas Branches Share Capital The Company, through its subsidiary Genera d. d. has established The issued share capital of the Company for the year is set out in branches in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia.
note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
As at the end of the financial year 93,178,756 fully paid ordinary shares were in issue, Political Donations and Expenditure which included 431,758 ordinary shares issued during the year in No political donations were made during the year ended 30 June 2017 connection with the exercise of options under the Companys share 2016: nil.
The Group has a policy of not making any donations to option schemes.
political organisations or independent election candidates or incurring The holders of shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, political expenditure anywhere in the world as defined in the Political to receive the Companys Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise Research and Development voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the The Group has a structured development programme with the aim holding of shares in the Company, nor are there any requirements to of identifying and bringing to market new pharmaceutical products.
obtain prior approval in respect of any transfer of shares.
The Directors Investment in development is seen as key to strengthen further the are not aware of any agreements which limit the transfer of shares or Groups competitive position.
Further information in relation to product curtail voting rights attached to those shares.
The only exception to this development can be found on pages 44 and 45.
The expense on is the Trustees of the Dechra Employee Benefit Trust, who hold 42,066 this activity for the year ended 30 June 2017 was 14,978,000 shares and have waived their rights to dividends and in accordance 2016: 10,355,000 and a further 1,258,000 2016: 570,000 was with the Investment Association guidance they abstain from voting at capitalised as development costs.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 21 October Results and Dividends 2016, the Company was authorised to purchase up to 9,275,208 of The results for the year and financial position at 30 June 2017 are its ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital of shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 115 and the Company as at 9 September 2016.
No shares were purchased Consolidated Statement of Financial Position on page 117.
The under this authority during the financial year.
A resolution will be put to Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew this 15.33 pence per share which, if approved by shareholders, will be authority for a further period of one year.
Under the proposed authority paid on 17 November 2017 to shareholders registered at 27 October shares purchased may be either cancelled or held in treasury.
The shares will become ex-dividend on 26 October 2017.
An interim dividend of 6.11 pence per share was paid on 7 April 2017, The Directors require authority from shareholders to allot unissued making a total dividend for the year of 21.44 pence per share share capital to the Company and to disapply shareholders statutory 2016: 18.46 pence per share.
The total dividend payment is pre-emption rights.
General Meeting and resolutions to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Stock Code: DPH 103 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
