Strategic report Strategy in action We use key performance indicators KPIs to measure the progress and the success of our strategy implementation.
Strategy KPI Why Progress in the year Result Principal risks A high client retention rate is a sign that clients are happy with Negotiated further discounts with fund management groups.
Strategic change, conduct, Client retention rate Client theservice we provide and that it fulfils their investment needs.
Discounts on the Wealth 150 are on average 14bps.
94.7% regulatory, disruption to Based on the monthly lost Vantage experience The longer a client is with Hargreaves Lansdown, the more assets 2016: 94.3% business, client security clients as a percentage of the opening New mobile phone app launched in February 2017. they are likely to accumulate.
High retention provides more months Vantage clients and averaging Lifetime ISA launched on 6 April 2017. certainty of future earnings.
Launched two of our own HL Select Funds.
SM Net Promoter Score This measures the willingness of existing clients to recommend Our website continues to be a service element that our clients like Strategic change, conduct, Based on May 2017 and May 2016 the services of Hargreaves Lansdown to others.
The launch of our new app has been positively received and 60.5% regulatory, disruption to client surveys of 14,674 and 11,537 measure of our clients overall satisfaction and loyalty to the brand.
Our helpdesk and reputation are other areas that 2016: 54.7% business, client security respondents respectively, using the A high score will have a positive effect on gathering more clients, are highly rated.
The Net Promoter Score has increased during the Net Promoter Score methodology.
The particularly friends and family and hence AUA.
survey covered Hargreaves Lansdown clients only.
Average accounts per client Provides an indicator of how widely our clients are using We launched the Lifetime ISA on 6 April 2017.
Strategic change, regulatory Average numbers of active accounts Hargreaves Lansdown throughout their financial life.
1.3 Increased numbers of clients opening Income Drawdown held per client and averaging for 2016: 1.3 accounts.
We continue to win Corporate Vantage schemes and hence new individual clients which we can actively market other accounts to.
We delivered a proof of concept in January 2017 for Active Savings and continue to prepare for a phased launch in late 2017.
Website visits Provides a view of the engagement and reach that Hargreaves Launch of our new mobile phone app which has had over 486,000 Strategic change, regulatory Lansdown has with its digital footprint.
Visits to our website from mobiles and tablets have 138m now overtaken those via personal computers.
2016: 106m Net new business Net new business is an indicator of the trust and security clients A record net new business of 6.9 billion, increased market share Strategic change, economic Growth in Represents subscriptions, cash place in Hargreaves Lansdown along with the perceived value of and AUA grew 28% to 79.2 billion.
6.9bn uncertainty, conduct, assets receipts, cash and stock transfers in the client offering.
The greater the assets gathered the greater the 2016: 6.0bn regulatory, disruption to less withdrawals and assets revenue.
business, client security and clients transferred out.
Net new clients The greater the number of new clients, the better the potential Launch of the Lifetime ISA.
Strategic change, conduct, Represents the change in number of for growing AUA.
118,000 regulatory, disruption to New expertise added in digital marketing to understand and serve active clients between the opening and 2016: 100,000 business, client security our clients better.
closing position for the year unique New Corporate Vantage schemes and members added.
number of clients holding at least one PMS or Vantage account with a value over 100 at the year end.
Profit before tax PBT Gathering and retaining assets and clients drives revenue.
This is PBT grew 21% on the back of a strong operating performance and Strategic change, conduct, Financial managed on a scalable platform to deliver improved operating a 3.7 million gain on our legacy investment in Euroclear plc.
265.8m regulatory, prudential, market, growth profits.
2016: 218.9m interest rates Diluted earnings per share This is a measure of profit per share and is a metric used The growth in diluted EPS was driven by the scalability of the Strategic change, conduct, to determine value delivered to shareholders.
business model and continued strategic execution.
44.6p regulatory, prudential, market, 2016: 37.3p interest rates Net Promoter, NPS, and the NPS-related emoticons are registered service marks, and Net Promoter Score and Net Promoter System are service marks, of Bain & Company, Inc. Satmetrix Systems, Inc. and Fred Reich.
14 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Strategy KPI Why Progress in the year Result Principal risks A high client retention rate is a sign that clients are happy with Negotiated further discounts with fund management groups.
44.6p regulatory, prudential, market, 2016: 37.3p interest rates 15 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
