STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 30 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 31 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued COMMERCIAL & SYSTEMS We continue to grow our business both organically and from acquisitions such as Radleigh Homes.
In order to meet this growth, it is essential we work closely with our suppliers and subcontractors and continue to develop our supply chain and REVENUE M our systems.
We have the divisional 1,150 capacity to deliver 2.2bn of revenue per annum in 2020.
864 The sale of homes accounted for 1.65bn of revenue 605 with the balance of 12m attributable to land sales 50% of revenue in the year came from the South of England, including London.
13 14 15 16 17 COMPLETIONS We delivered a record 5,416 legal completions including JV in 2017, a 15% increase on 2016 2016: 4,716.
Social housing accounted for 19% of legal LEGAL COMPLETIONS NO.
completions volumes compared to 17.7% last year.
inc. JV Apartments represented 16% of private legal 5,416 completions and 19% of private sales revenue 4,716 compared to 12% and 15% respectively last year.
4,022 This reflected the increased contribution from 3,597 Greater London and the South East where apartments are more prevalent.
2,827 OUTLETS Active outlets increased by four in the year to 132 outlets 2016: 128 : the Group opened 56 new outlets in the year and closed 52.
The closures were slightly higher than forecast due to a stronger than 13 14 15 16 17 expected sales performance.
Bringing new outlets on-stream remains a challenge for the industry.
Planning remains tortuous and many planning departments lack the resources to process applications and deal with the plethora of pre-start conditions they continue to attach to planning consents.
BLAKE TOWER, BARBICAN, LONDON STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 32 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 33 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued We sit on the Homes Leadership and Wales GROWING OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY Leadership groups supporting the development of It is important that as we grow, the Group maintains the School.
Moving forward our intention is to its high environmental and placemaking standards strengthen our commercial and procurement teams and delivers on its commitment to create socially direct links with the School and encourage more of and economically sustainable communities.
our supply chain partners to improve their knowledge and understanding to make them more sustainable.
During the year we were pleased to achieve the British Standards Institute ISO14001 environmental IMPROVING OUR SYSTEMS standards accreditation.
This ensures we apply a systematic approach to environmental We are continually looking to improve our systems management right across the business, helping us and processes to better support our business to identify and manage our key risks and as it grows, evolves and responds to changes opportunities.
We have a dedicated team of IT specialists including In addition, we have developed and deployed a systems analysts, software developers, a digital sustainability reporting platform throughout the team and help desk experts at our Head Office, led company which is helping us to better collect and by our Group IT Director.
During the year we evaluate data, both ensuring compliance and developed and introduced a new in-house manual driving performance improvements across all payments system and made improvements to our aspects of sustainability.
land appraisal system and management reports.
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN During the year we also implemented a new We work closely with key suppliers and application to manage all the meetings that form subcontractors in our supply chain to improve part of our Customer First 'Made for You' process.
quality and efficiency and to help develop the It uses handheld electronic tablets to display the homebuilders of the future.
specification the customer has chosen and to record photographically any issues that need We have secured the coveted Three Trees status COMMERCIAL & SYSTEMS attention.
These, together with any issues reported from the World Wildlife Fund WWF for the second by customers after they have moved in, are tracked assessment period in a row.
We were the first UK by the application to help our customer service homebuilder to achieve the status in 2015, which Redrows apprentice electricians are better connected teams deal with issues promptly and to the was awarded for our ongoing work to promote customers satisfaction.
It includes full email and responsible forest management and the telephone integration for both our customers and eradication of illegal wood products from our As a Top 100 Apprentice Employer for the Their new in-house training programme subcontractors, for example by recognising supply chain.
At present our responsibly sourced Were very last four years, Redrow leads the industry gives our apprentices a unique insight into incoming calls and popping-up appropriate and credibly certified timber stands at 99.94%.
proud of our in developing the next generation of the day to day workings of a busy electrical prompts on screen to improve our service to our The accolade places Redrow among the builders and skilled tradespeople, with contracting company, including stores, apprenticeship customers.
We are now working on a portal for use top 40 companies in the country using Forest trainees making up no less than 15% of warehouse and technical departments.
by our subcontractors to further improve how they Stewardship Council FSC certified and other programme and our workforce.
It covers aspects of the industry that our manage the calls and appointments involved in responsibly sourced timber and paper products.
are constantly site-based programme simply cannot resolving issues.
Not only do our apprentices get first class During the year we became partners in the Supply provide, as Redrow apprentice, Shane looking for ways training, both on site and at local colleges, We will be introducing an online version of our 2017 Chain Sustainability School SCSS, which is an Bagby, explained: to improve and Redrow also partners with key suppliers Annual Report.
This aims to make it easier for award-winning initiative providing free learning to ensure they get a comprehensive The MA Broughton electricians have been develop the Shareholders and other stakeholders to access and development support to help our supply chain understanding of the wider aspects teaching me how to wire a house at the key information and information on areas of their partners to address sustainability issues.
"We have training we offer. """
Pennine Grange development in Tamworth.
particular interest and will be available on our evaluated the sustainability risks of our different Spending time at their business helped me website by early October.
suppliers and are collaborating with the SCSS to Clare Horton For example, MA Broughton Electrical understand some of the other skills and prioritise a learning and development programme.
New Entrant Contractors worked with Redrow to devise We have also introduced a new third party work involved in being an electrician.
We have also encouraged our suppliers to attend Programmes Manager a week-long training programme at their integrated HR and Payroll system with self-service a number of events organised by the School Nottingham premises.
The company has As part of the partnership, MA Broughton features to replace out-dated paper systems, across the UK.
trained electrical apprentices for over are given access to Redrows training streamline processes and support future growth.
30 years, and currently mentors Redrow facilities to teach their own apprentices, apprentices on site.
raising standards across the industry.
