Strategic Report Supply Chain Our Customers Sales and Marketing Turn the page to read about Our Products Our products are distributed through two All our products and sales and marketing Dechra operates its own sales force and major logistics sites.
The principal objective is activities are targeted at veterinary provides in-house marketing and technical to deliver a customers order on time and in professionals.
The majority of veterinarians support in 24 countries, predominantly in full every time.
Our European and International prescribe and dispense the drugs, although Europe and North America.
In almost all these markets are serviced from our own logistics there are a few territories in the world where territories we have highly skilled field based facility based in Uldum, Denmark and North the veterinarian writes a prescription and the representatives who make regular calls with America is supplied out of a third party drugs are purchased by the animal owner all major veterinary practices in their territory.
logistics supplier in Kansas City.
The majority of our sales are The representatives brief is to sell the product of veterinary practices are supplied through made into veterinary practices that tend to on a technical basis, outlining the beneficial specialised veterinary distribution companies specialise in either companion animal or food aspects of our products and to provide that operate as one-stop shops.
They stock producing animal treatment: however, there educational support on how best to treat the majority of items veterinary practices need are numerous practices that are classified as animals in our key therapeutic sectors.
and offer high levels of service, often with a mixed and who service all species.
There is We also provide high levels of technical next day delivery.
These distributors, on the also an increasing number of equine practices support and pharmacovigilance through whole, are not proactive in selling product: and referral hospitals that provide high levels helplines in every country in which we operate.
they predominantly supply to demand where of specialisation.
The veterinary profession is These helplines provide veterinarians with the demand is driven by Dechras own sales going through huge change as incorporated support on how best to use our products and activities within veterinary practices.
There are practice groups are consolidating practices with free advice on any difficult or complex a few markets where we offer direct supply, at an increasing rate.
In many countries, cases that may be encountered.
such as Germany, that are not fully supported our relationship with these groups is very by veterinary distributors or where legislation important: we are increasingly focused on The relationship with veterinarians is key enforces all pharmaceuticals to be sold key account management.
With the ongoing and, to this end, we provide added value through pharmacies, such as Denmark, Italy, integration of professional farming units, services.
We offer high level educational Norway and Sweden.
our Food producing Animal Product sales programmes focused on the treatment of efforts are now often focused on these conditions in our key therapeutic sectors.
major integrators: however, the integrators We deliver this education through many themselves employ veterinarians who channels, including major conferences, remain responsible for the prescribing and regional groups, to individual practices and administration of our products.
These programmes are certified to offer veterinarians and veterinary nurses the continuing professional education points they require to maintain their professional qualification.
Our Dechra Veterinary Products International sales, into over 50 additional countries, are through marketing and distribution partners who mainly promote our product range under the Dechra brand names in their own livery, often alongside their own or other in-licensed products.
slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
