Strategic Report KPI and Definition Performance Commentary Relevance to Strategy The Group enjoyed strong Underlying Cash a b c underlying cash conversion Conversion 910bps during the year.
With the EBITDA Cash generated from margin strengthening from 23.4% underlying operations before 2017 115.9% to 24.5%, and working capital tax and interest payments as shrinking by 6.9 million.
a percentage of underlying 2016 106.8% operating profit.
Our stated aim is to be a cash generative business.
2015 105.9% The decline arose from the New Product Revenue a b c increase in new product revenue Revenue from new products 620bps from acquisitions.
We continue to as a percentage of total Group invest in our pipeline to develop revenue.
A new product is 8.2% 2017 new products and plan to defined as any molecule increase this investment.
launched in the last five financial 2016 14.4% years.
This measure shows the delivery of revenue in each year from new 2015 13.8% products launched in the prior five years, on a rolling basis.
It shows the performance of our R&D and sales and marketing organisations when launching newly developed or in-licensed products.
The LTAFR decreased from 0.35 Lost Time Accident to 0.26.
None of these incidents Frequency Rate LTAFR 25.7% related in a work-related fatality or All accidents resulting in disability.
the absence or inability of 2017 0.26 The safety of our employees is employees to conduct the full core to everything we do.
We are range of their normal working 2016 0.35 committed to a strong culture of activities for a period of more safety in all our workplaces.
2015 than three working days after 0.7 Read about Corporate the day when the incident Social Responsibility occurred, normalised per on pages 48 to 55 100,000 hours worked.
The figure for the 2017 financial Employee Turnover year includes the employees Number of leavers during the 260bps from Genera, Brovel and Putney, period as a percentage of whereas the previous year the average total number of Attracting and retaining the 15.7% 2017 excludes them.
The increase employees in the period.
best employees is critical to relates to streamlining of the successful execution of our 2016 13.1% operations within the acquired strategy.
businesses and the restructuring 2015 12.2% of our manufacturing team.
excludes Apex, Brovel, Genera and Putney Stock Code: DPH 31 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 31 05 09 2017 08:44:36 Strategy in Action: Pipeline Delivery Amoxi-Clav The development of a product from our pipeline slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 32 04 09 2017 13:59:05 Amoxicillin Clavulanate Potassium Dechra acquired Putney in order to add new products and critical mass to its US business and a highly performing product development management system and process.
One of the key projects in the Putney development process was a generic to an antibiotic consisting of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium, which is one of the most commonly used antibiotics in small animal medicine.
Clavamox tablets for dogs and cats were originally approved in the USA in 1984 and, despite patent protection and regulatory marketing exclusivity having lapsed several years previously, the high scientific and regulatory approval hurdles for a generic of this product in the USA had prevented any alternatives from being approved.
This meant that the original product continued to be sold at high prices, however, it still commanded a significant market due to its high efficacy.
Bringing a generic product to market requires formulation and manufacturing to the highest quality copy of the original product and demonstrating that the new product will work in the patient in exactly the same way as the original by showing bioequivalence.
The development of this particular generic product required the need to overcome several significant technical challenges.
Amoxicillin is a penicillin antibiotic which can only be manufactured in dedicated facilities to avoid cross-contamination with non-penicillin products due to widespread penicillin allergy in people.
In addition, clavulanate potassium is extremely sensitive to moisture so even the slightest exposure of the product to moisture will result in the loss of clavulanate potassium activity.
There are very few manufacturing facilities that can both handle penicillins and the low humidity manufacturing environment required for this product.
Once a suitable manufacturing partner was identified extreme care had to be taken with the supply of every component that went into the product to ensure that moisture was prevented from coming in contact with the individual ingredients or final product.
In addition, a novel manufacturing step was developed to keep the product stable throughout the shelf life.
Another hurdle that the team faced was achieving bioequivalence to the innovator drug.
The tight criteria set by FDA are hard to meet even with one molecule in one species but achieving bioequivalence for a combination product in two species was much more difficult and added a lot of complexity and risk to the development program.
To make things even harder, the absorption of clavulanate potassium turned out to be extremely variable making it very difficult to achieve bioequivalence.
Following collection of blood samples to measure the absorption of the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium in bioequivalence studies, the clavulanate potassium continued to be a problem as it was not stable in the samples.
Special sample handling and stabilisation methods had to be developed to reliably and consistently measure the amount of the clavulanate potassium in the samples and ensure that degradation did not compromise the study results.
Despite all of this complexity, the Product Development team was successful in overcoming these hurdles to manufacture a high quality product that was successful in bioequivalence studies in both dogs and cats and Dechra was the first company to achieve a generic amoxicillin clavulanate potassium product approval in the US.
In only nine months since launch, the product has become a phenomenal success capturing significantly more market share than expected.
This is a momentous achievement for Dechra.
slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 33 04 09 2017 13:59:05 Strategy in Action: a b c Portfolio Focus Our Key Therapeutic Areas slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 34 04 09 2017 13:59:06 Portfolio Focus One of Dechras four principal strategic objectives is Portfolio Focus, which is a major driver of our international growth.
Portfolio Focus can simply be defined as maximising market penetration and market share, and therefore sales of our existing product range.
With over 400 product lines and more than 4,000 Stock Keeping Units SKUs it is important that we focus our sales and marketing efforts on key strategic therapy areas.
This focus orientates around: Food Producing Companion Animals Animals Equine Endocrinology Water Soluble Powders Anaesthetics and Dermatology Poultry Vaccines Analgesia Anaesthetics and Locomotion Lameness Locomotion Analgesia Cardiology Ophthalmology Nutrition and Diets Dechras ambition is to maintain our technical leadership positioning for the individual diseases and conditions we treat within the therapy areas that we cover.
Although Dechras overall share of the animal health market is small, we have become market leaders in many of these therapeutic areas.
This is achieved through a number of routes: In-field representative focus and technical excellence: Educational programmes and seminars to practice groups: Highly skilled technical, telephone based support teams who provide advice on difficult cases: Online learning courses for both veterinarians and veterinary nurses: Providing a comprehensive product range in each sector: Networking and supporting the Key Opinion Leaders in these therapeutic areas: Focused marketing campaigns: and Strong advertising campaigns, examples of which can be seen on this page.
Approximately 90% of Dechras revenues are generated from these key strategic therapy areas.
It is important that we continue to maintain our market leading position and support the veterinary profession by continuing to deliver enhancements to our services and by continuing to invest and expand our product portfolio.
indd 35 04 09 2017 13:59:08 Strategy in Action: Geographical Expansion Dechra Veterinary Products International The establishment of Dechra Veterinary Products International slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 36 04 09 2017 13:59:08 Dechra Veterinary Products International During the current financial year we have reorganised our export business, appointing an experienced dedicated director, who has been tasked with creating critical mass in countries outside Europe and North America, with the long term aim to establish subsidiaries in these countries.
The business has been renamed from Rest of World to Dechra Veterinary Products International DVP International, and currently exports to over 50 countries worldwide accessed through a network of distribution partners.
In October 2016 Dechra acquired the trade and assets of Apex Laboratories Pty Ltd Apex, a privately owned veterinary pharmaceutical company which manufactures, markets and sells branded non-proprietary prescription and other related companion animal products in Australia and New Zealand.
This acquisition provides Dechra with direct access to the established and growing Australian companion animal product market which accounts for approximately 4.2 million dogs and approximately 3.3 million cats, a market in which Dechra operated through partners.
Apex offers a base from which to support and build Dechras expansion in the Australasian and Asian regions and provides a springboard for the expansion of DVP International.
To facilitate this growth: We strongly believe that by respecting the cultural and environmental differences in our international markets we are able to engage better and understand our customers needs.
Therefore our initial activities have been to work with local government funded bodies to support access to the right people and places in specific markets.
Once we have concluded our research, the execution of the findings will be critical with the appointment of key business development personnel, for example we have recruited an experienced animal health consultant in Latin America.
To support our international partners, the first and most important priority is to be able to supply them with high quality products when they are needed.
The whole experience of placing an order through to receipt of the delivery is an opportunity to engage with our partners to ensure that we meet expectations.
To get this right every time requires drive, energy and focus from our customer service team.
Our markets, wherever you are in the world, are dictated by a technical need for a medicinal product for which there could be several choices.
To assist our partners in maintaining up to date technical knowledge about specific product benefits which meet their customers needs best, we will provide technical personnel to support our commercial team.
We will also work closely with our global marketing team to enable our customers have access to the latest product information and communication tools.
This includes giving our partners access to our training modules and their customers access to our valued online Academy modules.
One measure of success is that Dechra is recognised as an integral partner within our customers business.
Our economic engine, however, is to ensure we sell the right products to the right markets.
Several of our food producing animal products are in highly competitive environments and therefore price is a major factor when it comes to convincing a customer to sell your range.
To support this challenge, we are linking up our customer services and supply chain to achieve better forecasting and manufacturing efficiencies.
The life blood for our partners is to have new products and new stories to communicate and with our broad range of registered EU, US and Australian products it is imperative that we register more products to build a critical mass in a territory.
We are therefore setting up a dedicated team of regulatory people who can accelerate our international development programme.
Summary: We are working on developing our market knowledge and business partnerships: the service we provide will attract new and motivate existing partners to drive business resulting in growth across major global markets.
indd 37 04 09 2017 13:59:09 Strategy in Action: Acquisition Integration of Acquisitions Enhancing our product portfolio slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 38 04 09 2017 13:59:09 Integration of Putney On 22 April 2016, Dechra acquired the share capital of Putney Inc. a leading developer of FDA approved CAP in the US located in Portland, Maine.
The acquisition of Putney provided Dechra with a highly performing product development management system and processes, as well as an enhanced product portfolio and pipeline of high quality, bioequivalent, FDA approved, specialty drugs supporting the US veterinary community and strengthening our presence in the worlds largest companion animal market.
Integration Priorities The first year integration efforts focused on: retaining key Product Development and Regulatory expertise, to enable continued product pipeline progress: and the integration of Putneys Commercial and Inside Sales functions into a combined US Commercial Operations to leverage existing distribution relationships and strengthen the commercial presence with US veterinary clinics.
Delivering Value The Putney portfolio is exceeding expectations of value from the acquisition in the first year and delivering a year-on-year growth rate of 39% for the acquired Putney portfolio.
The combined product portfolio provided our commercial team with improved access to distribution and veterinary clinics in the US, helping to drive year-on-year growth at above our expectations across the full US Dechra portfolio.
In September of 2016, Putney Amoxicillin Trihydrate and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets, an antibiotic for dogs and cats, was approved by the FDA.
This first approval from the Putney pipeline was our most successful launch to date in the US with initial market penetration well above expectations see Strategy in Action: Pipeline Delivery.
Investments in Growth The Customer Relationship Management CRM system previously used by Putney has been redesigned and implemented across the US and Canada providing Dechra with an enhanced ability to penetrate the market.
The CRM system supports daily collaboration and performance tracking for partnered inside and outside sales representatives and provides real time data for commercial analysis and the development of targeted marketing promotions.
Improvements in supply chain and logistics processes are underway to support continued growth and reduced supply risks and reliance on third party manufacturing of the expanded Dechra portfolio in the US market for further information see Strategy in Action: Manufacturing and Supply Chain.
Key Putney Product Development and Regulatory expertise has been retained in Portland while the global Product Development team was reorganised this year to support our portfolio strategy and enable the robust pipeline developed at Putney to continue its successful history of gaining approval by the FDA.
Anthony Lucas, who joined Dechra as part of the Putney acquisition, has implemented Product Development best practices at Dechra and leads Global Product Development.
indd 39 04 09 2017 13:59:10 Strategy in Action: Strategic Enablers Manufacturing and Supply Chain Our Objective: To deliver consistently outstanding value, quality and service to every customer via a safe, efficient, integrated supply chain.
Key Facts: External Manufacturing Network: In excess of 36 million packs produced in the 2017 financial We also manage an external network of 42 contract year: manufacturing organisations CMOs.
Together, the internal and external network produce in excess of 36 million packs of 27,000 order lines delivered per month from our warehouse products per year.
The volume is currently split approximately hub in Denmark for the European and International Supply 50% from the internal network and 50% from the external Chains: network.
Our CMO footprint is predominately balanced across North America and Europe, where the majority of the Group Delivery to customers speaking 40 different languages: revenue is generated.
This is complemented with additional Over 4,157 Stock Keeping Units SKUs : CMOs in Australasia and Asia.
We spend more than 35.0 million on raw materials across Our Supply Chain: the Group.
Our internal and external manufacturing sites deliver a range of different finished product dose forms including solid doses, Dechras Internal Manufacturing Network: liquids and sterile injectables.
These finished goods are stored Dechra currently operates six manufacturing sites: and delivered to customers via modern warehouses located Sydney, Australia: 25 employees, produces tablets and liquids.
in Denmark for DVP EU and Dechra Veterinary Products International supply chains and Kansas City for the DVP NA Zagreb, Croatia: 152 employees, primary focus on vaccines supply chain.
There are multiple transport solutions available to development and produces oral liquids, solid forms, care move products around the globe efficiently.
products and nutrition supplements for long standing third party customer.
Following on from the successful implementation of a global Sales and Operations Planning process in DVP EU our priority now is to Bladel, Netherlands: 122 employees, centre for new product roll out the plan across the organisation to integrate fully with the introductions and aseptic filling.
Additionally capability for DVP NA business.
pre-mixed powder production and terminal sterilisation.
Our Strategy: Brovel, Mexico: 41 employees, produces tablets, liquids, Manufacturing and Supply Chain has created a new and detailed sterile products all for local markets.
Skipton, UK: 233 employees, centre of excellence in solid To implement the strategy we have accelerated growth in our forms for tablets and capsules, liquids, creams, ointment talent pipeline, utilising both internal and external people and products and terminal sterilisation.
have created a team able to challenge the status quo to support Florida, USA: 15 employees, centre of excellence in all the Dechra strategic aims.
This has included the following manufacturing chewable tablets.
key appointments: four Site Directors, a CMO Relationship Manager, a Global Procurement Manager, and a Head of HR for Manufacturing and Supply.
Our objectives include: Simplify the Dechra internal and external network by creating dose form centres of excellence in each manufacturing site and consolidate the CMO network.
Reduce risk and establish a robust security of supply by protecting our largest revenue streams via second sourcing and CMO strategic relationships to reduce complications in the supply chain.
Leverage procurement opportunities across the Group and focus on a culture of constant improvements to realise efficiencies and enhance ways of working.
Manufacturing facility at Zagreb, Croatia Make full use of our low cost geographical locations and maximise opportunities in all locations.
Our Group Manufacturing and Supply Chain strategy will simplify our network and by creating centres of excellence the sites will improve efficiency and technical expertise in their specific dose forms.
Additionally, by working with fewer CMOs, and creating true partnerships, we can strengthen the supply chain and deliver a sustainable service over the long term.
40 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 40 04 09 2017 13:59:10 Strategic Report Strategy in Action: Strategic Enablers People 20th Anniversary Dechras people are a core asset, and behind much of the Groups success in its 20 year history of growth and development.
Below a group of employees, whose service longevity matches that of the Group, share their experiences of working at Dechra.
What is your current role?
Why have you continued to work at Dechra for the length of time you have?
HR & Operations Manager, Dechra Veterinary Products UK & Ireland, UK.
Due to the fact that the work has not been the same for over 20 years, the Company is developing.
Its good to feel trusted and appreciated.
I like the flexibility Supply Chain Sales and Operations Planning EU & to balance work and home life, and its a pleasure to work International, UK.
for an organisation thats going in the right direction and Executive Assistant to Chief Executive Officer & takes care of employees.
I like what I do and enjoy my Chief Financial Officer, UK.
How has Dechra changed over the past PDRA Assistant, the Netherlands.
I think the first big acquisition had the biggest impact as Q.
Would you recommend working at Dechra this gave us such a great European footprint and allowed us to embrace new cultural experiences and this brought to other people?
Absolutely I would, the business is always offering new Dechra has changed tremendously over the past 20 years challenges and expanding: therefore, the opportunity from being quite UK centric in the early days to the truly to grow individually and learn new skills is extremely international business it is today.
is coming from the establishment of a global network of Dechra offices with the local knowledge and skills to Yes, it is an exciting working place.
You are allowed to work engage closely with our customers, supported by a robust in different areas and you are being listened to.
Manufacturing & Supply Chain delivering the goods.
Yes, I would certainly recommend working in Dechra Bit of a clich, but it really has been an incredible journey!
because all people with whom I am in contact are very From a UK veterinary wholesaler employing approximately collegiate, accessible, ready to help.
It is a very pleasant 50 people in 1989 to a successful and respected working atmosphere.
international veterinary pharmaceutical business employing approximately 1,300 today: a real testament to the hard Q.
What is the best thing about working work of the whole Dechra team.
When I first started at Dechra 20 years ago there were only 45 people on the site, in one building and it felt like a family Without doubt the culture, the team spirit and enjoyment.
Now there are over 200 people on the site The great colleagues and good relaxed atmosphere.
spread across three buildings and it has a more corporate business feeling about it.
We have also made several Being part of an ambitious company that is always business acquisitions over the years and become a global evolving, never resting on its laurels.
company, which feels great to be a part of.
The people and the culture are great.
Dechra is becoming more and more a professional player in the veterinary market of the bigger companies.
The For me, the people I work with every day make coming to biggest change in the past 20 years as far as I am work a pleasure.
The work I have done over the past 20 concerned was the takeover of Eurovet.
years has been so varied, there is never any time to get bored in the job.
My colleagues and the good atmosphere in the department I currently work for Product Development.
Stock Code: DPH 41 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 41 04 09 2017 13:59:11 Strategy in Action: Strategic Enablers People The Senior Executive Team The Senior Executive Team SET was established in 2013 to lead the development and implementation of the business strategy.
Over the last couple of years there have been a number of changes due to retirement and acquisitions.
The SET comprises Ian Page Mike Eldred Chief Executive Officer President North America Richard Cotton Greig Rooney Chief Financial Officer Group Manufacturing and Supply Director Tony Griffin Managing Director Dechra Allen Mellor Veterinary Products EU Group IT Director Ian, Richard and Tony are Katy Clough also part of the main Board Group HR Director Giles Coley Dechra Veterinary Products International Group Director Dr Susan Longhofer Giles Coley Giles joined Dechra in January 1999 as sales and marketing Regulatory Affairs and Dechra Veterinary Products manager for Arnolds Veterinary Products having previously spent Business Development International 14 years primarily involved in dairy farming business consultancy.
Group Director Group Director During his time at Dechra he has been responsible for the launch Dr Anthony Lucas The Company Secretary and market development of our leading brand Vetoryl, as well as Group Product attends the meetings of the a number of our other key brands.
Giles has also been an integral Development Director SET and acts as its secretary.
member of the teams that ensuredfast and smooth integrations of several of our acquisitions and in particular as lead in the integration of Apex in 2016.
Inhisrole of Dechra Veterinary Products International Group Director, his responsibilities are extremely varied and involve managing and growing our existing business through Apex and distribution partners, as well as further developing our Dechra International strategy through product registrations and market development.
Giles has a BSc degree in Agricultural Technology.
He is located in Shrewsbury, UK.
Dr Susan Longhofer Business Development and Regulatory Affairs Group Director Susan joined the Group in June 2005.
A veterinarian with over 26 years experience in the industry, she leads a team of approximately 50 staff around the globe responsible for registering new products and maintaining the registrations of our existing products.
She has recently assumed a Business Development Mike Eldred President North America role searching out new products and opportunities to continue to fill our product development pipeline.
Prior to joining Dechra, Mike joined Dechra in 2004 and is responsible for Dechra Susan worked for Virbac Corporation, Heska Corporation and Veterinary Products North American business.
Mike has more Merck Research Laboratories.
Susan holds an MS and a DVM than 20 years experience in the animal health sector, having held in Veterinary Science and is a Diplomate, American College of senior positions in business development, sales and operations at Veterinary Internal Medicine.
She is located in Kansas, US.
Virbac Corporation, Fort Dodge Animal Health and Sanofi Animal Health.
As our first employee in the US, he has built the significant and growing US and Canadian team to162 people and with a strong Dechra culture has grown sales revenue to 132.4 million.
Mike has also been involved in several commercial agreements and acquisitions for the Group including Pharmaderm, DermaPet, Phycox Animal Health and Putney.
Mike has a BA in Business, and an MBA.
He is located in Kansas, US.
42 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
