Strategic report During the year there were some notable AM collaborative projects announced, particularly in the Performance Metrology aerospace sector.
In the UK, Renishaw is contributing its expertise to a project called WINDY Wing Design Methodology Validation, being led by Airbus in the UK, to develop v The new Trigger Logic an innovative way of designing app simplifies the process and manufacturing aircraft wings.
of configuring a Renishaw Airbus is creating an AM facility at machine tool probe.
its Filton, UK site, which includes a new Renishaw RenAM 500M system, whilst in Spain the same system has also been installed at the Centre for Advanced Aerospace Technologies CATEC in Seville, which focuses its activity on the promotion of R&D activities within the aerospace sector in Andalusia, actively developing new technologies and the transfer of best practices.
Renishaw is working with CATEC and other organisations in a Spanish Government funded project called Futuralve.
Led by ITP, the aero engines and turbines manufacturer, the projects objective is to create advanced material and manufacturing technologies for a new generation of The position encoders line and our Performance high-speed turbines for the aerospace associate company RLS, continue sector.
With increasing interest from the As already reported, there was strong to derive particular benefit from the aerospace industry, Renishaw attended growth for our position encoder line, ongoing global drive towards industrial the Paris Air Show for the first time.
but all other metrology lines also grew, automation which aims to increase with strong growth also achieved in Outside Europe, Rapid Advanced capacity and flexibility, whilst reducing our measurement and automation, Manufacturing RAM3D has opened manufacturing lead times and costs.
calibration and co-ordinate measuring a new facility in New Zealand, the This sector, like LED and flat panel machine product lines.
The calibration biggest Australasian centre for metal manufacture, requires rapid, reliable line includes fibre-optic laser encoders, 3D printing, where it is collaborating and accurate measurement of position which are the finest resolution and with Renishaw and using several of between moving parts.
The market highest accuracy position feedback our AM250 additive manufacturing for industrial robots is also growing, systems offered by Renishaw.
With a systems to help companies from a with the introduction of smart factory sub-nanometre less than one billionth range of sectors, including aerospace, concepts seeing the expansion of of a metre resolution capability at defence and consumer products, to new robotic applications into light velocities of up to two metres per explore the benefits of AM.
In China, an industries, such as 3C product second for an axis length of up to four agreement was signed with FalconTech assembly computing, communication metres, these encoders have this year Co, Ltd. to become an additive and consumer and other automatic benefited from growth in applications manufacturing solutions centre partner production lines, where robots with within the semiconductor industry.
and distributor for our AM technology.
high precision and high flexibility are Under the partnership, FalconTech, The measurement automation required.
The use of collaborative which is focused on the rapid products line, currently focused on the robots cobots is increasing, working manufacturing of high-performance Equator gauging system, continues closely with people to help finish components for sectors including to see high levels of global success production tasks through simple, fast aerospace, biomedical and marine, in the automotive, electronics and programming or even self-learning will set up an AM centre in Wuxi and aerospace sectors, with integration processes.
Denmark-based Universal purchase 10 RenAM 500M systems by within automation cells continuing Robots is a market leader in this field October 2018. to be a notable trend.
To meet the and their multi-axis collaborative robots growing demand for the latter, new use RLS AksIM magnetic absolute Market conditions IPC intelligent process control rotary encoders for position feedback.
The drivers for our metrology business software was launched during the Investment continues in the AM are similar across the world.
Many of year which allows Equator systems to products line, which includes the LBC our lines are benefiting from global be fully integrated into manufacturing business in Germany specialising skills shortages in the engineering processes, either connected to one in AM parts manufacture, including sector, requiring increased investments or multiple machine tools, or within conformally cooled mould tools and in automation to offset the need for fully automated manufacturing cells.
tool inserts for injection moulding highly-skilled machine operators The software allows tool offsets to and die-casting applications and and demanding user-interfaces and be automatically updated after parts the previously mentioned Additive software that are easier to operate.
have been machined and inspected, Manufacturing Solutions Centres.
Manufacturers are also faced with ensuring that the process is kept within a relentless drive to reduce costs, control limits.
38 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information shorten lead times, meet the need direct to the end-user, whilst we therefore eliminating the requirement for for increased complexity and closer continue to strengthen our portfolio additional external interfaces.
For users tolerances in product design, and of hardware and software for users of manual CMMs we introduced a supply into markets where shorter of CMMs, including the upgrades of MODUS 2 upgrade kit which combines product life-cycles are compressing measuring machines already installed.
a Renishaw controller, software times for process development.
For example, our new SFP2 surface and position encoder technologies Renishaw technologies provide them finish probe offers a solution for the to give users a more sophisticated with proven solutions to keep machines surface measurement of parts on the measurement capability.
We will launch running reliably, maximise output from same machine used for dimensional a large number of new products those machines, assist fast changeover measurement, reducing inspection at the EMO Hannover exhibition in between different products, and times, part handling and floor September 2017. significantly reduce the time taken to space requirements.
We have introduced at trade exhibitions inspect finished components.
Our wide portfolio of products gives us a new machining cell concept with A key sector for Renishaw continues to key advantages when competing for integrated process control which be the civil aviation market.
The 2017 high-value orders, and both AM sales demonstrates how complementary Boeing Global Market Forecast sees and automation projects are often with technologies from Renishaw, including the need for 41,000 new aircraft by existing customers who understand gauging and machine tool probing, can 2036 to meet growing demands Renishaws holistic approach to contribute to high levels of productivity and the replacement of aircraft manufacturing and the complementary and manufacturing capability.
within the current commercial fleet.
products that can assist their part Outlook Growth is seen as being due to the production.
For example, as well as The continuing drive to automate rise in middle-income travellers in AM technology, the Futuralve project manufacturing processes in many developing markets such as China and mentioned earlier is also benefiting sectors, both to minimise labour costs India, and Boeing believes that over from our REVO five-axis measurement and reduce the need for skilled labour, this period, Asia will need more than system and SPRINT on-machine will benefit our position encoder, 16,000 new aircraft 39% of global contact scanning technology for measurement and automation, and demand.
Renishaw products are used machine tools.
machine tool product lines, whilst heavily in the aerospace sector and Key developments we remain confident that there the drive to lightweight components In addition to new products already will be increased adoption of AM is generating strong interest in mentioned we introduced other technologies by many of our existing additive manufacturing.
metrology products, most notably customer groups.
Strategy for growth the XM-60 multi-axis laser calibrator Growth in the worlds middle-classes, A key focus is on developing which allows the measurement of a with increasing disposable income, technologies that provide patented machine tools six degrees of freedom is also forecast to drive demand in products and methods which along a linear axis in a single set-up.
areas such as civil aviation, consumer support our product strategies, It is significantly simpler and faster to products, agriculture, construction with 68.8m before net capitalised use than other laser measurement and power generation including development costs and the R&D techniques.
These trends should tax credit expenditure on R&D products line we launched the VIONiC all result in increased demand for and engineering during the year.
family of highly compact, ultra-high our metrology products to help The current technology focus is on accuracy all-in-one position encoders drive efficiencies, reduce waste, products that help our customers which combine interpolation and digital increase automation and aid product to increase measurement capability, signal processing inside the readhead, measurement traceability.
improve measurement performance, increase speed of operation and are more user-friendly.
These include simplified software, including apps, for machine tool and CMM probing, calibration and gauging: multi-probe capability for CMMs: miniaturised high-resolution position feedback systems that support the manufacture of high-precision electronics: the development of AM systems with faster processing capability and improved process control for large-scale manufacturing: and integrated process control solutions for automated manufacturing processes.
We continue to position Renishaw as a solutions provider and reduce the risks of over-reliance on large customers who integrate our products.
Our measurement automation, calibration, additive manufacturing, and accessory ranges, such as D The Equator gauge is now offered with IPC software, providing the functionality to styli and fixtures, can be supplied fully automate tool offset updates in CNC manufacturing processes.
