Governance Introduction With the assistance of the Audit Committee, the Board approves the Corporate governance Groups governance framework and reviews its risk management and internal control processes with a view to maintaining high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.
A key focus area for 2017 has been the proposed changes to the Companys The Board is ultimately responsible remuneration policy, which is covered in more detail in the Remuneration report to shareholders for all the Groups beginning on page 83.
In line with the activities, its strategy and financial Companies Act 2006, Renishaw will be submitting its new remuneration performance, the efficient use of policy for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
The Remuneration the Groups resources and social, Committee has reviewed the existing environmental and ethical matters.
policy, which was supported by 86% of voting shareholders when put to the AGM in 2014.
Our proposed changes are outlined on pages 86 to 88.
Sir David Grant In reviewing the policy we have: Senior Independent Director taken into account feedback from the shareholder community: considered changes in market practice since 2014: and reviewed developments in remuneration governance, including the commentary from many stakeholders and observers on the issue of executive pay.
The Annual report on remuneration 2017 starting on page 90 sets out the details of directors compensation throughout this financial year, which will be subject to the normal advisory vote at the AGM.
During the period, we have continued the implementation of new policies and procedures commenced last year following the introduction of the Market Abuse Regulation, by amending the Groups Share Dealing Code and insider list process and training employees in order to comply with the stricter rules on the management and disclosure of inside information.
We have worked closely with Ernst & Young LLP in their first year as our new auditors, following shareholder approval of their appointment at the 2016 AGM.
Senior management has also held four meetings of our new risk committee formed last year, in order to conduct a thorough review of our principal risks together with mitigation plans.
The Board also considered the viability statement requirement, now in its second year, in the context of risk and the viability statement is contained on pages 75 to 76.
66 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Brexit referendum had taken place For the purposes of the DTR, which Scope of disclosures only one month prior to the date of our require a corporate governance This corporate governance report report last year, and the full business statement to be included in the has been prepared in accordance implications of the decision to leave the Directors report, the Companys with the UK Corporate Governance EU were uncertain.
The nature of the corporate governance practices are Code 2016 Governance Code.
exit remains uncertain, but it is clear set out in the Directors corporate The Governance Code can be viewed that changes will need to be made in governance report, which forms part of at www.
This report, aspects of the Groups operations.
which incorporates the reports of the However, with a strong direct presence Audit Committee and Nomination For the purposes of the UK Listing in the EU, Renishaw is well placed to Committee, together with the Directors Authoritys Listing Rules LR, certain respond to changes in future trading remuneration report, describes how we information required to be provided to arrangements between the UK and have applied the main principles of the the shareholders is also contained in the EU and the risk committee will be Governance Code.
the Directors corporate governance monitoring developments closely to report, the Directors remuneration We report on the operation of our assess required actions as the exit and report and the Other statutory and business in the following ways: trading negotiations become clearer.
regulatory disclosures, including A review of the Groups business and Other areas that have received information relating to arrangements likely future developments is given particular attention include a review with controlling shareholders.
in the Chairmans statement and the of our insurance provider for property For the purposes of the DTR, the Strategic report.
Segmental information and liability cover, via a tender information required by section 7 by geographical market is given in note process that led to the appointment of such rules is referred to in the 2 to the financial statements.
We also launched a Directors corporate governance report.
global whistleblowing facility, which The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure is externally facilitated by Safecall, Rules and Transparency Rules DTR, a leading provider of confidential require the Annual report to include whistleblowing lines, in order to give a management report which can be employees additional options should found in the Strategic report.
they wish to raise a serious concern.
The Directors corporate governance The Board takes seriously its report and Other statutory and responsibilities for making sure that regulatory disclosures set out on all employees are aware of their pages 66 to 77 and 94 to 96 form the obligations to act with openness, Directors report Directors report.
This strong anti-corruption culture is embedded Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R in our Group Business Code and The information that fulfils the reporting requirements under this rule can be found in Anti-Bribery Policy which can be found the Directors remuneration report and other strategic and regulatory disclosures on at www.
com en renishawthe pages identified below, as applicable.
In 2017, we have continued to closely monitor Section Topic Location operational risks in key regions and are 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable implementing additional compliance 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable policies in certain areas.
In the period 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Not applicable we entered into a contract with a market leading provider, allowing us to 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable routinely screen new intermediaries.
6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable This has been rolled out to the Group, 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable via updated e-learning packages 8 As item 7, in relation to major subsidiary Not applicable on anti-bribery as well as senior undertakings management briefings.
Training on our 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed Not applicable Group Business Code, which sets out subsidiary the ethical standards we require, was 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable also refreshed globally.
11 Provision of services by a controlling Directors remuneration report shareholder pages 8393 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Other statutory and regulatory disclosures pages 9496 Cautionary note and safe harbour: this Annual report has been prepared for the purpose of assisting the Companys shareholders to assess the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed and no-one, including the Companys shareholders, may rely on it for any other purpose.
The directors owe their duties only to the Company as a whole and they undertake no duty of care to individual shareholders, other stakeholders or potential investors.
This Annual report has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to the directors at the time.
Given the nature of some forward-looking information, which has been given in good faith, the Companys shareholders should treat this information with due caution.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability of directors in respect of statements in, and omissions from, the Strategic report contained on pages 1 to 63 and the Directors report.
Under English law the directors would be liable to the Company but not to any third party if the Strategic report and or Directors report contains errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
