Strategic report Caltech working to solve the worlds energy problems with the help of inVia Power generation The California Institute of Technology Caltech is on a mission to find new and effective ways to produce solar fuels using only sunlight, water and Worldwide attention is continuing carbon dioxide.
A focus of this is to focus on expanding our use of investigating photocatalysis and light capture.
Dr David A. Boyd is using renewable energy.
Whilst equipment Raman spectroscopy to accelerate the such as solar panels and wind turbines discovery and in-depth understanding of photocatalysts and photoactive are in increasing supply, and research materials for the solar-driven CO 2 reduction reactions.
continues into making this equipment Dr Boyd uses a Renishaw customas efficient as possible, the storage designed inVia Raman microscope, of energy generated is another area installed at the Joint Centre for Artificial Photosynthesis JCAP.
JCAP is one of where significant R&D efforts are the US Department of Energys Energy being applied.
Solar panel manufacturing D Dr David Boyd of Caltech uses a Renishaw inVia Raman microscope to research solar fuels.
Absolute position encoders provide smooth velocity control and high accuracy for automated operations in solar panel manufacturing and other high-tech industries.
From fossil fuels to renewable energy, Renishaw products are at the heart of associated manufacturing processes.
Whether in exploration and production in the oil and gas sector, or solar panel manufacture, our products are used to control the production of key Photovoltaic panel testing componentry.
This illustration highlights Analysis of chemical deposits on thin film layers using Raman spectroscopy just a few applications within the power enables quality control and assurance for solar panel production.
64 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Innovation Hubs and is led by a team Dr Boyd and his colleagues have from Caltech.
The High Throughput recently published a paper on Experimentation HTE group aims this work in the RSC Journal of to accelerate the identification of Materials Chemistry A, Solar Fuels semiconductor materials, with Photoanodes Prepared by Inkjet appropriate band energetics, for Printing of Copper Vanadates.
This efficient  of solar paper describes the processing and fuel reactions.
characterisation of these exciting new materials that address the demanding Dr Boyd said, The inVia system is a requirements needed to perform the natural fit to assist in the identification  oxygen evolution D The RESOLUTE absolute and characterisation of metal oxide reaction.
A key element of this work is encoder is increasingly being catalysts.
Given our sample sizes and Raman imaging, with associated data used on manufacturing the need to differentiate a number of equipment for solar panels.
processing and visualisation, which has possible material phases, we require enabled phase mapping of the array large area mapping and advanced of compositions.
This has led to the analysis capabilities.
The Renishaw identification of promising photoanodes Empty Modelling tools have been for solar fuel applications.
Gearboxes and power transmission Equipment for inspection and quality control ensures power transmission systems meet the demanding specifications required for efficient service in power stations and hostile environments.
Large part manufacture Equipment has to be manufactured to stringent safety requirements, requiring accurate and traceable processes.
Calibration systems are used to check and verify the dimensional accuracy of high-value CNC machine tools.
Wind turbines Probing and other process control technologies enable precision manufacture of both large and small-scale components for high-performance operation and reliability of turbines in service.
