Governance Other statutory and regulatory disclosures Review of the business Directors and their interests Directors and officers indemnity insurance A review of the business and likely The directors at the end of the year future developments is given in the are listed on page 92 together with Subject to the provisions of the Chairmans statement and the Strategic their interests in the share capital of Companies Act 2006, the Companys report.
Segmental information by the Company with the equivalent Articles of Association provide for the geographical market is given in note 2 number of voting rights, as notified to directors and officers of the Company to the financial statements.
The Company maintains insurance for The principal activities of the Company All the interests were beneficially held its directors and officers in respect of are the design, manufacture, sale, with the exception of 2,434,411 shares their acts and omissions during the distribution and service of metrology 2016: 2,434,411 shares which were performance of their duties.
and healthcare products and solutions non-beneficially held by D J Deer but in outlined on page 2 of the Strategic respect of which he has voting rights.
Share capital and change report.
The Group has established There has been no change in the of control and acquired overseas manufacturing, holdings shown on page 92 in the Details of the Companys share capital, marketing and distribution subsidiaries period 1st July 2017 to 27th July 2017. including rights and obligations, is given to manufacture some of the Groups In accordance with the provisions of in note 19 to the financial statements.
products and to provide support to the Governance Code all directors The Company is not a party to any customers in our major markets in the will retire and, being eligible, offer significant agreements that might following regions outside the UK: themselves for re-election at the Annual terminate upon a change of control of Europe: Denmark, Finland, Germany, General Meeting AGM to be held on the Company.
Hungary, France, Italy, Spain, 20th October 2017.
Details of directors A shareholders authority for the Switzerland, Netherlands, Czech who offer themselves up for re-election purchase by the Company of a Republic, Poland, Russia, Sweden or election, as the case may be, are maximum of 10% of its own shares and Austria: shown on pages 68 and 69 and full was in existence during the 2017 biographical details are available at Americas: USA, Mexico, Brazil financial year.
and Canada: did not purchase any of its own shares Far East: Japan, Hong Kong, Sir David McMurtry, as one party, during that time.
Australia, South Korea, Peoples and D J Deer and Mrs M E Deer, as Republic of China, Singapore and the other party, have entered into an Auditor Taiwan: and agreement relating to the way each A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & party would vote in respect of his or other regions: India, Turkey Young LLP as the auditor of the her shares if requested by the other and Israel.
Company will be proposed at the party to do so.
Under this agreement forthcoming AGM.
There are also representative offices Sir David McMurtry, John Deer and Mrs in Malaysia, Vietnam, Indonesia and Deer agree that i Mr and Mrs Deer Disclosure of information Thailand and an associate company in will vote their shares in favour of any to auditor Slovenia, RLS, which is 50%-owned.
ordinary resolution if requested to do so The directors who held office at the Also part of the Group is a subsidiary in by Sir David McMurtry and ii Sir David date of approval of this statement Slovenia which designs and arranges McMurtry will vote his shares against confirm that, so far as they are each the procurement of application-specific any special or extraordinary resolution aware, there is no relevant audit integrated circuits for the Group and if requested to do so by John Deer.
information of which the Companys for RLS.
The voting arrangement was renewed auditor is unaware, and each director in 2013 for a further period of five years has taken all the steps that he or she Further information is available and will terminate on the earlier of 25th ought to have taken as a director to on the Companys website: May 2018 and the deaths of both of Sir make himself herself aware of any www.
David McMurtry and John Deer.
relevant audit information and to Dividends establish that the Companys auditor is The rules on appointment, aware of that information.
The directors propose a final dividend reappointment and retirement by of 28,751,474 or 39.5p per share rotation of the directors and their 2016: 25,839,932 or 35.5p per powers are set out in the Companys share which, together with the interim Articles of Association.
There are no dividend of 9,098,568 or 12.5p per powers given to the directors that are share 2016: 9,098,568 or 12.5p regarded as unusual.
makes a total amount of dividends for the year of 37,850,042 or 52.0p per share, compared to 34,938,500 or 48.0p per share for the previous year.
94 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual general meeting Research and development Donations The notice convening the AGM and an The Group has a continuing No political donations were made explanation of the resolutions sought commitment to a high level of research during the year.
are set out in a separate circular.
The expenditure Controlling shareholders meeting, the Company will be seeking involved is directed towards the arrangements shareholder approval for, amongst research and development of new other things, the ability to make market products relating to metrology, The Listing Rules require that premium purchases of its own ordinary shares, including computer-aided design and listed companies with controlling up to a total of 10% of the issued manufacturing systems, and relating to shareholders defined as a shareholder share capital, as well as the approval healthcare products, including Raman who individually or with any of their of a new forward-looking Directors spectroscopy systems, dental and concert parties exercises or controls remuneration policy intended to craniomaxillofacial implants and certain 30% or more of the votes that may continue for the next three years.
areas in the medical devices field.
be cast on all or substantially all the Further information on the expenditure matters at the Companys general The directors consider that all the on research and development is meeting must enter into a relationship resolutions proposed are in the contained in the Financial review agreement containing specific best interests of the Company section of the Strategic report.
and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommend that The independence provisions required Employees shareholders vote in favour of the by the Listing Rules are that: The retention of highly-skilled resolutions, as they intend to do in employees is essential to the future of i transactions and arrangements with respect of their own holdings.
the business, and the directors place the controlling shareholder and great emphasis on the continuation or any of its associates will be Substantial shareholdings of the Companys approved training conducted at arms length and on Apart from the shareholdings and policy.
Health and safety matters are normal commercial terms: corresponding voting rights of Sir given special attention by the directors David McMurtry and John Deer ii neither the controlling shareholder and well established systems of safety 36.23% and 16.80% respectively, nor any of its associates will take management are in place throughout the table below discloses the voting any action that would have the the Group to safeguard employees, rights that have been notified to the effect of preventing the Company customers and visitors.
directors under the requirements of the from complying with its obligations UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules Employment policies are designed to under the Listing Rules: and and Transparency Rules DTR 5, which provide equal opportunities irrespective iii neither the controlling shareholder represent 3% or more of the voting of race, religion, sex, age, disability or nor any of its associates will rights attached to issued shares in the sexual orientation.
Proper consideration propose or procure the proposal Company, as at 30th June 2017. is given to applications for of a shareholder resolution which employment from disabled people is intended or appears to be where suitable for appropriate Substantial % of issued Number of intended to circumvent the proper vacancies.
Employees who become shareholdings share capital shares application of the Listing Rules.
disabled whilst with the Company Baillie Gifford & Co 5.25% 3,846,993 will be given every opportunity to By virtue of his shareholding in continue their employment through the Company, Sir David McMurtry BlackRock, Inc. 4.92% 3,578,133 reasonable adjustment to their working Chairman and Chief Executive Capital conditions, equipment, or where this Research and 36.2% shareholder is a controlling is not possible, re-training for other Management shareholder.
John Deer Deputy Company 4.76% 3,465,730 positions.
They will also be afforded Chairman, together with his wife, Standard Life opportunities to continue training and 16.8% is also a controlling shareholder Investments gain promotion on the same basis as by virtue of a long-standing voting Limited 4.99% 3,631,612 any other employee.
agreement between John Deer and his wife with Sir David McMurtry.
Details on information provided to The Board confirms that the Company employees on the performance has not been able to enter into of the business, consultation with a relationship agreement with its employees and performance incentives controlling shareholders, containing are contained in the description of the independence provisions required corporate social responsibility activities by the Listing Rules.
The Financial set out on pages 54 to 63.
Conduct Authority FCA has been There are no agreements with notified of this, as required by employees providing for compensation the Listing Rules.
The controlling for any loss of employment that occurs shareholders have informed the Board because of a takeover bid.
that they are not willing to enter into a relationship agreement because they are of the view that the requirement to enter into the relationship agreement infringes upon their rights as shareholders and their track record demonstrates that they act in the best interests of the Company.
95 Governance Other statutory and regulatory disclosures continued As a result of there being no Greenhouse gas emissions relationship agreement in place, the The disclosures concerning Listing Rules provide that certain greenhouse gas emissions required by enhanced oversight measures will law are set out in the Corporate social apply to the Company.
This means that, unless and to the Signed on behalf of the Board.
extent that the FCA agrees otherwise, all transactions with the controlling shareholders must be approved by the Companys shareholders excluding the controlling shareholders in accordance Norma Tang with the related party transaction Company Secretary requirements of the Listing Rules, and 27th July 2017 none of the normal exemptions apply.
Guidance has been received from the FCA about the application of the Renishaw plc enhanced oversight measures to the Registered number 1106260 remuneration and benefits received England and Wales by the controlling shareholders in their capacity as executive directors in accordance with the Companys approved remuneration policy as well other ordinary course corporate matters, such as the payment of dividends by the Company to all shareholders.
The FCA has confirmed that either these are not transactions or arrangements that fall within the enhanced oversight measures or that the FCA will permit a modification of the enhanced oversight measures so that they will not apply provided that the arrangements remain in the ordinary course of business and, in the case of salary reviews and bonuses, provided that they fall within the small transaction exemption in the Annex to LR 11.
This guidance continues to apply in respect of remuneration awarded under the new remuneration policy, if approved at the AGM.
96 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017
