Strategic report Lamborghini is a brand that symbolises Italian passion in the world of supercars, but it also has a strong Agriculture following in the agricultural world, due to a range of high-performance tractors The sector is being driven by produced by SAME DEUTZ-FAHR.
increasing global demand for food At its headquarters and main factory in Treviglio, near Milan, Italy, the company products from developing nations, improved manufacturing efficiency by retrofitting Renishaw TRS2 tool as well as increasing global demand recognition systems on four Mazak for biofuels.
This is requiring greater flexible manufacturing system FMS cells, which produce transmission and investment in machinery for intensive gearbox components.
All these parts farming capabilities and new require a large number of threaded holes and some 70% of machining technology to bring greater efficiencies time is therefore devoted to drilling and to deliver precision agriculture tapping, with tools varying in size from M5 to M18 which break frequently: making use of satellites to monitor undetected this would lead to scrap crop condition and direct machinery and wasted machining time.
for optimal performance, including As machining cycles are fully automated, a tool monitoring system the distribution of seed, fertilisers had previously been introduced in order to minimise scrap: however, it was and pesticides.
taking an unacceptable 21 seconds to check each tool.
With 34 tool checks required per finished component, this was resulting in significant non-productive time.
Agricultural analysis Raman spectroscopy is increasingly being used for research within various fields of agriculture such as fruit and vegetables, crops, meat and dairy products.
D Lamborghini tractors are known globally for their bold style, performance and design.
The majority of key components on high-end agricultural equipment are subject to process control using Renishaw products.
This illustration of a typical tractor highlights a few key applications for our products.
42 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information This led to the decision by SAME The companys manufacturing DEUTZ-FAHR to retrofit the Renishaw engineering specialist involved with TRS2 tool recognition units which the project reports that the decision offered fast and reliable tool inspection, to invest in the TRS2 tool recognition reducing the time to check each tool systems and the subsequent cycle to just 7 seconds, a 67% reduction on time savings has been extremely the previous method and an average successful.
After a detailed analysis, reduction of component cycle time of based on the cost to run machines, we D The TRS2 tool recognition 7.5 minutes some 6% of cycle time.
know this equates to a saving of more system is used to check all tools prone to breakage, than 150k in the first year.
This is If a tool breakage is detected by the with at least 34 checks per because most of the non-productive Renishaw system an alarm sounds and machined component.
machine time taken to check tools the machining program is stopped.
has now been released to machine Any logic could be employed at this components.
We have paid back the stage, for example, another identical initial investment in the TRS2s in a sister tool could be used instead matter of just 5 months.
and machining could continue, but the engineers at SAME DEUTZ-FAHR prefer to stop the process for an operator to check the part and make sure that no more damage occurs.
D Renishaw technology is aiding the manufacturing efficiency of SAME DEUTZFAHR tractors.
Smart farming Modern agriculture is making use of satellites, equipped with position encoders, to monitor crop condition, forecast crop yields and direct Manufacture of large machinery for optimal performance, high-value components including the distribution of seed, Wireless probing technology is used fertilisers and pesticides.
to control and automate the machining of chassis and other components for agricultural plant where scrap is too costly to accept.
Precision parts for powerplants High-precision manufacturing uses advanced scanning probe systems to control quality, enabling powerplants to deliver enhanced performance, higher reliability and reduced emissions.
Precision gears and reliable gearbox components High-volume precision machining and rapid part inspection necessary to support automotive gearbox and drivetrain production are made possible with process control and gauging technologies.
