Strategic report Renishaws expertise in technologies such as metal additive manufacturing will be harnessed through PDRs Performance Healthcare experience in research and design of medical devices.
Renishaw and PDR have already collaborated on other projects, including the Innovate UK and EPSRC funded Additivemanufacture for Design-led Efficient Patient Treatment ADEPT project, which won a Collaborate to Innovate award and has resulted in the release of Renishaws new ADEPT software see below.
In Canada, Renishaw is contributing to a new medical centre called ADEISS Additive DEsign In Surgical Solutions based at the Western University campus in London, Ontario.
The result of a partnership between the university, the London Medical Network and Renishaw, the centre will focus on the research, development and commercialisation of additively manufactured medical devices and surgical instruments.
The Renishaw contribution is CAD3 million of D Complex reconstructive facial surgery is using Renishaw additive manufacturing systems in-kind support.
to produce replacement jaw sections and teeth.
There was also a good year of sales for additively manufactured metal LHSC in Ontario, with the first dental structures created from cobalt Performance assisted neurosurgical procedure also chrome powder using Renishaw AM There was growth from all our a SEEG case.
The team at LHSC is machines.
This came from a mix of healthcare product lines spectroscopy, led by neurosurgeon Dr David Steven LaserPFM frameworks crowns and neurological and medical dental.
who said, It the robot is already bridges, LaserRPD partial dentures In spectroscopy the market has noticeably faster and more accurate and LinkAbutments.
The majority responded very well to our awardthan the previous system.
In addition, of manufacture of medical dental AM winning InVia Qontor system helping it allows us to plan trajectories products takes place in the Healthcare the product line to achieve growth.
previously impossible with a standard Centre of Excellence, based at Miskin, During the year the neurological frame, making surgery safer and which operates under an ISO13485 products line achieved key strategic more accurate.
sales of the neuromate stereotactic The medical dental products line Our Raman instrumentation meets the robotic system and neuroinspire experienced good growth from high-performance requirements of a surgical planning software.
Alder Hey focusing on the sale of Renishaw AM wide range of research applications, Childrens Hospital and Birmingham machines configured for medical and including life sciences, mineral Childrens Hospital BCH, are dental applications.
It ensures that it is research, graphene and other 2D two of the UKs four national able to demonstrate its knowledge of materials, pharmaceuticals and Childrens Epilepsy Surgery Service the technical challenges faced by those advanced materials for the green CESS centres and both reported applications by manufacturing medical energy market.
However, there is successful uses of the systems for and dental parts at Renishaw facilities.
an increasing use of our technology  SEEG within medical research, for example cases for epilepsy, where intracerebral The medical dental products line in Canada, the University of British electrodes are implanted to measure has seen good progress in the Columbia in Vancouver is leading the electrical signals and identify which supply of additively manufactured way in the use of Raman spectroscopy region of the brain is acting as a source LaserImplants, which are as a tool for monitoring biochemical for the epileptic seizures.
Mr Richard craniomaxillofacial patient-specific changes and inter-donor variability in Walsh, consultant neurosurgeon at implants PSIs and associated cutting stored red blood cell units.
In China, BCH, reported after the first procedure guides that support reconstructive the Guangdong Medical University is that using the robot certainly made surgery, typically resulting from head developing a method for non-invasive the procedure easier, faster and or neck trauma, birth defects or prostate cancer screening seepage 21. more straightforward for me.
Londons largest and busiest teaching Hybrid systems, combining Raman During the year a collaboration was hospitals, Kings College Hospital, also chemical analysis with the high announced with PDR, the International reported its first successful SEEG spatial resolution of either scanning Centre for Design and Research, case see page 20.
Outside the UK, electron microscopy or atomic force based in Cardiff, Wales, which seeks a neuromate robot was installed microscopy, continue to be in strong to pioneer new design methods that in Canada for the first time at the demand.
Likewise, the growing life will bring engineering levels of precision London Health Sciences Centre science market is showing renewed to complex surgical procedures.
44 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information interest in Raman, including hybrid The regulatory requirements for The neurosurgical line launched combinations with laser scanning healthcare products demand significant neurolocate, a frameless patient confocal microscopy.
investment, but make barriers to entry registration module designed for use high for competitive products.
with the neuromate stereotactic robot Market conditions and mounted on the robot arm during Our metrology and healthcare Life expectancy is increasing in both intraoperative X-Ray CT scans.
businesses are interconnected and we developed and developing markets, employ core metrology technologies The spectroscopy line launched the meaning that key drivers include the and manufacturing expertise to RA802 pharmaceutical analyser, requirement for faster procedures minimise technology risks.
This is which is a compact benchtop Raman to reduce waiting times, more illustrated very clearly in our medical imaging system designed specifically economical treatments, more patientdental products line where we use our for the pharmaceutical industry.
specific treatments e. g. implants and own AM machines in the manufacture Using Renishaws award-winning personalised medicines, and safer of dental structures and medical LiveTrack focus tracking technology, procedures with reduced human implants to demonstrate the suitability tablet samples with uneven, curved errors.
All our healthcare product of AM for this purpose, whilst also or rough surfaces can be quickly lines are well placed to deliver on taking advantage of our knowledge analysed for composition and structure these requirements.
of subtractive machining in the hybrid without sample preparation, meaning Global economic conditions continue manufacture of LinkAbutments.
that tablets can be formulated more to limit the availability of academic efficiently.
The RA802 won the best We actively seek out partnerships that research funding in certain markets, measurement laboratory equipment will assist research and our routes to while remaining strong in others.
award at Eurolab 2017 show in market, and we consider acquiring Key research areas, including 2D Poland.
The new Centrus CCD businesses and or technologies that and 3D materials, green energy, detector was also introduced for we feel are complementary to our pharmaceutics and biomedical high-speed Raman analysis: giving existing healthcare products.
research, continue to attract funding outstanding performance, even at and our spectroscopy products are speeds of over 1,800 spectra per Key developments well placed to service these sectors.
second, it dramatically reduces During the year, a 6m Horizon 2020 measurement times and is available grant was announced to support Strategy for growth on inVia microscopes and the RA802 Phase 1-2 clinical trials for Renishaws We aim to develop innovative pharmaceutical analyser.
novel drug delivery system, to be used healthcare products that will in combination with Herantis Pharma During the year the medical dental significantly advance our customers plcs drug candidate CDNF, for the products line introduced two new operational performance by maximising treatment of Parkinsons disease.
software products QuantAM Dental research capabilities, reducing process CDNF aims to relieve the symptoms increases automation in the production times and improving the efficacy of of Parkinsons disease by protecting of dental products, especially using medical procedures.
We are also and regenerating dopamine producing additive manufacturing, whilst ADEPT increasingly addressing the requirement neurons.
The study has been approved is a software package that streamlines for personalised healthcare treatments.
by the Medicines Agency of Sweden the design and manufactureof As a key Renishaw focus is to and Finland and a total of 18 patients craniomaxillofacial patient-specific develop technologies that provide with Parkinsons disease are being implants.
patented products and methods, we recruited.
Other applications for the Outlook invested 9.2m before net capitalised Renishaw drug delivery system are also development costs and the R&D tax being progressed including its use for Increased life expectancy on a global credit of expenditure on R&D and treating children with brain tumours basis means greater incidences of engineering during the year.
by delivering therapies directly into the degenerative neurological diseases, area affected by the tumour.
which will require surgical therapies.
With appropriate regulatory approvals and increasing numbers of reference sites we are well-placed to supply neurosurgeons with the products and techniques to support such procedures.
In developing markets, levels of wealth are increasing at a national and individual level, which is driving demand for higher-quality medical treatments, often requiring more technologically advanced products.
The market for Raman spectroscopy continues to grow in fields such as nanotechnology, advanced materials, pharmaceutical, life sciences and medical research.
D David Steven and his team at London Health Sciences Centre, Ontario, with their newly installed neuromate stereotactic robot.
