Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Governance International Sales and Marketing Board Sean Hymas Rainer Lotz Clive Martell President and Managing Director, Head of Global Additive Representative Renishaw D-A-CH Manufacturing Director, Renishaw KK Joined Renishaw in 2006.
Joined Renishaw in 1989 Over 20 years experience in Responsible for the strategy following a years sandwich related positions.
and direction of additive placement between 1987 manufacturing.
operations in Germany, Austria Over 30 years experience in Over 25 years experience of and Switzerland.
advanced engineering and international sales, marketing international sales.
Appointed as a member of and product management.
the International Sales and Progressed from graduate Moved to Japan in 2008 Marketing Board in 2008. engineer to CEO of Delcam plc, to further drive sales and and managed the transition marketing at Renishaw KK.
from AIM listed company to a division of Autodesk.
Appointed President of Renishaw KK and to the Appointed as a member of International Sales and the International Sales and Marketing Board in 2012.
Represents Renishaw on the steering group for the UK National Strategy for Additive Manufacturing.
John Deer Deputy Chairman See page 68 forbiography Allen Roberts Group Finance Director See page 68 forbiography Will Lee Group Sales and Jean-Marc Meffre Rhydian Pountney Marketing Director Managing Director, Managing Director, See page 68 forbiography Renishaw Far East & Renishaw UK & ROW Leo Somerville Southern Europe Joined Renishaw in 1979.
Joined Renishaw in 1988 as President, Renishaw Appointed as a member of Managing Director of Renishaw the International Sales and NorthAmerica France.
See page 70 forbiography Holds a masters degree in Over 30 years experience Economics and Marketing.
Responsible for sales in the UK Responsible for all the and 11 overseas operations, operations in the Far East including India and Russia.
except Japan, Australasia andSouthern Europe.
UK Chair of the Technology Collaboration in Advanced Appointed as a member of Engineering working group of the International Sales and the UK-India joint economic Marketing Board in 2008. and trade committee.
