Strategic report Our strategy People Efficient high-quality in action Our people are central to the success manufacturing of our business.
Our innovative, Renishaw is a highly vertically hard-working and loyal employees integrated organisation with significant make Renishaw the business that it in-house manufacturing capabilities.
A significant number of our people With high-quality manufacturing plants have worked in the Group for two located in the UK, Ireland, India, or three decades, creating a large Germany, USA and France, we are able collaborative team with a wealth of to deliver robust and reliable products specialised engineering expertise.
tested to our exacting standards.
Renishaw has actively focused on Our efficiencies, through in-house the ongoing recruitment and training automation and the use of our own of many bright and enthusiastic latest product developments, enable young graduates, apprentices and us to be competitive with the highest experienced professionals to further volume processes.
We continue to protect the future skillset of the organisation through training and promoting people from within, where possible.
For further information see pages 3233 For further information see pages 5658 Strong market presence and focus on emerging markets Continual research creating Renishaw has always been a global strong market positions with group with a strong local presence.
innovative products By ensuring we target emerging Renishaw is well known for its sectormarkets, we are able to develop leading investment in R&D and strong working partnerships with engineering.
Apply innovation is a newly developing businesses.
way of life for Renishaw employees, not These loyal relationships build quickly just a strap-line.
We have continued as our customers realise that all our to protect our core businesses with customers are important to us.
exciting new patented technology and process developments, whilst also diversifying into new product and market areas.
For further information see pages 3031 For further information see pages 3435 24 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Focus on delivering Consistent organic Supplementing the solutions growth business via niche Renishaws business has transitioned Whilst Renishaw does invest for the acquisitions over recent years from primarily being long-term, it also closely manages We actively undertake acquisitions as a a supplier of products to capital costs at all levels and ensures that means to expand our product portfolio, equipment manufacturers, to becoming it does not undertake undue risks.
quicken geographic market penetration much more focused on delivering a It isthrough this approach that and gain access to new patents, full solution directly to the end-user.
Renishaw has been able to deliver technologies and customers.
Our experience in our core product such a long-term track record of Progress lines, which has highlighted that our profitable growth.
global customers need assistance in We continue to integrate acquired Progress solving their problems, is being carried businesses and evaluate acquisition Renishaw has further invested in the across into our newer offerings.
We work closely Groups long-term business growth with HiETA Technologies Limited, which this year focused on our a UK company in which we have continued recruitment and training of an investment that specialises in skilled people, our global marketing the design and delivery of additive and distribution infrastructure, manufacturing products such as heat enhancing our ability to demonstrate exchangers for a range of applications our products and their applications, a complementary business for our the infrastructure to support our additive manufacturing products line.
additive manufacturing business, We are also strengthening our acquisitions and our manufacturing capabilities.
process and have considered various Our Spanish subsidiary and two potential opportunities during the year.
of our American subsidiaries have For further information see pages 2829 relocated to larger premises and a further office has been established in California.
This has allowed for the recruitment of extra sales and technical support staff.
In November 2016 our first North American Additive Global customer support Manufacturing Solutions Centre AMSC in Canada was formally Renishaw is founded on the belief that opened.
Ongoing investments in excellent customer support delivers manufacturing capacity and processes success.
Our customers are often have given us an agile capability and global, with an order being placed in increasing awareness of the benefits to one country, the product shipped to be gained by adopting Industry 4.0 and another and the eventual end-user Smart Factory philosophies to meet the often located on a different continent.
demands of a record order book and By having local global support quickly respond to short lead times.
through our wholly-owned subsidiary network, we are able to assure customers that whatever their needs, we are able to support and assist them, resulting in a positive return on their investment.
Progress Our worldwide service offering is growing so we can support our customers throughout the product lifecycle.
With the growth of our training facilities, technical support personnel, test and solution centres we can offer personal local support to the customer.
