Strategic report Our products serve truly diverse markets across a wide range of industries, customer types and Our markets geographic regions.
From the manufacture of jet engines and wind We develop innovative products that turbines, through to dentistry and brain surgery, our products, and our significantly advance our customers people who service them, are making a real difference to the capabilities operational performance from of our manufacturing and healthcare improving manufacturing efficiencies clients.
These benefits are extended to the end-consumer of our clients and raising product quality, to products and services, whether using maximising research capabilities a smartphone, driving a car, riding a mountain bike, or having a new dental and improving the efficacy of crown fitted, many of these products medical procedures.
rely on Renishaws technology and applications expertise.
As Sir David McMurtry has said, We are confident that there are not many modern-day planes, trains or automobiles in the world that have not been touched in some way by Renishaw products.
Aerospace Automotive Consumer products Power generation New aircraft production Continuing investment Ever shorter product life Manufacture of to meet growing in manufacturing cycles require flexible components for civil global demandfor civil capacity to meet growing manufacturing systems.
nuclear, wind and air transport.
Newgenerations of New fuel-efficient Improved fuel electronic devices demand Increasing focus on engines with complex efficiency requires precision manufacturing maximising output parts requiring tighter tolerances on systems for form from machinery used in faster measurement.
See pages 4041 Improvements to fuel Cost efficiencies and Increasing research into efficiency by minimising automated processes energy storage.
required throughout the See pages 6465 supply chain.
See pages 1415 See pages 1617 10 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information On these two pages we have listed Life expectancy rising globally Today, many of our product lines some of our principal markets and increased demand for healthcare including measurement and the specific key drivers of growth products and continuing demand automation, additive manufacturing and within those markets for our products.
healthcare lines are primarily sold direct However, there are more generic to the end-user.
This helps to build We are also increasingly spreading market growth drivers that are positive brand loyalty and open up new revenue risk through the diversification of for our business: opportunities including hardware and our applications for product lines, software upgrades, the cross-selling our customer base and our routes Global skills shortages increased of complementary products and to market.
investments in automation and maintenance contracts.
Renishaws business has transitioned Our business focus is to provide Rising energy costs increased over recent years from primarily being solutions for our customers across a supplier of products to capital demand for products that these highlighted markets and to be equipment manufacturers, to becoming maximise output.
seen as a trusted technology partner much more focused on delivering Focus on reducing emissions and meeting their needs.
a full solution directly to end-users.
waste increased demand for high Our experience in our core product performance products with ever lines, which has highlighted that our tighter manufacturing tolerances and global customers need assistance in products that help minimise waste solving their problems, is being carried and rework.
across into our newer offerings.
Population growth and rising incomes increased consumption inour principal markets.
Agriculture Construction Healthcare Resource exploration Increasing global demand Major infrastructure Neurological disorders for food products from projects driving heavy require highly precise Equipment manufactured developing nations.
tostringent safety requirements requires Increasing global demand Skills shortages requiring Growing demand for accurate, cost-effective for biofuels.
more automation cosmetic dentistry with andtraceable processes.
Non-renewable resources machinery for intensive Growing demand for require exploration in farming capabilities and .
demanding terrains Smart Farming See pages 2021 and appropriate See pages 4243 surveying tools.
Global population growth and urbanisation drive long-term demand for fossil fuels.
