Strategic report Manufacturing overview During the last year, the manufacturing operations have continued to support Our strategy in action significant activity levels for all product lines, the development of in-house Efficient high-quality processes to support new product development and growth for the manufacturing future of the additive manufacturing businesses.
Investment has continued in the improvement of key manufacturing processes associated with increased volumes and developing capability for specific product lines such as AM.
Strategy At a strategic level, Renishaws John Deer manufacturing operations are highly Deputy Chairman vertically integrated.
This is as a result of our commitment to delivering exceptional service levels in terms of delivery, service and product quality to our customers.
This approach also ensures that we are in control of our costs, quality and many of the supply chains that are critical to the success of our business.
This approach has continued during the year with substantial investments in processes and capital to support organic growth and efficiency improvements for core product lines, and the development of the AM business.
Over many years, we have strived to ensure our products are designed to optimise manufacturing capability, whether in relation to our machining and assembly processes, or that of third-party suppliers.
This is best illustrated by our approach to metal cutting, where a high degree of standardisation has been applied to the hardware used to perform machining operations, since we have an excellent understanding of process capability for each platform.
A secondary benefit to this strategy is that it provides the ability to upscale production through D Gareth Hankins, Director, Group duplication, as required, without the Manufacturing Services Division and need to invent alternative techniques, Director, Renishaw Ireland DAC, with and this has been key to delivering the responsibility for UK manufacturing growth in our turnover in recent years.
operations and manufacturing at itp GmbH.
D Renishaws machine shop at the Miskin facility in South Wales.
D Mark Moloney, Director and General Manager, Renishaw Ireland DAC and Director, Group Manufacturing Services Division, with additional responsibility for manufacturing in India and Lyon, France.
32 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The same standardisation philosophies providing enhanced product quality, development of people.
In many are applied to design for assembly as well as reducing our costs.
cases employees transfer from and test during product and process manufacturing into other parts of the There has been continual and development, and during the last business to assist other roles such substantial investment in the latest year, a number of new products have as new product development or manufacturing technologies in order transferred from pre-production to applications engineering, making best to optimise the cost and capability of the assembly sites in the UK, Ireland use of the experience gained within the our manufacturing systems, where and India.
investment in new equipment in the The Group has manufacturing facilities UK over the period 2010 to 2017 has The investment in apprentices inthe UK Woodchester 165,000 sq ft, been 37m.
and graduates is very much in Stonehouse 100,000 sq ft, Miskin evidence at each manufacturing site.
460,000 sq ft and smaller operations at All manufacturing graduates and New Mills, Old Town, Stone and York, apprentices follow a well-defined Ireland Swords 90,000 sq ft, India programme that provides exposure Pune 50,000 sq ft, Germany Vlklingen to a wide range of functions and 19,000 sq ft, France Lyon 5,500 sq ft technologies such that we develop and the USA Grand Haven 14,000 sq ft. well-rounded individuals with a broad grounding in a variety of Long-term investment  disciplines.
Renishaw continues to be committed Many of our apprentices and graduates to significant investment in its succeed in developing career paths manufacturing capability for both the into more senior engineering and D The PCB assembly facility at Miskin medium and long-term.
The Renishaw operational roles within the organisation includes technology capable of placing Automated Mill Turn Inspection Centre for example, see pages 5658.
RAMTIC system developed in the Supply chain management early 1990s uses a standard machine tool platform that has been modified to Progress at a glance As a manufacturer operating in a provide a highly efficient manufacturing high-mix low-volume situation, with During the last year, investment solution, involving a high degree of a strategy of delivering exceptional in manufacturing facilities and automation and closed-loop control customer service, our approach has equipment has continued to that is facilitated by Renishaw probing been to maintain as much control as ensure that future requirements technology for tool setting, in-process possible of our supply chains.
This has can be satisfied in a highly efficient monitoring and component validation.
been achieved through a combination and cost-effective manner.
Whilst the base machine platform has of in-house manufacturing including The factory floor space at the evolved with improvements in machine the creation of in-house capability for Miskin facility, refurbished during tool technology, the fundamental critical processes as they become 2016, provides substantial process remains the same and is financially viable, duplication of critical capacity for future growth of the the mainstay of Renishaws standard processes, dual sourcing and strategic business.
In addition, outline machining platforms for prismatic long-term partnerships with our thirdplanning permission exists for parts, with 62 RAMTIC systems now party suppliers.
We also have supply further development and capacity in operation.
chain management teams based in to be provided at that facility.
The same approach has also been Substantial capital investments taken with respect to our investments Risk management and process development activities in assembly-based technologies.
We have duplicated key processes in have continued to provide both Renishaw has a very broad product in-house piece part manufacturing order to reduce the risks associated range that is largely produced in low capabilities and new assembly with certain critical in-house supply to medium volumes, but through processes to support current chains such as machining, anodising our strategies of standardisation and new products within the of aluminium components and the and design for manufacture we AM business.
assembly and test of electronic have created the circumstances to PCBs.
For third-party supply chains, Production of various products develop and invest in highly efficient regular monitoring and review takes have transferred to alternative and capable assembly systems that place with a view to determining assembly locations in the UK, deliver exceptional process control supply risk, including implementing Ireland and India as a result and efficiencies.
The electronics dual sourcing strategies and of capacity forecasts or the production facilities utilise the very reviewing our contractual terms with completion of new product latest technology capable of placing suppliers to ensure continuity of development activities.
40,000 components per hour, process supply.
Processes have also been control by using in-line component A team dedicated to packaging implemented and enhanced within our validation, automated optical inspection design has been established supply chains to ensure compliance and innovative technology to validate with the remit of optimising the with our Group Business Code, and the performance of assembled printed materials, labour and logistics the UK anti-bribery and modern circuit boards PCBs.
Another example costs associated with our slavery legislation.
is the in-house development of products, which is increasingly automation systems for assembly of important given the global People certain products in the UK and Ireland distribution network of the Group.
Consistent with the strategy in facilities, where automation and closedother parts of the business, the loop controls have delivered significant manufacturing operations take reductions in process variation, hence a long-term view with regard to 33
