Strategic report Renishaw neuromate robot and neuroinspire software installed at Healthcare Kings College Hospital, London and Birmingham Life expectancy is increasing in both Childrens Hospital developed and developing markets, A neuromate stereotactic robot system meaning that key drivers include the and neuroinspire surgical planning software have been installed at one of requirement for faster procedures to Londons largest and busiest teaching reduce waiting times, more economical hospitals, Kings College Hospital, and at Birmingham Childrens Hospital.
treatments, more patient-specific Both hospitals are using the system for treatments e. g. implants and personalised SEEG cases for epilepsy.
medicines, and safer procedures with Mr Richard Selway, consultant neurosurgeon at Kings College reduced human errors.
All our healthcare Hospital said, We are delighted to be able to offer robot-assisted brain product lines are well placed to deliver on surgery to our patients at Kings.
The increased precision and efficiency of the machine allows fantastic accuracy when targeting the most sensitive areas of the brain.
It is likely to revolutionise certain aspects of surgery, particularly for children with severe epilepsy or in the surgery of brain tumours.
Mr Richard Walsh, consultant neurosurgeon at Birmingham Childrens Hospital said, All the electrodes are in excellent positions.
No post-operative problems on the scan.
Using the robot certainly made the procedure easier, faster and more straightforward for me.
D Surgical team at Birmingham Childrens Hospital using the neuromate stereotactic robot.
Our technologies are being applied to an Dental implants and restorations Precision machining combined ever increasing number of applications with 3D printing results in shorter within healthcare, including brain surgery, manufacturing lead times and improved fit of dental frameworks, reconstructive surgery and dentistry.
meaning patients need to spend less time in the dentists chair.
This illustration highlights areas in which Renishaw products are making a real difference to patient outcomes.
Blood storage Raman spectroscopy is being used to investigate the chemical changes that occur in red blood cells during storage inbags, which could eventually be used as a quality check prior to transfusion.
20 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information the advantage of being non-invasive, Guangdong Medical University highly sensitive and very simple is developing a method for prostate cancer screening.
for non-invasive prostate It is important to improve the survival cancer screening of patients by early diagnosis New research at the Guangdong and treatment.
Medical University suggests a laserCurrently, there are many diagnostic based approach could be the latest methods availableincluding B-mode breakthrough in prostate cancer ultrasound, CT scan, biopsy and detection.
The proposed non-invasive histopathology assessmentbut these blood test uses a combination of two D Mr Richard Walsh, consultant techniques have various limitations.
techniques: surface-enhanced Raman neurosurgeon at Birmingham scattering and a new mathematical We selected the inVia as a potential Childrens Hospital, has now analysis technique called support carried out two SEEGcases for methodology to be used in prostate epilepsy, since the installation vector machine together, these cancer screening, when coupled with of  techniques can produce an accuracy our support vector machine, because software and theneuromate up to 98.1%.
Professor Shaoxin Li, it offers continuous scanning from stereotactic robot.
the study leader at the University 50 to 4000 wavenumbers and its commented, Compared to traditional high sensitivity makes it suitable for screening methods, this method has biological tissue measurement.
Drug delivery systems for Maxillofacial implants and oncology and other treatments surgical guides Metal 3D printing techniques Customised implants and cutting are used to build compact guides for use during surgery multi-channel ports and the are designed using specially D Surface-enhanced Raman neuromate surgical robot with developed software and built scattering SERS spectra neuroinspire planning software with additive manufacturing enables precise placement of serum sample for prostate systems, optimised for of implantables.
Orthopaedic implants Metal 3D printing machines enable the production of patient-specific custom implants in bio-compatible materials, and with surfaces that aid osseointegration.
