Strategic report Our strategy in action Industrial metrology Intelligent process control for Industry 4.0 Intelligent machining processes are a critical element in future manufacturing technology.
With the widely publicised Industry 4.0 and Made in China 2025 initiatives combined with the Industrial internet of things, manufacturers are faced with anunparalleled opportunity.
Manufacturers driven by the goals of Industry 4.0 are increasingly recognising the importance of applying Renishawtechnology throughout advanced manufacturing.
The breadth of technologies and experience Renishaw provides during the entire manufacturing process is unique.
Geoff McFarland Group Engineering Director 26 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Industry 4.0 is the current trend of The process control framework The data collected through automation and data exchange in developed by Renishaw within our own in-process measurement throughout manufacturing technologies to create factories has allowed us to minimise the manufacturing process can also what are known as smart factories.
manufacturing costs and significantly be used for continuous improvement.
reduce the skill levels required to It allows manufacturers to understand The ability to monitor key process support production.
This has been what causes adverse effects during inputs, analyse data and continuously achieved through a combination of manufacturing and consider the improve manufacturing processes integrated process control using our key variables when designing and will facilitate increased productivity own products and application of developing new processes.
and higher accuracy, whilst reducing factory automation.
This approach is the dependency on skilled engineers.
From consumer electronics to applicable to many industries using This, in turn, enables highly effective aerospace components, products CNC machine tools.
Moreover, the automated manufacturing systems have shorter life cycles than ever benefits we have experienced at tobe implemented successfully.
Manufacturers must develop Renishaw align closely with the goals new products and processes more Renishaw not only provides ofIndustry 4.0. quickly to remain competitive.
technologies and applications that Manufacturers driven by a focus Intelligent processes allow high deliver some of the benefits of on Industry 4.0 are increasingly productivity and high-quality output Industry 4.0, data generated by recognising the importance of applying despite the reduced process Renishaw devices can also be used Renishaw technology throughout development window.
in conjunction with other process advanced manufacturing.
The breadth information from machines, cutting Additive manufacturing of technologies and experience tools and other probes within predictive The advent of metal additive Renishaw provides during the entire analytics systems for intelligent process manufacturing AM for serialised manufacturing process is unique.
production, as opposed to prototyping, In the future, measurements provided will bring further benefits for intelligent Productive by Renishaw devices will be used in manufacturing.
From medical implants manufacturing processes conjunction with other data sources to critical aerospace applications, within a manufacturing process to Simply measuring the final output customers are increasingly demanding allow real-time feedback for process of a manufacturing process using more specialised parts to save weight optimisation, proactive adjustment and tailgate inspection is not enough or space, dramatically improve increased intelligence.
and, more often, too late to control product performance and simplify all the variability in a manufacturing assembly operations.
It is critical that checks and Manufacturers can only make the most AM is allowing manufacturers more measurements are also made before, of their collected data if they have the design freedom and the ability to during and immediately after machining means of using it when required.
Today, produce prototype products more to control both common-cause and most machine tools are equipped with rapidly from which performance data special-cause variation.
a networking capability and have more can be quickly acquired to inform final accessible software architectures, design and manufacturing parameters.
making it simpler to facilitate We will increasingly see a combination communication between systems.
of both additive and subtractive As integrating sensors including technologies to gain the benefits of probes and programming automated both processes, all led by data driven intelligent systems becomes easier, intelligence at every stage of the more manufacturers will be able to manufacturing process.
exploit the benefits of Industry 4.0.
D Data collection with in-process D Automated intelligent processes allow high productivity and high-quality output.
