Governance Board of directors N Sir David McMurtry John Deer Allen Roberts CBE, RDI, FRS, FREng, CEng, FIMechE FCA Chairman and Chief Executive Deputy Chairman Group Finance Director Formerly employed by Rolls-Royce plc, Trained as a mechanical engineer and Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1972 Bristol, for 17 years, holding the positions of worked for Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, for and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Deputy Chief Designer and Assistant Chief 14 years.
Accountants in England and Wales.
of Engine Design for all Rolls-Royce engines Co-founded Renishaw with Sir David Joined Renishaw in 1979 and appointed to manufactured at Filton, Bristol.
McMurtry in 1973, serving as Managing the Board of Renishaw plc in 1980.
Invented the original measuring probe in the Director from 1974 to 1989.
Heads group finance, business systems, early 1970s and co-founded Renishaw with Primarily involved in the commercial direction human resources and Wotton Travel Ltd. John Deer in 1973. of the Group, with particular emphasis on Responsible for the metrology regulatory Responsible for group technology.
marketing and the establishment of the and quality assurance function.
Reports to the Board on corporate social Responsible for group manufacturing.
Geoff McFarland William Lee Group Engineering Director Group Sales and Marketing Director Graduated with a BEng in computer-aided mechanical engineering at Heriot-Watt Joined Renishaw in 1996.
University, and subsequently worked for Became Director and General Manager several years as a research associate.
for the laser and calibration products line After working briefly in the high-volume in 2007 and subsequently Director and manufacturing electronic sector, joined General Manager of the machine tool Renishaw in 1994. products line in 2014.
Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in Appointed to the new role of Director of 2002.
Group Sales and Marketing in December 2015.
Responsible for group engineering and group IP and the additive manufacturing Holds an MBA from Bath University.
Appointed to the Executive Board in 2015.
Appointed to the Board as Group Sales and Marketing Director in August 2016.
Chair of the overseas marketing subsidiaries.
68 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A R N A R N R N Carol Chesney Sir David Grant Kath Durrant FCA CBE, FREng, FLSW, CEng, FIET Non-executive director Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in October 2012. inApril 2012.
Chartered accountant who worked at Arthur Currently Senior Independent Director Currently Group HR Director for Ferguson Andersen for seven years in audit services.
of IQEplc, non-executive director of plc formerly known as Wolseley plc and a the Defence Science and Technology member of its Executive Committee.
Currently Company Secretary of Halma plc, Laboratory, chair of STEMNET which at the having also been Group Financial Controller.
Previously the Group HR Director at Rollstime of writing is in the process of merging Royce plc.
Worked as Group Accountant at English with STEM Learning, and chair of the China Clays plc where she was responsible Held a variety of senior positions at National Physical Laboratory.
AstraZeneca plc, including Vice President, Vice-Chancellor of Cardiff University from HR and Communications for its research 2001 to 2012. and development division.
Previously held leadership positions at Dowty Group, GEC, the Royal Academy of Engineering and Innovate UK.
Received a knighthood in the Queens Birthday Honours 2016 for his contributions to engineering, technology and education.
A R N John Jeans CBE, CEng Non-executive director Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in April 2013.
Currently chair of Imanova, Edinburgh Molecular Imaging and the Scottish governments Digital Health and Care Institute.
Non-executive director of ProMetic Life Sciences Inc. and ProMetic Pharmaceuticals Small Molecule Therapeutics Ltd.
Committees Serves on several government bodies including the Ministerial Committee on A Audit Committee Medical Technologies.
Leads Innovate UKs Stratified Medicine R Remuneration Committee Advisory Board and the KTNs Health Board.
N Nomination Committee Previously chair of UK BioCentre Ltd.
Appointed advisor to the Prime Minister at Denotes Chair of committee the Office of Life Sciences in June 2014.
