Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Key performance indicators The main performance measures monitored by the Board are: Financial KPIs Revenue m Total engineering costs Adjusted earnings Statutory earnings Dividend per share including research and per share pence per share pence pence development m Included in the Consolidated income statement Gross expenditure We are focused on growth The growth of the business In order to provide an increasing return to shareholders, We aim to achieve in revenue, through is fundamentally dependent along with retaining adequate funds for reinvestment in significant long-term increasing our market and on the continuing investment the business, we aim to achieve year-on-year growth returns to shareholders geographic penetration in engineering costs for the in adjusted earnings per share.
Note 24, Alternative by maintaining a and continually development of new products performance measures, defines how adjusted earnings progressive dividend introducing new products.
The Group per share is calculated and why the Board has adopted policy, whilst maintaining We have also made a continues to make significant this measure.
a solid capital base number of acquisitions investment in future products, with sufficient working over the last five years with engineering costs equal capital to support the which expand our product to approximately 15% of forecast growth.
range and will support Group revenue, and has revenue growth by using also been accelerating new the Groups worldwide product development in marketing and distribution certain areas.
infrastructure to expand these businesses.
Non-financial KPIs Employee turnover % Number of apprentices Training Health and safety intraining Renishaw employee New apprenticeships turnover compared New graduates to the bar chart New placements showing the UK average.
Number of new placements Total lost working time injuries We believe we need to and members of the graduate per 100,000 hours worked.
2 provide many options for Data not available at time and apprenticeship schemes of publishing.
career entry for young on a calendaryear basis.
We are proud environment, it is crucial that We continue to train, of our apprenticeship Our strategy is to grow we maintain high standards develop and reward scheme and the success organically, developing of health and safety.
Our aim our employees so that it has achieved, both students and taking on is to have zero fatalities and we retain skilled and for the apprentices that apprentices and graduates zero lost working time injuries.
Our aim have trained with us and forms a key element of this is to maintain our UK for Renishaw in terms of strategy.
Depending on employee turnover rate addressing skills gaps.
In a economic conditions, below the UK average for period of growth, we intend we propose to increase the manufacturing and to increase the number year-on-year the number production sector.
of apprentices taken into of new apprenticeships, training each year.
graduates and student placements we take on.
