Strategic report Our strategy in action Strong market presence Will Lee, Group Sales and Marketing Director, was asked to talk about Renishaws approach to developing its global network of service and support operations here is a summary of his thoughts: Our products have often beenunique and disruptive, offering new ways of solving our customers problems, so it has been important to work closely with them to educate and train their engineers.
Will Lee Group Sales and Marketing Director 30 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information France and Taiwan, whilst we have Q.
What is the process for also opened a new local office in have such a strong opening new offices?
California, and opened a series of global presence?
We start by determining which Additive Manufacturing Solutions new markets offer the best growth A.
We exported our products from Centres in India, Canada and potential and then what type of very early on in the Companys Germany.
However, we do continue infrastructure we require to achieve history, so exporting is very natural to monitor opportunities to enter our medium-term aims.
Our co-founder John Deer new markets with growth potential.
focus is to build capabilities within was very clear from the start that larger regional offices which we needed to give excellent support Q.
Despite having offices in can then support smaller offices to our customers and if we did 35 countries Renishaw still within their geographic region, so that, then sales would follow as we use distributors in those demonstration and training facilities would become a trusted supplier.
may not be initially required.
We have always been prepared to A.
When we first enter a market, our invest in our support capabilities and Where we do decide to invest in existing distributors in that market initially our overseas operations in a new country office we prefer to are very important to help educate markets such as the USA, Japan be optimistic about the long-term our staff and make introductions and Germany, were only set up for potential and over invest, as from to key customers.
The changing service and support it was only years of experience we have learnt nature of those relationships over later that they started to focus on how difficult it can be to have to time will depend on many local sales and marketing activities.
It is move expand offices too soon after factors, including the strength of also true that throughout our history first opening.
each distributor, but typically we we have been prepared to invest may focus on key accounts and the early where there is the potential for Q.
What is your current focus distributors will service end-users long-term growth.
in relation to Renishaws and smaller accounts.
Why is a local presence so also use specialist distributors to A.
Given our more solutions-based handle certain products outside important for Renishaw?
focus and increasing market the core metrology products, for A.
Our products have often been requirements to work on projects example, Raman spectrometers unique and disruptive, offering new with much greater levels of product and position encoders.
ways of solving our customers integration, the requirements to problems, so it has been important Generally, we like the flexibility service our customers is changing.
to work closely with them to train that distributors give us, especially This is driving the need for more their engineers.
Although machinery given that we simply do not have skilled applications engineers and and the application of our products the resources to tackle all business a greater investment to upskill may be common across the globe, opportunities ourselves.
business practices, local customs, also true is that having a local office levels of technical expertise and To meet these demands we are and local relationships with of course language, are very developing more of a regional distributors is key to ensuring that different, so employing local approach to customer service and those distributors remain motivated people is a necessity to be taken the wider sharing of resources to act in the best interests seriously.
There are also the simple across individual markets.
Are there plans to open any Q.
How do you manage your people easily accessible to provide new offices?
fast engineering support and travel schedule?
Our main focus currently is A.
Travel is critical to understanding upgrading existing country developing business opportunities, Our model is therefore to use the offices so that they are better new products we need to develop to strength of our UK operations equipped to service our customer meet varying customer challenges, for product development, but to base and to best promote our and also importantly to meet and decentralise decision-making to our industrial metrology offering and motivate our own employees.
subsidiary network, allow our local new products, especially additive offices to make fast decisions and manufacturing.
For example, we also to tailor sales and marketing have recently improved, or moved messages, and customer solutions, to new facilities, in Italy, Spain, to their specific needs.
D Open Day at Renishaw Hungarys D Tata Motors visited the Additive Manufacturing Solutions Centre at Renishaws facility new facility.
